ADELANTO, CALIFORNIA
MUNICIPAL CODE
A Codification of the General Ordinances of the City of Adelanto, California
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82242252ce6d54adb3244876d9e74fa1d0bd6515/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3904.jpg]
2025 S-52 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance No. 567, passed 6-11- 25
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
HISTORY
The City of Adelanto was incorporated December 22, 1970. City Codes were
established but not codified. In 1976 the first attempt to codify the City's
Code was accomplished by two graduate students. From 2003 — 2007 the
codification of ordinances were compiled, edited, and indexed under the
direction of the City's Attorney. Beginning in 2008, the Code is maintained
electronically by American Legal Publishing.
PREFACE
ADELANTO MUNICIPAL CODE
The Adelanto Municipal Codes is the collection of City ordinances that the City
Councils have adopted over the years. It is a living document and is
continually amended to better reflect the community standards that the citizens
have expressed to the City leaders.
The City is granted the authority to create these local ordinances that become
law through provisions of the California Government Code. Copies of the
Adelanto Municipal Code are available as an electronic searchable version or in
the City Clerk's office.
This Municipal Code contains those ordinances of a general and permanent nature
enacted from time to time and those ordinances which are considered desirable
for retention. If you are unable to find what you are looking for online,
please call 760-246-2300 ext. 3018 for additional assistance.
What is an Ordinance?
Ordinances are the laws of the Municipality (city). City Councils may pass
Ordinances which become the City's Municipal Code. These Ordinances or laws may
be passed by the City Council as long as they are not in conflict with federal
or state laws.
An Ordinance is the most binding form of action taken by the City Council, and
violations may be either a misdemeanor or an infraction depending upon the way
the Ordinance is written.
What is a Resolution?
A Resolution constitutes a written action or decision. However, it does not
demand the legal processing required of an Ordinance. A Resolution is generally
introduced and adopted at the same meeting.
How is an Ordinance approved?
Approval of an Ordinance requires a first and second reading. With a few
special exceptions, Ordinances take effect 30 days after they are adopted (at
the second reading). Ordinances must be signed by the Mayor and attested by the
City Clerk.
I. HOW TO USE THE ADELANTO MUNICIPAL CODE
This code is organized to make the laws of the city as accessible as possible
to city officials, city employees and private citizens. Please take a moment to
familiarize yourself with some of the important elements of this code.
Numbering System. The numbering system is the backbone of a code of ordinances;
American Legal Publishing uses a unique and versatile numbering structure that
allows for easy expansion and amendment of this code. It is based on three
tiers, beginning with title, then chapter, and ending with section. Each part
is represented in the code section number. For example, Section
2.040.010 is Section .010, in
Chapter 2.04 of Title 2.
Title. A title is a broad category under which ordinances on a related subject
are compiled. For example, the first title is Title 1, General Provisions,
which may contain ordinances about the general penalty, code adoption and
definitions. The titles in this code are separated by tabbed divider pages for
quick reference. Some titles are Reserved for later use.
Chapter. Chapters deal with more specific subjects, and are often derived from
one ordinance. All of the chapters on a related subject are grouped in one
title. The chapters are numbered so that new chapters which should logically be
placed near certain existing chapters can be added at a later time without
renumbering existing material. For example,
Chapter 2.06, City Manager, can be added between
2.04, City Council, and
Chapter 2.08, City Attorney.
Section. Each section of the code contains substantive ordinance material. The
sections are numbered by "tens" to allow for expansion of the code without
renumbering.
Table of Contents. There are many tables of contents in this code to assist in
locating specific information. At the beginning of the code is the main table
of contents listing each title. In addition, each title and chapter has its own
table of contents listing the chapters and sections, respectively.
Ordinance History Note. At the end of each code section, you will find an
"ordinance history note," which lists the underlying ordinances for that
section. The ordinances are listed by number, section (if applicable) and year
(example: [Ord. No. 332, Section 1, adopted 5/27/97.]). The notation "(part)"
is used when the code section contains only part of the ordinance (or section
of the ordinance) specified; this indicates that there are other areas of the
code affected by the same ordinance (or section of the ordinance).
References to Ordinances Table. To find a specific ordinance in the Code, turn
to the section called "Tables" for the References to Ordinances. This table
tells you the status of ordinances included in the Code beginning with
Ordinance 415. The table is organized by ordinance number and provides the
disposition of the ordinance. If the ordinance is codified, the Code section
will be indicated. (Example:
2.04.060.) When an ordinance is repealed, the disposition will be changed to "
(Repealed by Ord….)" with the appropriate ordinance number.
Statutory References. The statutory references direct the code user to those
portions of the state statues that are applicable to the laws of the
municipality.
Index. An index to the Code is located at the back of the code book.
Instruction Sheet. Each supplement to the new Code will be accompanied by an
Instruction Sheet. This guide will list the pages that must be pulled from the
Code and the new pages that must be inserted. Following these instructions
carefully will assure that the Code is kept accurate and current.
II. PROCEDURE FOR DRAFTING ORDINANCES
This Code has been codified using a logical, expandable numbering system to
allow for additions, repeals or amendments. When drafting ordinances, it is
important to designate, within the ordinance, what specific portions of the
Code are affected. The ordinance(s) underlying the section being changed can be
determined from the ordinance history note in parentheses at the end of each
section.
Effect of Title.
The title of an ordinance and any introductory language appearing before the
ordaining clause has no legal effect. The title may state that the ordinance
repeals (or amends or adds) certain provisions, but in order for these changes
to be effective, the intended repeal, amendment or addition must be set out
following the ordaining clause.
Procedure When Amending Existing Code Material.
Amend the Code section specifically. The underlying ordinance section may also
be included.
Examples:   § 3.04.020 of the ____________ Municipal Code is amended to read as
follows:
      § 3 of Ord. 319 and § 3.04.020 of the ____________ Municipal Code are
amended to read as follows:
If only a portion of a section is being amended, designate the specific
portion:
Example:   § 3.04.050(A)(2) of the ____________ Municipal Code is amended to
read as follows:
Procedure When Repealing Existing Code Material.
When repealing material, designate the specific portion of the Code to be
repealed. Include the underlying ordinance section if you wish; however, we
consider both Code section and underlying ordinance to be repealed whether you
mention the underlying ordinance or not.
Examples:   § 3.04.020 of the ____________ Municipal Code is repealed.
      § 3 of Ord. 319 and § 3.04.020 of the ____________ Municipal Code are
repealed.
      Subsection B of § 3.04.020 of the ____________ Municipal Code is
repealed.
Procedure When Adding New Material to Code.
When new provisions are to be added to the Code, you should determine where the
material would best fit within the subject matter of the existing section,
chapter or title. If there is no existing section, chapter or title, you should
assign a new section, chapter or title number. Our expandable decimal numbering
system is designed to allow for the incorporation of new material without
disturbing the numbering system of existing material.
The following language is sufficient to locate new material in the Code:
   Subsection D is added to § 5.10.040 of the ____________ Municipal Code, to
read as follows:
   § 5.10.040 of the ____________ Municipal Code, to read as follows:
   Chapter 12.07 is added to the ____________ Municipal Code, to read as
follows:
If you have any questions as to the proper placement of a new provision, please
contact us.
The Charter
of the
City of Adelanto
The Charter was ratified by the qualified electors of the City at an election
held on November 3, 1992.
First Amendment (Section 601) November 5, 2002
Second Amendment (Section 601) November 2, 2004
   We, the people of the City of Adelanto, County of San Bernardino, State of
California, do ordain and establish this Charter as the organic law of said
City under and by virtue of the Constitution of the said State.
ARTICLE I.
STATUS OF CITY
   §
100.   Name of City.
   §
101.   Boundaries.
   §
102.   Effective date of Charter.
ARTICLE II.
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION OF CHARTER
   §
200.   Definitions.
   §
201.   Reference to laws.
ARTICLE III.
SUCCESSION.
   §
300.   Rights and liabilities.
   §
301.   Validation of prior acts.
   §
302.   Continuation of status of officers & employees.
   §
303.   Public contracts.
   §
304.   Pending proceedings
ARTICLE IV.
POWERS OF CITY.
   §
400.   Powers.
   §
401.   Limitation of powers.
   §
402.   Exercise of powers.
   §
403.   Joint powers.
ARTICLE V.
MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   §
500.   Conduct of elections.
   §
501.   Elective officers.
   §
502.   Qualifications for elective office.
   §
503.   Incumbent elective officers.
   §
504.   Rights reserved to the electorate.
   §
505.   Vacancies.
ARTICLE VI.
CITY COUNCIL
   §
600.   Legislative body.
   §
601.   Mayor - Mayor Pro Tempore.
   §
602.   Vacancies in elective offices.
   §
603.   Council meetings.
   §
604.   Reimbursement for expenses.
   §
605.   Compensation of councilors.
   §
606.   Ordinances.
   §
607.   Contracts.
   §
608.   Franchises.
   §
609.   Interference with administrative service.
   §
610.   Conflict of interest.
   §
611.   Indemnification.
   §
612.   Continuity.
ARTICLE VII.
APPOINTIVE OFFICERS
   §
700.   Form of government.
   §
701.   Appointive offices.
   §
702.   City Manager, appointment, qualification, compensation.
   §
703.   City Manager duties.
   §
704.   City Attorney, appointment, qualification, compensation.
   §
705.   City Attorney duties.
   §
706.   City Attorney, deputies, special counsel.
   §
707.   City Clerk, appointment, qualifications, compensation.
   §
708.   City Treasurer, appointment, qualifications, compensation.
   §
709.   Bonds.
   §
710.   Continuity.
ARTICLE VIII.
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
   §
800.   Miscellaneous and safety employees.
   §
801.   Merit system, establishment.
   §
802.   Retirement.
   §
803.   Compensation.
ARTICLE IX.
FISCAL ADMINISTRATION
   §
900.   Fiscal year.
   §
901.   Budget — Submission to City Council.
   §
902.   Budget — Appropriations.
   §
903.   Tax levies.
   §
904.   Imposition of other taxes.
   §
905.   Tax procedure.
   §
906.   Debt.
   §
907.   Claims against the City.
   §
908.   Payment of claims and demands.
ARTICLE X.
BOARD OF EDUCATION
   §
1000.   Effect of Charter on school districts.
   §
1001.   Application of state law.
ARTICLE XI.
CITY BOARD AND COMMISSIONS
   §
1100.   Creation of commissions.
   §
1101.   Enabling ordinances.
   §
1102.   Appropriation of funds.
   §
1103.   Appointment and removal of members.
   §
1104.   Meetings — Conduct of.
   §
1105.   Compensation — Expenses.
   §
1106.   Secretary — Records.
   §
1107.   Existing commissions.
ARTICLE XII.
VIOLATION — VALIDITY
   §
1200.   Violations.
   §
1201.   Validity.
PREAMBLE
   We, the people of the City of Adelanto, County of San Bernardino, State of
California, do ordain and establish this Charter as the organic law of said
City under and by virtue of the Constitution of the said State.
ARTICLE I
STATUS OF CITY
SECTION 100. NAME OF CITY.
   The general law city, in existence prior to the effective date of this
Charter, known as the "City of Adelanto", shall be deemed, for all purposes, to
continue in existence, as a chartered city, from and after the effective date
of this Charter. Said City, as a chartered city, shall continue to be known as
the "City of Adelanto" (hereinafter "City").
SECTION 101. BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the City of Adelanto, as a chartered city, shall be
identical to the boundaries of said City of Adelanto, a general law city, as
were lawfully in existence as of the effective date of this Charter. After the
effective date of this Charter, the boundaries may be altered only as provided
by applicable or general law.
SECTION 102. EFFECTIVE DATE OF CHARTER. (November 3, 1992)
   This Charter shall be effective from and after the date of its approval by
the electorate of the City of Adelanto and filed with the Secretary of State.
ARTICLE II
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION OF CHARTER
SECTION 200. DEFINITIONS.
   (subsection (v) amended at November 5, 2002, General Election)
   For the purpose of this Charter, the following words and phrases shall be
deemed to have the meanings hereinafter ascribed to them, unless from the
context thereof a contrary meaning is clearly intended:
   (a)    “Adjudicated Newspaper” shall mean a newspaper which is adjudicated
as such pursuant to the provisions of Section 6000 et seq of the Government
Code of the State of California.
   (b)   “Applicable Law” shall mean an enactment of the California Legislature
which lawfully governs, allows or regulates activities of cities having a
charter adopted pursuant to the provisions of the State of California.
   (c)   “Appointive Officer” shall mean those officers designated as such by
this Charter.
   (d)   “Brown Act” shall mean that Act of the State Legislature entitled as
such, as the same now exists or as the same may hereinafter be lawfully
amended, designed as Section 64950 et seq of the Government code.
   (e)   "Charter" shall mean this Charter as it now exists, or as it may
hereinafter be amended.
   (f)   "City” shall mean the City of Adelanto established as a charter city
by this Charter.
   (g)   "City Attorney" shall mean the duly appointed, qualified and acting
City Attorney of City.
   (h)   "City Clerk" shall mean the duly appointed, qualified and acting City
Clerk of City.
   (i)   "City Council" shall mean the legislative body of City.
   (j)   "City Manager" shall mean the duly appointed, qualified and acting
City Manager of City.
   (k)   "City Treasurer" shall mean the duly appointed, qualified and acting
City Treasurer of City.
   (l)   "Constitution" shall mean the Constitution of the State of California.
   (m)    "Councilor" shall mean a member of the City Council of City.
   (n)   "County" shall mean County of San Bernardino.
   (o)   "Elections Code" shall mean the Elections Code of the State of
California as same exists as of the effective date of this Charter, and as the
same may hereinafter be amended by lawful authority.
   (p)   "Elective Officers" shall mean those officers designated as such by
this Charter.
   (q)   "Elector” shall mean any person who qualified for the right of
suffrage pursuant to Article 11, Section 1 of the Constitution of the State.
   (r)   "Former City" shall mean the City of Adelanto, a general law city,
organized and existing as such, prior to the effective date of this Charter,
and, as to which the City is its successor in interest, by reason of adoption
of this Charter.
   (s)   "General Law" shall mean an enactment of the Legislature of the State
which lawfully governs, allows or regulates activities of a general law city,
as defined in Section 34100 of the Government Code of the State of California,
and which applies to the City of Adelanto, solely by reason of the provision of
this Charter, or on ordinance adopted by the City Council of the City.
   (t)   "Government Code" shall mean the Government Code of the State of
California as the same exists as of the effective date of this Charter, and as
the same may hereinafter be amended by lawful authority.
   (u)   "May" is permissive.
   (v)   "Mayor" shall mean the duly elected, qualified and acting Mayor of
City.
   (w)    "Mayor Pro Tempore" shall mean the duly appointed, qualified and
acting Mayor Pro Tempore of City.
   (x)   "Municipal Affairs" shall mean those matters have been, and continue
to be, held to be such by courts of record in the State of California.
   (y)   "Person" shall mean any person, firm, association, organization,
partnership, business, trust company or corporation, and any municipal,
political or governmental corporation, district, body or agency, other than the
City of Adelanto.
   (z)   "Registered Qualified Voter” shall mean an elector who is lawfully
registered, pursuant to applicable provisions of the Elections Code, and is
thus entitled to cast a ballot in any national, state or local election held
within the City.
   (aa)    "Shall" is mandatory.
   (bb)    "State" shall mean the State of California.
SECTION 201. REFERENCE TO LAWS.
   Wherever reference is made in this Chapter to any law or code provisions
enacted by the Legislature of the State, or to any constitutional provision,
said reference shall mean and include any amendment thereto, enacted after the
effective date of this Charter; provided, however, if any such law is repealed
in whole or in part, the City Council, by ordinance, may enact provisions,
consistent with this Charter, covering the substance of such repealed
legislation.
ARTICLE III
SUCCESSION
SECTION 300. RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   The City shall be deemed, for all purposes, to be the successor in interest
to the Former City. The said City shall succeed to own, possess, hold and
control all rights, including, but not limited to, rights in and to personal
and real property owned, possessed, controlled or held by said Former City, as
of the effective date of this Charter. Said City shall be deemed, for all
purposes, to be subject to all debts, obligations, liabilities and duties of
said Former City, as such existed as of the effective date of the Charter.
SECTION 301. VALIDATION OF PRIOR ACTS.
   All lawful acts heretofore taken by, or on behalf of, the said Former City,
by its City Council, or any officer, employee, commission, committee, or board
thereof, shall be deemed for all purposes, to continue in full force and effect
from and after the effective date of the Charter. The validation of such acts
as provided for herein shall include, but not be limited to, all lawful
ordinances, resolutions, rules, regulations, permits, or any portion thereof,
in force as of the effective date of this Charter, except to the extent that
any such act is inconsistent, in whole or in part, with any provisions of this
Charter; to that extent the same shall be subject to amendment, modification or
repeal by lawful authority pursuant to this Charter.
SECTION 302. CONTINUATION OF STATUS OF OFFICERS & EMPLOYEES.
   All officers and employees, including, but not limited to, Elective Officers
of the said Former City shall, as of the effective date of this Charter,
continue to perform the duties of their respective offices and positions.
Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Charter, the adoption hereof, as
to such officers and employees, shall not affect or impair any right, privilege
or retirement benefit of such officers and employees lawfully held by them as
of the effective date of this Charter. The tenure of, and the performance of
duties by, all such officers and employees shall be subject to, the provisions
hereof.
SECTION 303. PUBLIC CONTRACTS.
   All contracts lawfully entered into by the said Former City, prior to the
effective date of this Charter, shall continue in full force and effect,
notwithstanding the adoption of this said Charter.
SECTION 304. PENDING PROCEEDINGS.
   Any action or proceeding, civil, criminal or administrative, pending as of
the effective date of this Charter, as to which the said Former City, or any
officer or employee thereof, is a party or participant shall not be affected,
altered or abated by reasons of the adoption of this Charter or by any
provisions hereof. Any such action or proceeding shall be processed to its
conclusion in accordance with all laws applicable thereto, notwithstanding the
adoption of this said Charter.
ARTICLE IV
POWERS OF CITY
SECTION 400. POWERS.
   The City, from and after the effective date hereof, shall have the power to
make and enforce all ordinances and regulations in respect to Municipal
Affairs, subject only to such restrictions and limitations as may be provided
in this Charter and in the Constitution. In addition, the City shall also have
the rights, powers and privileges heretofore or hereafter established, granted
or prescribed by any lawful authority as a chartered city may lawfully exercise
under and by virtue of the Constitution, state statute or court decision.
SECTION 401. LIMITATION OF POWERS.
   The enumeration in this Charter of any specific power shall not be deemed,
for any purpose, to be a limitation upon the general grants of powers, as set
forth in this Charter.
SECTION 402. EXERCISE OF POWERS.
   The City shall exercise its powers in manner established by applicable laws
of the State, unless a different procedure is established by this Charter or by
an ordinance lawfully adopted by the City Council of said City. Zoning
authority and limitations shall be as may be applicable to chartered cities.
SECTION 403. JOINT POWERS.
   The City may exercise all or any of the powers herein set forth singly or
jointly with other public agencies in the manner provided by general law.
ARTICLE V
MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS
SECTION 500. CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided by ordinance, all municipal elections hereafter
conducted by or on behalf of the City shall be held and processed in accordance
with provisions of the Constitution and the Elections and Government Codes.
SECTION 501. ELECTIVE OFFICERS.
   The Elective Officers of this City shall be five (5) members of the City
Council, each of whom shall hold the office of Councilor.
   Elective Officers of the City shall be elected for four (4) year terms by
the registered qualified voters of the City, on an at large basis, at general
or special municipal elections, held for that purpose.
SECTION 502. QUALIFICATIONS FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE.
   The qualifications for any person to hold an elective office of the City
shall be as follows:
   (a)   Any such person shall be an Elector, with the meaning of the
Constitution; and
   (b)   Any such person shall have been a bona fide resident of the City for
at least thirty (30) days next preceding the date of the election at which he/
she desires to be a candidate for such elective office.
SECTION 503. INCUMBENT ELECTIVE OFFICERS.
   All of the incumbent Elective Officers of the Former City, shall continue in
such offices until the expiration of their respective terms for which they were
elected and until their successors are appointed or elected, and qualified.
SECTION 504. RIGHTS RESERVED TO THE ELECTORATE.
   The electorate of the City, notwithstanding the adoption of this Charter,
reserve unto themselves the following processes:
   (a)   The right of referendum as to any legislative act taken by the City
Council; and
   (b)   The right of initiative, as to any legislative act the City Council
could legally effectuate; and
   (c)   The right of recall as to any Elective Officer of the City.
   Such reserved rights shall be exercisable only in accordance with and
subject to the limitations of the provisions of the Constitution and laws for
general law cities.
SECTION 505. VACANCIES.
   Vacancies in elective offices shall be deemed to occur under any of the
following circumstances:
   (a)   If, during the term of his/her office, an Elective Officer dies; or
   (b)   If, during the term of his/her office, he/she ceases, for any reason,
to qualify as a registered voter and resident of the City; or
   (c)   If, during the term of his/her office, an Elective Officer of the City
files a written letter of resignation with the City Clerk, his/her office shall
be deemed vacant as of that date started in such letter, or if no date is so
stated in such letter, upon the date of its filing; or
   (d)   If a City Councilor absents himself/herself, without the consent of
the City Council, from all regular City Council meetings for a period of sixty
(60) consecutive days from the last regular meeting of the Council he/she
attended, his/her office shall be deemed vacant; provided that the consent of
the City Council shall be given only for good cause, but shall not be
unreasonably withheld; or
   (e)   If an Elective Officer of the City is convicted of any crime which
involves moral turpitude, such office shall be deemed vacant as of the date the
judgment of conviction becomes final; and
   (f)   For any other reason applicable to general law cities.
ARTICLE VI
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION 600. LEGISLATIVE BODY.
   The City Council shall be the legislative body of the City.
SECTION 601. MAYOR - MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   (1st Amendment at November 5, 2002 General Election, 2nd Amendment November
2, 2004 General Election)
   (a)   The office of the Mayor is hereby created. At the election next
following the election at which this amendment to the Charter is confirmed, the
Mayor of the City shall be elected directly by the electorate. Commencing with
the General Municipal Election in the 2006 duly elected Mayor shall serve for a
term of four (4) years.
   (b)   The Mayor shall, in addition performance of his/her duties as Mayor,
preside at all City Council meetings, represent the City as the ceremonial head
of City Government, and perform such other acts as may be required of him/her,
as directed by the City Council, consistent with this Charter, ordinance of the
City, other applicable law, or law applicable to general law cities with
directly elected mayors. Except as otherwise provided herein and/or provided by
state law or ordinance of the City, the elected Mayor shall be considered a
regular voting member of the City Council, for all purposes under, and subject
to, the terms of this Charter. In the case of the absence or disability of the
Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore shall act in his/her place and stead.
   (c)   By the affirmative vote of not less than three (3) members, the City
Council shall choose one of its members as Mayor Pro Tempore, upon the
following occasions:
      (1)   In even numbered years, at the regular Council meetings held for
the purpose of canvassing the results of the General Municipal Election; and
      (2)   In odd numbered years, at the first regular Council meeting held
during the month of December, or the next regular meeting of the Council held
thereafter; or
      (3)   At such other times as a majority of Council shall so order.
SECTION 602. VACANCIES IN ELECTIVE OFFICES.
   Any vacancy occurring in any elective office of the City may be filled by
the City Council, by resolution, adopted by affirmative votes of a majority of
the quorum of the then City Council. If the City council fails, for any reason,
to fill such vacancy within a period of thirty (30) days from and after such
office becomes vacant, it shall, as maybe required by general law, call and
hold an election to fill such vacancy. A person appointed or elected to fill a
vacancy in elective office shall hold such office for the unexpired term of the
former incumbent.
   If at any time three (3) or more vacancies occur in elective offices of the
City, the following procedures shall take place:
   (a)   If such situation qualifies under the provisions of a disaster as
provided by applicable law and the City has provided for the preservation of
local government as provided there under, such preservation shall be observed;
or
   (b)   If such situation does not so qualify, or if such preservation has not
been provided, the Governor of the State of California shall temporarily
appoint qualified persons to such three (3) or more vacant offices for the
limited purpose hereinafter set forth. Upon such persons being so appointed,
the City Council, as thus constituted, shall meet forthwith at a time and place
to be selected by the City Clerk for the purpose of calling a special election
to elect qualified persons to the office temporarily filled by such
appointments. Such temporary appointees shall continue to hold such elective
offices until their successors have been duly elected and qualified.
SECTION 603. COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (a)   Time and Place. Regular meetings of the City Council shall be
conducted at such time and place as are established by ordinance.
   (b)   Open to the Public. Except as otherwise herein provided, each and
every meeting of the City Council, be it a regular or special meeting or an
adjourned regular or special meeting, shall be open to all members of the
general public.
   (c)   Application of Brown Act. Except as otherwise herein provided, the
provisions of the Brown Act shall apply to all meetings and acts of the City
Council and its members.
   (d)   Quorum. Three (3) members of the City Council shall constitute a
quorum for the purpose of transacting business of the City Council.
   (e)   Oaths. The Mayor, each member of the Council and the City Clerk shall
have the power to administer oaths or affirmations in proceedings pending
before the City Council.
   (f)   Subpoenas. The City Council shall have the power to compel, by
subpoena, the attendance of witnesses and the production of any relevant
evidence at any meeting of the City Council, or at any duly appointed Board or
Commission, or at any hearing held before any officer or employee of the City.
Subpoenas shall be issued by the City Clerk, upon order of the City Council, in
the name of the City, and shall be served in the manner prescribed by
applicable law for the service of subpoenas in judicial actions. Disobedience
to a subpoena or the refusal to testify to relevant matters before the Council,
except upon valid constitutional grounds, shall constitute a misdemeanor and
shall be punishable as such.
   (g)   Rules for Proceedings. The City Council may establish rules for the
conduct of its proceedings, including, but not limited to, provision for the
punishment of any person who engages in disorderly conduct at a City Council
meeting.
SECTION 604. REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES.
   Councilors of the City shall be reimbursed for necessary expenses actually
incurred in the performance of official duties. Such reimbursement shall not be
made unless approved by the affirmative vote of not less than three (3) members
of the City Council. The City Council shall establish a procedure for the
reimbursement of other officers and employees of the City for expenditures
incurred by them in the performance of official duties.
SECTION 605. COMPENSATION OF COUNCILORS.
   Compensation of Councilors, other than reimbursement for expenses, may be
established in the manner and amount as provided by general law, relating to
counciloric salaries in general law cities in this state.
SECTION 606. ORDINANCES.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Charter or by applicable law, the
enactment of ordinances by the City Council shall be accomplished in accordance
with the provisions of this Section.
   (a)   Meetings. Ordinances may be adopted at either regular, special or
adjourned regular or special meetings of the City Council.
   (b)   Adoption of Ordinances. Ordinances shall be adopted in the manner and
according to the procedure provided by general law, except as modified herein.
   (c)   Effective Date of Ordinances. Ordinances shall be effective in the
time and manner provided by general law.
   (d)   Vote Required. No ordinance of this City shall become effective unless
the same is adopted by the affirmative votes of at least three (3) members of
the Council, except for ordinance by the adoption of which this Charter or
applicable or general law requires a greater number of affirmative vote.
   (e)   Form. Each ordinance shall bear a title which shall briefly describe
the subject matter of the ordinance and shall contain the following enacting
clause: "The City Council of the City of Adelanto does ordain..." Each
ordinance adopted by the City Council shall be signed by the Mayor, whose
signature thereon shall be attested to by the City Clerk.
   (f)   Violation. Penalty. A violation of any duly enacted ordinance of the
City shall constitute a misdemeanor which shall be prosecuted in the manner
prescribed by applicable law. The city Council, by ordinance, shall provide for
the place imprisonment for such violation and may provide that persons
convicted of a violation of any such ordinance may be compelled to perform
labor on public works of the City. Certain violations may, by ordinance, be
classified as infractions.
   (g)   Codification. Any and all ordinances of the City may be compiled,
consolidated, or recompiled and/or reconsolidated, and indexed and arranged in
a comprehensive municipal ordinance code. Such code may be adopted by ordinance
reference. Such code, if adopted by reference, need not be published in the
manner required for other ordinances provided that
      (1)   Not less than three (3) copies thereof shall be on file in the
office of the City Clerk, available for examination by members of the public
prior to the adoption thereof; and
      (2)   The final adoption of such code shall not take place until a public
hearing is held before the City Council to allow interested persons to express
their views on such proposed Code; and
      (3)   Notice of such public hearings is given as required by general law,
and
      (4)   Detailed regulations pertaining to any subject, such as building
regulations, when arranged in a comprehensive code including maps, charts or
diagrams, may also be adopted by reference in the manner provided in this
Section, and
      (5)   Amendments to such code shall be enacted only by ordinance and, if
no adoption by reference is involved, the procedure set forth in this
subparagraph shall not apply to such adoption.
   (h)   Publication. Publication of ordinances shall be as provided for
general law cities.
SECTION 607. CONTRACTS.
   (a)    Council Action. No contract, for any purpose, shall obligate the
City, in any manner, unless and until such contract has been approved or
ratified, in written form, by the affirmative votes of not less than three (3)
members of the City Council, except:
      (1)   Where a contractual expenditure by the City budget adopted by
ordinance, City Council approval thereof shall be conclusively presumed; and
      (2)   Where the City Manager reasonably determines that an emergency
immediately required the obtaining of goods or services, he/she shall be
empowered to contract for the same without prior City Council approval, and
such contract shall be a binding obligation of the City. The authority of the
City Manager hereunder as to a particular emergency shall terminate at the next
meeting of the City Council unless specifically extended.
   (b)    Leases. No agreement for the lease of City-owned real property to any
person, for a non-municipal purpose, shall be valid unless the City Council
finds that the property proposed for such lease is not required, and will not
be so required during the term of the agreement, for municipal purposes.
   (c)    Supplies and Equipment. Notwithstanding the provisions of this
Section relating to contracts, the City Council shall, by ordinance, provide
for the acquisition of equipment, materials or supplies, other than for public
works contracts, if same are included within a budget approved by the City
Council.
   (d)    Public Works Contracts. Except as otherwise provided by ordinance,
the City shall contract for the construction or reconstruction of any public
building, works, streets, drain, sewer, utility, park or playground
(hereinafter "Public Project") in the time and manner and in accordance with
general law.
      (i)   In determining the lowest responsible bidder, the City Council may
give reasonable preferences to local contractors.
      (ii)   The Council may, by ordinance, determine which contracts will
require competitive bids, bonds, insurance and other such requirements, and
which will not.
SECTION 608. FRANCHISES.
   Franchises shall be granted by the City Council in the time and manner, and
for such purposes, as may be prescribed or authorized by the Constitution or by
an applicable laws of this State, except as may be provided by ordinance.
SECTION 609. INTERFERENCE WITH ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE.
   No member of the City Council shall interfere with the execution by the City
Manager of his/her powers and duties; nor shall any Councilor direct the City
Manager to appoint or remove an officer or employee of the City, or to change,
alter, delete or merge any department of the City. Except for the purpose of
inquiry, no Councilor shall deal with the administrative services of the City
except by and through the City Manager; nor shall any Councilor give any order
or direction on behalf of the City to any subordinate officer or employee of
the City. This Section shall not apply during periods of disaster proclaimed by
the Governor or City Council; nor during such times as there shall be no
Council designated City Manager acting in that capacity.
SECTION 610. CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   The lawful provisions of applicable and/or general law with regard to
conflict of interests prohibited interests and disclosure of assets shall apply
to and govern the activities of each Elective Officer of the City.
SECTION 611. INDEMNIFICATION.
   The members of the City Council shall be provided with a defense and
indemnified against loss for good faith actions taken in the scope of their
employment as Councilors or members of the Community Redevelopment Agency.
SECTION 612. CONTINUITY.
   The City Council may, by ordinance, set the number of successive terms or
years that a Councilor may serve.
ARTICLE VII
APPOINTIVE OFFICERS
SECTION 700. FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The system of government established by this Charter shall be known as the
"Council-Manager" form of government.
SECTION 701. APPOINTIVE OFFICES.
   The municipal offices, established by this Article, shall be known as
appointive offices of the City. Persons shall be appointed to and removed from
such offices by the City Council, in accordance with the provisions hereof.
SECTION 702. CITY MANAGER, APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATION, COMPENSATION.
   The appointive office of City Manager for the City is hereby created. The
qualifications, appointment, salary, duties, tenure and discharge of the City
Manager shall be prescribed by ordinance of the City Council, or as may be
fixed by contract authorized by at least three (3) votes of the City Council.
SECTION 703. CITY MANAGER DUTIES.
   The City Manager, or person acting in that capacity, shall perform the
duties provided by ordinance. The City Council shall provide a defense for and
indemnify him/her for any action brought against him/her in the scope of his/
her employment as Manager of the City or Community Redevelopment Agency.
SECTION 704. CITY ATTORNEY, APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATION, COMPENSATION.
   The appointive office of City Attorney of City is hereby created. The City
Attorney shall be directly responsible to the City Council for the performance
of his/her duties, except as may be authorized by contract or ordinance adopted
by not less than three (3) votes of the City Council.
   (a)   Appointment. A qualified person shall be appointed to the office of
City Attorney by resolution of the City Council, adopted by the affirmative
votes of not less than three (3) members thereof.
   (b)   Compensation. The City Council shall, from time to time, by
resolution, or contract, set the compensation for the office of City Attorney.
   (c)   Qualifications. The qualifications, tenure, contractual relation and
discharge or suspension of the City Attorney shall be provided by not less than
three-fifths (3/5) vote of the City Council.
SECTION 705. CITY ATTORNEY DUTIES.
   The duties of the office of City Attorney shall be as follows:
   (a)   To act as the legal advisor for the City and to its officers and
employees in all matters relating to City affairs, and
   (b)   To appear and defend the City in all matters in civil litigation
involving the City and its officers and employees, except those involving
insurance coverage or Workers' Compensation. He/she shall prosecute all
violations of City ordinances, but may, with the approval of the City Council,
delegate such authority to the District Attorney, and
   (c)   To prepare, or cause to be prepared, all ordinances, resolutions,
contracts, opinions and other legal documents as required by the City Council
relating to the affairs of the City, and
   (d)   To perform such other duties as may be required by the City Council.
The City Council shall provide a defense for, and indemnify, the City Attorney
for action brought against him/her in the scope of his/her employment as
Attorney for the City and for the Community Redevelopment Agency.
SECTION 706. CITY ATTORNEY, DEPUTIES, SPECIAL COUNSEL.
   The City Attorney shall have the authority to appoint deputy city attorneys
to act as such, under the control and direction of the City Attorney.
Compensation for such deputies, if any, shall be set by the City Council. The
City Attorney may, with the approval of the City Council, engage the services
of special counsel to assist him/her in the performance of said duties.
SECTION 707. CITY CLERK, APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   The appointive office of City Clerk of the City is hereby created. Such
office may be combined with that of any other appointive office. The City Clerk
shall be appointed, serve at the pleasure of and be removed by, and be
responsible to the City Council or the City Manager as may be, from time to
time, provided by ordinance.
SECTION 708. CITY TREASURER, APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   The appointive office of City Treasurer is hereby created. The duties of the
City Treasurer shall be those imposed by applicable and/or general law, except
as those duties may be modified by ordinance of the City. The salary, tenure,
appointment and removal of the City Treasurer shall be as prescribed by the
City Council.
SECTION 709. BONDS.
   The appointive officers shall post such fidelity bonds as may be required by
the City Council. Such bonds shall be a proper charge upon the City.
SECTION 710. CONTINUITY.
   No appointive officer shall be removed from office, suspended or reduced in
authority or compensation for ninety (90) days following a municipal election
or change in membership on the City Council.
ARTICLE VIII
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION 800. MISCELLANEOUS AND SAFETY EMPLOYEES.
   The City Council may designate such other positions for miscellaneous and
safety employees as the Council may, from time to time, determine. Appointment
to, authority over and removal from such positions shall be by the City
Manager.
SECTION 801. MERIT SYSTEM, ESTABLISHMENT.
   The City Council, by ordinance, may establish a Merit System for City
employees. Such system may include provisions for the method of selection of
employees, the classification, advancement, suspension, discharge, termination
of such employees, and the consolidation and elimination of positions. The
Merit System shall apply to each office or position of employment, except:
   (a)   Elective and appointive officers; and
   (b)   Part-time or temporary officers and employees; and
   (c)   Members of boards and commissions.
SECTION 802. RETIREMENT.
   Plenary authority and power is hereby vested in the City and its City
Council to do and perform any act, or exercise any option or authority granted,
permitted or required under the provisions of its present retirement program,
or to switch to any other retirement system with similar authority.
SECTION 803. COMPENSATION.
   The City Council, by resolution, shall, from time to time, establish the
salaries and/or other forms of compensation for each officer or employee of the
City.
ARTICLE IX
FISCAL ADMINISTRATION
SECTION 900. FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the City shall begin on the first day of July of each
calendar year and shall end on the thirtieth day of June of the following year.
SECTION 901. BUDGET - SUBMISSION TO THE CITY COUNCIL.
   Unless otherwise directed by the City Council, at least thirty-five (35)
days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the City Manager shall prepare
and submit to the City Council, a proposed annual budget, covering the expected
income and all proposed expenditures of City for the forthcoming fiscal year.
In preparing the budget, the City Manager shall utilize the most feasible
combination of expenditure classification by funds, organization unit, program,
purpose of activity, and object.
   Not less than ten (10) copies of the proposed budget, and the City Manager's
budget message, shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk, available for
examination by members of the general public. Upon submission of the budget,
the City Council shall select a convenient date for the conduct of a public
hearing upon the adoption of such budget. Notice shall be given of such public
hearing in such manner as the City Council deems appropriate to give complete
and adequate notice thereof to residents of the City. At the time of such
public hearing, the City Council shall consider evidence presented by any
interested person concerning any or all of the items as contained in the
proposed budget. Upon conclusion of the said public hearing, the City Council
shall make such alterations, deletions or additions to the budget, as proposed,
as is in the public interest and, therefore, it shall approve the budget as
revised. Such approval shall take place prior to the last day of July of the
fiscal year to which such budgets relates. Upon its adoption, by the
affirmative votes of at least three (3) members of the City Council, the budget
shall be in effect for the ensuing fiscal year. The budget, as approved, shall
be filled with the City Clerk and shall be reproduced and copies made available
for the use of the public and of departments, officers and agencies of the
City.
   At any meeting after the adoption of the budget, the City Council may amend
or supplement the budget, by motion, adopted by the affirmative votes of at
least three (3) members of the City Council.
SECTION 902. BUDGET - APPROPRIATIONS.
   From and after the effective date of the budget, if adopted by ordinance,
the several amounts stated therein as proposed expenditures shall be deemed
appropriated to the several departments, offices and agencies for the
respective objects and purposes therein stated. All appropriations shall lapse
at the end of fiscal year to the extent that they shall have been expended or
lawfully encumbered.
SECTION 903. TAX LEVIES.
   The City Council shall have the authority to levy property taxes in the same
time, manner and amount as is now, or hereinafter, authorized by general law.
In addition, the City Council shall have the authority to levy taxes as
permitted for chartered cities in the conduct of Municipal Affairs.
SECTION 904. IMPOSITION OF OTHER TAXES.
   The City Council may, by ordinance, impose any other tax, in addition to
those specifically referred to in this Charter, if such tax can lawfully be
imposed by a chartered or general law city by virtue of the Constitution, or by
virtue of any general law.
SECTION 905. TAX PROCEDURE.
   The procedure for the assessment, levy and collection of all municipal taxes
and special assessments shall be prescribed by ordinance of the City Council.
In addition, the City Council may create assessment districts and impose fees
as is permitted to a chartered city in the exercise of Municipal Affairs.
SECTION 906. DEBT.
   The City may incur debts, issue bonds, enter long term leases or contracts,
or otherwise financially obligate itself over one or more years, in the manner
as is authorized by general law. In addition, the City Council may, by
ordinance, exercise such functions as permitted by chartered cities in the
conduct of "Municipal Affairs", including the building, construction,
reconstruction, operation, maintenance and other expenses for buildings,
projects, programs and services, governmental and proprietary. The City may
finance or re-finance the acquisition, construction, improvement, furnishing,
equipping, maintenance, repair, reconstruction or rehabilitation of public
facilities, hospitals, health care facilities, airfields, airports, water
facilities, sewer facilities, trash disposal facilities, prison facilities and
such other public, residential, industrial, and commercial facilities as the
City Council may determine to be proper, in whole or in part, through the
issuance of bonds or other obligations secured by the revenue of such
facilities, or otherwise, or by means of such other methods of financing that
the City Council determines to be proper.
SECTION 907. CLAIMS AGAINST THE CITY.
   Claims for money or damages against the City or any officer or employee
thereof, and civil actions to enforce the same, shall be presented, filed and
acted upon in the time and manner as is prescribed by the Government Code, as
the same exists or may hereafter be amended.
SECTION 908. PAYMENT OF CLAIMS AND DEMANDS.
   The City Council, by ordinance, shall provide for the method and manner for
the approval and payment of claims and demands against the City.
ARTICLE X
BOARD OF EDUCATION
SECTION 1000. EFFECT OF CHARTER ON SCHOOL DISTRICTS.
   The adoption of this Charter shall not have the effect of creating any new
school district nor shall the adoption of this Charter have any effect upon the
existence, the boundaries of the City, wholly or partially, as of the effective
date of this Charter. Each such present school district shall continue in
existence subject, in all respects, to the provisions of the Constitution and
the laws of the State, as the same now exist or hereinafter may be amended.
SECTION 1001. APPLICATION OF STATE LAW.
   The manner, time, tenure and terms of office, with reference to the members
of Boards of Education of such school districts, their qualifications,
compensation, removal and the number which shall constitute any one of such
boards shall continue to be as prescribed by the Constitution and laws of the
State, as the same now exists or may hereinafter be amended.
ARTICLE XI
CITY BOARD AND COMMISSIONS
SECTION 1100. CREATION OF COMMISSIONS.
   The City Council, by ordinance, may create such permanent or temporary
boards or commissions as it finds, in its judgment, are required to assist in
the performance of any municipal function.
SECTION 1101. ENABLING ORDINANCES.
   An ordinance establishing a board or commission shall specify the following:
   (a)   The number of members comprising such commission of board; and
   (b)   Their term of office; and
   (c)   The powers and duties assigned to the board or commission; and
   (d)   The conditions under which vacancies in membership shall occur
automatically; and
   (e)   The qualifications for appointment to such board or commission; and
   (f)   Such other matters as may be necessary, in the judgment of the
Council, to enable the commission to perform its assigned functions.
SECTION 1102. APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS.
   The City Council, in its annual budget, shall include an appropriation of
funds for each board or commission, in such amounts as it deems adequate for
the performance of the functions assigned to such bodies.
SECTION 1103. APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   Members of all commissions and boards of the City shall be appointed by the
City Council and shall serve at the pleasure of said City Council. Such
appointments shall be made by resolution, adopted by the affirmative votes of
not less than three (3) members of the City Council. Any member of a board or
commission may be removed, with or without cause, at any time, by the
affirmative votes of three (3) members of the City Council.
   Any vacancy on any board or commission, from whatsoever cause arising, shall
be filled by resolution, carried by not less than three (3) affirmative votes
of the City Council. Upon a vacancy occurring leaving an unexpired portion of a
term, any appointment to fill such vacancy shall be for the unexpired portion
of such terms.
SECTION 1104. MEETINGS - CONDUCT OF.
   The meetings and acts of all commissions and boards and members thereof the
City shall be conducted and taken in accordance with the provisions of the
Brown Act. Each board or commission may adopt, by resolution, rules for the
conduct of its meetings, a copy of which shall be filed with the City Clerk.
SECTION 1105. COMPENSATION - EXPENSES.
   The City Council, by resolution, may provide for reimbursement for expenses
and insurance coverage of board or commission members.
SECTION 1106. SECRETARY - RECORDS.
   The City Manager shall provide the secretarial services for each board or
commission. The City Manager shall ensure the adequate preparation of the
minutes of board or commission meetings and shall maintain permanent files
containing copies of the minutes, as provided by each such board or commission,
and other records relating thereto.
SECTION 1107. EXISTING COMMISSIONS.
   Members of existing boards and commissions holding office as such, as of the
effective date of this Charter, shall continue to hold such office thereafter
until their respective terms shall expire and their successors shall be
appointed and qualified until they have been removed as set forth herein.
ARTICLE XII
VIOLATION — VALIDITY
SECTION 1200. VIOLATIONS.
   The violation of any provision of this Charter shall be deemed a misdemeanor
and be punishable upon conviction by a fine of not exceeding Five Hundred and
no/100 Dollars ($500.00), or by imprisonment for a term of not exceeding six
(6) months, or by such fine and imprisonment.
SECTION 1201. VALIDITY.
   If any provision of this Charter, or the application thereof any person or
circumstance, is held judicially invalid, the remainder of the Charter, and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances, shall not be
affected thereby.
TITLE 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapters:
   
1.01   Code Adopted
   
1.05   The City Seal and City Logo, and the Use Thereof
   
1.10   General Provisions
   
1.15   Elections
   
1.20   Municipal Code Violations
   
1.22   Cost Recovery
   
1.25   Disruption of Public Meetings
Chapter 1.01
CODE ADOPTED
Sections:
   
1.01.010   Declaration of Purpose
   
1.01.020   Establishment of Municipal Code
   
1.01.030   Contents of Code
   
1.01.040   Other Ordinances not Part of Code
   
1.01.050   Outline of Code
   
1.01.060   Maintenance of Code
   
1.01.070   Interpretation of Code and Other Ordinances
   
1.01.080   Effect of Code on Past Actions and Obligations
   
1.01.090   Severability
   
1.01.100   Territorial Limitation
   
1.01.110   Local Signification
   
1.01.120   Rules of Construction
   
1.01.130   Effect of Headings
   
1.01.140   Meaning of “Section” and “Subsection”
   
1.01.150   Acts by Deputies
   
1.01.160   “Writing”
   
1.01.170   Reference to Ordinances: Application to Amendments
   
1.01.180   Statute of Limitations
1.01.010 Declaration of Purpose.
The City Council finds that it is desirable and in the public interest to
establish a Municipal Code in order to provide a scheme of organization for the
classification and grouping of ordinances which the Council may adopt. The
Council intends to adopt ordinances of a general and permanent nature to
provide for their placement in accordance with the scheme of the Code. This
will provide the user with a convenient and logical compilation of the
ordinances of the City.
1.01.020 Establishment of Municipal Code.
This Code shall be known as the “City of Adelanto Municipal Code.” It shall be
sufficient to refer to this Code as the City of Adelanto Municipal Code in any
prosecution for the violation of any provision of this Code. It shall also be
sufficient to designate any ordinance adding to, amending, correcting or
repealing provisions of this Code as an addition or amendment to, or a repeal
of, the City of Adelanto Municipal Code, or a portion thereof.
1.01.030 Contents of Code.
The City of Adelanto Municipal Code shall consist of all ordinances adopted by
the City Council which are of a general and permanent nature. An ordinance
relating to any of the following subject matters is not considered an ordinance
of a general and permanent nature and need not be included within the Municipal
Code:
   The naming of streets or roads;
   Granting, altering or withdrawing franchises;
   Levying real property tax;
   Calling an election;
   Annexation proceedings;
   Interim zoning measure;
   Zoning or rezoning a particular parcel of property;
Such other ordinances of a special or particular subject matter which the
Council considers are not appropriate to a general compilation of laws of a
general and permanent nature.
1.01.040 Other Ordinances not Part of Code.
Other ordinances adopted by the City Council on or before the date of adoption
of this Municipal Code or Title thereof, are not included as part of the
Municipal Code or that Title so adopted; and any future amendments to said
other ordinances will not be included as part of the Municipal Code unless
otherwise expressly stated in said future amendments.
1.01.050 Outline of Code.
   A.   The ordinances of the City which are of a general and permanent nature
shall be organized and grouped according to subject matter.
   B.   Ordinances which are adopted from time to time shall be classified and
organized under the following scheme of titles:
      1.   General Provisions
      2.   Administration and Personnel
      3.   Revenue and Finance
      4.   (Reserved)
      5.   Business Licensing and Regulations
      6.   (Reserved)
      7.   Animals
      8.   Health and Sanitation
      9.   Peace, Safety and Morals
      10.   Vehicles and Traffic
      11.   (Reserved)
      12.   (Reserved)
      13.   Streets, Sidewalks and Public Utilities
      14.   Buildings and Construction
      15.   (Reserved)
      16.   Subdivisions
      17.   Zoning and Development
1.01.060 Maintenance of Code.
At least three (3) copies of this Code, duly certified by the City Clerk, shall
be maintained on file in the office of the City Clerk as official copies of
this Code. Additional copies of this Code shall be distributed to the
departments of the City as shall be prescribed by the City Manager.
Duly certified copies of each ordinance making a change in this Code shall be
filed in the office of the City Clerk in books for such purpose, duly indexed
for ready reference.
At least semiannually, the City Clerk shall cause the loose leaf pages of this
Code in which changes have been made to be reproduced, including a notation as
to the ordinance number and the date, pursuant to which such change is adopted.
Such reprinted pages shall be distributed in order that the loose leaf copies
of this Code, prepared for the use and convenience of the officers and
employees of the City and the general public, may be brought up to date.
1.01.070 Interpretation of Code and Other Ordinances.
The provisions of this Code and all proceedings under it are to be construed to
effect its objects and to promote justice.
All the provisions of this Code and all other City ordinances shall be
interpreted to refer to the appropriate or designated officer or office of the
City, and whether an ordinance, uniform code, statute or other matter which is
adopted by reference refers to any department, officer, employee, inspection,
police or other function, unless the context requires otherwise, all references
shall be to the appropriate or designated office, officer, department, agency,
employee or function of the City, or to the person or agency performing the
function for the City.
1.01.080 Effect of Code on Past Actions and Obligations.
Neither the adoption of this Code nor the repeal or amendment by this Code of
any ordinance or part or portion of any ordinance previously in effect in the
City or within the territory currently comprising the City, shall in any manner
affect the prosecution for the violation of any ordinance, which violation was
committed prior to the effective date of this Code, nor be construed as a
waiver of any license, fee or penalty on such effective date due and unpaid
under such ordinances, nor be construed as affecting any of the provisions of
such ordinances relating to the collection of any such license, fee or penalty
or the penal provisions applicable to any violation of such ordinances, nor to
affect the validity of any bond or cash deposit required to be posted, filed or
deposited pursuant to any ordinance; and all vested rights and obligations
pertaining to such ordinances shall continue in full force and effect. The
repeal of an ordinance shall not repeal the repealing clause of such ordinance
or revive any ordinance which has been repealed thereby.
No action or proceeding commenced before this Code takes effect, and no right
accrued, is affected by the provisions of this Code or by such repeal, but such
rights shall hereafter be exercised according to this Code.
1.01.090 Severability.
If any Chapter, Section, Subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of
this Code is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court
of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct
and independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions thereof. The City Council hereby declares that it would have
passed this Code, and each Section, Subsection, sentence, clause and phrase
thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more Sections, Subsections,
sentences, clauses or phrases had been declared invalid or unconstitutional;
and if for any reason the Code should be declared invalid or unconstitutional,
then the original ordinance or ordinances shall be in full force and effect.
1.01.100 Territorial Limitation.
This Code shall refer only to the omission or commission of acts within the
territorial limits of the City of Adelanto and that territory outside of the
City over which the City has jurisdiction or control by virtue of the
Constitution, or any law, or by reason of ownership or control of property.
1.01.110 Local Signification.
All references in this Code to places, acts, persons or things and all else in
relation to this Code shall be construed to mean that the same are applicable
to this City, whether the City is mentioned in each particular Section or not.
Portions of this Code have been adopted from or relate to the same subject as
is set forth in the San Bernardino County Code. To the extent that any Section,
Subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code is in conflict with the San
Bernardino County Code provisions so adopted, the later-adopted portion of this
Code shall control and shall take precedence over the inconsistent portions of
the San Bernardino County Code.
1.01.120 Rules of Construction.
Unless the provisions of this Code otherwise specifically provide or the
context of this Code indicates to the contrary, the general provisions, rules
of construction and definitions set forth in the following Sections of this
Chapter shall govern the construction of this Code. The provisions of this
Code, and all proceedings under it, are to be construed with a view to effect
their objects and to promote justice.
1.01.130 Effect of Headings.
The title, chapter, article, and section headings contained in this Code shall
not be deemed to govern, limit, modify, or in any manner affect the scope,
meaning or intent or the provisions of any title, chapter, article or section
of this Code.
1.01.140 Meaning of “Section” and “Subsection.”
“Section” shall mean a section of this Code, unless some other source is
specifically set forth. “Subsection” shall mean a subsection of the section in
which the term occurs, unless some other section is expressly set forth.
1.01.150 Acts by Deputies.
Whenever a power is granted to, or a duty is imposed upon, a public officer or
employee, the power may be exercised or the duty may be performed by a deputy
or such officer or employee or by a person otherwise duly authorized pursuant
to law or ordinance, unless this Code expressly provides otherwise.
1.01.160 “Writing.”
“Writing” includes any form of recorded message capable of comprehension by
ordinary visual means. Whenever any notice, report, statement or record is
required or authorized by this Code, such notice, report, statement or record
shall be made in writing in the English language, unless this Code expressly
provides otherwise.
1.01.170 References to Ordinances: Application to Amendments.
Whenever any reference in this Code is made to an ordinance, the reference
shall apply to such ordinance of the City, unless this Code expressly provides
otherwise. Whenever any reference is made to any portion of this Code or to any
ordinance of this City, the reference shall apply to all amendments,
corrections and additions heretofore, now or hereafter added to this Code.
1.01.180 Statute of Limitations.
When a limitation or period of time prescribed in any existing ordinance or
statute for acquiring a right or barring a remedy, or for any other purpose,
has begun to run before this Code goes into effect, the time which has already
run shall be deemed a part of the time prescribed as such limitation.
Chapter 1.05
THE CITY SEAL AND CITY LOGO, AND THE USE THEREOF
Sections:
   
1.05.010   Declaration of Intent
   
1.05.020   Definitions
   
1.05.030   Adoption
   
1.05.040   Prohibitions
1.05.010 Declaration of Intent.
Prior to the adoption of this Chapter, there was no mechanism by which the City
could prevent unauthorized placement of the City Seal or City Logo on documents
or materials in a manner that could mislead, deceive, or confuse the viewer
that the material bearing the City Seal or City Logo was generated by the City,
or that the City otherwise approves of, consents to, sponsors, authorizes or
endorses the materials or its contents. In the absence of the adoption of this
Chapter, the public could become confused, deceived or misled by such documents
or materials, which would be detrimental to the public health, safety and
welfare, and the effective operation of the City.
1.05.020 Definitions.
   A.   The term “City Seal” means the official seal of the City of Adelanto
that was adopted by the Adelanto City Council pursuant to Resolution No. 96-07,
adopted on February 13, 1996. The image of the City Seal is substantially the
same as the form shown below:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82242252ce6d54adb3244876d9e74fa1d0bd6515/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3904.jpg]
 
   B.   The term “City Logo” means the official logo of the City of Adelanto
that is displayed on official City documents, notices, stationery, City
uniforms and vehicles, the image of which is substantially the same as the form
of the City Seal.
   C.   The term “document” means any tangible or intangible form of
communication or representation, including, but not limited to, any writing, as
that term is defined in the California Public Records Act.
1.05.030 Adoption.
The form of the City Seal and City Logo, set forth hereinabove, are hereby
adopted as the City Seal and City Logo.
1.05.040 Prohibitions.
   A.   No person shall place the City Seal or City Logo, or any copy,
facsimile, imitation, or replica thereof, on any document or materials in a
manner that could cause a viewer to reasonably believe that the document or
material was generated by the City; that the document or material bearing the
City Seal or City Logo was generated by the City or that the person or entity
responsible for creating the document or material bearing the City Seal or City
Logo was generated by the City; that the City otherwise approves of, consents
to, sponsors, authorizes or endorses the material or document or its contents;
or that the person or entity generating the material is employed by, an officer
of or otherwise affiliated with the City.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or use the City Seal or
the City Logo or any copy, facsimile, imitation or replica thereof on any
written or printed material supporting or opposing any candidate or candidates
for any elective public office or any local or statewide referendum, initiative
or other ballot measure, except upon the approval of the City Council.
   C.   Any person who violates the provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty
of an infraction and shall be subject to penalties pursuant to
Chapter 1.20 of this Code.
   D.   The City Council may, by resolution, adopt a policy for the official
use of the City Seal or City Logo by officers, employees and agents of the
City, which policy may be in addition to the limitations included in this
Chapter.
Chapter 1.10
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sections:
   
1.10.010   Definitions
   
1.10.020   Construction of Provisions
   
1.10.030   Notices - Service
   
1.10.040   Notices - Proof of Service
   
1.10.050   Hold Harmless Clause for Licenses and Permits
1.10.010 Definitions.
As used in this Code, unless a different meaning is apparent from the context
or is specified elsewhere in the Code:
   A.   “Calendar Year” shall mean from January 1 through December 31 of any
given year.
   B.   “City” shall mean the City of Adelanto.
   C.   “City Manager” shall mean the appointed official of the City who
occupies the position as chief administrative officer of the City or his/her
designee.
   D.   “Council” shall mean the City Council of the City of Adelanto.
   E.   “Councilmember” shall mean a person duly elected to the Council.
   F.   “County” shall mean the County of San Bernardino, California, or the
area within the limits of San Bernardino County, and such territory outside of
San Bernardino County over which the County has jurisdiction or control by
virtue of any constitutional or statutory provisions.
   G.   “Fiscal Year” shall mean from July 1 of any given year through June 30
of the following year.
   H.   “Gender” shall mean the masculine, the feminine and neuter genders.
   I.   “Goods” shall mean and include wares and merchandise.
   J.   “May” shall be permissive.
   K.   “Month” shall mean a calendar month, unless otherwise expressed.
   L.   “Number” - The singular number shall include the plural, and the plural
number shall include the singular.
   M.   “Oath” shall include affirmation.
   N.   “Official Time Standard” - Wherever certain hours are named in this
Code, they shall mean Standard Time or Daylight Saving Time as may be in
current use in the City.
   O.   “Operate” shall mean and include carrying on, keeping, conducting or
maintaining.
   P.   “Owner,” applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner,
joint owner, tenant, tenant in common or joint tenant of the whole or a part of
such building or land.
   Q.   “Person” shall include any natural person, firm, company, corporation,
club, trust or similar organization, partnership, association, public
corporation, political subdivision, City (except the City of Adelanto), the
County of San Bernardino, any district in the County of San Bernardino, the
State of California or the United States of America, or any department or
agency or any employee, manager, officer, agent, lessee or servant of any
thereof, unless this Code expressly provides otherwise.
   R.   “Personal Property” shall include money, goods, chattels, things in
action and evidences of debt.
   S.   “Police,” “Police Chief” or “Chief of Police” shall mean the agency
which performs the appropriate law enforcement function for the City and the
head of the agency or division thereof which at the time involved has
responsibility for performing the police function for, or within, the City.
   T.   “Property” shall include real and personal property.
   U.   “Quarterly,” where used to designate a period of time, shall mean the
first three (3) calendar months of any given year or any succeeding period of
three (3) calendar months.
   V.   “Real Property” shall include land, tenements and hereditaments.
   W.   “Sale” shall include any sale, exchange, barter or offer for sale.
   X.   “Shall” shall be mandatory.
   Y.   “State” shall mean the State of California.
   Z.   “Street” shall include all streets, highways, avenues, boulevards,
alleys, courts, places, squares, curbs or other public ways in the City which
have been or may hereafter be dedicated and open to public use, or such other
public property so designated in any law of the State.
   AA.   “Tenant” or “Occupant” applied to a building or land, shall include
any person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether
alone or with others.
   BB.   “Tense” - The present tense shall include the past and future tense,
and the future tense shall include the present tense.
Words and phrases not defined in this Code are construed according to the
approved usage of the language, or, when appropriate, by reference to
definitions contained in state or federal law.
1.10.020 Construction of Provisions.
Words and phrases are to be construed according to the context and the approved
usage of language. Technical words and phrases, and such others as may have
acquired a peculiar and specific meaning in the law or are specifically defined
herein, are to be construed in accordance with such peculiar and specific
meaning or definition.
1.10.030 Notices - Service.
Whenever a notice is required to be given, or may be given, under any provision
of this Code or any provision of any code adopted by reference by this Code or
any provision of any ordinance or resolution of the City not included within
this Code, such notice may be given as herein provided. Unless different or
special provisions are otherwise specifically made in this Code or in some
other applicable enactment, any such notice may be given either by personal
delivery thereof to the person to be notified, or by deposit in the United
States mail in a sealed envelope, postage prepaid, addressed to such person to
be notified, at that person’s last known business address as the same appears
in the public records or other records pertaining to the matters to which such
notice is directed. Service by mail shall be deemed to have been completed at
the time of deposit in the post office or in the official receptacle thereof.
1.10.040 Notices - Proof of Service.
Proof of giving any notice may be made by the certificate of any officer or
employee of this City or by the affidavit or declaration under penalty of
perjury of any person over the age of eighteen (18) years, which shows service
in conformity with this Code or other provisions of law applicable to the
subject matter concerned.
1.10.050 Hold Harmless Clause for Licenses and Permits.
   A.   Every license, permit, authorization or grant which is issued or given
by the City or any of its officers, agents, employees, departments or agencies
shall be contingent upon and shall be subject to the following condition:
      The licensee, permittee, authorizee or grantee agrees, guarantees and
promises to save, indemnify and keep harmless the City and all its officers,
agents, employees, departments and agencies against all liabilities, judgments,
costs and expenses which may in any manner or form accrue against the City or
against any of its officers, agents, employees, departments or agencies in
consequence of the use or occupancy of any sidewalk, street or other public
place, or in any otherwise by virtue thereof, and will in all things strictly
comply with the conditions of the license, permit, authorization or grant, and
with this Code, all ordinances, rules and regulations of the City relating to
the license, permit, authorization or grant.
   B.   Whenever it is administratively proper, the City Clerk and all
officers, agents, employees, departments and agencies of the City shall print,
type or write the condition stated above into every license, permit,
authorization or grant substantially as it appears in this Section.
Chapter 1.15
ELECTIONS
Sections:
   
1.15.010   General Municipal Elections
   
1.15.020   Election Candidate Filing Fee
   
1.15.030   Regulations and Charges for Filing Candidate Statements
   
1.15.040   Term of Office - City Council
   
1.15.050   Term of Office - Mayor
1.15.010 General Municipal Elections.
   A.   General Municipal Election. The general municipal election of the City
shall be held on the same day as the statewide general election (i.e., on the
first Tuesday after the first Monday of November in each even-numbered year).
All elections within the City shall be held and conducted in accordance with
the elections laws of the State pertaining to municipalities as amended from
time to time.
   B.   Consolidation of Elections. The intent of this Section is to reduce the
costs of conducting general municipal elections in the City by permitting the
consolidation of the general municipal election with another election already
to be held on the same date and to be conducted by the San Bernardino County
Registrar of Voters. In addition, it is anticipated that there will be an
increase in voter participation in the general municipal election because of
this combination of elections. It is also anticipated that voter convenience
will be served. The City Clerk shall request the County Clerk to conduct the
municipal election pursuant to the procedures set forth in Elections Code
Section 10403 and specify the services to be rendered.
   C.   Eligibility of Members. A person is eligible to hold office as a member
of the City Council or as elected Mayor, if he/she is an elector of the City at
the time of assuming office and a registered voter at the time nomination
papers are issued.
[Government Code Sections 34882 and 34904.]
1.15.020 Election Candidate Filing Fee.
A filing fee proportionate to the costs of processing a candidate’s nomination
papers, but not exceeding twenty-five dollars ($25.00), is established for
candidate’s nomination papers for elective office at municipal elections, to be
paid upon the filing of the nomination papers pursuant to the procedures set
forth in Elections Code Section 10228.
1.15.030 Regulations and Charges for Filing Candidate Statements.
   A.   Each candidate for elective office may prepare a candidate’s statement
on the form provided by the City Clerk. The candidate’s statement may include
the name, age and occupation of the candidate and a brief description of no
more than two hundred (200) words, together with the candidate’s education and
qualifications expressed by the candidate himself or herself, in accordance
with Elections Code Section 13307. The statement shall not include the party
affiliation of the candidate, nor membership or activity in partisan political
organizations.
   B.   The candidate’s statement shall be filed in the Office of the City
Clerk at the time the candidate’s nomination papers are filed.
   C.   Each candidate filing a statement shall pay in advance to the City his
or her estimated pro rata share of the total cost of printing, handling,
translating and mailing the candidate’s statement filed pursuant to Elections
Code Section 13307, as a condition of having his or her statement included in
the voter’s pamphlet. The City Clerk shall determine the estimated pro rata
cost of filing the candidate’s statement, which shall be posted with the City
Clerk at the time the candidate’s statement is filed; the written receipt for
payment of the estimated amount shall include a written notice that the
estimate is just an approximation of the actual cost that varies from one
election to another election and may be significantly more or less than the
estimate, depending on the actual number of candidates filing statements.
   D.   The City Clerk shall bill each candidate for additional actual expense
or refund any excess paid depending on the final actual cost. In the event of
underpayment, the City Clerk shall require the candidate to pay the balance of
the cost incurred; in the event of overpayment, the City Clerk shall prorate
the excess amount among the candidates and refund the excess amount paid within
thirty (30) days of the election.
   E.   The City will provide an exemption from advance payment of the fee for
the candidate’s statement, for candidates who establish indigence in accordance
with Elections Code Section 13309. The indigent candidate shall be responsible
for payment of the pro rata share of the costs related to printing,
translating, handling and mailing of the candidate’s statement. The City Clerk
shall bill and collect from any indigent candidate his or her actual pro rata
share of the cost after the election.
   F.   Candidates’ statements may be withdrawn, but not changed, during the
period for filing nomination papers, and until 5:00 p.m. the next working day
after the close of the nomination period.
   G.   A written statement of the regulations set forth herein shall be
provided to each candidate or his or her representative at the time he or she
picks up the nomination papers. Each candidate shall be provided a copy of this
Section at the time nomination papers are issued.
1.15.040 Term of Office - City Council.
Members of the City Council shall be elected by the registered qualified voters
of the City, on an at large basis, at general or special municipal elections
held for that purpose.
[Charter, Section 501.]
1.15.050 Term of Office - Mayor.
Commencing with the general municipal election held in 2004, the Mayor shall be
elected for a term of four (4) years.
[Charter, Section 601(a), amended 11/2/04.]
Chapter 1.20
MUNICIPAL CODE VIOLATIONS
Sections:
   
1.20.010   General Enforcement Provisions
   
1.20.020   General Enforcement Procedures
   
1.20.030   Special Enforcement Procedures
   
1.20.040   Criminal Enforcement Procedures
   
1.20.050   Civil Enforcement Procedures
   
1.20.060   Administrative Enforcement Procedures
   
1.20.070   Summary Enforcement Procedures
   
1.20.080   [Repealed]
   
1.20.090   License and Permit Revocation Procedures
1.20.010 General Enforcement Provisions.
   A.   Enforcement of Code. The City Council hereby declares that violations
of the Code are harmful, injurious and threatening to the public health, safety
and welfare. Therefore, it is the intent of the City Council that the
provisions of the Code shall be enforced as provided in this Chapter or as may
otherwise be provided under the Code or under the laws of the State of
California.
      It is the intent of the City Council to use all administrative, criminal
and civil procedures legally available to enforce the provisions and
requirements of this Code, to correct Code violations and to abate public
nuisances arising from violations of the Code.
   B.   Definitions. Unless otherwise specially defined in this Section, all
words, terms and phrases used in this Chapter shall have the meaning ascribed
to them in Section
1.10.010 this Chapter or, if not defined therein, as otherwise may be defined
in the Code. If no special definition is provided in the Code, then such words,
terms and phrases shall have their common meaning.
   C.   Violations of the Code.
      1.   Misdemeanor. Any responsible person who commits a Code violation or
who causes or permits the occurrence or continuance of a public nuisance on
property which that person owns, leases, possesses or controls is guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) per each violation or by imprisonment not exceeding six (6) months
or by both such fine and imprisonment.
      2.   Infractions.
         a.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection 1. hereinabove, any
offense that may be cited as a misdemeanor may be reduced by the City to an
infraction where the Code violation or public nuisance does not present an
immediate danger, hazard or injury to the public health or safety or where the
responsible party has not previously been convicted of the same or
substantially similar Code violations or public nuisances within the past five
(5) years.
         b.   Any responsible person who commits a Code violation or who causes
or permits the occurrence or continuance of a public nuisance on property which
that person owns, leases, possesses or controls which has been reduced to an
infraction by the City is punishable by a fine not exceeding one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for the first violation within a five (5) year period; by a
fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second violation of
the same provision within the same five (5) year period; and by a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each additional violation of the
same provision within the same five (5) year period.
      3.   Public Nuisance. Each and every violation of the provisions of this
Code and other unlawful conditions are hereby declared to constitute a separate
public nuisance which may be abated by the City through the enforcement
procedures provided for in this Chapter or in any other manner provided by law
for the abatement of public nuisances.
      4.   Aiding and Abetting. Whenever in this Code any act or omission is
made unlawful, it shall include causing, allowing, permitting, aiding,
abetting, suffering or concealing the fact of such act or omission.
   D.   Separate and Continuing Violations.
      1.   Each and every Code violation and public nuisance committed,
continued or permitted by a responsible person is a separate offense severally
punishable or abatable as provided in this Chapter or as may otherwise be
provided for under this Code.
      2.   Each responsible person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense
for each and every day, or any portion thereof, during which any Code violation
or public nuisance is committed, continued or permitted by such person and
shall be punishable as provided in this Chapter or as may otherwise be provided
for in this Code.
   E.   Procedures are Cumulative. The enforcement procedures authorized by
this Chapter or as may otherwise be provided for in this Code or under the laws
of the State of California are cumulative and not mutually exclusive. The City
may simultaneously commence and pursue any one or more enforcement procedures
against the responsible party for each Code violation or public nuisance to the
fullest extent allowed by the law provided the City does not receive
duplicative payment for any single Code violation or public nuisance.
   F.   Obligation to Pay Abatement Costs. The approved enforcement and
abatement costs in an enforcement procedure against a responsible person for a
Code violation or public nuisance which results in a conviction, civil
judgment, injunction, abatement order or other administrative order shall
constitute a personal obligation of the responsible person and may be recovered
from the responsible person in said proceeding.
1.20.020 General Enforcement Procedures.
   A.   Enforcement Procedures.
      1.   This Chapter provides for criminal, civil and administrative
enforcement procedures for Code violations and public nuisances. The
enforcement officer is hereby authorized to select and pursue any one or more
of the enforcement procedures for each Code violation or public nuisance. The
enforcement officer is further authorized to pursue the enforcement procedures
provided for in Sections 
1.20.030 (Special Enforcement Provisions) and
1.20.070 (Summary Enforcement Procedures) where applicable. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the enforcement officer is also authorized to pursue any and all
other enforcement procedures provided for by this Code and any procedures or
remedies provided for under the laws of the State of California.
      2.   Except where the special procedures of Section
1.20.030 or the summary procedures of Section
1.20.070 are applicable, the enforcement officer shall commence each
enforcement procedure by first issuing the notices required under this Section.
      3.   If, after issuance of the notices provided for in this Section and
the expiration of the correction or abatement period stated in the notice of
public nuisance, the responsible person has failed to complete the corrections
or abatement specified in the notice of public nuisance, the enforcement
officer may proceed with the criminal, civil and/or administrative procedures
provided for in this Chapter with respect to the noticed Code violation(s) or
public nuisance(s).
   B.   Notice to Responsible Person.
      1.   Initial Notice. The enforcement officer shall, upon the
identification of any Code violation or public nuisance which does not
constitute an imminent danger or hazard under Section
1.20.070 of this Chapter, advise the responsible person in writing of the
existence thereof by means of a notice of violation, a stop work order or a
notice to cease use or occupancy as provided herein.
      2.   Notice of Violation. Unless this Section prescribes the use of a
stop work order or a notice to cease use or occupancy, the enforcement officer
shall issue a notice of violation to the responsible person describing the Code
violation(s) or public nuisance(s) stating a reasonable period of not less then
seven (7) calendar days during which correction or abatement must occur and
setting forth the actions required to correct the Code violation or abate the
public nuisance. The notice shall also inform the responsible person of his
liability for enforcement costs and any abatement costs incurred by the City in
the enforcement procedure if the Code violation or public nuisance is not fully
corrected within the stated period. The responsible person shall correct the
Code violation or abate the public nuisance within the time stated in the
notice.
      3.   Stop Work Order. Whenever any work is being done without or in
violation of the appropriate permit or license or that is otherwise contrary to
the provisions of the Code, the enforcement officer may order such work
discontinued and the buildings, dwellings or structures, or portion thereof,
vacated by notice issued to the responsible person. The notice shall describe
the Code violation(s) or public nuisance(s), state a reasonable period of not
less then seven (7) calendar days during which correction or abatement must
occur and set forth the actions required to correct the Code violation or abate
the public nuisance. The notice shall also inform the responsible person of his
liability for enforcement fees and abatement costs incurred by the City in the
enforcement procedure if the Code violation or public nuisance is not fully
corrected within the stated period. When a stop work order is issued, any and
all persons shall forthwith stop such work until the violations have been
corrected; and the City has authorized the responsible person to proceed with
the work.
      4.   Notice to Cease Use or Occupancy. Whenever any building, dwelling,
structure or equipment therein regulated by the Code is being used or occupied
contrary to the provisions of the Code, the enforcement officer may order such
use discontinued and the building, dwelling, structure or equipment vacated by
issuance of a notice to cease use or occupancy to the responsible person. The
notice shall describe the Code violation(s) or public nuisance(s), state a
reasonable period of not less then seven (7) calendar days by which the use or
occupancy of the building, dwelling, structure or equipment must cease; state a
reasonable period of not less than seven (7) calendar days during which
correction or abatement must occur; and set forth the actions required to
correct the Code violation or abate the public nuisance. The notice shall also
inform the responsible person of his liability for enforcement fees and
abatement costs incurred by the City in the enforcement procedure if the Code
violation or public nuisance is not fully corrected within the stated period.
All persons shall cease use or occupancy of the building, dwelling, structure
or equipment within the time stated in the notice. The responsible person shall
make the required corrections or complete the abatement within the time stated
in the notice.
   C.   Notice of Public Nuisance. If, upon expiration of the period stated in
the notice of violation, stop work order or notice to cease use or occupancy,
the corrective or abatement work specified in the notice has not been
completed, the enforcement officer shall issue a notice of public nuisance to
the responsible person. The responsible person shall complete the corrective or
abatement work within the time stated in the notice.
   D.   Issuance of Notices.
      1.   All notices required under this Section shall be issued to the
responsible person in the following manner:
         a.   Except as is provided in Subsection c. hereinbelow, the
enforcement officer shall, with reasonable diligence, attempt to personally
serve the notice on the responsible person in the manner provided in California
Code of Civil Procedure Section 415.10 or 415.20.
         b.   If after reasonable diligence the enforcement officer is not able
to personally serve the notice as provided in Subsection a. hereinabove, the
enforcement officer may issue the notice by completing both of the following:
            (1)   Posting the notice in a conspicuous place at the real
property, building, dwelling or structure where the Code violation or public
nuisance is alleged to exist; and
            (2)   Mailing a copy of the notice by certified mail, postage
prepaid, to the responsible person at his last known address.
         c.   At the discretion of the enforcement officer, subsequent notice
of public nuisance which relates to the initial Code violation or public
nuisance may be served upon the responsible person by certified mail, postage
prepaid, at his last known address.
      2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section, the failure of any
responsible person to actually receive any of the notices provided for under
this Section shall not invalidate any enforcement procedure taken against the
responsible person pursuant to this Chapter.
   E.   Right of Entry and Inspection.
      1.   The enforcement officer is hereby authorized to enter upon or into,
in compliance with this Section, any real property, building, dwelling or
structure located within the City and its sphere of influence for the purpose
of investigating the existence of suspected or reported Code violations and
public nuisances.
      2.   The enforcement officer shall only enter upon or into real property,
buildings, dwellings and structures for the purpose of making an inspection as
follows:
         a.   If the enforcement officer has duly obtained an inspection
warrant pertaining to the real property, buildings, dwellings or structures
from a California court of competent jurisdiction; or
         b.   If the enforcement officer is accompanied by a peace officer who
has obtained a search warrant pertaining to the real property, buildings,
dwellings or structures from a California court of competent jurisdiction; or
         c.   If the enforcement officer is accompanied by a peace officer
without a search warrant but there exists facts that the peace officer
determines fulfill an exemption to the search warrant requirement under
prevailing state or federal law; or
         d.   If the enforcement officer has obtained the permission of the
responsible person or the owner, tenant, or occupant of the real property,
buildings, dwellings or structures to be entered upon or in; or
         e.   If the enforcement officer is informed of facts reasonably
showing that an emergency exists or that there exists on or in the real
property, buildings, dwellings or structures a condition which is imminently
dangerous, hazardous or injurious to the public health or safety.
      3.   Nothing in this Section shall prohibit an enforcement officer from
making a visual inspection of any real property, building, dwelling or
structure from the public right-of-way or from any other real property,
building, dwelling or structure for which the enforcement officer has obtained
permission to enter by the owner, tenant or occupant thereof.
      4.   No person shall hinder or prevent an enforcement officer from
entering, in compliance with this Section, upon or in any and all real
property, buildings, dwellings or structures for the purpose of conducting any
inspection authorized by this Chapter or as may otherwise be provided for in
this Code or the laws of the State of California.
1.20.030 Special Enforcement Procedures.
The City Council has provided that certain Code violations or public nuisances
shall be enforced, corrected or abated in accordance with special provisions
stated in the Code. Where applicable, the enforcement officer shall first
determine whether an alleged Code violation or public nuisance is governed by
such special provisions. In the event such special provisions apply, the
enforcement officer shall proceed in accordance with any alternative procedures
or penalties prescribed therein. To the extent such special provisions conflict
or augment the enforcement procedures provided for in this Chapter, the special
provisions shall govern.
1.20.040 Criminal Enforcement Procedures.
If an enforcement officer has issued a notice of public nuisance to a
responsible person and the corrective or abatement work specified in the notice
has not been completed within the time stated therein, then the City may
commence a criminal enforcement proceeding against the responsible person in
the California court of competent jurisdiction.
   A.   Initiation of Proceeding. The City may commence a criminal enforcement
proceeding by issuing a criminal citation to the responsible person for one (1)
or more Code violations. Criminal citations shall only be issued by enforcement
officers certified under Penal Code Section 832 or a peace officer.
   B.   Citations in Lieu of Immediate Arraignment.
      1.   Notice to Appear in Lieu of Arrest. In any case in which a person is
arrested for a violation of any provision of this Code and does not demand to
be taken before a magistrate, such person may, in lieu of being taken before a
magistrate, be issued a written notice to appear in court and may then be
released, all pursuant to and in accordance with the procedures prescribed by
Penal Code Sections 853.6 et seq.
      2.   Issuance of Citations by Designated Officers and Employees. Officers
and employees of the City who have the discretionary duty to enforce a statute
or ordinance may, pursuant to Penal Code Section 836.5 and subject to the
provisions of this Section, arrest a person without a warrant whenever any such
officer or employee has reasonable cause to believe that the person to be
arrested has committed an offense in the officer’s or employee’s presence which
he or she has the discretionary duty to enforce, and to issue a notice to
appear, and to release such person on his or her written promise to appear in
court, pursuant to Penal Code Section 853.6. No officer or employee shall be
allowed by his or her superior to exercise the arrest and citation authority
conferred in this Section unless such officer or employee is within a
classification of City officers and employees designated by the City Council to
exercise such arrest and citation authority as to specified violations. The
City Manager shall establish and cause to be administered a special enforcement
training program designated to instruct each officer or employee who will
exercise such arrest and citation authority, regarding the provisions of the
statutes and ordinances to be enforced, the evidentiary prerequisites to proper
procedures for making arrests or otherwise prudently exercising such arrest and
citation authority and the legal and practical ramifications and limitations
attendant thereto. Any such officers or employees shall be appropriately
instructed to deposit executed citations or notices with the Police Department
for filing with the court, after review for legal sufficiency.
   C.   Post Citation Procedures. After the City has initiated a criminal
proceeding against a responsible person, the procedures followed for release of
persons arrested, notice to appear, bail and penalties for failure to appear
shall be consistent with those procedures prescribed by Chapter 5C of Title 3
of Part 2 of the Penal Code, commencing with Section 853.5.
   D.   Cost Recovery in Criminal Proceedings.
      1.   The City shall be entitled to reimbursement from each responsible
person upon conviction of a Code violation for its enforcement costs and any
abatement costs in an amount approved by the court that were incurred by the
City related to the Code violation.
      2.   Upon entry of the second and each subsequent criminal conviction for
violation of the same Code Section within a one (1) year period, finding that
the responsible person was guilty of the Code violation, the court may order
the responsible person to pay restitution to the City equal to three (3) times
the amount of the enforcement and abatement costs incurred by the City related
to the Code violation.
      3.   Pursuant to Government Code Section 38773.5.(b), where the City
makes a demand for the recovery of its attorneys’ fees at the initiation of a
criminal action that was commenced by the City under this Chapter, the
prevailing party in said action shall be entitled to recovery of that party’s
attorneys’ fees in an amount not to exceed the amount of reasonable attorneys’
fees incurred by the City in said action.
1.20.050 Civil Enforcement Procedures.
   A.   Civil Proceedings.
      1.   Commencement of Action. If an enforcement officer has issued a
notice of public nuisance to a responsible person and the corrective or
abatement work specified in the notice has not been completed within the time
stated therein, the City may commence a civil action against the responsible
person in the California court of competent jurisdiction to prevent, restrain,
correct or abate the Code violation or public nuisance and to recover
enforcement and abatement costs, attorney fees, as well as any other damages
and relief to which the City may be entitled.
      2.   Notice of Pendency. Upon the commencement of a civil action, the
City may record a notice of pendency of action in each case where the Code
violation or public nuisance affects the real property owned, leased or
possessed by the responsible person. In the event the City elects to record a
notice of pendency of action, then such notice shall comply with the
requirements of Health and Safety Code Section 17985.
      3.   Relief Sought. In addition to any other remedies authorized by law,
the City may seek any order or judgment from the court against the responsible
person that is reasonably likely to prevent, restrain, correct or abate the
Code violation or public nuisance or to compensate the City therefore
including, but not limited to, any and all of following:
         a.   Injunctive relief, including temporary restraining orders,
preliminary injunctions and permanent injunctions to restrain and enjoin the
responsible person from causing, permitting or continuing a public nuisance,
from using or occupying any real property, buildings, dwellings or structures
in violation of the Code, from engaging in specified actions which are
reasonably likely to lead to a violation of the Code, or from any act or
omission which threatens or endangers the public health, safety or welfare;
         b.   Orders requiring the correction of a Code violation or abatement
of a public nuisance by repairing, rehabilitating, razing, demolishing or
removing any building or structure, or by grading, clearing, grubbing or
cleaning any real property by removing trash and debris, by ceasing any use or
activity that is in violation of the provisions of this Code or by other
appropriate remedy approved by the court;
         c.   Judgments for recovery of damages incurred by the City, awards of
enforcement costs and any abatement costs, and reasonable attorneys’ fees
incurred by the City related to the Code violation or public nuisance, and for
such other and further relief as the court may grant.
   B.   Cost Recovery in Civil Actions. Pursuant to the procedures set forth in
Chapter 1.22  of this Code, the City is entitled to seek recovery of all
nuisance abatement costs incurred in connection with any civil action taken to
abate a public nuisance.
[Ord. No. 568, Section 3, 5/10/17.]
1.20.060 Administrative Enforcement Procedures.
   A.   Administrative Proceedings.
      1.   Pursuant to Government Code Section 53069.4, every Code violation
and public nuisance is hereby subject to an administrative fine, the collection
of enforcement and abatement costs and, if applicable, an abatement order. The
provisions of this Chapter shall govern the imposition, enforcement, collection
and administrative review by the City of such fines, costs and orders.
      2.   The amount of the fine for Code violations or public nuisances
imposed pursuant to this Chapter shall be set forth in a schedule of fines
established by resolution of the City Council. The schedule of fines shall
specify increased fines for repeat violations of the same Code Section by the
same person within five (5) years of the date of the administrative citation
and the amount of any late payment charges imposed for the payment of a fine
after its due date.
      3.   Any person who fails to pay to the City any fine or enforcement cost
imposed pursuant to the provisions of this Section on or before the date the
fine and enforcement cost is due shall also be liable for the payment of any
applicable late payment charges set forth in the schedule of administrative
citation fines.
      4.   Payment of any administrative fine imposed hereunder shall not
excuse or discharge any continuation or repeated occurrence of the Code
violation or public nuisance that is the subject of the administrative
citation.
      5.   If an enforcement officer has issued a notice of public nuisance to
a responsible person and the corrective or abatement work specified in the
notice has not been completed within the time stated therein, the City may
commence an administrative proceeding pursuant to this Section against the
responsible person to impose and collect the administrative fine and the
enforcement costs and any abatement costs and to issue, if applicable, an
abatement order.
   B.   Initiation of Proceeding.
      1.   The City may commence an administrative proceeding by issuing an
administrative citation to the responsible person pertaining to one (1) or more
Code violations or public nuisances. Administrative citations shall be issued
by enforcement officers.
      2.   Each administrative citation shall contain the following
information:
         a.   The date of the Code violation(s) or public nuisance(s);
         b.   The address or a definite description of the location where the
Code violation(s) or public nuisance(s) occurred;
         c.   The Section(s) of the Code allegedly violated and a description
of the Code violation(s) or public nuisance(s);
         d.   The amount of each fine for each of the violation(s);
         e.   A description of the fine payment process, including a
description of the time within which and the place to which the fine shall be
paid;
         f.   An order prohibiting the continuation or repeated occurrence of
the Code violation or public nuisance described in the administrative citation;
         g.   A description of the administrative citation appeal process,
including the time within which the administrative citation may be contested
and the place from which an appeal may be obtained;
         h.   If applicable, a notice that the City intends to hold a hearing
on the issuance of an abatement order to permit the City to enter onto the real
property or into buildings, dwellings or structures for the purpose of
correcting the Code violation or abating the public nuisance. The notice shall
also state the date, time and place of the hearing, and advise the responsible
person that he has an opportunity to appear and be heard at this hearing; and
         i.   The name and signature of the citing enforcement officer.
      3.   Each administrative citation shall be accompanied by an itemized
statement and invoice of the enforcement costs incurred to the date of the
citation. The statement shall include a notation that additional enforcement
costs and any abatement costs may be added to the statement and subsequently
invoiced in the event the Code violation or public nuisance is not forthwith
corrected or abated.
      4.   Administrative citations and accompanying enforcement cost
statements shall be served to the responsible person in accordance with
Section 
1.20.020.D. of this Chapter. Failure to receive notice does not affect the
validity of the proceedings.
   C.   Proceedings Imposing Fines Only.
      1.   Where the Code violation or public nuisance is not of a continuing
nature or does not lend itself to abatement by the City, then the City, in its
discretion, may pursue the procedure provided in this Section to impose,
enforce and collect the fine and enforcement costs.
      2.   The responsible person cited shall have thirty (30) days from the
date of the administrative citation to pay the amount of the fine and
enforcement costs to the City.
      3.   The responsible person cited may contest issuance of the citation by
paying the full penalty amount listed on the citation, and by filing a notice
of a written appeal with the City Manager or designee within thirty (30)
calendar days from the date of the administrative citation. The appeal request
shall contain a specific identification number of the subject citation; the
name and address of the appellant; a statement in ordinary and concise language
of the specific(s) or action protested and the grounds for contesting the
citation, together with all material facts in support thereof; and the date and
signatures of the appellant.
         Contest hearings shall be conducted by the hearing board, which may
consist of either a hearing officer or, if no hearing officer has been
designated, by the City Manager. The contest hearing shall be held not less
than seven (7) calendar days and not more than ninety (90) calendar days from
the date the notice of appeal is filed, provided, however, that no hearing to
contest an administrative citation shall be held unless the full penalty amount
has been deposited in advance.
      4.   The City shall provide the responsible person with written notice of
the time and place of the contest hearing at least five (5) calendar days prior
to the date of the hearing. If the enforcement officer submits an additional
written report to the hearing board for consideration at the hearing, a copy of
the report shall be served on the responsible person with the notice of
hearing.
      5.   The responsible person’s failure to appear at the contest hearing
shall constitute a forfeiture of any deposited amounts and be deemed a failure
to exhaust the responsible person’s administrative remedies. In such event, the
full amount of the enforcement costs and fine shall be due immediately; and the
administrative citation shall be deemed a final administrative order for the
purpose of Government Code Section 53069.4. The final administrative order
shall be served on the responsible person by mailing a copy of the order by
certified mail postage prepaid to the responsible person at his last known
address.
      6.   The hearing board shall hear, receive and consider testimony and
documentary evidence regarding the alleged Code violation or public nuisance.
The administrative citation and any additional report submitted by the
enforcement officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the respective
facts contained in those documents. The contesting responsible person shall be
given the opportunity to testify at the hearing to present evidence concerning
the administrative citation and to cross-examine the citing enforcement
officer. The hearing shall not be subject to the formal rules of evidence or
discovery. The hearing board may continue the hearing and request additional
information from the enforcement officer or the responsible party prior to
issuing a final administrative decision.
      7.   After considering all of the testimony and evidence submitted at the
contest hearing, the hearing board shall issue a written decision to uphold or
cancel the administrative citation, the amount of the fee and the amount of the
enforcement fee and shall list in the decision the reason for that decision.
The written decision of the hearing board shall be deemed a final
administrative order for the purpose of Government Code Section 53069.4. The
final administrative order shall be served on the responsible person by mailing
a copy of the order by certified mail, postage prepaid, to the responsible
person at his last known address.
      8.   If the hearing board determines after the hearing that the person
charged in the administrative citation was not responsible for the Code
violation or public nuisance or that there was no Code violation or public
nuisance as charged in the administrative citation or that the amount of the
fine or enforcement cost should be reduced, then the City shall amend the
citation to conform with the order to the hearing board.
      9.   The City may collect any past due administrative citation fines,
enforcement costs and late payment charges by use of all available legal means,
including the use of the lien and special assessment procedures provided for in
Chapter 1.22 of this Code.
   D.   Proceedings Imposing Fines and Abatement Orders.
      1.   Where the Code violation or public nuisance is of a continuing or
persistent nature or presents a significant threat or risk to the public
health, safety and welfare, the City, in its discretion, may pursue the
procedure provided in this Section to impose, enforce and collect the fines,
enforcement and abatement costs and to obtain an abatement order.
      2.   The administrative citation shall provide the responsible person
with written notice that the City intends to hold a hearing concerning the
imposition of an administrative fine and enforcement and abatement cost and the
granting of an abatement order permitting the City to enter onto the real
property or into the buildings or structures involved for the purpose of
correcting the Code violation or abating the nuisance. The notice shall specify
the date, time and place of the hearing. The abatement hearing shall be
conducted by the hearing board. The abatement hearing shall be held not less
than fifteen (15) days and not more than sixty (60) days from the date of the
administrative citation.
      3.   At least ten (10) days prior to the abatement hearing, the City
shall provide the responsible person with any written report issued by the
enforcement officer concerning the Code violation or public nuisance along with
the proposed scope of the abatement order.
      4.   The hearing board shall hear, receive and consider testimony and
documentary evidence regarding the alleged Code violation or public nuisance
and the necessary scope of the abatement order. The administrative citation and
any additional report submitted by the enforcement officer shall constitute
prima facie evidence of the respective facts contained in those documents. The
responsible person shall be given the opportunity to testify at the hearing, to
present evidence concerning the administrative citation and to cross-examine
the citing enforcement officer. The hearing shall not be subject to the formal
rules of evidence or discovery. The hearing board may continue the hearing and
request additional information from the enforcement officer or the responsible
party prior to issuing a final administrative decision.
      5.   After considering all of the testimony and evidence submitted at the
abatement hearing, the hearing board shall issue a written order to uphold or
cancel the administrative citation, fine and abatement order, determine the
amount of the enforcement cost and likely abatement cost and list in the
decision the reason for that decision. The hearing board shall also determine
and state the scope of the abatement order. The written decision of the hearing
board shall be deemed a final administrative order for the purpose of
Government Code Section 53069.4. The final administrative order shall be served
on the responsible person by posting the order in a conspicuous place on the
property and by mailing a copy of the order to the responsible party by
certified mail, postage prepaid, at his last known address.
      6.   If the hearing board determines after the hearing that the person
charged in the administrative citation was not responsible for the Code
violation or public nuisance or that there was no Code violation or public
nuisance as charged in the administrative citation, then the citation shall be
canceled. The hearing board shall also have the authority to reduce fines or
enforcement fees based on the facts submitted at the hearing.
      7.   If, within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of the hearing
board’s final administrative order to the responsible person, the Code
violation or public nuisance has not been corrected or abated and the fine and
enforcement costs (exclusive of likely abatement costs) have not been paid to
the City, then the City shall be authorized to enter onto the real property or
into the buildings, dwellings or structures for the purpose of correcting the
Code violation or abating the nuisance. In carrying out the correction or
abatement under the order, the City may take such actions, including, but not
limited to, repair, rehabilitation, demolition, clearing, grubbing, grading,
trenching, building, constructing and other work as may be reasonably necessary
to complete the correction or abatement.
      8.   After the City has acted upon an abatement order, the enforcement
officer shall prepare an itemized statement and invoice of the actual abatement
costs incurred by the City. The statement shall be mailed to the responsible
person by certified mail, postage prepaid, to his last known address. The
responsible person shall be obligated to pay the abatement costs unless the
responsible party files an appeal of the costs with the City Clerk within
fifteen (15) days of the mailing of the statement. The appeal shall be heard by
the hearing board and shall proceed in the same manner as a contest hearing
provided that the hearing board shall have no authority to consider or rescind
the administrative citation, the abatement order, the fine or enforcement costs
during this appeal.
      9.   The City may collect any past due administrative citation fines,
enforcement costs, and late payment charges by use of all available legal
means, including the use of the lien and special assessment procedures provided
for in
Chapter 1.22 of this Code.
   E.   Termination of Proceedings. In the event that the responsible person
corrects the Code violation or abates the public nuisance in accordance with
the administrative citation or abatement order prior to the expiration of the
abatement period set forth therein, then the proceedings shall be terminated
upon the City’s inspection and confirmation that compliance with the applicable
Codes and ordinances has occurred. Such action shall not affect the right of
the City to claim or recover unpaid enforcement costs as provided for in this
Chapter.
[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 568, Sections 4, 5, 5/10/17.]
1.20.070 Summary Enforcement Procedures.
   A.   Authority to Abate.
      1.   The summary abatement of Code violations and public nuisances is
hereby authorized, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section,
where the enforcement officer, based on the facts then known, determines that
any condition or violation of the Code or other situation presents an imminent
danger or hazard or is imminently injurious to the public health or safety.
      2.   No person shall remain in or enter any building, dwelling or
structure which has been posted with a notice to vacate or a “Do Not Enter -
Unsafe to Occupy” sign by an enforcement officer, except that entry may be made
to repair, demolish or remove such building, dwelling or structure with
permission of the City Building Official.
   B.   Summary Procedures.
      1.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter to the contrary,
summary abatement shall be conducted in accordance with the following
procedures:
         a.   The enforcement officer shall document the facts then known which
support his determination that a condition presents an imminent danger or
hazard or is imminently injurious to the public health or safety.
         b.   The enforcement officer shall attempt to make telephonic or
personal contact with the responsible person. In the event such contact is
made, the enforcement officer shall orally, or in writing, require the
immediate abatement of the imminently dangerous, hazardous or injurious public
nuisance, or order the vacation of the buildings, dwellings or structures as
provided for in Section
1.20.070.C. of this Chapter, so as to preclude harm to any life or property.
         c.   If the enforcement officer is unable to make contact as herein
above noted or if the responsible person, after notification by the enforcement
officer, does not abate the public nuisance or vacate the buildings, dwellings
or structures within the required period, then the enforcement officer is
authorized to take all actions deemed reasonably necessary to correct the Code
violation or abate the public nuisance with the use of City forces or its
agents or representatives.
         d.   The enforcement officer shall keep an itemized account of the
enforcement and abatement costs incurred by the City in correcting the Code
violation or abating the public nuisance and serve the appropriate
administrative citation and enforcement and abatement cost statement and
invoice on the responsible party pursuant to Section
1.20.060.C. of this Chapter after the correction or abatement is completed.
      2.   As an alternative to the procedure provided in Section 
1.20.070.B., the City may, at its discretion, utilize the procedures provided
for under the most recent version of the Uniform Code for the Abatement of
Dangerous Buildings.
      3.   The responsible person shall be liable for payment of all
enforcement and abatement costs incurred by the City, pursuant to
Chapter 1.22 of this Code.
   C.   Notice to Vacate.
      1.   In accordance with the procedures provided in Section 
1.20.070.B. of this Chapter, whenever a building, dwelling or structure is in
such condition to make it imminently dangerous, hazardous or injurious to the
life, limb, property or the safety of the public or of the occupants, it shall
be ordered to be vacated. Any building, dwelling or structure whereby improper
maintenance has rendered it unsanitary or unhealthful such that it is unfit for
human habitation, shall be vacated until the unsanitary or unhealthful
conditions are abated. For purposes of this Section, connection to necessary
utilities such as water, electric, gas and sewer (or functional, approved
septic system) shall be required to be considered sanitary and healthful and to
make a building, dwelling or structure fit for human habitation.
      2.   The enforcement officer shall issue a notice to vacate. The notice
to vacate shall be posted on the building or structure in a conspicuous manner.
Promptly thereafter, the enforcement officer shall mail a copy of the notice to
the responsible person and each tenant if addresses for same are reasonably
obtainable, by certified mail, postage prepaid. In addition to the notice to
vacate, the enforcement officer shall post on each exit on the building,
dwelling or structure that is required to be vacated, a sign substantially in
the following form:
 
DO NOT ENTER
UNSAFE TO OCCUPY
It is a violation of City Ordinance to occupy this building or to remove or
deface this notice.
                  
Building Official      Date
No person shall remain in or enter any building which has been so posted,
except that entry may be made to repair, demolish or remove such building with
permission of the City building official.
 
      3.   When the cause for the notice to vacate has been abated, the
enforcement officer shall promptly remove any posted notice to vacate or “Do
Not Enter - Unsafe to Occupy” sign, and the responsible person and/or the
tenants and occupants may be allowed to reoccupy the building, dwelling or
structure even if further Code violations or public nuisances exist provided
that none render the building, dwelling or structure unsanitary, unhealthful or
unsafe such that it is unfit for human habitation or imminently dangerous,
hazardous or injurious to the health and safety of the occupant.
[Ord. No. 568, Section 6, 5/10/17.]
1.20.080 [Repealed].
1.20.090 License and Permit Revocation Procedures.
   A.   Suspension and Revocation of Licenses and Permits.
      1.   Licenses. All licenses issued under the provisions of this Code
shall be in compliance with all applicable laws and ordinances of the City, the
State of California and the United States of America.
      2.   Grounds for Suspension or Revocation. Any license or permit granted
through the provisions of this Code may be suspended or revoked by the
department issuing the permit or license if it is determined either:
         a.   That it was fraudulently obtained or issued in error; or
         b.   That the information provided in the application was incomplete,
incorrect or false in any material respect, or that there was an omission of a
material fact; or
         c.   That the license holder is operating its business in violation of
any statute, ordinance or law; or
         d.   That the revocation is necessary to protect the health, safety or
welfare of the public.
      3.   Appeal Procedure. Prior to any suspension or revocation of license
or permit, the issuing department shall, by certified mail, postage prepaid,
give the license or permit holder ten (10) days notice of the City’s intent to
suspend or revoke such license or permit. Within ten (10) days of the date of
such notice, the license or permit holder may file a written request with the
City Clerk to appear before the hearing board; and when a hearing is thereafter
scheduled by the City Clerk and notice given to the license or permit holder
thereof by certified, mail postage prepaid, the license holder may appear and
show cause before the hearing board why such license or permit should not be
suspended or revoked. Upon the failure of the license or permit holder to file
a written request for a hearing within said period, or if after the hearing of
the hearing board the hearing board finds good and sufficient cause for
suspension or revocation, the license or permit shall be suspended or revoked.
No refund of any license or permit fee shall be made following suspension or
revocation. Suspension or revocation of a license or permit shall be effective
upon action of the hearing board as herein described.
      4.   Expiration of Permits. Every permit, unless otherwise specified,
shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the work authorized by
the permit is not commenced within sixty (60) days of the permit issuance or is
not completed within two hundred ten (210) days of the permit issuance or if a
period of ninety (90) days lapses between inspection approval. Any permittee
holding an unexpired permit may apply in writing for an extension of time not
to exceed one hundred eighty (180) days to complete the permitted work. No
permit shall be extended more than once. Notwithstanding the forgoing, permits
for work with valuation in excess of two hundred fifty thousand dollars
($250,000.00) may be extended indefinitely as long as work proceeds
continuously and does not stop for any period longer than sixty (60) days.
Chapter 1.22
COST RECOVERY
Sections:
   
1.22.010   Cost Recovery Program
   
1.22.020   Definitions
   
1.22.030   Nuisance Abatement Cost Recovery
   
1.22.040   Attorneys’ Fees and Costs
   
1.22.050   Collection Remedies
   
1.22.060   Administrative Procedure for Recovering Nuisance Abatement Costs
   
1.22.070   Nuisance Abatement Costs Hearing
   
1.22.080   Service
   
1.22.090   Nuisance Abatement Lien
   
1.22.100   Special Assessment
1.22.010 Cost Recovery Program.
This Chapter is intended to create a comprehensive cost recovery program as
authorized by law for the abatement of public nuisances. The provisions of this
Chapter shall supersede and replace any inconsistent provisions contained
within this Code.
[Ord. No. 568, Section 2, 5/10/17.]
1.22.020 Definitions.
   A.   “City Manager’s Designee” shall refer to the City Manager or the person
designated by the City Manager to fulfill the responsibilities required by this
Chapter.
   B.   “Decision” shall refer to the decision of the Hearing Officer at the
conclusion of an administrative hearing held in accordance with this Chapter.
   C.   “Hearing Officer” shall refer to the neutral and impartial hearing
officer appointed to hold and conduct a hearing in accordance with this
Chapter.
   D.   “Interested Party” or “Interested Parties” shall refer to each person
or entity with a recorded interest in the nuisance property that is the subject
of a nuisance abatement action.
   E.   “Invoice” shall refer to the invoice identifying all nuisance abatement
costs that the city is entitled to recover related to a nuisance abatement
action.
   F.   “Nuisance” and “Public Nuisance” shall include any violations of this
Code, state and federal law, or any other unlawful condition.
   G.   “Nuisance Abatement Action” shall refer to any code enforcement
activity or nuisance abatement activity taken by the City including but not
limited to, any legal action, administrative action, criminal action, or civil
action intended to cause or compel compliance with, or to enforce any,
provisions of this Code, any adopted codes, or any applicable State or federal
laws.
   H.   “Nuisance Abatement Costs” shall refer to all fines, costs, expenses,
and fees, including, but not limited to, all administrative expenses,
administrative fines, civil fines, penalties, staff time, variable costs, fixed
costs, inspection costs, investigation costs, enforcement costs, abatement
costs, litigation fees, litigation costs, attorneys’ fees and costs, and all
other costs and expenses related to, arising out of, or incurred by the city in
connection with any nuisance abatement action.
   I.   “Nuisance Property” shall refer to the property containing nuisance
conditions that is the subject of a nuisance abatement action.
   J.   “Responsible Party” or “Responsible Parties” shall refer to all parties
responsible for causing, allowing, or maintaining a public nuisance including,
but not limited to, the owners, managers, tenants, and occupants of the
nuisance property upon which a public nuisance was caused, allowed, or
maintained.
[Ord. No. 568, Section 2, 5/10/17.]
1.22.030 Nuisance Abatement Cost Recovery.
The City is entitled, and is hereby authorized, to recover all nuisance
abatement costs related to, arising out of, or incurred by the City as a result
of any nuisance abatement action. Each responsible party shall be jointly and
severally liable to the City for all of the City’s nuisance abatement costs.
[Ord. No. 568, Section 2, 5/10/17.]
1.22.040 Attorneys’ Fees and Costs.
The prevailing party in any nuisance abatement action may recover its
reasonable litigation costs and attorneys’ fees from any non-prevailing party.
In no case, however, shall an award of attorneys’ fees to the prevailing party
exceed the amount of reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by the City. Non-
prevailing parties shall be jointly and severally liable for all attorneys’
fees and costs owed to the prevailing party. The City shall be deemed the
prevailing party in a nuisance abatement action if a nuisance condition is
proven to have existed on a nuisance property when the City initiated its
nuisance abatement action even if the nuisance condition is cured prior to the
conclusion of the nuisance abatement action.
[Ord. No. 568, Section 2, 5/10/17.]
1.22.050 Collection Remedies.
In addition to any other remedy set forth in this Code or provided by law, the
City is authorized to initiate any administrative or civil action to recover
all nuisance abatement costs. Each of the responsible parties shall be jointly
and severally liable for ail nuisance abatement costs. Unpaid nuisance
abatement costs may be recovered as a lien or special assessment against the
nuisance property, as provided in this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 568, Section 2, 5/10/17.]
1.22.060 Administrative Procedure for Recovering Nuisance Abatement Costs.
   A.   The administrative cost recovery procedures provided in this section
are in addition to all other remedies and cost recovery options available to
the City by law or in equity.
   B.   In accordance with this Chapter, the City shall serve upon each
responsible party and each interested party an invoice identifying all nuisance
abatement costs related to a nuisance abatement action.
   C.   Any responsible party or interested party to whom an invoice has been
issued shall have 45 calendar days from the date of the Invoice to remit full
payment of the Invoice to the City. Payment shall be submitted to the City as
specified in the Invoice. The Invoice shall further indicate that any unpaid
amounts may become a lien and special assessment against the nuisance property.
   D.   Any responsible party or interested party to whom an invoice has been
issued may, within 15 calendar days from the date of the invoice, request a
hearing on the amount of nuisance abatement costs. A request for hearing must
be made in writing to the City Clerk and contain the following information:
      1.   The requestor’s full legal name.
      2.   The requestor’s valid mailing address for service.
      3.   The requestor’s phone number.
      4.   The amount of nuisance abatement costs disputed.
      5.   The specific legal and factual grounds for all disputes of the
invoice and nuisance abatement costs.
   E.   The failure of any party to properly and timely request a hearing shall
constitute a waiver of the right to contest the Invoice, a waiver of the right
to a hearing, a failure to exhaust administrative remedies, and a bar to any
further challenge to the City’s invoice and nuisance abatement costs.
[Ord. No. 568, Section 2, 5/10/17.]
1.22.070 Nuisance Abatement Costs Hearing.
   A.   If a hearing is timely and properly requested, the City Manager’s
designee shall appoint a neutral and impartial Hearing Officer to hold and
conduct an administrative hearing in accordance with this section. The
employment, performance evaluation, compensation, and benefits of the Hearing
Officer, if any, shall not be directly or indirectly conditioned upon the
decision of the Hearing Officer.
   B.   The City shall set a hearing to take place before the Hearing Officer
within 60 calendar days from the date that a timely and proper hearing request
is filed, or upon any other date mutually agreed upon by all parties to the
hearing. The City shall provide notice of the date, time, and location of the
hearing to all responsible parties and interested parties at least 10 calendar
days prior to the hearing. The hearing notice shall specify that failure to
appear at the hearing will constitute a waiver of the right to dispute the
invoice and the nuisance abatement costs, a failure to exhaust administrative
remedies, and a bar to any further challenge to the Invoice or the nuisance
abatement costs.
   C.   The Hearing Officer shall hold an informal administrative hearing.
Formal rules of evidence shall not apply to this hearing; however, there shall
be an opportunity to present testimony, documentary evidence, and other
evidence to the Hearing Officer, and to cross-examine witnesses. Only the
specific parties that requested the hearing, and the City, may participate in
the hearing.
   D.   The Hearing Officer may continue the hearing and request additional
information as is reasonable and necessary.
   E.   At the conclusion of the hearing, or within 5 days thereafter, the
Hearing Officer shall issue a decision approving, denying, or modifying the
amount of the nuisance abatement costs that the City is entitled to recover.
The Hearing Officer’s decision shall be final. The City shall serve notice of
the Hearing Officer’s Decision in accordance with this Chapter.
   F.   All costs of the hearing, including attorneys’ fees, shall be borne by
the non-prevailing parties. If any cost recovery is upheld, even in part, the
City shall be the prevailing party. If cost recovery is entirely denied, the
requesting parties shall be the prevailing parties.
   G.   If the City is the prevailing party, the Hearing Officer’s decision
shall order the responsible parties to pay the confirmed nuisance abatement
costs to the City within 30 calendar days, and shall specify that any confirmed
nuisance abatement costs not paid within 30 calendar days shall become a lien
and special assessment against the nuisance property.
[Ord. No. 568, Section 2, 5/10/17.]
1.22.080 Service.
   A.   All notices and documents required to be served under this Chapter
shall be served by certified mail with return receipt requested.
   B.   Service shall be deemed effective on the date of mailing.
   C.   The failure of a party to receive any notice or document properly
served pursuant to this Chapter shall not affect the validity of the notice or
document, the validity of its service, or the City’s cost recovery rights.
   D.   Unless otherwise provided in the invoice, all notices and documents
required to be served on the City pursuant to this Chapter must be personally
served or mailed to the City Clerk’s office. The notice or document must be
received by the City within the time specified for service.
[Ord. No. 568, Section 2, 5/10/17.]
1.22.090 Nuisance Abatement Lien.
   A.   If the nuisance abatement costs are upheld, in full or in part, by the
Hearing Officer, or if the time for requesting a hearing has elapsed and the
invoice has not been paid in full within the time designated by this Chapter,
the City may record a lien against the nuisance property for any unpaid amount.
   B.   Prior to recording a lien, the City shall serve notice of the lien on
all persons or entities with a recorded interest in the nuisance property. In
addition, the owner of record shall be served in accordance with Government
Code section 38773.1.
   C.   In the event that the lien is discharged, released, or satisfied, then
notice of the discharge, release, or satisfaction shall be recorded on the
nuisance properly.
   D.   If the lien is not satisfied within 90 calendar days, the City may
foreclose on the lien.
[Ord. No. 568, Section 2, 5/10/17.]
1.22.100 Special Assessment.
   A.   If the nuisance abatement costs are upheld, in full or in part, by the
Hearing Officer, or if the time for requesting a hearing has elapsed and the
invoice has not been paid in full within the time designated by this Chapter,
the City may levy a special assessment against the nuisance property for any
unpaid nuisance abatement costs. The special assessment may also be recorded
against the nuisance property. The recording shall specify that the nuisance
property may be sold after three years by the tax collector for the unpaid
delinquent assessments.
   B.   Prior to recording, the City shall serve notice of the special
assessment on all persons or entities with a recorded interest in the nuisance
property. In addition, the nuisance property owner shall be served in
accordance with Government Code section 38773.5.
   C.   Notice of the special assessment shall be provided to the tax collector
for the county to add the amount of the special assessment to the next regular
tax bill levied against the nuisance property, and it shall be collected at the
same time and in the same manner as ordinary taxes are collected, subject to
the same penalties and procedures under foreclosure and sale in case of
delinquency as provided for other taxes.
   D.   After recordation, the special assessment may be foreclosed on as a
lien in the manner and means provided by law.
[Ord. No. 568, Section 2, 5/10/17.]
Chapter 1.25
DISRUPTION OF PUBLIC MEETINGS
Sections:
   
1.25.010   Findings and Purpose
   
1.25.020   General Prohibition
   
1.25.030   Definitions
   
1.25.040   Procedure
1.25.010 Findings and Purpose.
   A.   The City Council finds that there are instances when members of the
public or groups, disrupt or otherwise violate the limits of permissible
conduct during public meetings, in such a way that it makes the conduct of the
public’s business difficult or impossible, where decorum is difficult to
maintain, and/or where the safety and well being of the public and/or the
Council, Commission, Board or Committee members may be jeopardized.
   B.   This Chapter is adopted in order to provide a procedure by which the
City Council or City Commissions, Boards or Committees may handle situations in
which individual members of the public or group(s) violate the limits of
permissible conduct during public meetings, and in which the assistance of law
enforcement personnel is required.
1.25.020 General Prohibition.
No person(s) or group(s) shall be allowed to disrupt a public meeting of the
City Council or of any City Commission, Board or Committee.
1.25.030 Definitions.
   A.   “Disrupt a Public Meeting” or “Disruptive Conduct” shall mean and
include addressing the City Council, Commission, Board or Committee without
first being recognized; not addressing the subject before the Council,
Commission, Board or Committee; repetitiously addressing the same subject;
shouting at or threatening the members of the Council, Commission, Board or
Committee in a manner which makes it difficult or impossible to maintain
decorum, or which places the members(s) of the Council, Board or Commission in
fear for their lives or safety or for the lives or safety of other persons in
attendance at the meeting; failing to relinquish the podium when requested to
do so; or otherwise preventing the Council, Commission, Board or Committee from
conducting its meeting in an orderly manner, as determined by the presiding
officer of the Council, Commission, Board or Committee, or by a majority of the
members thereof.
   B.   “Sergeant at Arms” for a public meeting shall mean the City Manager or
his designee at any meeting of the City Council and the department head
assigned to attend any meeting of a Commission, Board or Committee, or his
designee.
   C.   “Willful Disruption” of a public meeting shall mean persistent
disruptive conduct after a verbal warning has been issued by the officer
presiding over the meeting or conduct which is violent and which immediately
jeopardizes the public health and safety.
1.25.040 Procedure.
   A.   In the event that any meeting of the City Council, or of any City
Commission, Board or Committee, is willfully disrupted by a person or by a
group or groups of persons so as to render the orderly conduct of the meeting
impossible, the officer presiding at the meeting may recess the meeting or
order the person, group or groups of persons willfully disrupting the meeting
to leave the meeting or be removed from the meeting.
   B.   In the event that an individual or group of individuals violates the
limits of permissible conduct during a public meeting in a manner determined by
the presiding officer to constitute disruptive conduct, the presiding officer
of the meeting may issue a verbal warning. If the individual or group refuses
to adhere to the direction of the presiding officer, the presiding officer may
direct the Sergeant at Arms to summon a law enforcement deputy and to request
that the law enforcement deputy remove the individual or individuals from the
meeting room for disrupting a public meeting.
   C.   When the presiding officer of a public meeting determines that unlawful
disruption of a public meeting has occurred or is occurring, and when so
requested by the Sergeant at Arms for the meeting, upon his or her confirmation
that such disruption of the public meeting has occurred or is occurring, the
law enforcement deputy should approach the individual or group of individuals
and instruct the person(s) to leave immediately or be subject to arrest.
   D.   Any person who is requested to leave the meeting and does so without
being physically removed, should not be arrested, so long as he/she does not
return to that meeting and unless other unlawful conduct is involved. Any
person who is requested to leave the meeting and refuses to do so voluntarily,
so that physical force is required to remove the individual from the meeting,
may be placed under arrest and charged with a violation of Penal Code Section
403 (Disturbing a Public Meeting) and/or Penal Code Section 148 (Obstructing a
Peace Officer).
TITLE 2
ADMINISTRATION AND PERSONNEL
Chapters:
   
2.04   City Council
   
2.06   City Manager
   
2.08   City Clerk
   
2.10   City Treasurer
   
2.14   City Attorney
   
2.16   Code Enforcement and Animal Control Officers
   
2.18   Boards, Commissions and Committees - General Provisions
   
2.20   Planning Commission
   
2.22   Parks and Recreation Commission
   
2.24   Board of Building and Safety Appeals
   
2.26   Access Appeals Board
   
2.28   Disaster Council; Emergency Services Director
   
2.30   Health Department
   
2.32   Peace Officer Training Standards
   
2.34   Administrative Mandamus: Statute of Limitations
   
2.36   Holidays Observed by the City
   
2.38   Personnel
Chapter 2.04
CITY COUNCIL
Sections:
   
2.04.010   Date of Regular Meetings and Study Sessions
   
2.04.020   Place of Meetings and Study Sessions
   
2.04.030   Improper Conduct at Meetings
   
2.04.040   Adoption of Rules of Procedure and Decorum
   
2.04.050   Continuity: Term Limitations
   
2.04.060   Compensation and Reimbursement of City Council and Mayor
   
2.04.070   Commission Appointments
   
2.04.080   Appeals to Council
   
2.04.090   Notice of Appeal: Time Limit - Contents
   
2.04.100   Appeal Hearings: Notices
   
2.04.110   Appeals: Hearings
2.04.010 Date of Regular Meetings and Study Sessions.
The regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the second and fourth
Wednesday of each month, beginning at 11:00 a.m. and concluding by 2:00 p.m. on
the same day. The City Council may, by motion and a simple majority vote,
extend the meeting by thirty (30) minutes, allowing the meeting to end at 2:30
p.m. The Council may by another motion and simple majority vote extend the
meeting an additional thirty (30) minutes to 3:00 p.m. Additionally, the City
Council may, by a four-fifths (4/5) vote, extend the meeting beyond 3:00 p.m.
When regular meetings are preceded by a closed session, the closed session
shall begin at 10:00 a.m. and be adjourned by 11:00 a.m., to ensure the prompt
commencement of the open session of the regular meeting. If additional time is
required for the closed session, Council may go back into closed session after
the open session of the City Council meeting. If the day for holding any
regular meeting falls on a holiday, the meeting shall be held on the next
business day, unless otherwise ordered by the City Council in a prior meeting.
Study sessions shall be held as determined and noticed by the City Council in
accordance with legal requirements.
[Ord. No. 655, Section 2, 4/9/25.]
2.04.020 Place of Meetings and Study Sessions.
Meetings shall be held at the City of Adelanto City Hall in the Council
Chambers, unless otherwise ordered by the City Council. The address of City
Hall is 11600 Air Expressway, Adelanto, California, 92301. Meetings may be held
at an alternative location within the City limits as determined and noticed by
the City Council in accordance with legal requirements. If by reason of fire,
flood or other emergency it shall be unsafe to meet in the City Council
Chambers, the meeting may be held for the duration of the emergency at such
other place as is designated by the Mayor or, if he/she should fail to act, by
four (4) members of the City Council. Special Meetings of the City Council
shall be held at the place designated herein for regular meetings or at such
other place as provided for in the notice and call of the meeting.
[Ord. No. 655, Section 2, 4/9/25.]
2.04.030 Improper Conduct at Meetings.
Any member or other person(s) using profane, vulgar, loud or boisterous
language at any meeting or otherwise interrupting the proceedings, who refuses
to be seated or kept quiet when ordered to do so by the Mayor or other
presiding officer of the Council, is guilty of a misdemeanor. Any member or
other person(s) or group(s) who otherwise disrupt a public meeting is subject
to removal and arrest in accordance with
Chapter 1.25 of this Code.
2.04.040 Adoption of Rules of Procedure and Decorum.
The City Council shall, by resolution, adopt rules of procedure and decorum to
govern the conduct of its meetings, any of its other functions and activities,
and regulations pertaining thereto.
2.04.050 Continuity: Term Limitations.
Pursuant to City Charter Section 612, the City Council may, by ordinance, set
the number of successive terms or years that a member of the City Council may
serve.
2.04.060 Compensation and Reimbursement of City Council and Mayor.
   A.   Compensation of City Council and Elected Mayor.
      1.   Compensation shall be paid to each member of the City Council as
prescribed in Government Code Sections 36516(a), authorizing the City Council
to provide by ordinance that each member of the City Council shall receive a
prescribed salary, the amount of which shall be based upon the population of
the City.
      2.   Effective the first day of December 2026, each member of the City
Council shall receive as salary the sum of one thousand two hundred seventy
five dollars ($1,275.00) per month, as prescribed in Government Code Section
36516 for cities over 35,000 up to and including 50,000 in population;
provided, however, that the City Council may increase that amount in accordance
with Government Code Section 36516(a)(4) and (c).
      3.   Following any new and later authorized estimate of population or
census placing the City in a population group other than that set forth in
Subsection 2 of this Section, the salary payable to each member of the City
Council shall be increased or decreased accordingly to equal the sum prescribed
for that population group in said Government Code Section 36516; provided,
however, the salary so increased or decreased shall become payable only on and
after the date upon which one (1) or more members of the City Council become
eligible therefore by virtue or beginning a new term of office following the
next succeeding general municipal election held in the City.
      4.   In accordance with Government Code Sections 34900 to 34904,
inclusive, the electors have determined that the City Charter shall be amended
to provide for the office of an elected Mayor, commencing with the 2004 general
municipal election. Pursuant to Government Code Section 34903, the Mayor is a
member of the City Council and has all of the powers and duties of a member of
the City Council. However, in accordance with Government Code Section 36516.1,
the City Council may provide the elected Mayor with compensation in addition to
that which he/she receives as a member of the City Council. Such additional
compensation may be provided by an ordinance adopted by the City Council or by
a majority vote of the electors voting on the proposition at a municipal
election.
      5.   Effective the first day of December 2026, and in accordance with
Government Code Section 36516.1, the City's elected Mayor shall receive a
salary in the amount of one thousand six hundred fifty seven dollars and fifty
cents ($1,657.50) per month; provided, however, that the City Council may
increase that amount in accordance with Government Code Section 36516(a)(4) and
(c) and Section 36516.1.
      6.   In accordance with Government Code Section 36516.5, a change in
compensation shall become payable only on and after the date upon which one (1)
or more members of the City Council become eligible therefore by virtue or
beginning a new term of office following the next succeeding general municipal
election held in the City.
   B.   Reimbursement of City Council and Elected Mayor. The compensation
prescribed herein for the elected Mayor and the City Council is and shall be
exclusive of any amounts payable to the elected Mayor and/or each member of the
City Council as reimbursement for actual and necessary expenses incurred by him
or her in the performance of official duties for the City; and, accordingly,
the elected Mayor and each member of the City Council shall receive
reimbursement for such actual and necessary expenses incurred in the
performance of official duties for the City pursuant to the provisions of
Government Code Section 36514.5, as amended from time to time. Such
reimbursement shall be as established by policy adopted by the City Council.
   C.   Health and Welfare Benefits for the Mayor and City Council. In
accordance with Government Code Sections 36516(d) and 53200 through 53210, and,
in accordance with Government Code Section 53208.5, the City Council shall
receive health and welfare benefits in accordance with the most generous
schedule of benefits being received by any category of non-safety employees.
[Ord. No. 415, Section 1, 5/12/04; Ord. No. 469, 9/12/07; Ord. No. 492, 11/24/
09; Ord. No. 595, Sections 1, 2, 9/26/18; Ord. No. 626, Sections 3, 4, 3/23/22;
Ord. No. 656, Section 3, 5/14/25.]
2.04.070 Commission Appointments.
Unless otherwise specifically provided in this Code or by State law, all City
board and commission appointments, except for ex officio members where
applicable, shall be made by the City Council.
2.04.080 Appeals to Council.
   A.   Except when an appeals procedure is otherwise specifically set forth in
this Code, any person excepting to the denial, suspension or revocation of a
permit applied for or held by him pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Code or other City ordinance, or to any administrative decision made by any
official of the City, if the denial, suspension or revocation of such permit or
the determination of such administrative decision involves the exercise of
administrative discretion or personal judgment exercised pursuant to any of the
provisions of this Code or other City ordinance, may appeal in writing to the
City Council by filing with the City Clerk a written notice of such appeal.
   B.   No appeal may be taken to any such administrative decision made by an
official of the City pursuant to any of the provisions of this Chapter unless
such decision to appeal has been first taken up with the department head
concerned and with the City Manager, and each such official has not adjusted
the matter to the appellant's satisfaction.
   C.   No right of appeal to the City Council from any administrative decision
made by an official of the City pursuant to any of the provisions of this Code
or other City ordinance shall exist when such decision is ministerial and thus
does not involve the exercise of administrative discretion or personal judgment
exercised pursuant to any of the provisions of this Code or other City
ordinance, whether the administrative decision involves the denial, suspension
or revocation of a permit or any other administrative decision. Also, there
shall be no such right of appeal with regard to law enforcement activities
involving State law.
2.04.090 Notice of Appeal: Time Limit - Contents.
   A.   Any notice of appeal to the City Council must be filed within fifteen
(15) days of the date of service of notice of the decision or action pursuant
to Section
1.10.030 of this Code or within fifteen (15) days of the decision or action if
no notice of the decision or action is required to be given.
   B.   The notice of appeal shall set forth (1) the specific action appealed
from, (2) the specific grounds of the appeal and (3) the relief or action
sought from the City Council. In the event any notice of appeal fails to set
forth any information required by this Section, the City Clerk shall return the
same to the appellant with a statement of the respects in which it is
deficient, and the appellant shall thereafter be allowed five (5) days in which
to perfect and refile the notice of appeal.
   C.   Except in those instances where an appeal is filed by the City Manager
or other public official in pursuance of official duties, the written notice of
appeal from the action of an administrative official or from an administrative
body of the City, as the case may be, shall be accompanied by a fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00) or such other fee as may be required by other enactment or
resolution of the City Council.
2.04.100 Appeal Hearings: Notices.
Upon the timely filing of a notice of appeal in proper form, the City Clerk
shall schedule the matter promptly upon the City Council agenda at a subsequent
regular meeting and shall cause notice thereof to be given the appellant not
less than five (5) days prior to such hearing, unless such notice is waived in
writing by the appellant. The City Clerk shall also cause a copy of the notice
of appeal to be transmitted to the official or body whose action has been
appealed from.
2.04.110 Appeals: Hearings.
   A.   The City Council at the hearing may limit participation in the hearing
to the directly interested parties or may allow participation by the public.
Such public participation, however, shall only be appropriate when the City
Council deems the same necessary in the public interest. If a hearing is
ordered open to public participation, notice thereof shall be given by
publishing notice of the same in a newspaper of general circulation in the City
not less than five (5) days prior to the date of such hearing and by such other
means as the City Council deems necessary.
   B.   At the time of consideration of the appeal by the City Council, the
appellant shall be limited to a presentation on the specific grounds of appeal
and matters set forth in his notice of appeal and shall have the burden of
establishing cause why the action appealed from should be altered, reversed or
modified. The City Council may continue the matter from time to time; and at
the conclusion of its consideration may affirm, reverse or modify the action
appealed from and may take any action which might have been legally taken in
the first instance by the official or body from whose action the appeal has
been taken. In ruling on the appeal, the findings and action of the Council
shall be final and conclusive in the matter.
Chapter 2.06
CITY MANAGER
Sections:
   
2.06.010   Office Created
   
2.06.020   Qualifications
   
2.06.030   Compensation
   
2.06.040   Expense Reimbursement
   
2.06.050   Designation of Acting City Manager
   
2.06.060   Powers and Duties
   
2.06.070   Relations with Council
   
2.06.080   Authority to Carry Out Policies
   
2.06.090   Attendance at Commission Meetings
   
2.06.100   Term and Termination of City Manager's Employment
   
2.06.110   Limitation of Delegated Duties
2.06.010 Office Created.
The office of the City Manager is created and established.
2.06.020 Qualifications.
   A.   The City Manager shall be selected on the basis of administrative and
executive ability. He/she shall have at least three (3) years' experience in
responsible executive or administrative positions and shall possess the ability
to plan and execute policies and programs of the City Council, including
budgeting, budgetary control and the coordination of various City activities.
   B.   Unless otherwise expressly provided by ordinance, resolution or
contract, the City Manager shall devote his/her entire time to the duties of
the office.
   C.   No member of the City Council shall be eligible for appointment as City
Manager until one (1) year has elapsed after such member has ceased to be a
member of the City Council.
2.06.030 Compensation.
The salary of the City Manager shall be fixed by contract or annually by the
City Council, and it shall be paid by the City Treasurer in the same manner as
the salaries of other City employees; and such compensation shall be a proper
charge against such funds of the City as the Council shall designate.
2.06.040 Expense Reimbursement.
The City Manager shall be reimbursed for all actual and necessary expenses
incurred by him in the performance of his official duties or incurred when
traveling on business of the City under direction of the City Council.
2.06.050 Designation of Acting City Manager.
The assistant City Manager shall serve as manager pro tempore during any
temporary absence or disability of the City Manager. In the event there is no
assistant City Manager to so act, the City Manager, by a letter filed with the
City Clerk, shall designate a qualified City administrative officer to exercise
the powers and perform the duties of manager during his/her temporary absence
or disability. The City Council may appoint an acting or interim City Manager.
2.06.060 Powers and Duties.
Under the supervision of the City Council, and subject to the approval,
direction and control thereof, the City Manager shall be responsible for the
performance of such duties and ministerial functions as may be placed in his/
her charge by the City Council, and in connection therewith, shall report to
the City Council from time to time, the status and enforcement of the City
Council's policies, rules and regulations. The City Manager shall be the
administrative head of the government of the City under the direction and
control of the City Council except as otherwise provided in this Chapter. The
City Manager shall be responsible for the efficient administration of all
affairs of the City, which are under his/her control. In addition to his/her
general powers, and not as a limitation thereon, the City Manager shall be
expected to and shall have the power to:
   A.   Exercise general control and supervision over the affairs of the City;
   B.   Attend all meetings of the City Council, except when excused therefrom,
and advise and make recommendations to the City Council upon matters which are
brought before it and which are within his/her administrative authority;
   C.   Subject to rules, regulations, resolutions and ordinances of the City
Council, cause to be prepared and submitted requests for the creation of new
positions and capital outlay items. He/she may request such information, charts
and statistics as may be necessary for his/her recommendations;
   D.   In accordance with Section 901 of the City Charter, prepare and submit
the proposed annual budget to the City Council for its approval. Coordinate
with all department heads and with the City Treasurer, the preparation of the
annual budget and salary plan. In the performance of this duty, the City
Manager shall obtain from all department heads the respective departmental
budgets, and shall review such budgets including revenues, expenditures and
reserves; and he/she shall submit his/her recommendation to the City Council
each year at least thirty-five (35) days prior to the beginning of each fiscal
year;
   E.   Direct and supervise all the purchasing activities of the City;
   F.   Keep the City Council at all times fully advised as to the financial
condition and needs of the City;
   G.   Review all departmental and agency requests for adjustments and
transfers of budget funds and make recommendations on them to the City Council;
   H.   Recommend to the City Council adjustments between accounts of the
maintenance and operation and capital outlay appropriations of individual City
departments, provided that such adjustments do not increase the totals of the
amounts budgeted for such categories of expenditures;
   I.   Exercise general supervision over the City Civil Defense activity. The
City Manager shall be prepared to recommend the declaration by the City Council
of a state of emergency when flood, fire or other disaster warrants such
action;
   J.   Maintain continuous research into and study of administrative practices
and make recommendations to the City Council concerning such changes or
modifications as will improve the efficiency and economy of City government
operations;
   K.   Assist committees in the preparation of rules, regulations, forms and
accounts, and in connection thereto examine, approve and coordinate
development, production and use of general forms by the various departments and
agencies;
   L.   Establish and maintain the City's Records and Retention Program;
   M.   Be responsible for the City's insurance policies and act for and on
behalf of the City in the recovery of any claims against such policies;
   N.   In cooperation with City departments, prepare and maintain a Municipal
Code;
   O.   Promote proper preparation and dissemination of periodic reports and
informative pamphlets or brochures;
   P.   Recommend to the City Council new or revised statutes which the City
Manager considers to be desirable and merit the endorsement of the City
Council. The City Manager shall also recommend to the City Council the adoption
of new or revised ordinances and resolutions when in his/her judgment such
action will promote improved City services and operations and are in the public
interest;
   Q.   Enforce all laws and ordinances of the City and see that all
franchises, permits, contracts and privileges granted or approved by the City
are faithfully performed and observed;
   R.   Investigate all complaints in relation to matter(s) concerning the
administration of the City;
   S.   Exercise general supervision over all public buildings, public parks
and other public property which are under the control and jurisdiction of the
City Council and not specifically delegated to another board, commission or
officer;
   T.   Establish, when not in conflict with the Personnel Rules and
Regulations, such other procedures as the City Manager deems necessary for the
control and supervision of the affairs of the City and to implement those
rules;
   U.   Consistent with the City's Personnel Rules and Regulations (and
applicable state and federal laws and court decisions) appoint, transfer,
promote, demote, reinstate, lay off, suspend or dismiss City employees for whom
the City Manager is the appointing authority. The City Manager shall be the
appointing authority for every full time, part time, seasonal or other employee
except the position of the City Attorney. The City Manager shall be the
Personnel Officer and with the approval of the City Council may delegate such
duties to his/her assistants;
   V.   Provide leadership for civic activities designated to benefit the
residents of the City when so authorized by the City Council;
   W.   Supervise and coordinate necessary investigations, studies and surveys;
   X.   Coordinate the work of other City departments. The City Manager may
require periodic submission of organization charts and departmental activity
reports, and shall inform departments of actions, decisions and policies of the
City council affecting departmental operations;
   Y.   Hire employees who shall not be covered by or entitled to the benefits
of the City's Personnel Rules and Regulations for a definite term not to exceed
six (6) months to perform temporary duties; and
   Z.   Perform such other duties and responsibilities and exercise such other
powers as may be delegated from time to time by ordinance or resolution or
other official action of the City Council.
2.06.070 Relations with Council.
   A.   Consistent with Section 609 of the City Charter, the City Council and
its members shall deal with the administrative services of the City only
through the City Manager, except for the purpose of inquiry; and neither the
City Council nor any member thereof shall give orders to any subordinates of
the City Manager. For purposes hereof, "inquiry" means any and all
communications short of giving orders, directions or instructions to any member
of the administrative staff. Such members of the administrative staff shall
give all information reasonably requested by any member of the City Council.
The City Manager shall take his orders and instructions from the City Council
only when sitting in a duly convened meeting of the City Council, and no
individual member of the City Council shall give any orders or instructions to
the City Manager.
   B.   The City Council shall instruct the City Manager in matters of policy.
Any action, determination or omission of the City Manager shall be subject to
review by the City Council. The City Council may not overrule, change or modify
any such action, determination or omission except by the affirmative vote of at
least three (3) members of the City Council.
   C.   Notwithstanding Subsection A above, members of the City Council may
participate in pre-employment interviews of applicants for appointing authority
positions and shall exercise that authority set forth in the City's Personnel
Rules and Regulations.
2.06.080 Authority to Carry Out Policies.
The City Manager may call upon any employee, officer, head of any department
under the control or jurisdiction of the City Manager, or any appointing
authority under the control or jurisdiction of the City Manager to provide
information and assist in carrying out the policies and orders of the City
Council and the duties herein vested in the City Manager. It shall be the duty
of the City Attorney, City Clerk and City Treasurer to assist the City Manager
in administering the affairs of the City efficiently, economically and
harmoniously.
2.06.090 Attendance at Commission Meetings.
The City Manager may attend any and all meetings of the Planning Commission and
any other commission, board or committee created by the City Council, upon his
own volition or upon direction of the City Council. At such meetings which the
City Manager attends, he/she shall be heard by such commissions, boards or
committees as to all matters upon which he/she wishes to address the members
thereof. He/she shall inform such members as to the status of any matter being
considered by the City Council, and he/she shall cooperate to the fullest
extent with members of all commissions, boards or committees appointed by the
City Council.
2.06.100 Term and Termination of City Manager's Employment.
The City Manager's employment with the City is for no definite term or period
of time, and the City Manager serves at the will and pleasure of the City
Council. The City Manager's employment may be terminated at any time by a
majority vote of the entire City Council without stating reasons or other cause
or justification, without prior notice and without right of appeal or hearing.
Not withstanding the above provisions of this Section, the City Council may
enter into a written agreement with a City Manager which contains terms of
employment which may differ from the above provision of this Section, which
have been approved by the City Council and signed by a duly authorized
representative of the City Council.
2.06.110 Limitation of Delegated Duties.
No provision of this Chapter is intended to vest in the City Manager any duties
or grant to him/her any authority which is vested by general law or by other
ordinance of the City in the City Council or in any other City department
appointing authority, officer, board, commission or employee. The City Council
hereby expressly retains the sole power of policy-making and the legislative
body of the City, and the duties of the City Manager are expressly confined to
the administrative service of the City.
Chapter 2.08
CITY CLERK
Sections:
   
2.08.010   Office Created - Term
   
2.08.020   Bond
   
2.08.030   Compensation
   
2.08.040   Functions and Duties
2.08.010 Office Created - Term.
The office of the City Clerk is created and established. The City Clerk shall
be appointed and shall serve at the pleasure of the City Council. The
appointive office of the City Clerk may be combined with any other office or
employment in accordance with the job description and delegation of duties
prescribed by enactment of the City Council. The City Manager may be appointed
the additional duty of City Clerk and shall hold office at the pleasure of the
City Council.
2.08.020 Bond.
The City Clerk, upon the entry of his/her duties of office, shall execute a
bond to the City in conformity with bonds of public officers and in conformity
with the provisions of the Government Code Section 36518 relating thereto, in
the amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00).
2.08.030 Compensation.
If the City Council appoints the City Clerk as a separate position, the City
Clerk shall receive such compensation and expense allowance as the City Council
shall from time to time determine, and such compensation shall be a proper
charge against such funds of the City as the City Council shall designate.
2.08.040 Functions and Duties.
   A.   The City Clerk shall have all of the powers, duties and
responsibilities granted to and imposed upon the office of the City Clerk by
the provisions of Chapter 2 of Part 3 of Division 3 of Title 4 of the
Government Code, other general laws of the State, the provisions of this Code,
and the ordinances and resolutions of the City Council; provided, however,
pursuant to the provisions of Government Code Section 40805.5, the financial
and accounting duties imposed upon the City Clerk by Government Code Sections
40802 through 40805 shall be performed by the Finance Director.
   B.   The principal functions and duties of the City Clerk shall be as
follows:
      1.   Attend all meetings of the City Council and be responsible for the
recording and maintaining of a record of all the actions of the Council;
      2.   Keep all ordinances and resolutions of the Council in such a manner
that the information contained therein will be readily accessible and open to
the public. The City Clerk shall attach to the original copy of each ordinance
a certificate which shall state the date the ordinance was adopted and, as to
an ordinance requiring publication, that the ordinance has been published or
posted in accordance with law;
      3.   Keep all records of the Council and of the office of the City Clerk
in such manner that the information contained therein will be readily
accessible and open to the public until such time as any of the records may be
destroyed, or reproduced and the original destroyed, in accordance with State
law;
      4.   Serve as the official custodian of all City records;
      5.   Be the custodian of the seal of the City;
      6.   Prepare the Council agendas, in conjunction with and under the
direction of the City Manager;
      7.   Perform the duties prescribed by the Elections Code of the State in
conducting municipal elections;
      8.   Perform the duties imposed upon city clerks by the California
Political Reform Act;
      9.   Be responsible for the publication of all the official advertising
of the City;
      10.   Be responsible for the maintenance and distribution of the
Municipal Code;
      11.   Process all claims filed against the City and its officers, agents
or employees, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 1 of Part 3 of Division 3.6
of Title 1 of the Government Code and Chapter 3.16 of this Code; and
      12.   Perform such other duties consistent with this Code and City
ordinances as may be delegated by the City Manager in accordance with the
City's Personnel Rules and Regulations.
Chapter 2.10
CITY TREASURER
Sections:
   
2.10.010   Office Created - Term
   
2.10.020   Bond
   
2.10.030   Appointment
   
2.10.040   Compensation
   
2.10.050   Functions and Duties
   
2.10.060   Independent Audit
2.10.010 Office Created - Term.
The office of the City Treasurer is created and established. The City Treasurer
shall be appointed as the chief fiscal officer of the City and shall serve at
the pleasure of the City Council. The appointed office of City Treasurer may be
combined with any other office or employment in accordance with the job
description and delegation of duties prescribed by enactment of the City
Council.
2.10.020 Bond.
The City Treasurer, upon the entry of his/her duties of office, shall execute a
bond to the City in conformity with bonds of public officers and in conformity
with the provisions of the Government Code Section 36518 relating thereto, in
the amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00).
2.10.030 Appointment.
The City Treasurer shall be appointed by the City Council, and shall serve at
and during the pleasure of the City Council. The City Treasurer shall be
qualified by sufficient technical accounting training, skill and experience to
be proficient in the office and shall show evidence of executive ability.
2.10.040 Compensation.
The City Treasurer shall receive such compensation and expense allowance as the
City Council shall from time to time determine, and such compensation shall be
a proper charge against such funds of the City as the City Council shall
designate.
2.10.050 Functions and Duties.
The principal functions and duties of the City Treasurer shall be as follows:
   A.   To serve as the chief fiscal officer of the City;
   B.   To assist and advise the administration and the City Council in all
matters pertaining to City finances;
   C.   To perform all financial and accounting duties imposed upon the City
Clerk by Government Code Sections 40802 through 40805;
   D.   To perform such duties as are prescribed by Government Code Sections
41000 through 41007 and by any other provisions of law applicable to deposit
and investment and safekeeping of public funds of the City.
   E.   To develop and maintain, in accordance with the State laws and the City
ordinances and the best accepted procedures, adequate financial records,
reports and budgetary control of all receipts, disbursements and reserves of
the City;
   F.   To supervise the keeping of current inventories of all property of the
City departments, offices and agencies;
   G.   To prescribe and develop accounting forms, reports and procedure in
conjunction with administrative needs and requests, and as required by law;
   H.   To audit all demands in accordance with the provisions of Title 3 of
this Code;
   I.   To prepare annually for budget purposes an estimate of revenues for the
City Council and assist the City Manager in compiling the annual budget in
accordance with the prescribed chart of accounts and accepted procedures;
   J.   To assist the City Council and the City Manager in formulating a long
range financial plan and program;
   K.   To perform such purchasing duties as delegated to the City Treasurer by
the City Council and the City Manager; and
   L.   To perform such other duties related to administrative and General
Services for the municipal government and business operations as may be
delegated to the City Treasurer by the City Council and the City Manager.
2.10.060 Independent Audit.
The Council shall require annually an independent audit of the accounts and
records of the City Treasurer. This auditor shall be selected by the City
Council and shall be qualified as a certified public accountant.
Chapter 2.14
CITY ATTORNEY
Sections:
   
2.14.010   Office Created
   
2.14.020   Compensation
   
2.14.030   Functions
   
2.14.040   Deputies
   
2.14.050   Term and Termination of City Attorney's Employment
2.14.010 Office Created.
The office of the City Attorney is hereby established. It shall consist of the
City Attorney and such assistants as may be authorized by the Council. The City
Attorney shall administer the office and be responsible for the successful
performance of its functions. He/she shall serve under the direct supervision
and control of the City Council as its legal advisor, in accordance with the
provisions of the City Charter and any contract approved by the City Council
pursuant to the terms the City Charter and this Chapter. The City Council may
enter into a contract with a private law firm to perform the services of City
Attorney and, in that connection, may designate a City Attorney and such
Assistant City Attorneys and/or Deputy City Attorneys as are deemed necessary;
and references in this Chapter to City Attorney or the Office of City Attorney
will include any applicable law firm and performance of said functions by any
of its members or employed attorneys.
2.14.020 Compensation.
The City Attorney shall receive such compensation and expense allowance as the
City Council shall from time to time determine or contract for, and such
compensation shall be a proper charge against such funds of the City as the
City Council shall designate.
2.14.030 Functions.
The functions of the office of the City Attorney shall be to:
   A.   Advise the Council and all City officers in all matters of law
pertaining to their offices and relating to City affairs;
   B.   Furnish legal service at all meetings of the Council, except when
excused or disabled, and give advice or opinions on the legality of all matters
under consideration by the Council or by any of the boards and commissions or
officers of the City;
   C.   Prepare, or cause to be prepared, and/or approve all ordinances,
resolutions, agreements, contracts, opinions and other legal instruments as
shall be required for the proper conduct of the business of the City and
approve the form of all contracts and agreements and bonds given to the City;
   D.   Appear and defend the City in all matters of civil litigation involving
the City and its officers and employees, except those involving insurance
coverage or Workers' Compensation, or as otherwise provided by contract or
direction of the City Council; and prosecute all violations of City ordinances
or delegate such authority to the District Attorney;
   E.   Perform such other legal duties as may be required by the Council or as
may be necessary to complete the performance of the foregoing functions.
2.14.040 Deputies.
The City Attorney shall have the authority to appoint Deputy City Attorneys to
act as such, under the control and direction of the City Attorney. Compensation
for such deputies, if any, shall be set by the City Council. The City Attorney
may, with the approval of the City Council, engage the services of special
counsel to assist him/her in the performance of such duties.
(Charter Section 706.)
2.14.050 Term and Termination of City Attorney's Employment.
The City Attorney's employment with the City is for no definite term or period
of time, and the City Attorney serves at the will and pleasure of the City
Council. The City Attorney's employment may be terminated at any time by a
majority vote of the entire City Council without stating reasons or other cause
or justification, without prior notice, and without right of appeal or hearing.
Notwithstanding the above provisions of this Section, the City Council may
enter into a written agreement with a City Attorney which contains terms of
employment which may differ from the above provisions of this Section, which
have been approved by the City Council and signed by a duly authorized
representative of the City Council.
Chapter 2.16
CODE ENFORCEMENT AND ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS
Section:
   
2.16.010   Code Enforcement and Animal Control Offices Established
2.16.010 Code Enforcement and Animal Control Offices Established.
   A.   There are established the offices of Code Enforcement and Animal
Control, which offices shall respectively provide for code enforcement and
animal control services in the City. All code enforcement and animal control
personnel (excluding clerical and administrative support personnel) are
authorized to issue citations (notices to correct and/or notices to appear) to
any person violating:
      1.   Any ordinance of the City;
      2.   Any uniform code or ordinance adopted by reference by ordinance of
the City; and
      3.   Any standing or parking regulation established by the California
Vehicle Code.
      4.   Animal Control Officers in the City, those City employees authorized
to perform the duties of Animal Control Officers, and any other City Officers
duly designated by the City Council, are not authorized to carry and use a
firearm within the course and scope of their employment.
   B.   This Chapter does not authorize the arrest or taking into custody of
any person.
   C.   Subsection B., notwithstanding, animal control officers, the animal
control supervisor and animal control technicians who have completed PC 832
training are specifically authorized to carry and use gas- or air-operated
capture guns, either rifle or pistol, to subdue animals which threaten public
safety, and/or in the interest of animal welfare.
[Ord. No. 537, Section 2, 2/24/16; Ord. No. 603, Section 2, 7/10/19.]
Chapter 2.18
BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sections:
   
2.18.010   General Rules Regarding Appointments
   
2.18.020   Adoption of Rules of Procedure and Decorum
2.18.010 General Rules Regarding Appointments.
   A.   Unless otherwise provided by law or by ordinance or resolution, or
unless by the very nature of a situation the provisions hereof may not be
applicable, all members of boards, committees or commissions of the City shall
be appointed by the City Council, shall hold their offices only at the pleasure
of the City Councilmember who nominated for office said board, committee or
commission member; and any member of a board, commission or committee may be
removed from office at any time, with or without cause, by the City
Councilmember who nominated said appointee to office or by a majority vote of
the entire City Council, except in cases where the Mayor or City Council are
not the appointing authority (in which cases such regular appointing authority
may exercise this power of removal). If a member absents himself or herself
without advance permission of the board, commission or committee or of his or
her appointing authority, from three (3) consecutive regular meetings or
twenty-five percent (25%) of the duly scheduled meetings of the board,
committee or commission within any fiscal year, his or her office shall
thereupon become vacant and shall be filled as any other vacancy.
   B.   Unless otherwise provided by law or by ordinance or resolution of the
City Council, all members of any board, committee or commission of the City
appointed by the City Council shall initially, and during their incumbencies,
reside within the boundaries of the City. No such member shall at or during his
incumbency be an employee of the City.
   C.   The resignation of any member of a board, committee or commission shall
be in writing and becomes effective immediately upon filing with the City Clerk
or on the date stated in the written resignation.
2.18.020 Adoption of Rules of Procedure and Decorum.
Each board, committee or commission of the City shall, by resolution, adopt
rules of procedure and decorum to govern the conduct of its meetings, any of
its other functions and activities and regulations pertaining thereto. In the
absence of such adopted rules of procedure and decorum, the rules of procedure
and decorum adopted by the City Council and pertaining to City Council
proceedings shall apply.
Chapter 2.20
PLANNING COMMISSION
Sections:
   
2.20.010   Creation of City Planning Commission
   
2.20.020   Meetings - Regulations - Records
   
2.20.030   Eligibility and Qualifications
   
2.20.040   Term of Office
   
2.20.050   Absence from Meeting
   
2.20.060   Suspension of Commission
   
2.20.070   Compensation
   
2.20.080   Functions, Duties and Powers of Commission
   
2.20.090   Appeal and Review of Commission Decisions
   
2.20.100   Chairman - Vice Chairman
2.20.010 Creation of City Planning Commission.
   A City Planning Commission hereafter referred to as "Commission" is hereby
established and shall consist of five (5) voting members who shall be appointed
by majority vote of the City Council.
   A.   Each member of the City Council shall nominate one (1) voting member
candidate for the Commission.
   B.   When the membership of City Council is less than five (5), the Mayor
shall nominate a Commissioner voting member candidate without sponsors.
[Ord. No. 487, Section 1, 4/8/09.]
2.20.020 Meetings - Regulations - Records.
   The Commission shall hold a regular meeting on the first and third Wednesday
of each month at 7:00 p.m., or at such other day and time as may be provided by
resolution, at the Adelanto City Council Chambers or such other location as may
be permitted by law. If, and as needed from time to time, the Commission may
adjourn a regular meeting to a date and time certain, and on such specified
date and time, hold an adjourned regular meeting. The Commission shall adopt
rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a public record of its
resolutions, decisions, findings, and determinations. The City staff person
assigned by the City Manager shall prepare all meeting agendas (printed and
posted at least seventy-two (72) hours before the meeting) and perform as the
meeting secretary which includes note taking and recording the minutes of the
meeting, as required by law. The official minutes of the Planning Commission
meetings shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   A.   The proceedings of all meetings of the commissions shall be conducted
in accordance with Robert's Rules of Order. The Planning Commission shall be
subject to the provisions of the Brown Act, and Planning Commissioners shall be
subject to the conflict of interest provisions of the Political Reform Act of
1974 and Government Code Section 1090 et seq.
   B.   Three (3) members of the Commission form a quorum for the transaction
of business. If it is known that a quorum will not be achieved, the Secretary
shall notify all members that the meeting will be cancelled.
   C.   The Commission Secretary shall submit an information report to the City
Manager whenever a Commission cancels two (2) consecutive meetings for lack of
a quorum.
[Ord. No. 487, Section 1, 4/8/09; Ord. No. 580, Section 2, 9/27/17.]
2.20.030 Eligibility and Qualifications.
To be eligible for appointment as a member of the Commission, the candidate
must meet all of the following requirements:
   A.   Be a resident of the City for at least thirty (30) consecutive days
prior to submitting an application.
   B.   Qualified elector of the City.
   C.   Have no felony convictions.
   D.   Is over eighteen (18) years of age.
   E.   File a written application for appointment.
[Ord. No. 487, Section 1, 4/8/09.]
2.20.040 Term of Office.
   A.   The term of office for each voting member shall be the same as the term
of office for the Councilmember nominating the Commissioner.
   B.   A member of the Commission shall, after being approved by a simple
majority vote of the City Council, serve at the pleasure of the City Council.
Any member of the Commission may be removed by a simple majority vote of the
City Council.
   C.   A member of the Commission will continue to serve if the Councilmember
nominating him is no longer a member of the Council until such time as a newly
appointed/elected member of the Council has nominated a replacement
Commissioner and this Commissioner has been declared duly qualified to serve.
[Ord. No. 487, Section 1, 4/8/09.]
2.20.050 Absence from Meeting.
   A.   The following shall be considered to be grounds for an excused absence:
(1) illness or injury, (2) maternity leave, (3) emergencies, (4) religious
observances, (5) jury duty, and (6) vacation. To be considered an excused
absence, the Commissioner's absence shall be reported to the Secretary prior to
the time set for the meeting.
   B.   If a voting member of the Commission is absent without having been
excused from three (3) regular, adjourned, or special meetings of the
Commission, the office shall automatically become vacant.
   C.   The Secretary for each Commission shall record attendance in the
official minutes of the Planning Commission and indicate if an absence is
excused. If an absence is not excused it shall be deemed to be non-compliant.
   D.   The Secretary is responsible to notify the City Clerk of a member's
attendance record. Upon notification the City Clerk shall notify the City
Manager for appropriate action.
[Ord. No. 487, Section 1, 4/8/09.]
2.20.060 Suspension of Commission.
   At such time as Council deems necessary or beneficial, the operation of the
serving Commission may be suspended by resolution of the City Council approved
by a simple majority of the Council. The resolution shall include findings and
be for a period not to exceed six (6) months. Should the Council deem it
necessary this suspension may be extended by amending the resolution of
suspension. During the period of time of a suspension, the City Council shall
assume all of the functions, duties and powers of the Planning Commission
consistent with Section
2.20.080.
[Ord. No. 487, Section 1, 4/8/09.]
2.20.070 Compensation.
   A.   The Council establishes compensation and a stipend for advertised
meetings attended for up to two (2) meetings per month for the Planning
Commissioners. The compensation shall be determined and adjusted from time to
time by resolution of the City Council. No other benefits or compensation shall
accrue or vest other than that explicitly granted by the City Council. A
Commissioner shall receive no compensation for a meeting for which the
Commissioner has an unexcused absence.
   B.   This compensation may be adjusted from time to time by resolution of
the Council.
   C.   At any time the Commission is suspended and their action and
responsibility assumed by the Council, the Council shall not be eligible for
the Commission compensation.
   D.   A member arriving more than thirty (30) minutes after the start of a
meeting without previously notifying the Secretary of the Commission, shall be
deemed absent and shall not be eligible to receive compensation for said
meeting.
   E.   Travel and other expenses, where reimbursement is expected, must have
budgetary approval. State law (AB 1234) requires officials seeking
reimbursement to file an expense report, as well as make a written report on
the meeting or conference attended. Travel and expense reports are available
through the City's Finance Department.
[Ord. No. 487, Section 1, 4/8/09.]
2.20.080 Functions, Duties and Powers of Commission.
In addition to the duties, rights and powers imposed by State law, the
Commission shall perform the duties and has the rights, powers and privileges
provided by ordinances and resolutions of the City Council.
   A.   Council appointments made to a Commission are held in high regard and
an appointed member is expected to attend and participate in all of the
meetings held by the advisory group.
   B.   Attendance to Ethics Training. In order to meet the requirements of
California State Law (AB 1234) all appointed members who are eligible to
receive a stipend for their services are required to receive no less than two
(2) hours of training in general ethics principles and ethics laws every two
(2) years. Newly appointed advisory members should complete the required ethics
training within the first six (6) months of appointment.
   C.   Notwithstanding any rights, powers and privileges of the Planning
Commission as provided by ordinance or resolutions of the City Council, the
right of the City Council to review any action of the City Planning Commission
is reserved, and would require an appeal to be filed within ten (10) working
days and require two (2) Council Members to appeal.
   D.   The functions, duties and powers of the Planning Commission shall be
all those functions, duties and powers of a Planning Commission and Board of
Zoning Adjustment as provided in Chapters 3 and 4 of Title 7 commencing with
Government Code Section 65100 (the Planning and Zoning Law), as the same may be
hereafter amended.
   E.   Any project subject to discretionary decisions to be made by the
Planning Officer or other Officers or Offices in the Development Code in which
the deciding Officer or Office determines (1) that opposition of any member of
the Development Review Committee to the proposal or any portion thereof exists,
or (2) that a specific written request has been received requesting a public
hearing review of the project in instances where any person receives
notification of a pending matter by provisions of the Development Code and
makes that request, or (3) when in the opinion of the Planning Director or
other Office responsible for the decision, there has been substantial objection
to a proposed project from members of the public, or (4) where the Planning
Officer or other deciding Officer or Office cannot make a determination that
the proposal will likely be consistent with and not detrimental to the proposed
general plan or any applicable existing general plan or land uses in the
surrounding area, shall be referred to the Planning Commission for its action.
   F.   Further, the Planning Commission shall review and the City Council
shall act upon all requests for planned residential developments and all other
matters required by City ordinance or other law to be considered and acted
upon, subject to all other applicable provisions of the City's ordinances.
   G.   The Planning Commission shall also seek, facilitate, and consider
economic development opportunities and housing opportunities within the City
for submittal to the City Council. The Planning Commission shall act in an
advisory role on such matters and work with City staff to present information
pertaining to such opportunities to the City Council for the City Council's
determination in accordance with all legal requirements pertaining thereto.
   H.   The Planning Commission shall also handle the duties of the Parks and
Recreation Commission as outlined in the City's Municipal Code during such time
periods as directed by the City Council. Planning Commissioners shall not
receive any additional compensation for serving as the Parks and Recreation
Commission. The City Council may act at any time to reestablish a separate
Parks and Recreation Commission.
[Ord. No. 487, Section 1, 4/8/09; Ord. No. 542, Section 2, 9/9/15.]
2.20.090 Appeal and Review of Commission Decisions.
   A.   All actions of the Planning Commission are subject to appeal to the
City Council in the manner set forth in Title 17 of the Code (the Development
Code), and if not otherwise set forth, then by delivery by the applicant or any
other person affected by the decision of a written notice of appeal, together
with any fee required for such appeal, to the City Clerk within ten (10)
working days of final action by Commission.
   B.   The City Council may also appeal decisions by the Planning Commission.
Appeals pursuant to this section must be filed jointly by any two (2) City
Council members. Such appeals must be filed with the City Clerk within ten (10)
working days of the Commission's action. No fee shall be required when an item
is called for review by City Council members in conformance with the
requirements of this section.
   C.   Upon receipt of a timely appeal or of a timely request for hearing by a
Councilmember, the City Clerk shall schedule the matter for a hearing or public
hearing before the City Council, in which case the decision by the City Council
after considering or hearing the matter shall then be final.
   D.   The fee for appealing a decision of the Planning Commission to the City
Council may be waived by the City Manager or his designee if the appealing
party executes a form prepared by the City Manager, declaring under penalty of
perjury:
      1.   That he or she is receiving benefits pursuant to the Supplemental
Security Income (SSI) and State Supplemental Payment (SSP) programs (Welfare
and Institutions Code Sections 12200-12205.2), the Aid to Families with
Dependent Children (AFDC) program (42 United States Code §§ 601-644), the Food
Stamp program (7 United States Code §§ 2011-2027) or Welfare and Institutions
Code Section 17000; or
      2.   That his or her monthly income is one hundred twenty-five percent
(125%) or less of the current monthly poverty line annually established by the
Secretary of Health and Human Services pursuant to Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act of 1981, as amended, and submits a financial statement
setting forth each item.
[Ord. No. 487, Section 1, 4/8/09.]
2.20.100   Chairman - Vice Chairman.
The Commission shall elect a Chairman and Vice Chairman from its members.
   A.   The Planning Commission shall annually at its first meeting held after
February 1, choose one (1) of its members as Chairman and one (1) as Vice
Chairman. Vacancy in either such position occurring prior to February 1 may be
filled as in the first instance, and a new Chairman or Vice Chairman may be
chosen at any time by majority vote of all members of the Commission.
   B.   At such time as the City Council may assume the duties of the Planning
Commission, the Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem shall serve as Chairman and Vice
Chairman of the Commission.
[Ord. No. 487, Section 1, 4/8/09.]
Chapter 2.22
PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION
Sections:
   
2.22.010   Creation of City Parks and Recreation Commission
   
2.22.020   Meetings - Regulations - Records
   
2.22.030   Eligibility and Qualifications
   
2.22.040   Term of Office
   
2.22.050   Absence from Meeting
   
2.22.060   Suspension of Commission
   
2.22.070   Compensation
   
2.22.080   Functions, Duties and Powers of Commission
   
2.22.090   Commission Roles and Responsibilities
   
2.22.100   Chairman - Vice Chairman
2.22.010 Creation of City Parks and Recreation Commission.
A City Parks and Recreation Commission hereafter referred to as "Commission" is
hereby established and shall consist of five (5) voting members who shall be
appointed by majority vote of the City Council.
   A.   Each member of the City Council shall nominate one (1) voting member
candidate for the Commission.
   B.   When the membership of City Council is less than five (5), the Mayor
shall nominate a Commissioner voting member candidate without sponsors.
[Ord. No. 488, Section 1, 4/8/09.]
2.22.020 Meetings - Regulations - Records.
The Commission shall hold a regular meeting on the first and third Tuesday of
each month at 6:00 p.m. at the Adelanto City Council Chambers or such other
location as may be permitted by law. If, and as needed from time to time, the
Commission shall adjourn a regular meeting to a date and time certain, and on
such specified date and time hold an adjourned regular meeting. The Commission
shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of
its resolutions, decisions, findings, and determinations. The City staff person
assigned by the City Manager shall prepare all meeting agendas (printed and
posted at least seventy-two (72) hours before the meeting) and perform as the
meeting secretary which includes note taking and recording the minutes of the
meeting, as required by law. The official minutes of the Parks and Recreation
Commission meetings shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   A.   The proceedings of all meetings of the Commissions shall be conducted
in accordance with Robert's Rules of Order. The Parks and Recreation Commission
shall be subject to the provisions of the Brown Act, and Parks and Recreation
Commissioners shall be subject to the conflict of interest provisions of the
Political Reform Act of 1974 and Government Code Section 1090 et seq.
   B.   Three (3) members of the Commission form a quorum for the transaction
of business. If it is known that a quorum will not be achieved, the Secretary
shall notify all members that the meeting will be cancelled.
   C.   The Commission Secretary shall submit an information report to the City
Manager whenever a Commission cancels two (2) consecutive meetings for lack of
a quorum.
[Ord. No. 488, Section 1, 4/8/09.]
2.22.030 Eligibility and Qualifications.
To be eligible for appointment as a member of the Commission, the candidate
must meet all of the following requirements:
   A.   Be a resident of the City for at least thirty (30) consecutive days
prior to submitting an application.
   B.   Qualified elector of the City.
   C.   Have no felony convictions.
   D.   Is over eighteen (18) years of age.
   E.   File a written application for appointment.
[Ord. No. 488, Section 1, 4/8/09.]
2.22.040 Term of Office.
   A.   The term of office for each voting member shall be the same as the term
of office for the Councilmember nominating the Commissioner.
   B.   A member of the Commission shall, after being approved by a simple
majority vote of the City Council, serve at the pleasure of the City Council.
Any member of the Commission may be removed by a simple majority vote of the
City Council.
   C.   A member of the Commission will continue to serve if the Councilmember
nominating him is no longer a member of the Council until such time as a newly
appointed/elected member of the Council has nominated a replacement
commissioner and this Commissioner has been declared duly qualified to serve.
[Ord. No. 488, Section 1, 4/8/09.]
2.22.050 Absence from Meeting.
   A.   The following shall be considered to be grounds for an excused absence:
(1) illness or injury, (2) maternity leave, (3) emergencies, (4) religious
observances, (5) jury duty, and (6) vacation. To be considered an excused
absence, the Commissioner's absence shall be reported to the Secretary prior to
the time set for the meeting.
   B.   If a voting member of the Commission is absent without having been
excused from three (3) regular, adjourned, or special meetings of the
Commission, the office shall automatically become vacant.
   C.   The Secretary for each Commission shall record attendance in the
official minutes of the Parks and Recreation Commission and indicate if an
absence is excused. If an absence is not excused it shall be deemed to be non-
compliant.
   D.   The Secretary is responsible to notify the City Clerk of a member's
attendance record. Upon notification the City Clerk shall notify the City
Manager for appropriate action.
[Ord. No. 488, Section 1, 4/8/09.]
2.22.060 Suspension of Commission.
At such time as Council deems necessary or beneficial, the operation of the
serving Commission may be suspended by a majority of the Council. The Council
can at their desire suspend the Commission for a period of time. During the
period of time of a suspension, the Planning Commission shall assume all of the
functions, duties and powers of the Parks and Recreation Commission consistent
with Section
2.22.080 below.
[Ord. No. 488, Section 1, 4/8/09; Ord. No. 512, Section 1, 3/28/12.]
2.22.070 Compensation.
   A.   The Council establishes compensation and a stipend for advertised
meetings attended for up to two (2) meetings per month for the Parks and
Recreation Commission. The compensation shall be determined and adjusted from
time to time by resolution of the Council. No other benefits or compensation
shall accrue or vest other than that explicitly granted by the City Council. A
Commissioner shall receive no compensation for a meeting for which the
Commissioner has an unexcused absence.
   B.   At any time the Commission is suspended and their action and
responsibility assumed by the Council, the Council shall not be eligible for
the Commission compensation.
   C.   A member arriving more than thirty (30) minutes after the start of a
meeting without previously notifying the Secretary of the Commission shall be
deemed absent and shall not be eligible to receive compensation for said
meeting.
   D.   Travel and other expenses, where reimbursement is expected, must have
budgetary approval. State law (AB 1234) requires officials seeking
reimbursement to file an expense report, as well as make a written report on
the meeting or conference attended. Travel and expense reports are available
through the City's Finance Department.
[Ord. No. 488, Section 1, 4/8/09.]
2.22.080 Functions, Duties and Powers of Commission.
In addition to the duties, rights and powers imposed by State law, the
Commission shall perform the duties and has the rights, powers and privileges
provided by ordinances and resolutions of the City Council.
   A.   Council appointments made to a Commission are held in high regard and
an appointed advisory member is expected to attend and participate in all of
the meetings held by the advisory group.
   B.   Attendance to ethics training. In order to meet the requirements of
California State Law (AB 1234) all appointed advisory members who are eligible
to receive a stipend for their services are required to receive no less than
two (2) hours of training in general ethics principles and ethics laws every
two (2) years. Newly appointed advisory members should complete the required
ethics training within the first six months of appointment.
   C.   Not withstanding any rights, powers and privileges of the Parks and
Recreation Commission as provided by ordinance or resolutions of the City
Council, the right of the City Council to review any action of the City Parks
and Recreation Commission is reserved and any City Councilmember may cause
Council review of commission action by majority vote of the City Council.
[Ord. No. 488, Section 1, 4/8/09.]
2.22.090 Commission Roles and Responsibilities.
A Commission established to analyze, review and assist in implementation of all
matters relating to parks and recreation within the City of Adelanto. The
Commission shall:
   A.   Assist City staff in developing all Parks and Recreation programs;
   B.   Review proposed programs from the community;
   C.   Assist in developing future sites for parks which will enhance the
lives of the residents of Adelanto; and
   D.   May establish a forum for public input and concerns regarding parks and
recreation and the effects imposed by such suggestions or changes.
   E.   The Parks and Recreation Commission will be directly accountable to the
City Council and will report monthly to the City Council on any actions taken
by the Commission. The Commission will also provide to the City Council advice
regarding Parks and Recreation issues.
[Ord. No. 488, Section 1, 4/8/09.]
2.22.100 Chairman - Vice Chairman.
The Commission shall elect a Chairman and Vice Chairman from its members.
   A.   The Parks and Recreation Commission shall annually, at its first
meeting held after February 1, choose one (1) of its members as Chairman and
one (1) as Vice Chairman. Vacancy in either such position occurring prior to
February 1 may be filled as in the first instance, and a new Chairman or Vice
Chairman may be chosen at any time by majority vote of all members of the
Commission.
   B.   At such time as the City Council may assume the duties of the Parks and
Recreation Commission, the Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem shall serve as Chairman and
Vice Chairman of the Commission.
[Ord. No. 488, Section 1, 4/8/09.]
Chapter 2.24
BOARD OF BUILDING AND SAFETY APPEALS
Sections:
   
2.24.010   Created
   
2.24.012   Term of Office
   
2.24.014   Chair - Committees - Staff
   
2.24.016   Meetings
   
2.24.018   Compensation of Members
   
2.24.020   Functions, Powers and Duties
   
2.24.022   Rules - Records and Meetings
2.24.010 Created.
There is created a Board of Building and Safety Appeals for the City. The Board
shall consist of five (5) regular members recommended by the Building Official
and subject to approval by the City Council. Those members recommended by the
Building Official and approved by the City Council should be qualified by
experience and training in one (1) or more areas relating to the construction
industry, engineering, architecture or related matters. The Board shall consist
of one (1) registered civil engineer, one (1) registered architect, one (1)
registered professional engineer, one (1) licensed general contractor and (1)
one licensed specialty contractor. The members of the Board need not reside in
the City.
2.24.012 Term of Office.
Terms of office for regular Board members shall be four (4) years. There shall
be no limit to the number of terms any Board member may serve, subject to
reappointment as herein above prescribed.
2.24.014 Chair - Committees - Staff.
The Chairman of the Board shall be elected by the Board and shall preside at
all meetings of the Board. The Board shall select a Vice Chairman who acts in
the Chairman's absence. The Board shall be authorized to appoint and fix the
membership of such number of standing and temporary sub-committees as it may
find expedient for the performance of its duties. The Building Official shall
be an ex officio member of the Board and shall act as secretary to the Board
and review any appeal to verify its validity but shall have no vote upon any
matter before the Board.
2.24.016 Meetings.
Meetings of the Board shall be called when an appeal is filed, by the City
Council, by the Building Official or by the Chairman or a majority of the
Board, provided notice has been given to all members at least twenty-four (24)
hours prior to the meeting and as otherwise required by law. A majority of the
Board members shall constitute a quorum. A majority vote of the quorum, but not
less than two (2), shall be required to pass a motion or other enactment.
2.24.018 Compensation of Members.
No direct compensation shall be paid to Board members; however, members shall
be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses, including travel expenses
incurred in the discharge of their duties as members of the Board, authorized
by the City Council.
2.24.020 Functions, Powers and Duties.
   A.   The Board of Building and Safety Appeals for the City shall have the
power to hear and act upon appeals filed by an applicant who wishes to appeal
orders, decisions or determinations made by the City Building and Safety
Division relative to the application and interpretation of the Municipal Code
as adopted by the City. Items which are subject to appeal are those which are
not mandated by the Code or State law.
   B.   The Board shall have no authority relative to interpretation of the
administrative provisions of the Code nor shall the Board be empowered to waive
requirements of the Code adopted by the City.
   C.   The Board shall receive and consider suggestions for changes in
Building and Safety policy matters from interested citizens and other persons
interested in the City. Upon review of any suggestion relative to Building and
Safety policy matters, the Board shall refer its recommendations for changes to
the City Council. If no changes are recommended, then no referral will be made.
   D.   The Board shall have the power to act in other situations as provided
by City ordinance or law and may act as the appeals board for public nuisances
or for appeals of vehicle abatement.
   E.   The functions, powers and duties of the Board of Building and Safety
Appeals shall not be construed as preempting or otherwise interfering with the
function of other commissions or boards or committees or offices which are
empowered or mandated by law or ordinance or other regulation to act upon
certain matters or make recommendations to the City Council concerning the
repeal of or amendment to City ordinances or regulations or adoption of new
ordinances or regulations, or otherwise taking such actions as are mandated,
prescribed or permitted by law.
   F.   Appeals.
      1.   All Board decisions are appealable to the City Council in accordance
with Section
2.04.080 et seq. of this Code.
      2.   The Building Official shall reserve the right to refer any decision
on appeal to the City Council.
2.24.022 Rules - Records and Meetings.
The Board of Building and Safety Appeals shall keep a public record of its
proceedings, findings and determinations. Minutes of the Board shall be kept on
file with the City's Building and Safety Division.
Chapter 2.26
ACCESS APPEALS BOARD
Sections:
   
2.26.010   Created
   
2.26.012   Term of Office
   
2.26.014   Chair - Committees - Staff
   
2.26.016   Meetings
   
2.26.018   Compensation of Members
   
2.26.020   Functions, Powers and Duties
   
2.26.022   Rules - Records and Meetings
2.26.010 Created.
There is created an Access Appeals Board for the City. It shall consist of five
(5) regular members recommended by the City Manager and subject to approval by
the City Council. Pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section 19957.5, those
members recommended by the City Manager and approved by the City Council shall
include two (2) physically disabled persons, two (2) members experienced in
construction, and one (1) public member.
2.26.012 Term of Office.
Terms of office for regular Board members shall be four (4) years. There shall
be no limit to the number of terms any Board member shall serve, subject to
reappointment as herein above prescribed.
2.26.014 Chairman - Committees - Staff.
The Chairman for the Board shall be elected by the Board and shall preside at
all meetings of the Board. The Board shall select a Vice Chairman who acts in
the Chairman's absence. The Board shall be authorized to appoint and fix the
membership of such number of standing and temporary sub-committees as it may
find expedient for the performance of its duties. The Building Official shall
be an ex officio member of the Board and shall act as secretary to the Board
and review any appeal to verify its validity, but shall have no vote upon any
matter before the Board.
2.26.016 Meetings.
Meetings of the Board shall be called when a written appeal is filed, by the
Building Official, or by the City Council, or by the Chairman or a majority of
the Board, provided notice has been given to all members at least twenty-four
(24) hours prior to the meeting, and as otherwise required by law. A majority
of the Board members shall constitute a quorum. A majority vote of the quorum,
but not less than two (2), shall be required to pass a motion or other
enactment.
2.26.018 Compensation of Members.
No direct compensation shall be paid to Board members; however, members shall
be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses, including travel expenses
incurred in the discharge of their duties as members of the Board, authorized
by the City Council.
2.26.020 Functions, Powers and Duties.
   A.   The Access Appeals Board shall have the power to hear and act upon
written appeals filed by any person who wishes to appeal disabled access
orders, decisions or determinations made by the City Building and Safety
Division.
   B.   The Board shall conduct hearings on written appeals and may approve or
disapprove interpretations of the accessibility provisions of the State of
California Health and Safety Code and Title 24 and may approve or disapprove
the enforcement actions taken by the City's Division of Building and Safety.
All such approvals or disapprovals shall be final and conclusive as to the
Division of Building and Safety, in the absence of fraud or prejudicial abuse
of discretion. Items which are subject to appeal are those which are not
mandated by Code or State or Federal law.
   C.   Ratification of a determination of an unreasonable hardship exemption
from the application of a disabled access requirement shall be made by the
Access Appeals Board whenever reference is made to California Title 24, Section
110(10)d prior to such determination becoming effective.
   D.   The Board shall not be empowered to waive disabled access requirements
of the State mandated Codes.
   E.   The Board shall receive and consider suggestions for changes in
Building and Safety disabled access policy matters from interested citizens and
other persons interested in the City. Upon review of any suggestion relative to
Building and Safety disabled access policy matters, the Board shall refer its
recommendations for changes to the City Council. If no changes are recommended,
then no referral will be made.
   F.   The functions, powers and duties of the Access Appeals Board shall not
be construed as preempting or otherwise interfering with the function of other
commissions or boards or committees or officers which are empowered or mandated
by law or ordinance or other regulation to act upon certain matters or make
recommendations to the City Council concerning the repeal of or amendment to
City ordinances or regulations or adoption of new ordinances or regulations, or
otherwise taking such actions as are mandated, prescribed or permitted by law.
2.26.022 Rules - Records and Meetings.
The Access Appeals Board shall keep a public record of its proceedings,
findings and determinations. Minutes of the Board shall be kept on file with
the Building and Safety Division.
Chapter 2.28
DISASTER COUNCIL
Sections:
   
2.28.010   Purposes
   
2.28.012   Definition of Emergency
   
2.28.014   Disaster Council Membership
   
2.28.016   Disaster Council Powers and Duties
   
2.28.018   Director and Assistant Director of Emergency Services
   
2.28.020   Powers and Duties of the Director and Assistant Director of
Emergency Services
   
2.28.022   Emergency Organization
   
2.28.024   Emergency Plan
   
2.28.026   Expenditures
   
2.28.028   Punishment of Violations
2.28.010 Purposes.
The declared purposes of this Chapter are to provide for the preparation and
carrying out of plans for the protection of persons and property within the
City in the event of an emergency; the direction of the emergency organization;
and the coordination of the emergency functions of this City with all other
public agencies, corporations, organizations and affected private persons.
2.28.012 Definition of Emergency.
As used in this Chapter, "emergency" shall mean the actual or threatened
existence of conditions of disaster or of extreme peril to the safety of
persons and property within this City caused by such conditions as air
pollution, fire, flood, storm, epidemic, riot or earthquake, or other
conditions, including conditions resulting from war or imminent threat of war,
but other than conditions resulting from a labor controversy, which conditions
are or are likely to be beyond the control of the services, personnel,
equipment and facilities of this City, requiring the combined forces of other
political subdivision to combat.
2.28.014 Disaster Council Membership.
The Adelanto Disaster Council is hereby created and shall consist of the
following:
   A.   The Mayor, who shall be Chairman.
   B.   The Director of Emergency Services, who shall be Vice Chairman.
   C.   The Assistant Director of Emergency Services.
   D.   Such Chiefs of Emergency Services as are provided for in a current
emergency plan of this City, adopted pursuant to this Chapter.
   E.   Such representatives of civic, business, labor, veterans, professional
or other organizations having an official emergency responsibility, as may be
appointed by the Director with the advice and consent of the City Council.
2.28.016 Disaster Council Powers and Duties.
It shall be the duty of the Adelanto Disaster Council, and it is hereby
empowered, to develop and recommend for adoption by the City Council, emergency
and mutual aid plans and agreements and such ordinances and resolutions and
rules and regulations as are necessary to implement such plans and agreements.
The Disaster Council shall meet upon call of the Chairman or, in his absence
from the City or inability to call such meeting, upon call of the Vice
Chairman.
2.28.018 Director and Assistant Director of Emergency Services.
   A.   There is hereby created the Office of Director of Emergency Services.
The City Manager shall be the Director of Emergency Services.
   B.   There is hereby created the Office of Assistant Director of Emergency
Services, who shall be appointed by the Director.
2.28.020 Powers and Duties of the Director and Assistant Director of Emergency
Services.
   A.   The Director of Emergency Services is hereby empowered to:
      1.   Request the City Council to proclaim the existence or threatened
existence of a "local emergency" if the City Council is in session, or to issue
such proclamation if the City Council is not in session. Whenever a local
emergency is proclaimed by the Director, the City Council shall take action to
ratify the proclamation within seven (7) days thereafter or the proclamation
shall have no further force or effect;
      2.   Request the Governor to proclaim a "State of Emergency" when, in the
opinion of the Director, the locally available resources are inadequate to cope
with the emergency;
      3.   Control and direct the effort of the emergency organization of this
City for the accomplishment of the purposes of this Chapter;
      4.   Direct cooperation between and coordination of services and staff of
the emergency organization of this City, and resolve questions of authority and
responsibility that may arise between them;
      5.   Represent this City in all dealings with public or private agencies
on matters pertaining to emergencies as defined herein; and
      6.   In the event of the proclamation of a "local emergency" as herein
provided, the proclamation of a "State of Emergency" by the Governor or the
Director of the State Office of Emergency Services, or the existence of a
"State of War Emergency," the Director is hereby empowered:
         a.   To make and issue rules and regulations on matters reasonably
related to the protection of life and property as affected by such emergency;
provided, however, such rules and regulations must be confirmed at the earliest
practicable time by the City Council;
         b.   To obtain vital supplies, equipment and such other properties
found lacking and needed for the protection of life and property and to bind
the City for the fair value thereof and, if required immediately, to commandeer
the same for public use;
         c.   To require emergency services of any City officer or employee
and, in the event of the proclamation of a "State of Emergency" in the County
in which this City is located or the existence of a "State of War Emergency,"
to command the aid of as many citizens of this community as he deems necessary
in the execution of his duties; such persons shall be entitled to all
privileges, benefits and immunities as are provided by State law for registered
disaster service workers;
         d.   To requisition necessary personnel or material of any City
department or agency; and
         e.   To execute all of his ordinary power as City Manager, all of the
special powers conferred upon him by ordinance or by resolution or emergency
plan pursuant hereto adopted by the City Council, all powers conferred upon him
by any statute, by any agreement approved by the City Council and by any other
lawful authority.
   B.   The Director of Emergency Services shall designate the order of
succession to that office to take effect in the event the Director is
unavailable to attend meetings and otherwise perform his duties during an
emergency. Such order of succession shall be approved by the City Council.
   C.   The Assistant Director shall, under the supervision of the Director and
with the assistance of emergency service chiefs, develop emergency plans and
manage the emergency programs of this City and shall have such other powers and
duties as may be assigned by the Director.
2.28.022 Emergency Organization.
All officers and employees of this City, together with those volunteer forces
enrolled to aid them during an emergency, and all groups, organizations and
persons who may by agreement or operation of law, including persons impressed
into service under the provisions of Section
2.28.020.A.6.c. of this Chapter, be charged with duties incident to the
protection of life and property in this City during such emergency, shall
constitute the emergency organization of the City.
2.28.024 Emergency Plan.
The Adelanto Disaster Council shall be responsible for the development of the
Adelanto Emergency Plan, which plan shall provide for the effective
mobilization of all of the resources of this City, both public and private, to
meet any condition constituting a "local emergency," "State of Emergency" or
"State of War Emergency" and shall provide for the organization, powers and
duties, services and staff of the emergency organization. Such plan shall take
effect upon adoption by resolution of the City Council.
2.28.026 Expenditures.
Any expenditures made in connection with emergency activities, including mutual
aid activities, shall be deemed conclusively to be for the direct protection
and benefit of the inhabitants and property of the City.
2.28.028 Punishment of Violations.
It shall be a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not to exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00), or by imprisonment for not to exceed six (6) months, or
both, for any person, during an emergency, to:
   A.   Willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the emergency
organization in the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation issued
pursuant to this Chapter or in the performance of any duty imposed upon him by
virtue of this Chapter.
   B.   Do any act forbidden by any lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant
to this Chapter, if such act is of such a nature as to give or be likely to
give assistance to the enemy or to imperil the lives or property of inhabitants
of this City, or to prevent, hinder or delay the defense or protection thereof.
   C.   Wear, carry or display, without authority, any means of identification
specified by the emergency agency of the State.
Chapter 2.30
HEALTH DEPARTMENT
Sections:
   
2.30.010   Creation of Public Health Department
   
2.30.012   Establishment of Health Officer
   
2.30.014   Emergencies
   
2.30.016   Permits
2.30.010 Creation of Public Health Department.
The San Bernardino County Department of Public Health shall be and shall
hereinafter be referred to as the Public Health Department of the City.
2.30.012 Establishment of Health Officer.
The Health Officer of the San Bernardino County Department of Public Health
shall be and shall hereinafter be referred to as the Health Officer of the
City.
2.30.014 Emergencies.
Should the City Manager determine that an emergency exists respecting public
health and safety, he/she or his/her delegate may give notice or take such
other action as is required by the Health Officer.
2.30.016 Permits.
All permits required pursuant to those provisions of the San Bernardino County
Code relating to public health and safety shall be obtained from the San
Bernardino Department of Public Health, and all fees and costs so incurred
shall be paid to said Department.
Chapter 2.32
PEACE OFFICER TRAINING STANDARDS
Sections:
   
2.32.010   Declaration of Intent
   
2.32.012   Adherence to State Standards
2.32.010 Declaration of Intent.
The City declares that it desires to qualify to receive aid from the State
under the provisions of Chapter 1, Title 4, Part 4, of the Penal Code,
commencing with Section 13520.
2.32.012 Adherence to State Standards.
Pursuant to Section 13522 of the Chapter 1, Title 4, Part 4 of the Penal Code,
the City while receiving aid from the State pursuant to the said Chapter 1,
will adhere to the standards for recruitment and training established by the
California Commission of Peace Officer Standards and Training.
Chapter 2.34
ADMINISTRATIVE MANDAMUS: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS
Sections:
   
2.34.010   Administrative Decisions - Judicial Review: Time Limits
   
2.34.012   Decisions Affected
   
2.34.014   Expedited Judicial Review - First Amendment Cases
2.34.010 Administrative Decisions - Judicial Review: Time Limits.
The provisions of Code of Civil Procedure Sections 1094.5 et seq. are hereby
adopted by the City Council and said provisions are hereby made applicable in
the City as further specified in Section
2.30.012 of this Chapter.
2.34.012 Decisions Affected.
The provisions of this Chapter shall be applicable to "decisions," as defined
by Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.6, that are final on and after the
effective date of this Chapter.
2.34.014 Expedited Judicial Review - First Amendment Cases.
The provisions of Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.8 shall be applicable to
any action or proceeding to review the issuance, revocation, suspension or
denial of a permit or other entitlement for expressive conduct protected by the
First Amendment to the United States Constitution, as defined therein.
Chapter 2.36
HOLIDAYS OBSERVED BY THE CITY
Section:
   
2.36.010   Holidays Observed by the City
2.36.010 Holidays Observed by the City.
   A.   Excluding those offices which must remain open for the continuation of
essential public services such as police and fire protection, the public
offices of the City shall be closed on Saturdays, Sundays and alternating
Fridays, and on those holidays designated by resolution or ordinance of the
City Council.
   B.   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section, the City
Manager shall be authorized, by administrative regulation or otherwise, to
direct that all or a portion of the public offices of the City shall remain
open for business, on a full or reduced staff basis, on any of the days or
holidays prescribed above, when he/she determines it to be necessary in the
public interest to do so.
Chapter 2.38
PERSONNEL
Sections:
   
2.38.010   Statement of Purpose
   
2.38.012   Personnel Officer
   
2.38.014   Exceptions
   
2.38.016   Adoption and Amendment of Rules
   
2.38.018   Appointments
   
2.38.020   Probationary Period
2.38.010 Statement of Purpose.
The purpose of this Chapter is to establish an equitable and uniform system for
the employment of personnel and for dealing with personnel matters, and to
comply with applicable laws relating to the administration of the personnel
process, consistent with the requirements of the City Charter.
2.38.012 Personnel Officer.
The City Manager shall be the personnel officer within the scope of his powers
and duties as defined in this Chapter. The personnel officer may delegate any
of the powers and duties conferred upon him as personnel officer under this
Chapter to any other officer or employee of the City or may recommend that such
powers and duties be performed under contract. The personnel officer shall:
   A.   Administer all the provisions of this Chapter and of the personnel
rules and regulations not specifically reserved to the City Council;
   B.   Prepare and recommend to the City Council personnel rules and
regulations, and revisions and amendments to such rules and regulations;
   C.   Prepare or cause to be prepared a position classification plan,
including class specifications, and proposed revisions of the plan. The
position classification plan, and any revisions thereof, shall become effective
upon approval by the City Council.
2.38.014 Exceptions.
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to all offices, positions and
employments in the service of the City, except:
   A.   The City Manager;
   B.   Elective officer(s);
   C.   Appointive officers, including the City Clerk and the City Treasurer;
   D.   Members of appointive boards, commissions and committees;
   E.   Persons engaged under contract to supply expert, professional,
technical or any other services;
   F.   Volunteer personnel, such as police reserves;
   G.   The City Attorney;
   H.   Emergency employees who are hired to meet the immediate requirements of
an emergency condition, such as extraordinary fire, flood or earthquake which
threatens life or property;
   I.   Employees, other than those listed elsewhere in this Section, who are
not regularly employed by the City.
2.38.016 Adoption and Amendment of Rules.
Personnel rules and regulations may be adopted by ordinance or resolution of
the City Council. Amendments and revisions may be suggested by any interested
party and shall be processed as provided in the Personnel Rules and
Regulations.
2.38.018 Appointments.
Appointments to vacant positions shall be made in accordance with the Personnel
Rules and Regulations. Appointments and promotions shall be based on merit and
fitness. Examinations may be used and conducted to aid in the selection of
qualified employees and may consist of achievement and aptitude tests, written
tests, personal interviews, performance tests, physical agility tests,
evaluation of daily work performance, work samples or any combinations of these
or other tests. The probationary period shall be considered an extension of the
examination process. Physical, medical and psychological tests designed to
measure job related abilities may be given as part of any examination.
In any examination, the personnel officer may include, in addition to
competitive tests, a qualifying test or tests and set minimum standards
therefor.
2.38.020 Probationary Period.
All regular appointments, including promotional appointments, shall be for a
probationary period of not less than one (1) year of actual service. During the
probationary period, the employment may be rejected at any time, whether with
or without cause, without the right of appeal or hearing.
TITLE 3
REVENUE AND FINANCE
Chapters:
   
3.01   Investment of Moneys and Funds
   
3.05   Collection of Debts to the City
   
3.10   Purchases
   
3.15   Informal Bid Procedures - Uniform Public Construction Cost Accounting
Act
   
3.20   Claims and Demands
   
3.25   Special Gas Tax Street Improvement Fund
   
3.30   Transfer of Tax Functions
   
3.35   Real Property Documentary Transfer Tax
   
3.40   Transient Occupancy Tax
   
3.45   Sales and Use Tax
   
3.50   Election by All-Mailed Ballot Procedures for Community Facilities
Districts
   
3.55   Fee and Service Charge Revenue/Cost Comparison System
   
3.60   Cannabis Excise Tax
Chapter 3.01
INVESTMENT OF MONEYS AND FUNDS
Sections:
   
3.01.010   Investment of City Moneys and Deposit of Securities
   
3.01.020   Authorized Investments
   
3.01.030   Sales of Securities
   
3.01.040   City Bonds
   
3.01.050   Reports
   
3.01.060   Deposits of Securities
   
3.01.070   Trust Fund Administration
3.01.010   Investment of City Moneys and Deposit of Securities.
Pursuant to and in accordance with, and to the extent allowed by Government
Code Sections 53607 and 53608, the authority to invest and reinvest moneys of
the City, to sell or exchange securities and to deposit them and provide for
their safekeeping, is delegated to the City Treasurer.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.01.020   Authorized Investments.
Pursuant to the delegation of authority in Section
3.01.010, the City Treasurer is authorized to purchase, at their original sale
or after they have been issued, securities which are permissible investments
under any provision of State law relating to the investing of general City
funds, including but not limited to Government Code Sections 53601, 53635 and
53635.5, and the City Charter, as said Sections now read or may hereafter be
amended, from moneys in his custody which are not required for the immediate
necessities of the City and as he may deem wise and expedient and to sell or
exchange for other eligible securities and reinvest the proceeds of the
securities so purchased.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.01.030   Sales of Securities.
From time to time, the City Treasurer shall sell the securities in which City
moneys have been invested pursuant to this Chapter, so that the proceeds may,
as appropriate, be applied to the purchase for which the original purchase
money may have been designated or placed in the City treasury.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.01.040   City Bonds.
Bonds issued by the City and purchased pursuant to this Chapter may be canceled
either in satisfaction of sinking fund obligations or otherwise if proper and
appropriate, provided, however, that said bonds may be held and canceled and
while so held may be resold.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.01.050   Reports.
The City Treasurer shall make a quarterly report to the City Council of all
investments made pursuant to the authority delegated in this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.01.060   Deposits of Securities.
Pursuant to the delegation of authority in Section
3.01.010, the City Treasurer is authorized to deposit for safekeeping the
securities in which City moneys have been invested pursuant to this Chapter, in
any institution or depository authorized by the terms of any State law,
including but not limited to Government Code Section 53608 as it now reads or
may hereafter be amended. In accordance with said Section, the City Treasurer
shall take from such institution or depository a receipt for the securities so
deposited and shall not be responsible for such securities delivered to and
receipted for by such institution or depository until they are withdrawn
therefrom by the City Treasurer.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.01.070   Trust Fund Administration.
Any departmental trust fund established by the City Council pursuant to
Government Code Section 36523 shall be administered by the City Treasurer in
accordance with Government Code Sections 36523 and 36524 and any other
applicable provisions of law.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 3.05
COLLECTION OF DEBTS TO THE CITY
Section:
   
3.05.010   Collection of Debts to the City
3.05.010   Collection of Debts to the City.
The amount of any fee, service charge, utility charge, license or tax of any
nature whatsoever imposed by this Code or by any other resolution, ordinance,
rule, regulation or in any other fashion by the City of Adelanto shall be
deemed a civil debt owing to the City. An action may be commenced in the name
of the City in any court of competent jurisdiction for the collection of the
amount of any such delinquent or unpaid fee, service charge, utility charge,
license or tax, together with any penalties applicable thereto as prescribed by
this Code or any other enactment. Such action may also be commenced for the
collection of any other amount or debt determined to be due the City on account
to any contractual obligation or on account of any tortuous act or conduct by
any person. The remedy prescribed by this Section shall be cumulative, and the
use of an action to collect such an amount as a debt by civil action shall not
bar the use of any other remedy provided by this Code or by law for the purpose
of enforcing the provisions thereof.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 3.10
PURCHASES
Sections:
   
3.10.010   Adoption of Purchasing System
   
3.10.020   Purchasing Agent
   
3.10.030   Purchasing Regulations
   
3.10.040   Exemptions from Centralized Purchasing
   
3.10.050   Estimates of Requirements
   
3.10.060   Requisitions
   
3.10.070   Purchase Orders
   
3.10.080   Encumbrance of Funds
   
3.10.090   Inspection and Testing
   
3.10.100   Bidding
   
3.10.110   Formal (Sealed) Bid Procedures
   
3.10.120   Notice Inviting Formal Bids
   
3.10.130   Published Notice for Formal Bids
   
3.10.140   Approved Vendors List
   
3.10.150   Bulletin Board Notice
   
3.10.160   Bidder’s Security
   
3.10.170   Other Formal Bond Requirements
   
3.10.180   Formal Bid Opening Procedure
   
3.10.190   Rejection of Formal Bids
   
3.10.200   Award of Formal Bid Contracts
   
3.10.210   Tie Formal Bids
   
3.10.212   Credit for Sales and Use Tax
   
3.10.215   No Formal Bids
   
3.10.230   Open Market or Informal Bid Procedure
   
3.10.240   Minimum Number of Informal Bids
   
3.10.250   Notice Inviting Informal Bids
   
3.10.260   Record of Informal Bids
   
3.10.270   Exceptions to Competitive Bidding Requirement
   
3.10.280   Regulation Regarding Selection of Contract Services
   
3.10.290   Surplus Supplies and Equipment
   
3.10.300   Surplus Supplies - Trade Ins
   
3.10.310   Surplus Supplies - Sale
   
3.10.320   Creation of Surplus Property Authority
3.10.010   Adoption of Purchasing System.
In order to establish efficient procedures for the purchase of supplies and
equipment at the lowest possible cost commensurate with quality needed, to
exercise positive financial control over purchases, to clearly define authority
for the purchasing function and to assure the quality of purchases, a
purchasing system is adopted.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.020   Purchasing Agent.
There is created the position of Purchasing Agent, who may also be known as the
"Purchasing Officer." He/she shall be appointed by the Finance Director subject
to the approval of the City Manager. The Purchasing Agent shall be the head and
have general supervision of the purchasing division. The duties of Purchasing
Agent may be combined with those of any other office or position. The
Purchasing Agent shall have the authority to:
   A.   Purchase or contract for supplies and equipment required by any using
agency in accordance with purchasing procedures prescribed in this Chapter,
such administrative regulations as the Purchasing Agent shall adopt for the
internal management and operation of the purchasing division and such other
rules and regulations as shall be prescribed by the City Council or the City
Manager;
   B.   Negotiate and recommend execution of contracts for the purchase of
supplies and equipment;
   C.   Act to procure for the City the needed quality in supplies and
equipment at least expense to the City;
   D.   Discourage uniform bidding and endeavor to obtain as full and open
competition as possible on all purchases;
   E.   Prepare and recommend to the City Council rules governing the purchase
of supplies and equipment for the City;
   F.   Prepare and recommend revisions and amendments to the purchasing rules;
   G.   Keep informed of current developments in the field of purchasing,
prices, market conditions and new products;
   H.   Prescribe and maintain such forms as are reasonably necessary for the
operation of this Chapter and other rules and regulations;
   I.   Supervise the inspection of all supplies and equipment purchased to
ensure conformance with specifications;
   J.   Recommend the transfer of surplus or unused supplies and equipment
between departments as needed; and
   K.   Maintain an approved vendors list, vendors catalog file and records
needed for the efficient operation of the purchasing division.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.030   Purchasing Regulations.
The Purchasing Agent shall be responsible for determining that the regulations
and procedures in Section
3.10.040 through
3.10.100, and
Chapter 3.15 of this Title are carried out.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.040   Exemptions from Centralized Purchasing.
The City Manager may authorize, in writing, any department to purchase
specified supplies and equipment independently of the purchasing division; but,
he shall require that such purchases shall be made in conformity with the
procedures established by this Chapter and shall further require periodic
reports from the department on the purchases made under such written
authorization.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.050   Estimates of Requirements.
All using departments shall file detailed estimates of their requirements in
supplies and equipment in such manner, at such time, and for such future
periods as the Purchasing Agent shall prescribe.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.060   Requisitions.
Using departments shall submit requests for supplies and equipment to the
Purchasing Agent by standard requisition forms or by other means as may be
established by the purchasing rules and regulations.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.070   Purchase Orders.
Purchases of supplies and equipment shall be made only by purchase orders.
Except as otherwise provided herein, no purchase order shall be issued unless
the prior approval of the Purchasing Agent or his designated representative has
been obtained.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.080   Encumbrance of Funds.
Except in cases of emergency, the Purchasing Agent shall not issue any purchase
order for supplies or equipment unless there exists an unencumbered
appropriation in the fund account against which said purchase is to be charged.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.090   Inspection and Testing.
The Purchasing Agent shall, in his/her discretion, inspect supplies and
equipment delivered to determine their conformance with the specifications set
forth in the order. The Purchasing Agent shall have authority to require
chemical and physical tests of samples submitted with bids and samples of
deliveries which are necessary to determine their quality and conformance with
specifications.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.100   Bidding.
Purchases of supplies and equipment shall be by bid procedures pursuant to
Sections
3.10.110 through
3.10.260. Bidding may be dispensed with only under conditions stated in Section
3.10.270.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.110   Formal (Sealed) Bid Procedures.
Except as otherwise provided herein and in
Chapter 3.15 of this Title, public projects, as defined in Public Contracts
Code Section 20162, of an estimated value greater than twenty five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00), and purchases of supplies and equipment of an estimated
value greater than thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00) shall be awarded to the
lowest responsible bidder pursuant to the formal bid procedures as hereinafter
prescribed.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.120   Notice Inviting Formal Bids.
Notices inviting formal bids shall include a general description of the article
or service desired, shall state where bid documents and specifications may be
secured and the time and place for opening bids.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.130   Published Notice for Formal Bids.
Notices inviting formal bids shall be published at least ten (10) days prior to
the date of opening of the bids. Notices shall be published at least once for
non-public projects and at least twice, not less that five (5) days apart for
public projects, in a newspaper of general circulation in the City.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.140   Approved Vendors List.
The Purchasing Agent shall also solicit formal sealed bids from responsible
suppliers whose names are on the approved vendors list or who have made written
request that their names be added thereto.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.150   Bulletin Board Notice.
The Purchasing Agent shall advertise the pending formal purchases by posting a
notice on the public bulletin board at the City offices.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.160   Bidder’s Security.
When a public project is involved, and in other cases when deemed necessary by
the Purchasing Agent, formal bids shall be accompanied by security, either
cash, cashier’s check, certified check or surety bond, in a sum equal to ten
percent (10%) of the total aggregate of the bid, and shall be designated in the
notice inviting bids. Bidders shall be entitled to return of bid security,
provided, however, that a successful bidder shall forfeit his bid security upon
his refusal or failure to execute the contract within ten (10) days after the
notice of award of contract has been mailed, unless the City is solely
responsible for the delay in executing the contract. The City Council may, on
refusal or failure of the successful bidder to execute the contract, award it
to the next lowest responsible bidder who is willing to execute the contract,
or may reject all bids and re-advertise.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.170   Other Formal Bond Requirements.
A faithful performance bond and labor and material (payment) bond shall be
required for all public projects, unless waived by the City Council, in an
amount reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the City. In
addition, the City Council shall have authority to require a faithful
performance bond or other bonds before entering into a contract other than a
public project contract. If bonds are required, the form and amount thereof
shall be designated in the notice inviting bids.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.180   Formal Bid Opening Procedure.
Sealed bids shall be submitted to the Purchasing Agent and shall be identified
as “bids” on the envelope. The purchasing officer, or designee, shall publicly
open all bids at the time and place stated in the public notices. A tabulation
of all bids received shall be available for public inspection in the purchasing
office during regular business hours for a period of not less than thirty (30)
calendar days after the bid opening.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.190   Rejection of Formal Bids.
In its discretion, the City Council may reject any and all bids presented and
may cause re-advertising for bids pursuant to the procedure herein above
prescribed. However, when all bids exceed the authorized budgeted amount, the
City Manager may authorize rejection of all bids and authorize rebidding based
upon the original specifications or as they may be modified, in accordance with
procedures prescribed herein.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.200   Award of Formal Bid Contracts.
Except as otherwise provided herein, formal bid contracts shall be awarded by
the City Council to the lowest responsible bidder. The determination of “lowest
responsible bidder” shall be at the discretion of the City Council pursuant to
findings and recommendations presented by the Purchasing Agent at the time of
award of contract.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.210   Tie Formal Bids.
If two (2) or more formal bids received are for the same total amount or unit
price, quality and service being equal, and if the public interest will not
permit the delay of re-advertising for bids, the City Council may in its
discretion accept the one it chooses or accept the lowest bid made by and after
negotiation with the tie bidders at the time of the bid opening or award of
contract.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.212   Credit for Sales and Use Tax.
In determining which responsible bidder is the lowest bidder, the Purchasing
Agent in his findings and recommendations shall deduct from the total price of
each bid, the amount of sales and use tax revenues which will be paid to the
City on account of that portion of the bid price which is directly subject to
the imposition of such taxes. The Purchasing Agent shall have no obligation to
make such a determination unless the affected bidder so requests in its bid and
furnishes sufficient information for the determination to be made. This Section
shall be operative only in respect to projects where the request for proposals
or bids contains a copy of this Section and specifies that a credit for related
local sales and use tax payable to the City will be granted.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.215   No Formal Bids.
When no formal bids or no responsive bids are received, the Purchasing Agent is
authorized to negotiate for written proposals; and his recommendation shall be
presented to the City Manager and award, if any, shall be made in accordance
with applicable provisions prescribed herein.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.230   Open Market or Informal Bid Procedure.
Purchases of supplies and equipment of an estimated value in the amount of
thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00) or less may be made by the Purchasing
Agent in the open market pursuant to the procedure prescribed in Sections
3.10.240 through
3.10.260 and without observing the procedure prescribed in Sections
3.10.090 through
3.10.215, where the procedure prescribed in
Chapter 3.15 has been followed; and provided, however, all bidding may be
dispensed with for purchases of supplies and equipment having a total estimated
value of less than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.240   Minimum Number of Informal Bids.
Open market purchases shall, wherever possible, be based on at least three (3)
informal bids and shall be awarded to the bidder offering the most advantageous
bid to the City after consideration of price, quality, durability, servicing,
delivery time, standardization, and other factors.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.250   Notice Inviting Informal Bids.
The Purchasing Agent shall solicit informal bids by written requests to
prospective vendors, or by telephone, or by public notice posted on a public
bulletin board at the City offices.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.260   Record of Informal Bids.
The Purchasing Agent shall keep a written record of all open market purchases
and informal bids for a period of one (1) year. This record, while so kept,
shall be open to public inspection.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.270   Exceptions to Competitive Bidding Requirement.
Notwithstanding any provision of this Chapter to the contrary, the competitive
bidding procedures and requirements may be dispensed with in any of the
following instances:
   A.   When the estimated amount involved is less than thirty thousand dollars
($30,000.00);
   B.   When the commodity can be obtained from only one (1) vendor (a “sole
source” procurement);
   C.   The City Manager may authorize the purchase of materials, supplies,
equipment and services where an emergency is deemed to exist; and it is
determined that service involving the public health, safety or welfare would be
interrupted if the normal procedure were followed. All emergency purchases,
which would otherwise require formal bidding procedures, made pursuant to this
Section shall be submitted to the City Council for ratification at the next
regular Council meeting after the purchase is authorized;
   D.   The City Council may authorize the execution of contracts for personal
services, for professional and consultant services, and for other, non-public
projects and for contractual services without observing the bidding procedures
provided herein where the amount of the contract exceeds the value of thirty
thousand dollars ($30,000.00);
   E.   The City Manager is authorized to enter into contracts for personal
services, for professional and consulting services and for other contractual
services without observing the bidding procedure provided herein where the
amount of the contract does not exceed the amount of seventy-five thousand
dollars ($75,000.00), provided there exists an unencumbered appropriation in
the fund account against which said expense is to be charged;
   F.   Any agreement involving acquisition of supplies, equipment or service
entered into with another governmental entity;
   G.   The City Council may authorize the execution of a lease or leases for
office space for the City government without observing the bidding procedures
provided herein irrespective of the term of the lease or leases or the amount
of rent and other charges to be paid by the City under the lease or leases;
   H.   Where advantageous for the City, the City Council may authorize, or may
authorize the City Manager to allow, the Finance Director or the Purchasing
Agent to purchase supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services
through legal competitively awarded contracts with or of other governmental
jurisdictions or public agencies, commonly referred to as “piggybacking” and/or
“cooperative purchasing,” without further contracting, solicitation, or formal
bidding as described in this Chapter. As used herein:
      1.   “Piggyback” means the form of intergovernmental cooperative
purchasing in which a large purchaser requests competitive sealed bids, enters
into a contract and arranges, as part of the contract, for other public
purchasing agencies to purchase from the selected vendor under the same terms
and conditions as itself and eliminates the need to competitively bid the
particular item again.
      2.   “Cooperative purchasing” means a form of intergovernmental
cooperative purchasing in which one (1) government agency or jurisdiction
performs the solicitation and award process for several agencies or
jurisdictions, but separate contracts or purchase orders are executed between
each participating agency and the vendor; the agency contracting for the prices
bears no contractual responsibility to the vendor.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07; Ord. No. 651, Section 1, 5/22/24.]
3.10.280   Regulation Regarding Selection of Contract Services.
The City Council may by resolution prescribe procedures, rules and regulations
governing the solicitation, selection and award of proposals or bids for the
furnishing of personal services or professional or consulting services or for
other contractual services, the contracts for which may be awarded without
observing the bidding procedures provided for in this Chapter. Such procedures,
rules and regulations shall have as one purpose the obtaining of contractual
services of the highest quality together with cost effectiveness.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.290   Surplus Supplies and Equipment.
All using departments shall submit to the Purchasing Agent, at such times and
in such forms as he shall prescribe, reports showing all supplies and equipment
which are no longer used or which have become obsolete and worn out. The City
Manager shall have the authority to sell all supplies and equipment which
cannot be used by any officer or department or which have become unsuitable for
City use, or to exchange the same for, or trade in the same on new supplies and
equipment. The City Manager, when directed by the Mayor and Council, shall
restrict the sale of surplus supplies, materials and equipment of a value in an
amount of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) or less to local non-profit tax
exempt corporations, associations or organizations, or shall negotiate and
consummate a sale to a governmental agency. Each restricted or negotiated sale
under this Section shall be consummated at the fair market value of the surplus
supplies or equipment. Such sales shall be made pursuant to Sections
3.10.215 through
3.10.270, whichever is applicable.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.300   Surplus Supplies - Trade Ins.
The Purchasing Agent shall have authority to exchange for or trade in on new
supplies and equipment all supplies and equipment which cannot be used by any
department or which have become unsuitable for City use.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.310   Surplus Supplies - Sale.
The Purchasing Agent shall also have authority, subject to approval of the City
Manager, to dispose of surplus supplies or equipment by auction or by sale or
otherwise after receiving bids or proposals which, in his judgment, provide the
maximum return to the City.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.10.320   Surplus Property Authority Created.
   A.   The public interest, economy, health, safety, education and general
welfare of the City of Adelanto and of the residents and property owners in it
require, and there is determined to be a need for, the Surplus Property
Authority of the City of Adelanto to function in the City.
   B.   The Surplus Property Authority of the City of Adelanto is hereby
created and duly authorized to transact business and exercise its powers
pursuant to Chapter 19, Government Code, State of California, Sections 40500
through 40592, et seq.
[Ord. No. 217, 3/14/89; Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 3.15
INFORMAL BID PROCEDURES - UNIFORM PUBLIC CONSTRUCTION COST ACCOUNTING ACT
Sections:
   
3.15.010   Informal Bid Procedures
   
3.15.020   Contractors List
   
3.15.030   Notice Inviting Informal Bids
   
3.15.040   Award of Contracts
3.15.010   Informal Bid Procedures.
   A.   
Chapter 3.10 notwithstanding, public projects, as defined by the Uniform Public
Construction Cost Accounting Act (Public Contract Code Sections 22000 et seq.),
of one hundred twenty-five thousand dollars ($125,000.00) or less may be let to
contract by informal procedures as set forth in Public Contract Code Sections
22032 et seq.
   B.   Public projects of thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00) or less may be
performed by City employees by force account, by negotiated contract, or by
purchase order.
   C.   Public projects of more than one hundred twenty-five thousand dollars
($125,000.00) shall, except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, be let to
contract by formal bidding procedure.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.15.020   Contractors List.
A list of contractors shall be developed and maintained in accordance with the
provisions of Public Contract Code Section 22034 and criteria promulgated from
time to time by the California Uniform Construction Cost Accounting Commission.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.15.030   Notice Inviting Informal Bids.
Where a public project is to be performed which is subject to the provisions of
this Chapter, a notice inviting informal bids shall be mailed to all
contractors for the category of work to be bid, as shown on the list developed
in accordance with Section
3.15.020, and to all construction trade journals as specified by the California
Uniform Construction Cost Accounting Commission in accordance with Public
Contract Code Section 22036. Additional contractors and/or construction trade
journals may be notified at the discretion of the department/agency soliciting
bids, provided however:
   A.   If there is not a list of qualified contractors maintained by the City
for the particular category of work to be performed, the notice inviting bids
shall be sent only to the construction trade journals specified by the
Commission.
   B.   If the product or service is proprietary in nature such that it can be
obtained only from a certain contractor or contractors, the notice inviting
informal bids may be sent exclusively to such contractor or contractors.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.15.040   Award of Contracts.
The City Purchasing Agent is authorized to award informal contracts pursuant to
this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 3.20
CLAIMS AND DEMANDS
Sections:
   
3.20.010   Claims for Money or Damages
   
3.20.020   Auditing Prerequisite to Payment
   
3.20.030   Form of Claim
   
3.20.040   Claim Prerequisite to Suit
   
3.20.050   Suit
   
3.20.060   Departmental Approval of Claims
   
3.20.070   Approval by Finance Director
   
3.20.080   Prepayment of Demands
   
3.20.090   Register of Demands
   
3.20.100   Record of Approved Demands
   
3.20.110   City Council Approval
3.20.010   Claims for Money or Damages.
   A.   As a prerequisite to bringing suit thereon against the City or any
officer, department, commission or board of the City, any claim for money or
damages (including claims which would otherwise be excepted by Government Code
Section 905) which is not governed by any other statutes or regulations
expressly relating thereto, shall be presented and acted upon in accordance
with Title 1, Division 3.6, Part 3, Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 900) and
Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 910), of the Government Code.
   B.   All claims against the City for money or damages not otherwise governed
by the Tort Claims Act, Government Code Sections 900 et seq., or another State
law (hereinafter in this Chapter, “claims”) shall be presented within the time,
and in the manner, prescribed by Part 3 of Division 3.6 of Title 1 of the
Government Code (commencing with Section 900 thereof) for the claims to which
that Part applies by its own terms, as those provisions now exist or shall
hereafter be amended, and as further provided by this Chapter.
   C.   This Section shall relate only to the bringing of suit upon any claim
and shall not be deemed to apply to the authority of the Finance Director, the
City Council and other officers to process and pay, in the ordinary course of
business, the just obligations of the City, such as routine salaries and wages,
principal and interest on bonds, payments of purchases, and other like
expenditures for which there is an express budget appropriation, and in
connection with which there is no dispute as to the obligation and amount being
payable.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.20.020   Auditing Prerequisite to Payment.
No payment shall be made from the City treasury or out of the funds of the City
unless the demand which is to be paid is duly audited as prescribed herein or
by other provisions of law.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.20.030   Form of Claim.
All claims shall be made in writing on forms to be prescribed by the Finance
Director and verified by the claimant or by his or her guardian, conservator,
executor or administrator. No claim may be filed on behalf of a class of
persons unless verified by every member of that class as required by this
Section. In addition, all claims shall contain the information required by
Government Code Section 910 and otherwise as required herein.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.20.040   Claim Prerequisite to Suit.
In accordance with Government Code Sections 935(b) and 945.6, all claims shall
be presented as provided in this Chapter and acted upon by the City Council
prior to the filing of any action on such claims; and no such action may be
maintained by a person who has not complied with the requirements of this
Chapter.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.20.050   Suit.
Any action brought against the City upon any claim or demand shall conform to
the requirements of Government Code Sections 940 through 949. Any action
brought against any employee of the City shall conform with the requirements of
Government Code Sections 950 through 951.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.20.060   Departmental Approval of Claims.
Except for tort claims, every claim and demand received against the City shall
be first presented to and approved in writing by the receiving department or
office, which shall certify to the actual delivery or rendition of the
supplies, materials, property or service for which payment is claimed; that the
quality and prices correspond with the original specifications and contracts,
if any, upon which the claim is based; that the demand in all other respects is
proper and valid, and which shall further indicate the budgetary account to
which said demand is to be charged.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.20.070   Approval by Finance Director.
Each demand approved by the receiving department or office shall be presented
to the Finance Director who shall satisfy himself/herself whether.
   A.   The claim is legally due and owing by the City;
   B.   There are budgeted or otherwise appropriated funds available to pay
said claim;
   C.   The claim conforms to a valid requisition or order,
   D.   The prices and computations shown on the claim are verified;
   E.   The claim contains the approval of other departments and officials as
required.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.20.080   Prepayment of Demands.
   A.   Prepayment of demands prior to audit by the City Council may be made by
the Finance Director in conformity with the authority provided by Government
Code Section 37208.
   B.   Whenever the Finance Director determines that a refund is due of fees,
taxes or other receipts collected in error or in advance of being earned, or of
money the refund of which is otherwise due pursuant to specific provisions of
this Code or of any other ordinance of this City, then any such refund shall be
deemed as conforming to the currently approved budget and may be prepaid in the
same fashion as other demands encompassed within the terms of Subsection A. of
this Section.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.20.090   Register of Demands.
Following audit of demands the Finance Director shall prepare a register of
audited demands showing the claimant’s name, amount of demand, the warrant
number and date thereof, and transmit said register to the City Manager for his
review and presentation to the City Council, with his approval or other report.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.20.100   Record of Approved Demands.
Following approval of the register of demands by the City Council, the City
Manager shall endorse the register of audited demands to signify there was
proper processing of demands therein before the City Council took action.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.20.110   City Council Approval.
The register of demands shall be presented to the City Council at the next
regular meeting thereof. The City Council may approve, conditionally or
partially approve or reject such register of demands and in connection
therewith consider the recommendations of the City Manager.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 3.25
SPECIAL GAS TAX STREET IMPROVEMENT FUND
Sections:
   
3.25.010   Created
   
3.25.020   Moneys Included
   
3.25.030   Expenditures
3.25.010   Created.
To comply with the provisions of Section 2113 of the Streets and Highways Code
of California and to avail the City of its benefits of Sections 2106 and 2107
of said Code, there is hereby created in the City treasury a special fund to be
known as the “Special Gas Tax Street Improvement Fund.”
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.25.020   Moneys Included.
All moneys received by the City from the State of California under the
provisions of the Streets and Highways Code for the acquisition of real
property or interests therein, or for engineering, or for the construction,
maintenance and improvement of streets or highways by the City shall be paid
into said fund.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.25.030   Expenditures.
All moneys in said fund shall be expended exclusively for the purposes
authorized by and subject to the provisions of the Streets and Highways Code of
California.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 3.30
TRANSFER OF TAX FUNCTIONS
Section:
   
3.30.010   Assessment and Collection of City Taxes by County
3.30.010   Assessment and Collection of City Taxes by County.
Pursuant to, and in compliance with Government Code Section 51501, the
assessment and tax collection duties which otherwise might be performed by a
City assessor and tax collector are transferred to the Assessor and Tax
Collector of the County of San Bernardino.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 3.35
REAL PROPERTY DOCUMENTARY TRANSFER TAX
Sections:
   
3.35.010   Short title - Adoption
   
3.35.020   Imposition - Rates
   
3.35.030   Payment
   
3.35.040   Tax Inapplicable to Instruments in Writing to Secure Debts
   
3.35.050   Government and Its Agencies Not Liable
   
3.35.060   Tax Inapplicable to Conveyances to Make Effective Plan of
Reorganization or Adjustment
   
3.35.070   Tax Inapplicable to Make Effective Order of Securities and Exchange
Commission
   
3.35.080   Partnerships
   
3.35.090   Tax Roll Parcel Number Requirements
   
3.35.100   Administration
   
3.35.110   Claims for Refund
3.35.010   Short Title - Adoption.
This Chapter shall be known as the “Real Property Transfer Tax Ordinance of the
City,” adopted pursuant to the authority contained in Part 6.7 (commencing with
Section 11901) of Division 2 of the State Revenue and Taxation Code.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.35.020   Imposition - Rates.
There is imposed on each deed, instrument or writing by which any lands,
tenements or other realty sold within the City shall be granted, assigned,
transferred or otherwise conveyed to, or vested in, the purchaser or
purchasers, or any other person or persons, by his or their direction, when the
consideration or value of the interest or property conveyed (exclusive of the
value of any lien or encumbrances remaining thereon at the time of sale)
exceeds one hundred dollars ($100.00), a tax at the rate of twenty-seven and
one-half cents (27.5¢) for each five hundred dollars ($500.00) or fractional
part thereof.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.35.030   Payment.
Any tax imposed pursuant to Section
3.35.020 shall be paid by any person who makes, signs or issues any document or
instrument subject to the tax or for whose use or benefit the same is made,
signed or issued.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.35.040   Tax Inapplicable to Instruments in Writing to Secure Debts.
Any tax imposed pursuant to this Chapter shall not apply to any instrument in
writing given to secure a debt.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.35.050   Government and Its Agencies Not Liable.
Any deed, instrument or writing to which the United States or any agency or
instrumentality thereof, or any state or territory or political subdivision
thereof, is a party shall be exempt from any tax imposed pursuant to this
Chapter when the exempt agency is acquiring title, as provided in Revenue and
Taxation Code Section 11922.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.35.060   Tax Inapplicable to Conveyances to Make Effective Plan of
Reorganization or Adjustment.
Any tax imposed pursuant to this Chapter shall not apply to the making,
delivering or filing of conveyances to make effective any plan of
reorganization or adjustment:
   A.   Confirmed under the Federal Bankruptcy Act, as amended;
   B.   Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court involving a
railroad corporation, as defined in subdivision (m) of Section 205 of Title 11
of the United States Code, as amended; or
   C.   Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court involving a
corporation, as defined in subdivision (3) of Section 506 of Title 11 of the
United States Code, as amended; or
   D.   Whereby a mere change in identity, form or place of organization is
effected.
Subdivisions A. through D., inclusive, of this Section shall only apply if the
making, delivery or filing of instruments of transfer or conveyances occurs
within five (5) years from the date of such confirmation, approval or change.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.35.070   Tax Inapplicable to Make Effective Order of Securities and Exchange
Commission.
Any tax imposed pursuant to this Chapter shall not apply to the making or
delivery of conveyances to make effective any order of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, as defined in subdivision (a) of Section 1083 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1954, but only if:
   A.   The order of the Securities and Exchange Commission in obedience to
which such conveyance is made recites that such conveyance is necessary or
appropriate to effectuate the provisions of Section 79k of Title 15 of the
United States Code, relating to the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935;
   B.   Such order specifies the property which is ordered to be conveyed;
   C.   Such conveyance is made in obedience to such order.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.35.080   Partnerships.
   A.   In the case of any realty held by a partnership, no levy shall be
imposed pursuant to this Chapter by reason of any transfer of an interest in a
partnership or otherwise, if:
      1.   Such partnership (or another partnership) is considered a continuing
partnership within the meaning of Section 708 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1954; and
      2.   Such continuing partnership continues to hold the realty concerned.
   B.   If there is a termination of any partnership within the meaning of
Section 708 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, for purposes of this Chapter,
such partnership shall be treated as having executed an instrument whereby
there was conveyed, for fair market value (exclusive of the value of any lien
of encumbrances remaining thereon), all realty held by such partnership at the
time of such termination.
   C.   Not more than one (1) tax shall be imposed pursuant to this Chapter by
reason of a termination described in Subsection B., and any transfer pursuant
thereto, with respect to the realty held by such partnership at the time of
such termination.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.35.090   Tax Roll Parcel Number Requirements.
Each deed, instrument or writing by which lands, tenements or other realty is
sold, granted, assigned, transferred or otherwise conveyed shall have noted
upon it the tax roll parcel number. The number will be used only for
administrative and procedural purposes and will not be proof of title; and in
the event of any conflicts, the stated legal description noted upon the
document shall govern. The validity of such a document shall not be affected by
the fact that such parcel number is erroneous or omitted, and there shall be no
liability attaching to any person for an error in such number or for omission
of such number. The recorder shall not accept any deed, instrument or
conveyance for recording unless the tax roll parcel number has been noted upon
it. A parcel which has been created by the division of an existing parcel and
which at the time of recording has no separate parcel number shall have noted
upon it the words “portion of” and the parcel number of the parcel from which
it was created.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.35.100   Administration.
The County recorder shall administer this Chapter in conformity with the
provisions of Part 6.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and the
provisions of any County ordinance adopted pursuant thereto.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.35.110   Claims for Refund.
Claims for refund of taxes imposed pursuant to this Chapter shall be governed
by the provisions of Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 5096) of Part 9 of
Division 1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 3.40
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
Sections:
   
3.40.010   Short Title
   
3.40.020   Definitions
   
3.40.030   Tax Imposed
   
3.40.040   Exemptions
   
3.40.050   Operator’s Duties
   
3.40.060   Registration
   
3.40.070   Returns and Remittances
   
3.40.080   Reporting and Remitting
   
3.40.090   Cessation of Business
   
3.40.100   Delinquency
   
3.40.110   Fraud
   
3.40.120   Failure to Collect and Report Tax - Determination of Tax
Administrator
   
3.40.130   Appeal
   
3.40.140   Records
   
3.40.150   Refunds
   
3.40.160   Revocation of Permit
   
3.40.170   Closure of Hotel Without Permit
   
3.40.180   Recording Certificate - Lien
   
3.40.190   Priority and Lien of Tax
   
3.40.200   Warrant for Collection of Tax
   
3.40.210   Seizure and Sale
   
3.40.220   Successor’s Liability - Withholding by Purchase
   
3.40.230   Liability of Purchaser - Release
   
3.40.240   Responsibility for Payment
   
3.40.250   Withhold Notice
   
3.40.260   Violations - Misdemeanor
   
3.40.270   Extension of Time
   
3.40.280   Divulging of Information Forbidden
   
3.40.290   Agreement with County
3.40.010   Short Title.
The short title of this Chapter shall be the “Transient Occupancy Tax
Ordinance.” The tax imposed and the methodology established therefor were
enacted pursuant to Ord. No. 260.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.020   Definitions.
Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this
Section shall govern the construction of this Chapter:
   A.   “Hotel” means any structure, or any portion of any structure, which is
occupied or intended or designed for use or occupancy by transients for
dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes, and includes any hotel, inn, tourist
home or house, motel, studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodging hotel or house,
rooming house, apartment house, dormitory, public or private club, mobile home
or house trailer at a fixed location or other similar structure or portion
thereof;
   B.   “Occupancy” means the use or possession, or the right or entitlement to
the use or possession, of any room or rooms or any portion thereof, in any
hotel for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes, regardless of the purpose for
which such rooms are rented or provided;
   C.   “Operator” means the person who is proprietor of the hotel whether in
the capacity of owner, lessee, sub-lessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee,
or in any other capacity. Where the operator performs his functions through a
managing agent of any type or character other than an employee, the managing
agent shall also be deemed an operator for the purpose of this Chapter and
shall have the same duties and liabilities as his principal. Compliance with
the provisions of this Chapter by either the principal or the managing agent
shall, however, be considered to be compliance by both;
   D.   “Person” means any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture,
association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company,
corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or
any other group or combination acting as a unit;
   E.   “Rent” means the amount of the consideration charged or chargeable to
the tenant or person entitled to occupancy, for the occupancy of space in a
hotel, valued in money whether received in money, goods, labor or otherwise,
including the full value of receipts, cash, credits, property or services of
any kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever. “Rent” may have
been, or may be in part, payable or paid prior to or following (in whole or in
part) the occupancy to which it is attributable, and may have been paid in
whole or in part in advance on a long-term basis, such as in a time-share
project or similar arrangement. It is not the intent of this Subsection to make
the operator liable for the tax on uncollected rent. “Rent” shall exclude that
portion of the consideration charged for food. However, uncollected rent must
be reported.
   F.   “Tax Administrator” means the City Manager or his designated agent,
whether a City employee or County officer or employee.
   G.   “Transient” means any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to
occupancy by reason of concession, permit, right of access, license, or other
agreement of whatever nature, for a period of less than thirty (30) consecutive
calendar days or less, counting portions of calendar days as full days. Any
person so occupying space in a hotel shall be deemed to be a transient until
the period of thirty (30) days has expired. In determining whether a person is
a transient, uninterrupted periods of time extending both prior and subsequent
to the effective date of this Chapter shall apply.
[Ord. No. 149; Ord. No. 260; Rev. & Taxation Code § 7280; Ord. No. 461, Section
3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.030   Tax Imposed.
   A.   For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject
to, and shall pay a tax in the amount of ten percent (10%) of the rent charged
by the operator. Said tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the City,
which is extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the City. The
transient shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel at the time the rent
is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax
shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the
transient’s ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. If, for any reason, the tax
due is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the Tax Administrator may require
that such tax be paid directly to the Tax Administrator. [Ord. No. 260.]
   B.   Said tax imposed shall be applied in the following manner:
      1.   Eight percent (8%) of the transient occupancy tax shall be deposited
into the City’s general fund for use in any manner deemed of benefit to the
City. [Ord. No. 260.]
      2.   Two percent (2%) of the transient occupancy tax collected quarterly
shall be used for economic development activities of the City. [Ord. No. 260.]
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.040   Exemptions.
   A.   No tax shall be imposed upon:
      1.   Any person as to whom or any occupancy as to which it is beyond the
power of the City to impose the tax herein provided;
      2.   Any officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt by
reason of express provision of federal law or international treaty.
   B.   No exemptions shall be granted except upon a claim therefor made at the
time the rent is collected and under penalty of perjury upon a form prescribed
by the Tax Administrator.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.050   Operator’s Duties.
Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this Chapter to the same extent
and at the same time as the rent is collected from every transient. The amount
of the tax shall be separately stated from the amount of the rent charged. No
operator of a hotel shall advertise or state in any manner, whether directly or
indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the
operator, or that it will not be added to the rent, or that, if added, any part
will be refunded except in the manner hereinafter provided.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.060   Registration.
   A.   Every person desiring to engage in or conduct business as operator of a
hotel renting to transients within the City shall, prior to commencing such
business, file with the Tax Administrator an application for a transient
occupancy registration permit for each place of business. Every application for
such a permit shall be made upon a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator and
shall set forth the name under which the applicant transacts or intends to
transact business, the location of his place of business and such other
information as the Tax Administrator may require. The application shall be
signed by the owner if a natural person, if a member or partner, if an
association or partnership, by an executive officer or some person specifically
authorized by the corporation to sign the application in the case of a
corporation. The transient occupancy registration permit must be in effect at
all times while the business is in operation and shall be at all times posted
in a conspicuous place on the premises. Said permit shall, among other things,
state the following:
      1.   Name of hotel;
      2.   Name of operator;
      3.   Hotel address;
      4.   The date upon which the permit was issued;
      5.   “This Transient Occupancy Registration Permit signifies that the
person named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the Transient
Occupancy Tax Chapter by registering with the Tax Administrator for the purpose
of collecting from transients the Transient Occupancy Tax and remitting said
tax to the Tax Administrator. This Permit does not authorize any person to
conduct any unlawful business in an unlawful manner, nor operate a hotel
without strictly complying with all applicable laws, including but not limited
to those requiring a permit from any board, commission, department or office of
this City. This Permit does not apply in lieu of such other permits which are
otherwise required.”
   B.   At the time of making an application for a registration permit, the
applicant shall pay a registration fee of five dollars ($5.00) for each permit
issued.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.070   Returns and Remittances.
The tax imposed under Section
3.40.030 is:
   A.   Due to the Tax Administrator at the time it is collected by the
operator; and
   B.   Becomes delinquent and subject to penalties if not received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the last working day of the month following the
close of each calendar quarter.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.080   Reporting and Remitting.
Each operator shall, on or before the last working day of the month following
the close of each calendar quarter, file a return with the Tax Administrator on
the forms provided by him, of the total rents charged or chargeable as provided
in Section
3.40.030, whether or not received, including any rentals charged for
occupancies exempt under the provisions of Section
3.40.020.G and
3.40.040 and the amount of tax collected for transient occupancies. Each such
return shall contain a declaration under penalty of perjury, executed by the
operator or his authorized agent, that to the best of the signatory’s
knowledge, the statements in the return are true, correct and complete. Amounts
claimed on the return as exempt from the tax pursuant to Sections
3.40.020.G,
3.40.040 and
3.40.150 shall be fully itemized and explained on the return or supporting
schedule. In determining the amount of “taxable receipts” on the tax return,
“rent” as defined in Section
3.40.020.E., may not be reduced by any business expenses including, but not
limited to, the amount of service charges deducted by credit card companies or
commissions paid to travel agencies. At the time the return is filed, the tax
fixed at the prevailing transient occupancy tax rate for the amount of rentals
charged or chargeable, which are not exempt from tax under Section
3.40.020.G.,
3.40.040 and
3.40.150 shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator may
establish other reporting periods and may require a cash deposit or bond or a
separate trust fund bank account for any permit holder if he deems it necessary
in order to ensure collection of the tax, and he may require further
information in the return. All taxes collected by operators pursuant to this
Chapter shall be held in trust for the account of the City until remittance
thereof is made to the Tax Administrator.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.090   Cessation of Business.
Each operator shall notify the Tax Administrator ten (10) days prior to the
sale or cessation of business for any reason, and returns and remittances are
due immediately upon the sale or cessation of business.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.100   Delinquency.
Any operator who fails to remit any tax to the City or any amount of tax
required to be collected and remitted to the City including amounts based on
determination made by the Tax Administrator under Section
3.40.120 within the time required, shall pay a penalty of ten percent (10%) of
the tax or amount of the tax in addition to the tax or amount of tax plus
interest at the rate of one-half percent (1/2%) per month, or fraction thereof,
from the date on which the tax or the amount of tax required to be collected
becomes delinquent until the date of remittance or payment. Any operator who
fails to pay any penalty imposed under this Section within ten (10) days after
receipt of notice thereof shall pay interest thereon at the rate of one-half
(1/2) of one percent (1%) per month, or fraction thereof, from the date on
which the penalty becomes due and payable to the City until the date of
payment.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.110   Fraud.
If the Tax Administrator determines that the failure to make any remittance or
payment due under this Chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of one hundred
percent (100%) of the amount of the tax and penalties shall be added thereto in
addition to the penalties stated in Section
3.40.100.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.120   Failure to Collect and Report Tax - Determination of Tax
Administrator.
If any operator fails or refuses to collect said tax and to make, within the
time provided in this Chapter, any report and remittance of said tax or any
portion thereof required by this Chapter, the Tax Administrator shall proceed
in such manner as he may deem best to obtain facts and information on which to
base his estimate of the tax due. As soon as the Tax Administrator procures
such facts and information as he is able to obtain upon which to base the
assessment of any tax imposed by the Chapter payable by any operator who has
failed or refused to collect the same and make such report and remittance, he
shall proceed to determine and assess against such operator the tax, interest
and penalties provided for by this Chapter. In case such determination is made,
the Tax Administrator shall give a notice of the amount so assessed by serving
it personally or by depositing it in the United States mail, postage prepaid,
addressed to the operator so assessed at his last known address. Such operator
may, within ten (10) days after the serving or mailing of such notice, make
application in writing to the Tax Administrator for a hearing on the amount
assessed. If application by the operator for a hearing is not made within the
time prescribed, the tax, interest and penalties, if any, determined by the Tax
Administrator, shall become final and conclusive and immediately due and
payable. If such application is made, the Tax Administrator shall give not less
than five (5) days written notice in the manner prescribed herein to the
operator to show cause at a time and place fixed in said notice why said amount
specified therein should not be fixed for such tax, interest and penalties. At
such hearing, the operator may appear and offer evidence why such specified
tax, interest and penalties should not be so fixed. After such hearing the Tax
Administrator shall determine the proper tax to be remitted and shall
thereafter give written notice to the person in the manner prescribed herein of
the determination and the amount of such tax, interest and penalties. The
amount determined to be due shall be payable after fifteen (15) days unless an
appeal is taken as provided in Section
3.40.130.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.130   Appeal.
Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the Tax Administrator with respect to
the amount of any tax, interest and penalties, if any, may appeal to the City
Council by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk within fifteen (15)
days of serving of the assessment or determination of tax and penalties, if
any, due. The City Council shall fix a time and place for hearing the appeal,
and the City Clerk shall give notice in writing to the operator at his last
known address. The findings of the City Council shall be final and conclusive
and shall be served upon the appellant in the manner prescribed above for
service of notice of hearing. Any amount found to be due shall be immediately
due and payable upon the service of notice.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.140   Records.
It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the collection and remittance
to the City of any tax imposed by this Chapter to keep and preserve, in the
City, for a period of three (3) years, records in such form as the Tax
Administrator may require to determine the amount of such tax. The Tax
Administrator shall have the right to inspect such records at all reasonable
times and may subpoena the records of any operator who refuses to make them
available for examination.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.150   Refunds.
   A.   Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid
or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the City under this Chapter, it may be refunded as provided in
Subsections B. and C. of this Section, provided a claim in writing therefor,
stating under penalty of perjury the specific grounds upon which the claim is
founded, is filed with the Tax Administrator within three (3) years of the date
of payment. The claims shall be on forms furnished by the Tax Administrator.
   B.   An operator may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes
collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously
or illegally collected or received when it is established in a manner
prescribed by the Tax Administrator that the person from whom the tax has been
collected was not a transient, provided, however, that neither a refund nor a
credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has either
been refunded to the person or credited to rent subsequently payable by the
person to the operator.
   C.   A transient may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid or paid more than
once erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City by filing a
claim in the manner provided in Subsection A. of this Section, but only when
the tax was paid by the transient directly to the Tax Administrator, or when
the transient having paid the tax to the operator, establishes to the
satisfaction of the Tax Administrator that the transient has been unable to
obtain a refund from the operator who collected the tax.
   D.   No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this Section unless the
claimant establishes his right thereto by written records.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.160   Revocation of Permit.
Whenever any operator fails to comply with any provision of this Chapter
relating to occupancy tax or any rule or regulation of the Tax Administrator
relating to occupancy tax prescribed and adopted under this Chapter, the Tax
Administrator upon hearing, after giving the operator ten (10) days’ notice in
writing specifying the time and place of hearing and requiring him to show
cause why his permit or permits should not be revoked, may suspend or revoke
any one (1) or more of the permits held by the operator. The Tax Administrator
shall give to the operator written notice of the suspension or revocation of
any of his permits. The notices herein required may be served personally or by
mail in the manner prescribed for service of notice of a deficiency
determination. The Tax Administrator shall not issue a new permit after the
revocation of a permit unless he is satisfied that the former holder of the
permit will comply with the provisions of this Chapter relating to the
occupancy tax and regulations of the Tax Administrator.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.170   Closure of Hotel Without Permit.
During any period of time during which a permit has not been issued, or is
suspended, revoked or otherwise not validly in effect, the Tax Administrator
may require that the hotel be closed.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.180   Recording Certificate - Lien.
If any amount required to be remitted or paid to the City under this Chapter is
not remitted or paid when due, the Tax Administrator may, within three (3)
years after the amount is due, file for record in the office of the County of
San Bernardino recorder a certificate specifying the amount of tax, penalties
and interest due, the name and address as it appears on the records of the Tax
Administrator of the operator liable for the same and the fact that the Tax
Administrator has complied with all provisions of this Chapter in the
determination of the amount required to be remitted and paid. From the time of
the filing for record, the amount required to be remitted together with
penalties and interest constituting a lien upon all real property in the County
owned by the operator or afterwards and before the lien expires acquired by
him. The lien has the force, effect and priority of a judgment lien and shall
continue for ten (10) years from the time of filing of the certificate unless
sooner released or otherwise discharged.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.190   Priority and Lien of Tax.
   A.   The amounts required to be remitted and/or paid by any operator under
this Chapter with penalties and interest shall be satisfied first in any of the
following cases:
      1.   Whenever the person is insolvent;
      2.   Whenever the person makes a voluntary assignment of his assets;
      3.   Whenever the estate of the person in the hands of executors,
administrators, or heirs is insufficient to pay all the debts due from the
deceased;
      4.   Whenever the estate and effects of an absconding, concealed or
absent person required to pay any amount under this Chapter are levied upon by
process law. This Chapter does not give the City a preference over any recorded
lien which attached prior to the date when the amounts required to be paid
became a lien.
   B.   The preference given to the City by this Section shall be subordinate
to the preferences given to claims for personal services by Code of Civil
Procedure Sections 1204 and 1206.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.200   Warrant for Collection of Tax.
At any time within three (3) years after any operator is delinquent in the
remittance or payment of any amount herein required to be remitted or paid or
within three (3) years after the last recording of a certificate under Section
3.40.160, the Tax Administrator may issue a warrant for the enforcement of any
liens and for the collection of any amount required to be paid to the City
under this Chapter. The warrant shall be directed to any sheriff, marshal, or
constable and shall have the same effect as a writ of execution. The warrant
shall be levied and sale made pursuant to it in the same manner with the same
effect as a levy of and a sale pursuant to a writ of execution. The Tax
Administrator may pay or advance to the sheriff, marshal, or constable the same
fees, commissions and expenses for his services as are provided by law for
similar services pursuant to a writ of execution. The Tax Administrator, and
not the court, shall approve the fees for publication in a newspaper.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.210   Seizure and Sale.
At any time within three (3) years after any operator is delinquent in the
remittance or payment of any amount, the Tax Administrator may forthwith
collect the amount in the following manner. The Tax Administrator shall seize
any property, real or personal, of the operator and sell the property, or a
sufficient part of it, at public auction to pay the amount due together with
any penalties and interest imposed for the delinquency and any costs incurred
on account of the seizure and sale. Any seizure made to collect occupancy taxes
due shall be only of property of the operator not exempt from execution under
the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.220   Successor’s Liability - Withholding by Purchase.
If any operator liable for any amount under this Chapter sells out his business
or quits the business, his successor or assign shall withhold sufficient of the
purchase price to cover such amount until the former owner produces a receipt
from the Tax Administrator showing that it has been paid or a certificate
stating that no amount is due.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.230   Liability of Purchaser - Release.
If the purchaser of a hotel fails to withhold from the purchase price as
required, he shall become personally liable for the payment of the amount
required to be withheld by him to the extent of the purchase price, valued in
money. Within sixty (60) days after receiving a written request from the
purchaser for a certificate, or within sixty (60) days from the date the former
owner’s records are made available for audit, whichever period expires the
later, but in any event not later than ninety (90) days after receiving the
request, the Tax Administrator shall either issue the certificate or mail
notice to the purchaser at his address as it appears on the records of the Tax
Administrator of the amount that must be paid as a condition of issuing the
certificate. Failure of the Tax Administrator to mail the notice will release
the purchaser from any further obligation to withhold purchase price as above
provided. The time within which the obligation of the successor may be enforced
shall start to run at the time the operator sells his business or at the time
that the determination against the operator becomes final, whichever event
occurs the later.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.240   Responsibility for Payment.
Any tax required to be paid by any transient under the provisions of this
Chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the transient to the City. Any such tax
collected by an operator which has not been remitted to the City is a fiduciary
obligation of the operator to the City and collectible in the same manner as a
debt. Any person owing money to the City under the provisions of this Chapter
shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City of Adelanto for
the recovery of such amount.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.250   Withhold Notice.
If any person or operator is delinquent in the remittance or payment of the
amount required to be remitted or paid by him or in the event a determination
has been made against him for the remittance of tax and payment of the penalty,
the City may, within three (3) years after the tax obligation became due, give
notice thereof personally or by registered mail to all persons, including the
State or any political subdivision thereof, having in their possession or under
their control any credits or other personal property belonging to the taxpayer.
After receiving the withholding notice, the person so notified shall make no
disposition of the taxpayer’s credits, other personal property or debts until
the City consents to a transfer or disposition or until sixty (60) days elapse
after the receipt of the notice, whichever expires earlier. All persons, upon
receipt of said notice, shall advise the City immediately of all such credits,
other personal property or debts in their possession, under their control or
owing by them. If such notice seeks to prevent the transfer or other
disposition of a deposit in a bank or other credits or personal property in the
possession or under the control of the bank to be effective, the notice shall
be delivered or mailed to the branch or office of such bank at which such
deposit is carried or at which such credits or personal property is held. If
any person so notified makes transfer or disposition of the property or debts
required to be held hereunder during the effective period of the notice to
withhold, he shall be liable to the City to the extent of the value of the
release up to the amount of the indebtedness owed by the taxpayer to the City.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.260   Violations - Misdemeanor.
   A.   Except for failure of an operator to pay to the Tax Administrator taxes
collected under this Chapter which is punishable as a felony pursuant to Penal
Code Section 424, every violation of this Chapter is a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, punishable in accordance with Sections
1.20.010 through
1.20.090 of this Code.
   B.   If such offense is not otherwise punishable as mentioned in Subsection
A. above, any person willfully failing to comply with, or knowingly violating,
any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   C.   Any operator or other person who willfully fails or refuses to register
as required herein, or to furnish any return required to be made, or who fails
or refuses to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the Tax
Administrator, or who renders a false or fraudulent return or claim, is guilty
of a misdemeanor. Any person required to make, render, sign or verify any
report or claim who willfully makes any false or fraudulent report or claim
with intent to defeat or evade the determination of any amount due required by
this Chapter to be made, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.270   Extension of Time.
The Tax Administrator, for good cause, may extend for not to exceed one (1)
month the time for making any return or paying any amount required to be paid
under this Chapter. The extension may be granted at any time, provided a
request therefore is filed with the Tax Administrator within or prior to the
period for which the extension may be granted. Any person to whom an extension
is granted shall pay, in addition to the tax, interest at the rate of one
percent (1%) per month or fraction thereof, from the date on which the tax
would have been due without the extension until the date of payment.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.280   Divulging of Information Forbidden.
It is unlawful for any person having an administrative duty under this Chapter
to make known in any manner whatever the business affairs, operations or
information obtained by an investigation of the records of any operator or any
other person visited or examined in the discharge of official duty, or the
amount or source of income, profits, losses, expenditures or any particular
thereof, set forth or disclosed in any return, or to knowingly permit any
return or copy thereof or any abstract or particulars thereof to be seen or
examined by any person. Successors, receivers, trustees, executors,
administrators, assignees and guarantors, if directly interested, may be given
information as to the items included in the amounts of any unpaid tax or
amounts of tax, penalties and interest required to be collected.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.40.290   Agreement with County.
The City is empowered to enter into a joint powers agreement with other cities
and the County of San Bernardino, and if such agreement or agreements can be
made wherein central collection for the County of San Bernardino is provided,
then it shall be done upon approval by the City Council.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 3.45
SALES AND USE TAX
Sections:
   
3.45.010   Short Title
   
3.45.020   Rate
   
3.45.030   Operative Date
   
3.45.040   Purpose
   
3.45.050   Contract with State
   
3.45.060   Sales Tax
   
3.45.070   Place of Sale
   
3.45.080   Use Tax
   
3.45.090   Adoption of Provisions of State Law
   
3.45.100   Limitations on Adoption of State Law
3.45.010   Short Title.
This Chapter shall be known as the “Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Ordinance.”
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.45.020   Rate.
The rate of sales tax and use tax imposed by this Chapter shall be one percent
(1%).
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.45.030   Operative Date.
The ordinance adopting the Sales and Use Tax set forth in this Chapter was
operative on January 1, 1976. [Ord. No. 1, amended by Ord. No. 76, amended by
Ord. No. 102, amended by Ord. No. 177.] The sales and use tax adopted thereby
is incorporated herein in full by reference to those ordinances.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.45.040   Purpose.
The City Council declares that this Chapter is adopted to achieve the
following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be
interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:
   A.   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which complies with the
requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.5 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.
   B.   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California
insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and
limitations contained in Part 1.5 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.
   C.   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which imposes a tax and provides
a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to and
requires the least possible deviation from the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.
   D.   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which can be administered in a
manner that will, to the degree possible consistent with the provisions of Part
1.5 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of
collecting City sales and use taxes and at the same time minimize the burden of
record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this
Chapter.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.45.050   Contract with State.
Prior to the operative date, this City shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this Chapter, provided, that if this City shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it
shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be
the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a
contract rather than the first day of the first calendar quarter following the
adoption of this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.45.060   Sales Tax.
For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is
hereby imposed upon all retailers in the City at the rate stated in Section
3.45.020 of the gross receipts of the retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in this City on and after the operative date.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.45.070   Place of Sale.
For the purposes of this Chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the place
of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject
to the State sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State
or has more than one (1) place of business, the place or places at which the
retail sales are consummated shall be determined under the rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.45.080   Use Tax.
An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in
this City of tangible personal property purchased for any retailer on and after
the operative date for storage, use or other consumption in this City at the
rate stated in Section
3.45.020 of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include
delivery charges when such charges are subject to State sales or use tax
regardless of the place to which delivery is made.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.45.090   Adoption of Provisions of State Law.
Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.5 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this Chapter as though
fully set forth herein.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.45.100   Limitations on Adoption of State Law.
In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. The substitution,
however, shall not be made when the word “State” is used as part of the title
of the State Controller, the State Treasurer, the State Board of Control, the
State Board of Equalization, the State Treasury or the Constitution of the
State of California; the substitution shall not be made when the result of that
substitution would require action to be taken by or against the City, or any
agency thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
Chapter; the substitution shall not be made in those Sections, including, but
not necessarily limited to, Sections referring to the exterior boundaries of
the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to
provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be
exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain
subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or to impose this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
be subject to tax by the State under said provisions of that Code; the
substitution shall not be made in Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last
sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code; and the substitution shall not be made for the word “State” in the phrase
“retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 or in the
definition of that phrase in Section 6203.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 3.50
ELECTION BY ALL-MAILED BALLOT PROCEDURES FOR COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICTS
Sections:
   
3.50.010   Election Procedures
   
3.50.020   Exceptions
3.50.010   Election Procedures.
The election procedures to be followed in conducting any special election by
all-mailed ballot approving a special tax pursuant to the Mello-Roos Community
Facilities Act of 1982, as amended (the “Act”) shall be as follows:
   A.   The special election shall be conducted by the City Clerk of the City,
as the elections official, and shall be held on a date selected by the Council.
   B.   The City Clerk shall publish a resolution calling a special election
within ten (10) days of its adoption in a newspaper of general circulation
published in the area of the community facilities district (“CFD”).
   C.   The ballots for the special election shall be distributed to the
qualified electors of the CFD by first-class United States mail with return
postage prepaid.
   D.   The City Clerk shall mail to each qualified elector an official ballot
in a form adopted by the Council in the resolution calling the special election
and shall also mail to all such qualified electors a ballot pamphlet and
instructions to the voters, arguments for or against the propositions and
rebuttals, if any, received in response to the resolution calling the special
election, which shall provide that written arguments not to exceed three
hundred (300) words in length for or against the proposition(s) shall be filed
with the City Clerk by the designated date and time, and a return
identification envelope.
      1.   The City Clerk shall not commence to mail the ballots to the
qualified electors prior to the twenty-ninth (29th) day before the election and
shall complete the mailing by the tenth (10th) day before the election.
      2.   The return identification envelope used in landowner elections shall
contain the following substantially in the form (Exhibit A) attached to
Ordinance No. 343:
         a.   The name of the landowner.
         b.   The address of the landowner.
         c.   A declaration, under penalty of perjury, stating that the voter
is the owner of record or the authorized representative of the landowner
entitled to vote and is the person whose name appears on the identification
envelope.
         d.   The printed name and signature of the voter.
         e.   The address of the voter.
         f.   The date of signing and place of execution of the declaration
described in Subsection c. above.
         g.   A notice that the envelope contains an official ballot and is to
be opened only by the canvassing board.
      3.   Otherwise, the return identification envelope shall contain the
following:
         a.   A declaration, under penalty of perjury, stating that the voter
resides within the precinct in which he or she is voting and is the person
whose name appears on the envelope.
         b.   The signature of the voter.
         c.   The residence address of the voter as shown on the affidavit of
registration.
         d.   The date of signing.
         e.    A notice that the envelope contains an official ballot and is to
be opened only by the canvassing board.
   E.   Upon completion of the mailing, the City Clerk shall certify the proper
mailing of the ballots by an affidavit.
   F.   The information on the ballots to be mailed by the City Clerk shall
inform the qualified electors that the official ballots shall be returned to
the City Clerk properly voted as provided thereon in the sealed return
identification envelope(s) with the certification(s) therein completed and
signed and all other information to be inserted therein properly inserted by 5:
00 p.m. on the date of the election.
   G.   Upon receipt of the return identification envelope(s) which are
returned prior to the voting deadline, the City Clerk shall maintain the
envefope(s) in a safe place.
   H.   Upon the closing of the election, the City Clerk shall canvass the
votes as follows:
      1.   The City Clerk shall appoint a special canvassing board of three (3)
persons not employed by the City. The opening, processing and counting of the
ballots shall be open to the public. Any interested party may challenge
the.manner in which the ballots are processed and counted. If the challenge is
not resolved at the time the challenge is made, the canvassing will cease until
the Council hears the challenge and renders a decision. The City Clerk shall
pay a reasonable compensation to each member of the special canvassing board.
      2.   Upon completion of the canvassing, the City Clerk shall file a
statement with the Council at its next regular or special meeting as to the
results of such canvass and the election on the proposition(s) set forth in the
official ballot.
   I.   The procedures set forth in this Section for conducting any special
election by all-mailed ballot may be modified as the Council may determine to
be necessary or desirable by an ordinance subsequently adopted by the Council.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.50.020   Exceptions.
Except for provisions concerning elections procedures, this Chapter shall not
affect the applicability of any of the provisions of the Mello-Roos Community
Facilities Act of 1982, Title 5, Chapter 2.5 (commencing with Section 53311) of
the Government Code.
[Ord. No. 343; Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 3.55
FEE AND SERVICE CHARGE REVENUE/COST COMPARISON SYSTEM
Sections:
   
3.55.010   Findings and Intent
   
3.55.020   Delegation of Authority and Direction to City Manager
   
3.55.030   “Costs Reasonably Borne” Defined
   
3.55.040   Schedule of Fees and Service Charges
   
3.55.050   Provision of Data
   
3.55.060   Appeal to City Council
   
3.55.070   Adopting Fee Schedule for Fire Prevention and Inspection Services;
Appointing Fire Marshal
   
3.55.080   Payment of Prevailing Wages on Certain Public Works Projects
3.55.010   Findings and Intent.
   A.   Pursuant to Article XIIIB of the California Constitution, it is the
intent of the City Council to require the ascertainment and recovery of costs
reasonably borne from fees, charges and regulatory license fees levied
therefore in providing the regulation, products or services provided by the
City.
   B.   The fees and service charge revenue/cost comparison system set forth in
this Chapter provides a mechanism for ensuring that fees adopted by the City
for services rendered do not exceed the reasonable estimated cost for providing
the services for which the fees are charged.
   C.   The adoption of this Chapter is exempt from the California
Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code Sections 21000 et seq.),
because it approves and sets forth a procedure for determining fees for the
purpose of meeting the operating expenses of City departments, as set forth in
Public Resources Code Section 20180(b)(8)(1).
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.55.020   Delegation of Authority and Direction to City Manager.
   A.   The City Manager is delegated the authority and directed to provide
documents to the City Council to implement its herein enumerated policy to
adjust fees and charges to recover the percentage of costs reasonably borne as
established by resolution of the City Council, in providing the regulation,
product or sen/ice enumerated in this Chapter in the percentage of costs
reasonably borne and on the schedule of rate review and revision as hereinafter
established in this Chapter.
   B.   The City Manager is delegated authority to issue executive orders
defining terms, setting out administrative fee collection and financial
procedures, definitions and establishing effective dates of all fees set by the
City Council by resolution. The City Manager shall provide for effective dates
for fees set by the City Council which are as early as is practically feasible
considering administrative impediments. All executive orders shall be
originated and signed by the affected department head, shall be signed by the
Finance Director certifying that the financial requirements of this Chapter are
complied with, and shall be signed by the City Manager connoting the effective
date of the executive order and new or revised rate structure, procedure or
definition.
   C.   “Costs Reasonably Borne” shall be as defined in Section
3.55.030. In adjusting fees and charges, the City Manager shall act in an
administrative and ministerial capacity and shall consider only the standards
and criteria established by this Chapter and the procedures set hereby and by
applicable State law. All executive orders issued hereunder shall comply in all
respects with this Chapter and the several schedules of fees and rates as set
by the City Council by resolution.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.55.030   “Costs Reasonably Borne” Defined.
“Costs Reasonably Borne,” as used and ordered to be applied in this Chapter,
are to consist of the following elements:
   A.   All applicable direct costs including, but not limited to salaries,
wages, overtime, employee fringe benefits, services and supplies, maintenance
and operation expenses, contracted services, special supplies and any other
direct expense incurred;
   B.   All applicable indirect costs including, but not restricted to building
maintenance and operations, communications expenses, computer costs, printing
and reproduction, vehicle expenses, insurance, debt service and like expenses
when distributed on an accounted and documented rational proration system;
   C.   Fixed asset recovery expenses, consisting of depreciation of fixed
assets, and additional fixed asset expense recovery charges calculated on the
current estimated cost of replacement, divided by the approximate life
expectancy of the fixed asset. A further additional charge to make up the
difference between book value depreciation not previously recovered and
reserved in cash and the full cost of replacement also shall be calculated and
considered a cost so as to recover such unrecovered costs between book value
and cost of replacement over the remaining life of the asset;
   D.   General overhead, expressed as a percentage, distributing and charging
the expenses of the City Council, City Attorney, City Administration, City
Clerk, City Treasurer, economic development, finance department, personnel
office and City promotion, and all other staff and support service provided to
the entire City organization. Overhead shall be prorated between tax-financed
services and fee-financed services on the basis of said percentage so that each
of taxes and fees and charges shall proportionately defray such overhead costs;
   E.   Departmental overhead, expressed as a percentage, distributing and
charging the cost of each department head and his or her supporting expenses as
enumerated in Subsections A., B., C. and F. of this Section;
   F.   Debt service costs, consisting of repayment of principal, payment of
interest and trustee fees and administrative expenses for all applicable bond,
certificate, note or securities issued or loans of whatever nature or kind. Any
required coverage factors or required or established reserves beyond basic debt
service costs also shall be considered a cost if required by covenant within
any securities ordinance, resolution, indenture or general law applicable to
the City.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.55.040   Schedule of Fees and Service Charges.
The City Manager, Finance Director and each City department head, under the
direction of the City Manager, shall review annually the fees and service
charges of the City, and provide an adjusted fee or charge schedule to the City
Council for its consideration so as to recover the listed percentage of costs
reasonably borne necessary to provide the listed regulation, product or
service.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.55.050   Provision of Data.
Pursuant to the Government Code, at least ten (10) days prior to the required
public hearing set out herein, the City Manager shall make available to the
public appropriate data indicating the cost or estimated cost required to
support the fees and charges for which changes are proposed to be made or fees
or charges imposed. The City Manager also shall provide a summary of the
present fee and charge schedules and those proposed at such annual public
hearing. A general explanation of such changes also shall be published pursuant
to the requirements of Government Code Section 6062a.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.55.060   Appeal to City Council.
   A.   Any person who believes that any fee or charge determined and set is in
excess of the percentage of costs reasonably borne to be recovered as set out
in this Chapter, or that such fee or charge has been reviewed prior to or has
not been reviewed within the review schedule as set out herein, may appeal in
writing to the City Council.
   B.   No fee or charge for which an appeal has been filed shall take effect
until heard by the City Council. Such appeal shall be placed on the agenda of
the next following Council meeting after receipt of such appeal and heard at
the next following Council meeting thereafter. Such appealed fee or charge
shall take effect immediately upon hearing by the City Council unless ordered
otherwise by the City Council by ordinance amending this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.55.070   Adopting Fee Schedule for Fire Prevention and Inspection Services;
Appointing Fire Marshal.
   A.   The fee schedule for Fire Prevention and inspection Sen/ices, which
shall be collected by the City for primary fire prevention and reporting
services provided by the San Bernardino County Fire Department under contract
to the City, shall be established by resolution of the City Council. Such
services include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Plan checks on commercial developments in accordance with all
adopted codes and ordinances and associated fees;
      2.   Life Safety inspections, conducted annually on commercial
occupancies and for the determination of the frequency of inspections in high
hazard occupancies; and
      3.   Fire prevention activities, fire inspections and plan reviews.
   B.   In adopting this Section, the City Council has found and determined
that the Fire Prevention and Inspection Services fees established herein
represent the actual cost to the City of providing the services, administering
the Fire Prevention and Inspection Services program and collecting and ensuring
the appropriate allocation of the fees collected.
   C.   The Fire Marshal of the San Bernardino County Fire Department is
appointed the Fire Marshal for the City of Adelanto.
[Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
3.55.080   Payment of Prevailing Wages on Certain Public Works Projects.
   A.   Contracts for public works projects, as defined in California Labor
Code Sections 1720 et seq., that are undertaken or contracted for directly by
the City shall require compliance with California Labor Code Sections 1770
through 1782, as may be amended, for construction work over $25,000 and for
alteration, demolition, repair or maintenance work over $15,000. Any notice
inviting bids for such public works projects shall include notification of the
provisions of this section.
[Ord. No. 396; Ord. No. 461, Section 3, 5/9/07; Ord. No. 526, Section 2, 6/11/
14.]
Chapter 3.60
CANNABIS EXCISE TAX
Sections:
   
3.60.010   Definitions
   
3.60.020   Purpose of tax
   
3.60.030   Imposition of tax
   
3.60.040   Payment obligation
   
3.60.050   City Council authorization to adjust tax rate and/or methodology
   
3.60.060   Payment of tax does not authorize illegal activity
   
3.60.070   Cannabis business tax is not a sales tax
   
3.60.080   Amendments and administration
   
3.60.090   Returns and remittances
   
3.60.100   Failure to pay tax
   
3.60.110   Refunds
   
3.60.120   Enforcement
   
3.60.130   Debts, deficiencies, and assessments
   
3.60.140   Appeals
   
3.60.150   No injunction/writ of mandate
   
3.60.160   Future amendment to cited statute
3.60.010 Definitions.
   For purposes of this chapter:
   A.   "Cannabis” means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa Linnaeus,
Cannabis indica, or Cannabis rudevalis, whether growing or not; the seeds
thereof; the resin, whether crude or purified, extracted from any part of the
plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the plant, its seeds, or resin. “Cannabis” also means the
separated resin, whether crude or purified, obtained from cannabis, “Cannabis”
also means the term as defined in California Health and Safety Code Section
11018 and is not limited to medical cannabis. “Cannabis” does not include the
mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made
from the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative,
mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted
therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake or the sterilized seed of the plant which is
incapable of germination. For the purpose of this chapter, “Cannabis” does not
mean “industrial hemp” as defined by Section 11018.5 of the California Health
and Safety Code.
   B.   “Cannabis business” means any business, organization or facility,
regardless of form, whether operating for profit or not for profit, that
cultivates, processes, stores, tests, packages, labels, distributes,
transports, and/or sells, dispenses or delivers cannabis, cannabis products
and/or devices for the use of cannabis or cannabis products. “Cannabis
business” does not include personal medical or adult use cannabis cultivation
authorized by state law and this Code. A cannabis business shall not be
considered to be a religious, social or charitable organization exempt from the
payment of business taxes under this chapter.
   C.   “Cannabis cultivation” means the seeding, planting, watering, warming,
cooling, growing, harvesting, drying, curing, grading or trimming of cannabis.
   D.   “Cannabis distribution” or “Cannabis transport” means any activity
involving the commercial procurement, sale, transfer and/or transport of
cannabis and cannabis products from one cannabis business to another cannabis
business for purposes authorized pursuant to state law.
   E.   “Cannabis nursery” means a cannabis business that produces only clones,
immature plants, seeds and other agricultural products used specifically for
cannabis cultivation.
   F.   “Cannabis processing” shall mean any activity involving the holding,
storing, sorting, preparation, labeling and packaging of raw cannabis for
retail sale; or involving the production, preparation, propagation, labeling,
packaging or compounding of cannabis products either directly or indirectly or
by extraction methods, or independently by means of chemical synthesis.
   G.   “Cannabis product” means cannabis that has undergone a process whereby
the raw agricultural product has been transformed into a concentrate, an edible
product, or a topical product. “Cannabis product” also means cannabis products
as defined by California Health and Safety Code Section 11018.1 and is not
limited to medical cannabis products.
   H.   “Cannabis Retail or Sale” means and includes any sale, exchange, or
barter transaction whereby, for any consideration, title to cannabis or
cannabis products is transferred from a cannabis business to a retail end
customer and includes the delivery of cannabis or cannabis products to a retail
end customer pursuant to an order placed for the purchase of the same and
soliciting or receiving an order for the same. It does not include the return
of cannabis or cannabis products by a cannabis business to the cannabis
business from whom the cannabis or cannabis product was purchased.
   I.   “Cannabis testing” means any activity involving the testing of cannabis
or cannabis products by a facility that is both of the following:
      1.   Accredited by an accrediting body that is independent from all other
persons involved in the cannabis industry in the state; and
      2.   Registered with the California State Department of Public Health.
   J.   “Engaged in a cannabis business” means the commencing, conducting,
operating, managing or carrying on of a cannabis business and the exercise of
corporate, franchise or other business powers, whether done as owner, or by
means of an officer, agent, manager, employee, or other representative, within
the city, whether operating from a fixed location within the city or coming
into the city from an outside location to engage in cannabis business
activities. By way of example, a person shall be deemed “engaged in cannabis
business” within the city if such person or the person's officer, agent,
manager, employee, or other representative acting on behalf of such person:
      1.   Maintains a fixed place of cannabis business within the city;
      2.   Owns, leases or otherwise has the legal right to occupy real
property within the city for cannabis business purposes;
      3.   Regularly maintains a stock of tangible personal property within the
city in the ordinary course of cannabis business;
      4.   Performs work or renders cannabis business services to other
cannabis businesses or to retail cannabis customers located within the city.
   K.   “Gross receipts” means, except as otherwise provided in this chapter,
the total amount of monetary consideration actually received or receivable by a
cannabis business for performance of any act or service in providing, at
wholesale or retail, cannabis and/or cannabis products, for which a charge is
made or credit allowed including, but not limited to: membership dues, the
value of monetary and in-kind contributions, payments, reimbursement of fees
for cultivation, processing, distribution, delivery, retail, storing,
exchanging, processing, delivering, making available, or transmitting of
cannabis or cannabis products, any payments made, and anything else of value
obtained by a cannabis business. Included in “gross receipts” shall be all
receipts, cash, credits, and property of any kind without deduction of the cost
of the property sold, the cost of the materials used, labor or service costs,
interest paid or payable, or losses or other expenses whatsoever. Gross
receipts shall not include the following:
      1.   Cash discounts where allowed and taken on sales;
      2.   Sales or other applicable state or local tax required by law to be
added to the purchase price of cannabis or cannabis products and collected from
the purchaser;
      3.   Such part of the sales price of any property returned by purchasers
to the seller as refunded by the seller by way of cash or credit allowances or
return of refundable deposits previously included in gross receipts; or
      4.   Whenever there are included within gross receipts amounts which
reflect sales for which credit is extended and such amount proved uncollectable
in a subsequent year, those amounts may be excluded from gross receipts in the
year they prove to be uncollectable, provided, however, if all or any portion
of such amounts excluded as uncollectible are subsequently collected they shall
be included in gross receipt for the period when they are recovered.
   L.   “Person” means any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture,
association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company,
corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate or any
other group or combination acting as a unit, which is conducting itself as a
cannabis business.
   M.   “Space utilized in connection with cannabis cultivation or nursery”
means any space or ground, floor or other surface area, whether horizontal or
vertical (i.e., “stacking”) which is used for either a cannabis nursery and/or
cultivation, or any combination of those activities, as well as for sorting or
storing of any cannabis, products, supplies or equipment related to any such
activities, no matter where such storage may take place or such storage space
may be located.
   N.   “State” means the State of California.
   O.   “Tax Administrator” is the city's Director of Finance, or his or her
designee.
[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]
3.60.020 Purpose of tax.
This tax is a general tax, the revenues from which may be used for general City
services.
[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]
3.60.030 Imposition of tax.
   A.   Every person engaged in a cannabis business within the City of
Adelanto, and regardless of whether such business has a permit to operate
pursuant to the Adelanto Municipal Code, shall pay a cannabis business tax at
the following rates:
      1.   Up to a maximum of $5 per square foot of space utilized in
connection with cannabis cultivation or nursery, subject to adjustment by the
City Council pursuant to Section
3.60.050; and
      2.   Up to a maximum of 5 percent of gross receipts or fractional part
thereof, generated by any other cannabis business (including but not limited to
cannabis processing, testing, distribution, retail, sale or delivery), subject
to adjustment by the City Council pursuant to Section
3.60.050.
   B.   The City Council hereby adjusts the maximum tax rate imposed by
Ordinance No. 601 and imposes the following rates:
 
Cannabis Business Activity Monthly Tax Rate
Cultivation                $0.415 per square foot
Retail                     3% of gross receipts
Special Events             3% of gross receipts
Manufacturing              3% of gross receipts
Testing                    3% of gross receipts
Distribution               3% of gross receipts
 
   C.   No cannabis business shall be deemed to be exempt from the payment of
the taxes identified above by any other provision of this Code, unless
expressly exempted under this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18; Ord. No. 601, Section 2, 5/8/19; Ord. No.
616, Section 2, 9/9/20.]
3.60.040 Payment obligation.
All taxpayers subject to this Chapter must pay the full tax imposed by this
Chapter regardless of any rebate, exemption, incentive, or other reduction set
forth elsewhere in this Code, except as required by California or Federal law.
Failure to pay the tax shall be subject to penalties, interest charges, and
assessments as the City Council may establish and the City may use any or all
other code enforcement remedies provided in this Code. No provision in this
Code can lower the tax rate set forth in this Chapter or otherwise reduce the
amount of taxes paid hereunder unless the provision specifically states that
the reduction applies.
[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]
3.60.050 City Council authorization to adjust tax rate and/or methodology.
This Chapter authorizes the maximum business tax rate as identified in Section
3.60.030 above. The City Council may, by ordinance, upwardly or downwardly
adjust the rate of the tax imposed by this Chapter and may otherwise repeal or
amend this Chapter without a vote of the people. However, as required by
California Constitution Article XIIIC (Proposition 218), voter approval is
required for any amendment that would increase the maximum rate or methodology
of any tax levied pursuant to this Chapter. The People of the City of Adelanto
affirm that the following actions shall not constitute an increase of the
maximum rate or methodology of the tax requiring subsequent voter approval:
   A.   The upward adjustment of the tax rate applicable to any or all classes
of cannabis business, provided the rate does not exceed the maximum set forth
by this voter-approved Chapter;
   B.   The restoration of the tax to a rate that is no higher than the maximum
set by this voter-approved Chapter, if the City Council has previously acted to
reduce the rate of the tax;
   C.   An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax, or
any definition applicable to the tax, so long as interpretation or
clarification (even if contrary to some prior interpretation or clarification)
is not inconsistent with the language of this Chapter;
   D.   The establishment of a class of person or service that is exempt or
excepted from the tax or the discontinuation of any such exemption or
exception; and
   E.   Resuming collection of the tax imposed by this Chapter, even if the
City had, for some period of time, either suspended collection of the tax or
otherwise failed to collect the tax, in whole or in part.
[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]
3.60.060 Payment of tax does not authorize illegal activity.
The payment of the tax required pursuant to this Chapter shall not be construed
as authorizing the conduct or continuance of any illegal business or of a legal
business in an illegal manner. Nothing in this Chapter implies or authorizes
that any activity connected with the distribution or possession of cannabis is
legal unless otherwise authorized and allowed in strict and full conformance to
the provisions of state law and this Code.
[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]
3.60.070 Cannabis business tax is not a sales tax.
The tax provided for under the provisions of this Chapter is not a sales,
transactions or use tax and shall not be calculated or assessed as such. The
tax established under this Chapter shall not be separately identified or
otherwise specifically assessed or charged to any customer or client of a
cannabis business.
[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]
3.60.080 Amendments and administration.
   A.   This Chapter was submitted to the voters for approval. Any amendment to
this Chapter to increase the tax above the maximum rate expressly provided in
Section
3.60.030 shall not become effective until such amendment is approved by the
voters. The voters expressly authorize the City Council to amend, modify,
change, or revise any other provision of this Chapter as the City Council deems
in the best interest of the City, as set forth in Section
3.60.050.
   B.   The Tax Administrator shall promulgate rules, regulations and
procedures to implement and administer this Chapter to ensure the efficient and
timely collection of the tax imposed by this Chapter, including without
limitation, formulation and implementation of penalties and interest to be
assessed for failure to pay the tax as provided.
   C.   The Tax Administrator shall annually audit the taxes imposed by this
Chapter to verify that tax revenues have been properly expended in accordance
with the law.
   D.   Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB, the appropriation
limit for the City is increased to the maximum extent over the maximum period
of time allowed under law consistent with the revenues generated by the tax
established by this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]
3.60.090 Returns and remittances.
The Tax shall be due and payable as follows:
   A.   The tax established by this Chapter shall be collected four (4) times a
year on a quarterly basis. Each person owing tax shall prepare and file a tax
return to the Tax Administrator setting out the total amount of tax owed for
the preceding reporting period during which the tax was in effect. The return
shall be filed by the end of the month following the applicable reporting
period, in accordance with the following table, or as otherwise provided for by
the Tax Administrator. At the time the tax return is filed, the full amount of
the tax owed for the preceding reporting period shall be remitted to the Tax
Administrator.
 
Reporting Period   Period End Date Due Date
January – March  March 31        April 30
April – June     June 30         July 31
July – September September 30    October 31
October – DecembeDecember 31     January 31
 
   B.   All tax returns shall be completed on forms provided by the Tax
Administrator.
   C.   Tax returns and payments for all outstanding taxes owed the City are
immediately due to the Tax Administrator within 15 days after cessation of
business for any reason.
   D.   Whenever any payment, statement, report, request or other communication
received by the Tax Administrator is received after the time prescribed by this
Section for the receipt thereof, but is in an envelope bearing a postmark
showing that it was mailed on or prior to the date prescribed in this Section
for the receipt thereof, or whenever the Tax Administrator is furnished
substantial proof that the payment, statement, report, request, or other
communication was in fact deposited in the United States mail on or prior to
the date prescribed for receipt thereof, the Tax Administrator may regard such
payment, statement, report, request, or other communication as having been
timely received. If the due date falls on Friday, Saturday, Sunday, or a
holiday, the due date shall be the next regular business day on which the City
Hall is open to the public.
   E.   Unless otherwise specifically provided under other provisions of this
Chapter, the taxes required to be paid pursuant to this Chapter shall be deemed
delinquent if not paid on or before the due date specified in Subsection (A) of
this Section.
   F.   The Tax Administrator is not required to send a delinquency or other
notice or bill to any person subject to the provisions of this Chapter and
failure to send such notice or bill shall not affect the validity of any tax or
penalty due under the provisions of this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18; Ord. No. 616, Section 3, 9/9/20.]
3.60.100 Failure to pay tax.
   A.   Any person who fails or refuses to pay any tax required to be paid
pursuant to this Chapter on or before the due date shall pay penalties and
interest as follows:
      1.   A penalty equal to 25 percent of the amount of the tax in addition
to the amount of the tax, plus interest on the unpaid tax calculated from the
due date of the tax at a rate established by resolution of the City Council;
and
      2.   An additional penalty equal to 25 percent of the amount of the tax
if the tax remains unpaid for a period exceeding one calendar month beyond the
due date, plus interest on the unpaid tax and interest on the unpaid penalties
calculated at the rate established by resolution of the City Council.
   B.   Whenever a check is submitted in payment of a tax and the check is
subsequently returned unpaid by the bank upon which the check is drawn, and the
check is not redeemed prior to the due date, the taxpayer will be liable for
the tax amount due plus penalties and interest as provided for in this Section
plus any amount allowed under State law.
   C.   The tax due shall be that amount due and payable from January 1, 2019
or the first date on which the cannabis business first engaged in business in
the City, whichever date occurred last, together with applicable penalties and
interest calculated in accordance with Subsection (A) of this Section.
   D.   The Tax Administrator may waive the first and second penalties of 25
percent each imposed upon any person if:
      1.   The person provides evidence satisfactory to the Tax Administrator
that failure to pay timely was due to circumstances beyond the control of the
person and occurred notwithstanding the exercise of ordinary care and the
absence of willful neglect, and the person paid the delinquent tax and accrued
interest owed the City prior to applying to the Tax Administrator for a waiver.
      2.   The waiver provisions specified in this Subsection shall not apply
to interest accrued on the delinquent tax and a waiver shall be granted only
once during any 24 month period.
[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]
3.60.110 Refunds.
   A.   No refund shall be made of any tax collected pursuant to this Chapter,
except as provided in this Section.
   B.   No refund of any tax collected pursuant to this Chapter shall be made
because of the discontinuation, dissolution, or other termination of a cannabis
business.
   C.   Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty, or interest has been overpaid,
paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received
by the City under this Chapter, such amount may be refunded to the person who
paid the tax provided that a written claim for refund is timely filed with the
City, pursuant to this Code. The period for filing a claim for refund shall be
one year from the time the tax was paid or erroneously or illegally collected;
provided however, that in no event shall the period to file such claim expire
prior to the shortest period allowable for filing a tax refund claim under
Government Code Section 911.2. Such claim must clearly establish claimant's
right to the refund by written records showing entitlement thereto, and must
clearly set forth the facts and legal theories under which the claimant
believes he or she has right to a refund. Where the amount of any individual
refund claim is in excess of the amount set by ordinance or resolution of the
City Council relating to the settlement of general liability claims against the
City by the City Manager, City Council approval shall be required.
   D.   The filing of a written claim pursuant to Government Code Section 935
is a prerequisite to any suit thereon.
   E.   The Tax Administrator shall have the right to examine and audit all the
books and business records of the claimant in order to determine the
eligibility of the claimant to the claimed refund. No claim for refund shall be
allowed if the claimant refuses to allow such examination of claimant's books
and business records after request by the Tax Administrator to do so.
   F.   Any person entitled to a refund of taxes paid pursuant to this Chapter
may elect in writing to have such refund applied as a credit against a cannabis
business's taxes for the next calendar quarter.
   G.   In the event that the tax was erroneously paid and the error is
attributable to the City, the amount of the tax erroneously paid shall be
refunded to the claimant. If the error is attributable to the claimant, the
City shall retain the amount set forth in this Chapter from the amount to be
refunded to cover expenses.
   H.   The Tax Administrator shall initiate a refund of any tax which has been
overpaid or erroneously collected whenever the overpayment or erroneous
collection is uncovered by a City audit of tax revenues.
[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]
3.60.120 Enforcement.
   A.   It shall be the duty of the Tax Administrator to enforce each and all
of the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   For purposes of administration and enforcement of this Chapter
generally, the Tax Administrator, with the concurrence of the City Attorney,
may from time to time promulgate administrative rules and regulations.
   C.   The Tax Administrator shall have the power to audit and examine all
books and records of cannabis businesses as well as persons engaged in the
operation of cannabis businesses, including both state and federal income tax
returns, California sales tax returns, or other evidence documenting the gross
receipts of or the transaction prices charged by a cannabis business or persons
engaged in the operation of a cannabis business, for the purpose of
ascertaining the amount of tax, if any, required to be paid by the provisions
of this Chapter, and for the purpose of verifying any statements or any item
thereof when filed by any person pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter. If
such cannabis business or person, after written demand by the Tax
Administrator, refuses to make available for audit, examination or verification
such books, records, or equipment as the Tax Administrator requests, the Tax
Administrator may, after full consideration of all information within the Tax
Administrator's knowledge concerning the cannabis business and its business and
activities of the person so refusing, make an assessment in the manner provided
in Section
3.60.130.
   D.   The conviction and punishment of any person for failure to pay the
required tax shall not excuse or exempt such person from any civil action for
the tax debt unpaid at the time of such conviction. No civil action shall
prevent a criminal prosecution for any violation of the provisions of this
Chapter or of any State law requiring the payment of all taxes.
   E.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter or any
regulation or rule passed in accordance herewith, or knowingly or intentionally
misrepresenting to any officer or employee of the City any material fact in
procuring the a cannabis business certificate or permit from the City shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]
3.60.130 Debts, deficiencies, and assessments.
   A.   The amount of any tax, penalties, and interest imposed by the
provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed a debt to the City and any person
operating a cannabis business without having paid any applicable tax,
penalties, and interest shall be liable in an action in the name of the City in
any court of competent jurisdiction for the amount of the tax, and penalties
and interest imposed on such cannabis business.
   B.   If the Tax Administrator is not satisfied that any statement filed as
required under the provisions of this Chapter is correct, or that the amount of
tax is correctly computed, the Tax Administrator may compute and determine the
amount to be paid and make a deficiency determination upon the basis of the
facts contained in the statement or upon the basis of any information in his or
her possession or that may come into his or her possession. One or more
deficiency determinations of the amount of tax due for a period or periods may
be made. When a person discontinues engaging in a cannabis business, a
deficiency determination may be made at any time within three years thereafter
as to any liability arising from engaging in such business whether or not a
deficiency determination is issued prior to the date the tax would otherwise be
due. Whenever a deficiency determination is made, notice shall be given to the
person concerned in the same manner as notices of assessment are given under
Subsections (C), (D), and (E) of this Section.
   C.   Under any of the following circumstances, the Tax Administrator may
make and give notice of an assessment of the amount of tax owed by a person
under this Chapter:
      1.   If the person has not filed any statement or return required under
the provisions of this Chapter;
      2.   If the person has not paid any tax due under the provisions of this
Chapter;
      3.   If the person has not, after demand by the Tax Administrator, filed
a corrected statement or return, or furnished to the Tax Administrator adequate
substantiation of the information contained in a statement or return already
filed, or paid any additional amount of tax due under the provisions of this
Chapter;
      4.   If the Tax Administrator determines that the nonpayment of any tax
due under this Chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of 25 percent of the amount
of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to penalties and interest.
otherwise stated in this Chapter.
      5.   The notice of assessment shall separately set forth the amount of
any tax known by the Tax Administrator to be due or estimated by the Tax
Administrator, after consideration of all information within the Tax
Administrator's knowledge concerning the business and activities of the person
assessed, to be due under each applicable section of this Chapter, and shall
include the amount of any penalties or interest accrued on each amount to the
date of the notice of assessment.
   D.   The notice of assessment shall be served upon the person either by
handing it to him or her personally, or by a deposit of the notice in the
United States mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the person at the
address of the location of the cannabis business appearing on the face of the
business license issued under this Code, or to such other address as he or she
shall register with the Tax Administrator for the purpose of receiving notices
provided under this Chapter; or, should the person have no business license
issued and should the person have no address registered with the Tax
Administrator for such purpose, then to such person's last known address. For
the purposes of this section, a service by mail is complete at the time of
deposit in the United States mail.
   E.   Within ten calendar days after the date of service the person may apply
in wilting to the Tax Administrator for a hearing on the assessment. If
application for a hearing before the City is not made within the time herein
prescribed, the tax assessed by the Tax Administrator shall become final and
conclusive.
   F.   If the person requests a hearing, the Tax Administrator shall cause the
matter to be set for hearing, which shall be held within 30 calendar days after
receipt of the written request for hearing. Notice of the time and place of the
hearing shall be mailed by the Tax Administrator to such person at least ten
calendar days prior to the hearing, and, if the Tax Administrator desires said
person to produce specific records at such hearing, such notice may designate
the records requested to be produced.
   G.   At the time fixed for the hearing, the Tax Administrator shall hear all
relevant testimony and evidence, including that of any other interested
parties. At the discretion of the Tax Administrator, the hearing may be
continued from time to time for the purpose of allowing the presentation of
additional evidence. Within a reasonable time following the conclusion of the
hearing, the Tax Administrator shall issue a final assessment (or non-
assessment), by confirming, modifying or rejecting the original deficiency
determination, and shall mail a copy of such final assessment to the person
owing the tax. The decision of the Tax Administrator may be appealed pursuant
to Section
3.60.140 of this Chapter,
   H.   Unless appealed, payment of the final assessment shall become
delinquent if not received by the Tax Administrator on or before the thirtieth
calendar day following the date of receipt of the notice of fmal assessment.
The penalty for delinquency shall be at the rates set forth herein, along with
interest at the rate as set forth by resolution of the City Council, on the
amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date of delinquency, until
paid. The applicable statute of limitations regarding a claim by the City
seeking payment of a tax assessed under this Section shall commence from the
date of delinquency as provided in this subsection.
[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]
3.60.140 Appeals.
   A.   The provisions of this section apply to any deficiency determination,
assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator. Any person
aggrieved by any decision, deficiency determination, assessment, or
administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator, shall be required to comply
with the appeals procedure of this section. Compliance with this section shall
be a prerequisite to a suit thereon. [See Government Code Section 935(b).]
   B.   If any person is aggrieved by any deficiency determination, assessment,
or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator; he or she may appeal to the
City Manager by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk within ten
calendar days of the date of the deficiency determination, assessment, or
administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator which aggrieved the person.
   C.   If the person requests an appeal, the City Clerk shall cause the matter
to be set for hearing, which shall be held within 30 calendar days after
receipt of the written request for appeal. Notice of the time and place of the
appeal hearing shall be mailed by the City Clerk to such person at least ten
calendar days prior to the hearing, and, if the City Manager desires said
person to produce specific records at such hearing, such notice may designate
the records requested to be produced. For the purposes of this section, a
service by mail is complete at the time of deposit in the United States mail.
   D.   At the time fixed for the hearing, the City Manager shall hear all
relevant testimony and evidence, de novo, including that of any other
interested parties. At the discretion of the City Manager, the hearing may be
continued from time to time for the purpose of allowing the presentation of
additional evidence, Within a reasonable time following the conclusion of the
hearing, the City Manager shall issue a final decision confirming, modifying or
rejecting the Tax Administrator's deficiency determination, and shall mail a
copy of such final decision to the person owing the tax. The City Manager's
decision shall be final and subject only to judicial review shall be pursuant
to California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.6. Payment of the final
assessment shall become delinquent if not received by the Tax Administrator on
or before the thirtieth (30th) calendar day following the date of receipt of
the City Manager's decision.
[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]
3.60.150 No injunction/writ of mandate.
No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action, or proceeding in any court against this City or
against any officer of the City to prevent or enjoin the collection under this
Chapter of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected and/or
remitted.
[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]
3.60.160   Future amendment to cited statute.
Unless specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a state or Federal
statute in this Chapter shall mean such statute as it may be amended from time
to time; provided, that such reference to a statute herein shall not include
any subsequent amendment thereto, or to any subsequent change of interpretation
thereto by a state or Federal agency or court of law, to the extent that such
amendment or change of interpretation would require voter approval under
California law, or to the extent that such change would result in a tax
decrease. Only to the extent voter approval would otherwise be required or a
tax decrease would result, the prior version of the statute (or interpretation)
shall remain applicable. For any application or situation that would not
require voter approval or would not result in a decrease of a tax, provisions
of the amended statute (or new interpretation) shall be applicable to the
maximum possible extent To the extent that the City's authorization to collect
or impose any tax imposed under this Chapter is expanded or limited as a result
of changes in state or Federal law, no amendment or modification of this
Chapter shall be required to conform the tax to those changes, and the tax
shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of the authorization up to
the full amount of the tax imposed under this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 594, Section 1, 12/12/18.]
TITLE 4
RESERVED
TITLE 5
BUSINESS LICENSES AND REGULATIONS
Chapters:
   
5.04   Business Licenses
   
5.08   Garage and Yard Sales
   
5.12   Peddling, Soliciting and Hawking
   
5.16   Card Clubs
   
5.20   Private Patrol Services and Private Patrolmen
   
5.24   Bingo
   
5.28   Dance Halls
   
5.32   Junk Dealers, Pawnbrokers, Secondhand Dealers and Salvage Collectors
   
5.36   Pool and Billiard Halls
   
5.40   Cable, Video and Telecommunications Service Providers
   
5.44   Fortune Telling
   
5.48   Taxicabs
   
5.52   Theaters
   
5.56   Grading of Food Establishments
   
5.60   Massage Establishments
   
5.64   Adult-Oriented Businesses
   
5.68   Non-Profit Car Washes
   
5.72   Entertainment in Business Establishments
   
5.76   Commercial Filming
   
5.80   Tobacco Retailer’s License
   
5.82   Sidewalk Vendors
   
5.84   Food Trucks
Chapter 5.04
BUSINESS LICENSES
Sections:
   
5.04.010   Definitions
   
5.04.020   Business License Tax
   
5.04.025   Tax Rates
   
5.04.026   CPI Adjustments
   
5.04.027   Minimum Tax
   
5.04.030   Exemptions
   
5.04.040   License a Receipt
   
5.04.050   Separate License for Each Place of Business
   
5.04.060   When Tax Is Due
   
5.04.070   Application - Initial
   
5.04.080   Business License Tax Renewals
   
5.04.090   Delinquent Taxes (Penalty for Nonpayment of License)
   
5.04.100   Administrative Procedures to Assess or Correct Tax
   
5.04.110   General Administrative Remedy
   
5.04.120   Appeal
   
5.04.130   Posting and Keeping Licenses
   
5.04.140   Constitutional Apportionment
   
5.04.150   Refunds
   
5.04.160   Audits
   
5.04.170   Maintenance and Review of Records
   
5.04.180   Information to be Confidential
   
5.04.190   Action to Collect Delinquent Taxes
   
5.04.200   Rules and Regulations
   
5.04.210   Errors Not Binding on the City
5.04.010   Definitions.
The definitions in this Section apply to the words and phrases used in this
Chapter unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   A.   “Business" means any business, commercial enterprise, trade, calling,
vocation, profession, occupation, or means of livelihood, whether or not
carried on for gain or profit. The term shall include operations of subsidiary
or independent entities conducted for the benefit of others and at no profit to
themselves, nonprofit businesses and trade associations. A person shall not be
deemed to be engaged in business solely by reason of receipt of dividend or
interest income from passive investments.
   B.   "Business Classification" means the category of business subject to tax
under this Chapter. The business classifications are as follows.
      1.   Group 1: General/Retail. These are retailers, wholesalers,
hoteliers, restaurateurs, and manufacturers. Examples include but are not
limited to corporate headquarters, manufacturing, retail, wholesale.
      2.   Group 2: Professional. These businesses offer services that require
a rigorous amount of training through any type of higher education, or
vocational institutions that exclusively certifies, complete obtainment of
skills and the ability to offer such professional services. Examples include
but are not limited to a doctor's office, a law office, a consulting firm, land
developers, brokers, etc.
      3.   Group 3: Rental Properties including Commercial and Residential
Property Rentals. This category includes any business that leases, rents, or
provides use of real property to another individual or entity for compensation.
Examples include commercial leasing, residential rental, parcel leasing, etc.
      4.   Group 4: Services. This is the offering of services that require
minimal to no higher education training. This is also the default category for
any business that is not specifically defined in one (1) of the other five (5)
categories. Examples include but are not limited to health care centers, moving
companies, hair stylists, gardeners, nail salons, etc. Any business that does
not fit within any of the five (5) group classifications shall be deemed to be
covered by the services group.
      5.   Group 5: Contractors. These are persons or firms that are carrying
on the business of a contractor, subcontractor, or builder particularly the
construction or repair of any buildings. Examples include but are not limited
to construction, plumbing, HVAC, etc.
   C.   "Business License" means document issued by the City acknowledging that
a person has declared their business activity in the City and has paid the
business license tax required by this Chapter for the declared business
activity. A business license is valid for one (1) tax year and only for the tax
year for which the business license tax has been paid.
   D.   "Employee" means person engaged in the operation of any business
whether as an agent, manager, solicitor, member of the owner's family, or other
person employed or working in the business.
   E.   "Fixed Place of Business" means the premises occupied in the City for
the purpose of conducting a business and regularly kept open for that purpose
with a person in attendance for the purpose of attending to the business.
   F.   "Gross Receipts" except as otherwise specifically provided, the term
“gross receipts” as used in this Chapter is defined as follows:
      1.   The total amount of the sales price of all sales, the total amount
charged or received for the performance of any act, service, or employment of
whatever nature it may be, whether such service or act of employment is done as
a part of or in connection with the sale of goods, wares, merchandise or not,
for which a charge is made or credit allowed, including, without limitation,
all receipts, cash, credits, forfeited or retained deposits of any kind and
property of any kind or nature, in any amount for which credit is allowed by
the seller to the purchasers without any deductions therefrom on account of the
cost of the property sold, the cost of materials used, labor or service costs,
interest paid or payable, losses or any other expense whatsoever. Where the
gross receipts are less than the cost of maintaining the operations of the
licensee, then the licensee shall be deemed to produce gross receipts in an
amount at least equal to the cost of maintaining such operations. Such cost of
operations includes, but is not limited to, rent, depreciation, salaries,
wages, fixed charges, and other expenses.
      2.   Excluded from gross receipts shall be:
         a.   Cash discounts allowed and taken on sales;
         b.   The value of property accepted as part of the purchase price for
subsequent resale;
         c.   Any California state, city or city and county sales or use tax
required by law to be included in or added to the purchase price and collected
from the consumer or purchaser;
         d.   Any City of Adelanto transient occupancy tax required to be
included in or added to the price of a room and collected from a transient;
         e.   Such part of the sales price of property returned by the
purchaser upon the recission of the contract or sale as is refunded either in
cash or by credit;
         f.   Deposits which by law or contract must be refunded and are
actually refunded;
         g.   Collections for others when the business is acting as an agent or
trustee to the extent that payments are made to those for whom collected;
         h.   The cash value of sales, trades, or transactions between
departments or units of the same business.
   G.   "Licensee" means a person required to obtain a business license under
this Chapter.
   H.   "Person" has the same meaning provided in Chapter 1.2 of this Code.
   I.   "Previous Tax Year" means the tax year for a licensee that immediately
precedes the tax year for which a business license is being obtained. Upon
request by a licensee, the Tax Collector may approve the use of a different
"previous tax year" for a licensee in order to conform to a licensee's fiscal
year or to otherwise simplify the calculation of the amount of business license
tax owed by the licensee.
   J.   "Tax Collector" means the City Finance Director, Director of
Administrative Services or other City staff/officer charged with the
administration of this Chapter.
   K.   "Tax Year" means the year that begins each year on the date of a
licensee's first day of operation as a business in the City. Upon request by a
licensee, the Tax Collector may approve the use of a different "tax year" for a
licensee in order to conform to a licensee's fiscal year or to otherwise
simplify the calculation of the amount of business license tax owed by the
licensee.
[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]
5.04.020   Business License Tax.
It shall be unlawful for any person either for himself or herself or for any
other person, to commence or carry on any business taxed pursuant to this
Chapter in the City of Adelanto, without having procured a business license
from the City.
   A.   A business license is evidence only of the fact that the business
license tax was paid based on the business activity as reported to the City.
   B.   Neither the payment of business license tax nor the possession of a
business license authorizes the doing of any act which the person paying the
business license tax or holding a business license would not otherwise be
entitled to do.
   C.   A business license is not permission to carry on a business at any
place within the City where conducting such business is prohibited or fails to
comply with the City's zoning, planning, building, and business regulations.
   D.   A business license is not permission to conduct a business in such a
manner as to create or maintain a nuisance.
   E.   A business license is only valid for the person to whom it is issued
and is not transferable.
[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]
5.04.025   Tax Rates.
   A.   Businesses subject to the gross receipts tax pursuant to this Chapter
shall pay an annual business license tax to the City consisting of a flat tax,
a tax based on gross receipts or a tax based upon the cost of doing business as
defined in this Chapter, whichever amount is greater.
   B.   Except as may be otherwise provided in this Chapter, every person
described in the following classifications who engages in business within the
City of Adelanto shall pay an annual business tax in an amount computed in
accordance with the following business tax rate schedule. Every business with
annual gross receipts of less than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) shall
pay the sum of twenty-five dollars ($25) ("minimum tax"). For businesses with
annual gross receipts of over twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000), the
business license tax shall be the minimum tax plus the gross receipts tax based
upon adjusted gross receipts over twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000).
      1.   Group 1: General/Retail - Tax Rate. One dollar and twenty-five cents
($1.25) per one thousand dollars ($1,000) gross receipts.
      2.   Group 2: Professional -Tax Rate. Four dollars ($4) per one thousand
dollars ($1,000) gross receipts.
      3.   Group 3: Rental Properties - Tax Rate. Four dollars ($4) per one
thousand dollars ($1,000) gross receipts.
      4.   Group 4: Services - Tax Rate. Three dollars and fifty cents ($3.50)
per one thousand dollars ($1,000) gross receipts.
      5.   Group 5: Contractors - Tax Rate. Three dollars and fifty cents
($3.50) per one thousand dollars ($1,000) gross receipts.
[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]
5.04.026   CPI Adjustments.
The minimum gross receipts threshold and all flat rates for calculating the
business license fee in the City of Adelanto shall be adjusted annually based
on the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for all urban consumers, as published by the
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. The adjusted flat rates will be effective at
the beginning of each fiscal year and will be communicated to all affected
businesses by the License Collector.
[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]
5.04.027   Minimum Tax.
   A.   Every business with annual gross receipts of less than twenty-five
thousand dollars ($25,000) shall pay the sum of twenty-five dollars ($25). For
businesses with annual gross receipts of over twenty-five thousand dollars
($25,000), the business license tax shall be the minimum tax plus the gross
receipts tax based upon adjusted gross receipts over twenty-five thousand
dollars ($25,000).
   B.   By way of illustration, if a business is classified as a general
business and its hypothetical gross receipts were one hundred twenty-five
thousand dollars ($125,000) for the year, it would calculate its tax by first
subtracting twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) in gross receipts, which is
covered by the twenty-five dollar ($25) minimum tax. Then, using the adjusted
gross receipts of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000), it would multiply
those gross receipts by the rate for basic businesses, which is 0.0003 (or 30
cents ($0.30) per thousand dollars ($1,000)) to get the tax of thirty dollars
($30). Adding the minimum tax and this gross receipt tax the total tax owed in
this example would be fifty-five dollars ($55).
[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]
5.04.030   Exemptions.
Any person claiming an exemption pursuant to this Section shall file a sworn
statement with the Collector stating the facts upon which exemption is claimed
and in the absence of such statement substantiating the claim, such person
shall be liable for the payment of the taxes imposed by this Chapter.
Exemptions:
   A.   For the purposes of this Section, City purchases shall be exempt from
the calculation of the required business tax as follows: Whenever the measure
of the business tax is based on gross receipts, the person subject to the
business tax may exclude from the business tax calculation the dollar value of
purchases or services made directly by the City of Adelanto from the person
subject to the tax.
   B.   Any business exempt from the tax by the laws of the United States or
the State of California.
[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]
5.04.040   License a Receipt.
The business tax receipts issued under the authority of Title 5 of this Code
are receipts of payment of the business taxes levied on the privilege of
carrying on or engaging in a business, profession or occupation under the
City's taxing power. The business tax receipts are not regulatory licenses
issued under the City's police power. Provisions of a regulatory nature
contained in Title 5 of this Code are placed in Title 5 as a matter of
convenience only. Although a separate regulatory business tax receipt is not
issued, such provisions are imposed as conditions of an additional regulatory
license imposed under the City's police power to regulate businesses,
occupations, professions, trades, or callings to protect the public health,
morals, safety and welfare.
[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]
5.04.050   Separate License for Each Place of Business.
If a person engages in the same business in two (2) or more places in Adelanto,
each place of business shall be taxed under this Chapter as a separate entity.
If a person engages in two (2) or more different businesses at the same
location, each business shall be taxed as a separate entity; and there shall be
no credit or setoff for taxes paid at one (1) location against taxes due from
another location, nor shall there be credit or setoff for taxes due from
different businesses at the same location.
[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]
5.04.060   When Tax Is Due.
   A.   When a licensee first begins operating a business in the City, the tax
imposed by this Chapter is due thirty (30) days after the first day of business
operation in the City and is delinquent sixty (60) days after the first day of
business operation if not paid.
   B.   After the first tax year of operation and for all subsequent tax years,
the tax is due thirty (30) days after the first day of the tax year and is
delinquent sixty (60) days after the first day of the tax year if not paid.
[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]
5.04.070   Application - Initial.
   A.   Upon a person making an application for the first business tax receipt
for a newly established or acquired business, such person shall furnish to the
Collector a sworn statement, upon a form provided by the Collector; setting
forth the following information:
      1.   The name of the business and the address at which it will be
operating;
      2.   The nature of the business's activities enough for the Tax Collector
to determine the business classification and category of the business;
      3.   The date on which the business will begin operating;
      4.   In all cases where the amount of tax to be paid is measured by gross
receipts, the application shall set forth such information as may be therein
required and as may be necessary to determine the amount of the tax to be paid
by the applicant;
      5.   Any further information which the Collector may require.
   B.   If the amount of the tax to be paid by the applicant is measured by
gross receipts, he or she shall estimate the gross receipts for the period
covered. Such an estimate, if accepted by the Collector as reasonable, shall be
used in determining the amount of tax to be paid by the applicant; provided,
however, the amount of the tax so determined shall be tentative only.
Furthermore:
      1.   Within thirty (30) days after the end of its first tax year of
operation in the City, a business must provide the Tax Collector with a
statement of its actual gross receipts for that year, accompanied by supporting
records.
      2.   If the actual gross receipts exceed the estimated gross receipts
used to calculate and pay the tax for the first year, an additional tax based
on the excess amount will be assessed and due within sixty (60) days of the
beginning of the second tax year.
[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]
5.04.080   Business License Tax Renewals.
   A.   Starting from the second tax year of operation and for every tax year
thereafter, a business must submit its business license renewal application
within thirty (30) days from the beginning of the tax year.
   B.   The business license renewal application must include the following
information, along with any other details required by the Tax Collector:
      1.   The name of the business and the address at which it will be
operating.
      2.   The nature of the business's activities sufficient for the Tax
Collector to determine the business classification and category of the
business.
      3.   The business's gross receipts for the previous tax year.
[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]
5.04.090   Delinquent Taxes (Penalty for Nonpayment of License).
   A.   When a tax becomes delinquent, a penalty of twenty-five percent (25%)
of the amount of the delinquent tax will be added to the amount of tax due. If
the tax remains unpaid sixty (60) days after becoming delinquent, an additional
penalty of twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the delinquent tax
(excluding the initial penalty) will be added to the amount of tax due.
   B.   On the first of each month that a tax is delinquent, interest in the
amount of one and one-half percent (1.5%) of the delinquent amount, excluding
penalties and interest, will be added to the amount of tax due.
   C.   A licensee may apply to the Tax Collector for a reduction or waiver of
any accrued penalties or interest, and the Tax Collector may reduce or waive
any accrued penalties or interest upon a finding of good cause.
[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]
5.04.100   Administrative Procedure to Assess or Correct Tax.
   A.   If the Tax Collector determines that a licensee has incorrectly
reported any information to the City or has not paid all or any of the tax,
penalties, or interest that are due, the Tax Collector may, using any
information available to the Tax Collector, issue an initial determination
stating what the Tax Collector believes to be the correct information and, if
new or additional tax, penalties, or interest are due, how much tax, penalties,
or interest are due. The initial determination must be served on the licensee
either personally or by U.S. mail to the most recent
address for the licensee in the Tax Collector's records.
   B.   A licensee affected by an initial determination may within 15 days of
service of an initial determination contest the initial determination and
request a hearing before the Tax Collector by filing with the Tax Collector a
written request for a hearing. The further accrual of penalties and interest
shall be tolled upon the filing of a request for a hearing. If licensee does
not contest an initial determination and request a hearing with the Tax
Collector within 15 days of service of the initial determination, the initial
determination is final and cannot be appealed.
   C.   If a licensee timely contests an initial determination and requests a
hearing, the Tax Collector must set a hearing within thirty (30) days of the
filing of the request for a hearing or as soon thereafter as reasonably
practical. Notice of the hearing must be served on the licensee either
personally or by U.S. mail to the most recent address for the licensee in the
Tax Collector's records.
   D.   At the hearing the licensee may present evidence and argument regarding
the initial determination to show why the initial determination is incorrect
and to show what the determination of the Tax Collector should be. Within sixty
(60) days after the close of the hearing or as soon thereafter as reasonably
practical, the Tax Collector must serve a final determination, setting forth
the Tax Collector's determination of the facts and issues that were the subject
of the initial determination. The final determination must be served on the
licensee either personally or by U.S. mail to the most recent address for the
licensee in the Tax Collector's records. Unless an appeal of a final
determination is filed under Section
5.04.120, any penalties or interest tolled under Subsection B. of this Section
will resume accruing ten (10) days after the service of the final
determination.
[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]
5.04.110   General Administrative Remedy.
   A.   Any person affected by a decision of the Tax Collector ("the
challenger"), except for a decision under Section 5.04.100, may challenge that
decision by filing a written objection to the decision with the Tax Collector.
The objection must be filed within fifteen (15) days of the issuance of the
decision being challenged. If the Tax Collector was required to provide notice
of the decision, then the time to file an objection to the decision begins to
run from the date of service of the notice of the decision. The Tax Collector
must serve a written response to the objection within thirty (30) days of the
filing of the objection, which period can be extended by the Tax Collector for
an additional thirty (30) days. The Tax Collector's response to the objection
must be served on the challenger either personally or by U.S. mail to the most
recent address for the challenger in the Tax Collector's records.
   B.   The challenger may request a hearing on the Tax Collector's response to
the objection by filing a request for a hearing with the Tax Collector within
fifteen (15) days of service of the response to the objection. If a timely
request for a hearing on a response to the objection is filed with the Tax
Collector, the Tax Collector must set a hearing within thirty (30) days of the
filing of the request for a hearing or as soon as reasonably practical
thereafter. Notice of the hearing must be served on the challenger either
personally or by U.S. mail to the most recent address for the challenger in the
Tax Collector's records.
   C.   At the hearing the challenger may present evidence and argument
regarding the decision being challenged to show why the decision is incorrect
and to show what it should be. Within sixty (60) days after the close of the
hearing, which the Tax Collector may extend for an additional sixty (60) days,
the Tax Collector must serve a final determination on the decision, setting
forth the Tax Collector's determination of the decision that was challenged.
The final determination must be served on the challenger either personally or
by U.S. mail to the most recent address for the challenger in the Tax
Collector's records. Service is effective upon deposit of the final
determination in the U.S. mail.
[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]
5.04.120   Appeal.
   A.   A final determination of the Tax Collector under Section
5.04.100D. or C., can be appealed to the City Manager by filing a written
notice of appeal with the City Manager within fifteen (15) days of service of
the notice of the final determination being appealed.
   B.   Only a licensee who files a timely request for a hearing on an initial
determination under Section
5.04.100 and participates in the hearing or a challenger who files an objection
to a decision and files a request for a hearing on the response to the
objection under Section
5.04.100 and participates in the hearing can file an appeal under this Section.
   C.   If a timely appeal is filed, the City Manager, must set a hearing
within sixty (60) days of the filing of the appeal, which may be extended by
the City Manager for an additional sixty (60) days. Notice of the hearing must
be served on the appellant either personally or by U.S. mail to the most recent
address for the challenger in the Tax Collector's records. The tolling of the
accrual of penalties or interest under Section
5.04.100 B., shall continue upon the timely filing of an appeal under this
Section.
   D.   At the hearing the appellant and the Tax Collector may present evidence
and argument regarding the decision being appealed to show why the decision is
correct or incorrect and to show what it should be. Within sixty (60) days
after the close of the hearing, which the City Manager may extend for an
additional sixty (60) days, the City Manager must serve a written decision,
setting forth the resolution of the appeal. The decision must be served on the
appellant either personally or by U.S. mail to the most recent address for the
appellant in the Tax Collector's records. Service is effective upon deposit of
the decision in the U.S. mail. Any penalties and interest that were tolled
under Section
5.04.100B., shall resume accruing ten (10) days after the service of the
decision.
   E.   A decision of the City Manager, or the City Manager's designee, served
under Subsection D. of this Section is subject to judicial review under Code of
Civil Procedure Sections 1094.5 and 1094.6 (or subsequent laws if amended) with
a writ petition filed in the appropriate court within the ninety (90) days of
the service of the written decision. Any tax, penalties, or interest determined
by the decision to be owed to the City by the appellant must be paid to the
City as a precondition to filing a writ petition challenging the decision, but
a claim for a refund under Section
5.04.150 does not have to be filed before filing a writ petition.
[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]
5.04.130   Posting and Keeping Licenses.
Any licensee transacting and carrying on business at a fixed place of business
in the City shall keep the license posted in a conspicuous place upon the
premises where such business is carried on, whether or not said place of
business is the City of Adelanto.
[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]
5.04.140   Constitutional Apportionment.
   A.   No tax imposed by this Chapter may be applied to a licensee so as to
constitute an undue burden on interstate commerce or intercity commerce or be
violative of the equal protection or due process clauses of the United States
or California constitutions.
   B.   A licensee who contends that the application of a tax imposed by this
Chapter on the licensee constitutes an undue burden on interstate commerce or
intercity commerce or violates the equal protection or due process clauses of
the United States or California constitutions may apply to the Tax Collector
for an apportionment of the tax imposed on the licensee that would remove the
constitutional violation by filing a written request with the Tax Collector
that explains the factual and legal basis for the claimed constitutional
violation and proposes a method of apportionment that would resolve the alleged
constitutional violations.
   C.   The Tax Collector, in consultation with City Attorney, shall review the
application and within sixty (60) days of the filing of the application issue a
decision on the application. The decision on the application must be served on
the licensee either personally or by U.S. mail to the most recent address for
the challenger in the Tax Collector's records. The decision can be challenged
under Section
5.04.110.
[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]
5.04.150   Refunds.
   A.   A licensee who believes that any tax, penalty, or interest has been
illegally, erroneously, or mistakenly paid to, collected by, or otherwise
received by the City may file a claim for a refund of the amount of tax,
penalty, or interest claimed to have been improperly received by the City.
   B.   The claim must be filed with the Tax Collector and signed under penalty
of perjury by the licensee. The claim must state:
      1.   The legal and factual basis for the refund claim;
      2.   The amount of tax, penalty, or interest allegedly improperly
received by the City;
      3.   The date or dates that the improper payments were made to the City;
and
      4.   The address of the claimant.
   C.   The claim must be filed with the Tax Collector within one (1) year of
the date of the allegedly improper payment to the City.
   D.   The Tax Collector must provide a written decision on the claim within
thirty (30) days of the filing of the claim by serving the decision on the
claimant either personally or by U.S. mail to the address provided in the
claim. Service is effective upon deposit of the response in the U.S. mail.
   E.   A claimant may challenge the Tax Collector's decision on a refund claim
under Section
5.04.100.
   F.   This Section does not apply to:
      1.   A claim for a refund arising out of a decision of the Tax Collector
or City Manager under Sections
5.04.100,
5.04.110,
5.04.120 or
5.04.140.
      2.   A claim that could have been asserted by the claimant, but was not,
under Sections
5.04.100,
5.04.110,
5.04.120 or
5.04.140.
[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]
5.04.160   Audits.
   A.   The Tax Collector may conduct an audit of any licensee to ensure proper
compliance with the requirements of this Chapter.
   B.   To initiate an audit the Tax Collector must provide written notice to
the licensee that is the subject of the audit of the initiation of the audit by
serving the notice personally or by U.S. mail to the most recent address for
the licensee in the Tax Collector's records. The notice must state the period
of time subject to the audit.
   C.   Notice of the initiation of an audit for a tax year for which an
application for a business license under Sections
5.04.140 or
5.04.020 was filed by the licensee must be served within three (3) years of the
last day of the tax year to which the application applied.
   D.   Notice of the initiation of an audit for a tax year for which an
application for a business license was not filed by the licensee under Sections
5.04.160 or
5.04.020, but for which the licensee did register as a business under another
Chapter of this Code, must be served within five (5) years of the last day of
the tax year for which the application should have been filed.
   E.   Notice of the initiation of an audit for a tax year for which an
application for a business license was not filed by the licensee under Sections
5.04.140 or
5.04.020, and for which the licensee did not register as a business under
another Chapter of this Code, must be served within ten (10) years of the last
day of the tax year for which the application should have been filed.
   F.   Upon completion of an audit, the Tax Collector may make an initial
determination under Section
5.04.100A. of any taxes, penalties, and interest determined to be owed and not
paid for the audit period. If a licensee subject to audit is unable or
unwilling to provide sufficient records to enable the Tax Collector to verify
compliance with this Chapter, the Tax Collector is authorized to make a
reasonable estimate of the amount of tax due and the reasonable estimate shall
be entitled to a rebuttable presumption of correctness.
[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]
5.04.170   Maintenance and Review of Records.
   A.   Licensees must maintain for six (6) years records of gross receipts and
other information necessary to calculate the tax. If the Tax Collector serves
notice of the initiation of an audit, the information pertinent for the years
subject to the audit must be maintained until the conclusion of the audit.
   B.   The Tax Collector may with reasonable notice inspect the records of the
licensee.
   C.   The Tax Collector may request the City Council to issue an
administrative subpoena for records of a licensee or other persons with
relevant information.
[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]
5.04.180   Information to be Confidential.
It is unlawful for the Tax Collector or any person having an administrative
duty under the provisions of this Chapter to make known in any manner whatever
the business affairs, operations, or information obtained by an investigation
of records and equipment of any person visited or examined in the discharge of
official duty, or the amount or source of income, profits, losses,
expenditures, or any particular thereof, set forth in any statement or
application, or to permit any statement or application, or copy of either, or
any book containing any abstract or particulars thereof to be seen or examined
by any person; provided, that nothing in this Section shall be construed to
prevent:
   A.   The disclosure to, or the examination of records and equipment by,
another City official, employee, or agent for collection of taxes for the sole
purpose of administering or enforcing any provisions of this Chapter, or
collecting taxes imposed under this Chapter;
   B.   The disclosure of information to, or the examination of records by,
Federal or State officials, or the tax officials of another city or county, or
city and county, if a reciprocal arrangement exists, or to a grand jury or
court of law, upon subpoena;
   C.   The disclosure of information and results of examination of records of
particular taxpayers, or relating to particular taxpayers, to a court of law in
a proceeding brought to determine the existence or amount of any license tax
liability of the particular taxpayers to the City;
   D.   The disclosure, after the filing of a written request to that effect,
to the taxpayer himself or herself, or to his or her successors, receivers,
trustees, executors, administrators, assignees and guarantors, if directly
interested, of information as to the items included in the measure of any paid
tax, any unpaid tax or amounts of tax required to be collected, interest and
penalties; further provided, however, that the City Attorney approves each such
disclosure and that the Collector may refuse to make any disclosure referred to
in this Subsection when in his or her opinion the public interest would suffer
thereby;
   E.   The disclosure of the names and addresses of persons to whom licenses
have been issued, and the general type or nature of their business;
   F.   The disclosure by way of public meeting or otherwise of such
information as may be necessary to the City Council in order to permit it to be
fully advised as to the facts when a taxpayer files a claim for refund of
license taxes, or submits an offer of compromise with regard to a claim
asserted against him or her by the City for license taxes, or when acting upon
any other matter;
   G.   The disclosure of general statistics regarding taxes collected or
business done in the City.
[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]
5.04.190   Action to Collect Delinquent Taxes.
   A.   Any tax, penalty, and interest imposed on a licensee under this Chapter
is a debt owed by the licensee to the City, which may be recovered in an action
filed by the City in a court of competent jurisdiction.
   B.   An action under this Section must be filed within three (3) years of an
initial determination becoming final under Section
5.04.100B., the issuance of a final determination under Section
5.04.100D. that is not appealed, the issuance of a final determination under
Section
5.04.110C. that is not appealed, or the issuance of a decision under Section
5.04.120D.
   C.   During the pendency of an action filed under this Section, interest
will continue to accrue under Section
5.04.190B. until the entry of judgment.
   D.   The City Council may by resolution establish a collection fee to be
imposed on any licensee against whom an action is filed under this Section,
which fee may be recovered in the action.
[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]
5.04.200   Rules and Regulations.
The Finance Director of the City may make such rules and regulations as are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Chapter of the Adelanto Municipal Code
as are necessary or desirable to aid in the enforcement and administration of
the provisions of said Chapter. When, by reason of the provisions of the
Constitution of the United States or the Constitution of the State of
California, the business tax imposed by this Chapter cannot be enforced without
there being an apportionment according to the amount of business done within
the City, or in the State, as the case may be, the Finance Director may make
such rules and regulations for the apportionment of the taxes as are necessary
or desirable to overcome the constitutional objections. Such rules,
regulations, and apportionment thereunder shall be approved by the City
Attorney prior to becoming effective.
[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]
5.04.210   Errors Not Binding on the City.
No error by the Tax Collector or any other officer, employee, or agent of the
City in the application of this Chapter shall prevent, prejudice, or stop the
collection by or for the City of the full amount of tax owed by any person
under this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 653, Section 3, 12/11/24.]
Chapter 5.08
GARAGE AND YARD SALES
Sections:
   
5.08.010   Definition
   
5.08.020   Permit Required - Issuance Conditions
   
5.08.030   Permit - Duration
   
5.08.040   Permit - Application - Fee
   
5.08.050   Inspection
   
5.08.060   Misdemeanor
5.08.010 Definition.
“Yard Sale” or “Garage Sale,” for the purposes of this Chapter should mean any
event, which is advertised by any means whatsoever as a place or location to
which members of the public may come and purchase identifiable or tangible
personal property; provided, however, it shall not mean any such event which
constitutes a sales activity, wholesale or retail, by any business, which has a
current business license issued by the City.
[Ord. No. 57, adopted 8/25/72; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.08.020   Permit Required - Issuance Conditions.
It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership, joint venture,
association or any other form of organization to organize, conduct, establish
or operate a yard sale or garage sale in the City without first obtaining a
permit to do so from the Collector or his authorized representative. [Ord. No.
57, adopted 8/25/72.]
The Collector or his authorized representative shall issue a yard sale or
garage sale permit to an applicant if he finds all of the following conditions
exist:
   A.   The operation or conduct of the requested event will not be contrary to
the public peace, health, safety and welfare of the City; and
   B.   Applicant has submitted satisfactory evidence that adequate and safe
parking accommodations will be provided; and
   C.   The location at which the proposed yard sale or garage sale is to be
held is not at a location at which a yard sale or garage sale has been
conducted within six (6) months immediately preceding the date of filing the
pending application; and
   D.   The Applicant has paid the application fee as provided herein below.
[Ord. No. 57, adopted 8/25/72; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.08.030   Permit - Duration.
   A.   Any permit issued hereunder shall be for a period not exceeding five
(5) consecutive calendar days from the date of issuance. A permittee granted a
permit hereunder shall not conduct a yard sale or garage sale for a period of
time in excess of three consecutive calendar days. All advertising carried on
in conjunction with the sale shall be removed after completion of the sale.
[Ord. No. 57, adopted 8/25/72.]
   B.   The maximum number of yard sales or garage sales permitted under this
Section for any multi-family residence is one per calendar year per occupied
unit. The tenant of a multi-family residence shall receive written permission
from the owner of the property prior to obtaining the yard sale or garage sale
permit and shall submit this written authorization at the time application is
made for the permit. Only the occupant of the multi-family residential unit
shall be permitted to apply for and obtain a yard sale or garage sale permit.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.08.040   Permit - Application - Fee.
Application for a yard sale or garage sale permit shall be made to the City
Clerk on forms provided by him and shall be accompanied by a fee of one dollar
($1.00), said fee to be used to defray the City’s expenses in processing said
application. Permits shall be displayed at the site of the sale.
[Ord. No. 57, adopted 8/25/72; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.08.050   Inspection.
All identifiable and tangible personal property, which is exhibited for sale at
a yard sale or garage sale, shall be made accessible by the permittee to law
enforcement officials at all times for their review and inspection; and during
any such sale the location thereof shall be open by permittee to all fire
prevention and health officers of the City for the purpose of their inspection
to determine that said sale complies with the City's and State of California's
fire prevention and health regulations.
[Ord. No. 57, adopted 8/25/72; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.08.060   Misdemeanor.
Any person or organization, which shall violate any provision of this Title
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, which shall be punishable by a fine of
not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), or by imprisonment for a period
not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
[Ord. No. 57, adopted 8/25/72 ; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 5.12
PEDDLING, SOLICITING AND HAWKING
Sections:
   
5.12.010   License Application Requirements
   
5.12.020   License Limitations
   
5.12.030   Hours of Operation
   
5.12.040   Hawking Prohibited
   
5.12.050   Exceptions
   
5.12.060   Mobile Food Vending Vehicle Operations
5.12.010   License Application Requirements.
In addition to the application requirements specified in Section
5.04.070, the following information shall be required:
   A.   The supplier of the goods to be sold;
   B.   The place and date of any court judgment rendered against the applicant
as a sex offender or as a defendant guilty of a criminal battery, fraud,
burglary or theft;
   C.   A copy of the state sales tax permit (Revenue and Taxation Code Section
6066) for the applicant’s activities attached to the application;
   D.   A description of every type of merchandise or service that the
applicant proposes to peddle or solicit;
   E.   A designation of the location or locations at which place or places the
applicant proposes to peddle or solicit and the dates and time of the same;
   F.   A copy of the permit for any food products which are regulated.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.12.020   License Limitations.
Upon filing a complete application and all required documentation and payment
of the required fee, the City shall transmit one (1) copy to the Police
Department. The Chief of Police or designee shall, within thirty (30) business
days of the referral report to the Collector, in writing, recommend approval or
denial of the license and state the reasons therefore. The license shall not be
issued unless all of the following conditions have been met:
   A.   The applicant has submitted a correct and complete application form;
   B.   The applicant has paid all required fees;
   C.   The supplier of the personal property to be sold has .been sufficiently
identified as required by this Chapter and there is no reasonable doubt as to
the title or ownership of the personal property;
   D.   The applicant has not had a judgment rendered against him as a violator
of California law as a sex offender, as a person who has committed a criminal
battery, burglary or theft, or as a person who has committed a fraud;
   E.   The time and place of the proposed licensed activities is in accordance
with the regulations set forth in this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.12.030   Hours of Operation.
A license issued under this Chapter shall authorize the licensee to peddle or
solicit during the dates specified on the license and only during daylight
hours.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.12.040   Hawking Prohibited.
Hawking, as defined in this Title, is prohibited within the city limits of the
City.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.12.050   Exceptions.
The following persons must apply for and be given a license pursuant to this
Chapter and shall be subject to the exemption specified below:
   A.   Veterans Exemption. Any person who was honorably discharged or
honorably relieved from the armed services of the United States shall not be
required to pay a license fee under this Chapter unless the merchandise
includes spirituous, malt, vinous or other intoxicating liquor.
   B.   Religious, Educational Scientific or Charitable Organizations.
Organizations qualifying under this Chapter shall not be required to pay a
license fee.
   C.   Physically Disabled and Blind Persons. Any person who is either:
      1.   Physically disabled, or is
      2.   Certified by a physician to be blind,
shall not be required to pay a license fee.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.12.060   Mobile Food Vending Vehicle Operations.
Special requirements for mobile food vending vehicle operations shall apply as
follows:
   A.   Equipment Requirements for Mobile Food Vending Operations. In addition
to other equipment required by law, every mobile food vending vehicle shall be
equipped with:
      1.   Signal lamps mounted at the same level and as high and as widely
space laterally as practicable. These lamps shall be five (5) to seven (7)
inches in diameter and shall display two (2) alternately flashing amber lights
visible at five hundred (500) feet to the front and rear in normal sunlight
upon a straight level street. The light output of each indicator shall not be
less than five (5) candle power nor more than fifteen (15) candle power at any
time;
      2.   A convex mirror mounted on the front so the driver in his normal
seating position can see the area in front of the truck obscured by the hood;
      3.   An audible warning device to indicate vehicle backing automatically
activated and audible at a distance of one hundred (100) feet to the direct
rear of the vehicle.
   B.   Use of Special Lights on Mobile Food Vending Vehicles.
      1.   The driver of a mobile food vending vehicle stopped on the street
for the purpose of vending shall actuate the special amber flashing lights
required by Subsection A.1. of this Section;
      2.   These lights shall not be used when the truck is in motion nor at
any time the truck is stopped for a purpose other than vending.
   C.   Inspection Required. Every mobile food vending vehicle shall be
inspected by the Chief of Police or designee once each year prior to its use in
this City for the purpose of retail sales of frozen dairy products. The
department shall inspect each mobile food vending vehicle to determine whether
it complies with this Chapter and other state and local laws. Notice from the
captain or designee shall be made to the business license officer prior to
issuance of a City business license.
   D.   Vending Restrictions.
      1.   A person shall not vend within five hundred (500) feet of any
property used as a grade school, junior high school or middle school, either
public or private, from one (1) hour before the regular school day to one (1)
hour after the regular school day; provided, this Subsection shall not apply on
days when school is not attended by children or on school property when vending
has been approved in writing by the principal.
      2.   A personal shall vend only when the vehicle is lawfully parked or
stopped.
      3.   A person shall vend only from the side of the vehicle away from
moving traffic and as near as possible to the curb or edge of the right-of-way.
      4.   A person shall not vend to a person standing in the roadway.
      5.   A person shall not stop on the left side of a one-way street to
vend.
      6.   A person shall not vend on a street unless there is a clear view of
the mobile food vending vehicle for a distance of at least two hundred (200)
feet in each direction.
      7.   A person shall not vend except during the period between thirty (30)
minutes before sunrise and thirty (30) minutes after sunset.
      8.   A person shall not vend within five hundred (500) feet of any
property used as a public or private park or playground.
   E.   Backing Restricted. The vendor shall not back up the vehicle on a
public street to make or attempt a sale.
   F.   Unauthorized Riders Prohibited.
      1.   The driver shall not permit any unauthorized person to ride in or on
the vehicle.
      2.   A person shall not ride in or on a mobile food vending machine
unless employed by its owner or unless authorized in writing to do so by the
owner or Police Department.
   G.   Exemption Authorized.
      1.   The Collector, with the concurrence of the Chief of Police or
designee, may exempt from the requirements of this Chapter any mobile food
vendor which is not used to vend to persons under twelve (12) years of age.
      2.   The special equipment, inspection and vending restrictions do not
apply to vendors which do not vend to persons under twelve (12) years of age.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 5.16
CARD CLUBS
Sections:
   
5.16.010   Definitions
   
5.16.020   Licenses - Required
   
5.16.030   Licenses - Applications
   
5.16.040   Reserved
   
5.16.050   License Fees and Deposits
   
5.16.060   Approval of Pointholder Fee
   
5.16.070   Gross Revenue License Fees
   
5.16.080   Investigations and Reports
   
5.16.090   City Council Consideration of Application
   
5.16.100   Denial of Application
   
5.16.110   Location of Card Club
   
5.16.120   Expiration of Licenses; Renewal
   
5.16.130   Reserved
   
5.16.140   Transfer and Assignment of Licenses
   
5.16.150   Suspension and Revocation of Licenses, Fines
   
5.16.160   Rules and Regulations
   
5.16.170   Seat Rental and Other Playing Fees
   
5.16.180   Application for Employment Identification Card
   
5.16.190   Pointholders - Applications for Sale or Transfer of Points
   
5.16.200   Pointholders - Updating of Investigations - Divestments
   
5.16.210   Unlawful Act
   
5.16.220   Exclusion of Persons from Card Clubs
   
5.16.230   Administration of Chapter by City Manager
   
5.16.240   Violations
5.16.010 Definitions.
For the purpose of this Chapter, the words and phrases set forth in this
Section shall have the following meanings ascribed to them unless the context
clearly requires to the contrary:
   A.   “Applicant” means any person who has filed an application seeking to be
approved by the City as having an ownership interest in a licensed Card Club or
a person seeking approval of Pointholder status. [Ord, No. 249, § 010, adopted
9/22/92.]
   B.   “Card Club” (also referred to as a “Gaming Club”) means a business or
enterprise licensed under the provisions of this Chapter for the Playing of
Games or Card Games, as defined in Subsections L. and T. of this Section, and
shall include any Licensee’s business activities incidental thereto that are
conducted on the premises, such as, but not limited to, food, beverage, retail
sales or valet services. “Card Club” shall exclude business activities operated
by unaffiliated third-party entities. [Ord. No. 249, § 010, adopted 9/22/92;
amended by Ord. No. 301, § A, adopted 9/26/95; amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2,
adopted 12/13/23.]
   C.   “Card Room” means and includes that area or areas within the Card Club
in which Card Games are conducted. Any license issued hereunder shall designate
such Card Room areas. [Ord. No. 249, § 010, adopted 9/22/92.]
   D.   “Commence” means and includes commence, begin, initiate, start, open
and establish. [Ord. No. 249, § 010, adopted 9/22/92.]
   E.   “Conduct” means and includes conduct, transact, maintain, prosecute,
practice, manage, operate and carry on. [Ord. No. 249, § 010, adopted 9/22/92.]
   F.   “Conviction” or “Convicted” means a plea of guilty, a final verdict of
guilty, or a conviction following a plea of nolo contendere. [Ord. No. 249, §
010, adopted 9/22/92.]
   G.   “Employee” means every person who is an agent of a Card Club Licensee
or who acts under the direction of an owner or other employee of a Card Club
Licensee or of a business conducted on the premises of a Card Club. [Ord. No.
249, § 010, adopted 9/22/92.]
   H.   “Filing and Processing Fees” means the imposition, by the provisions of
this Chapter, or a subsequent City Council resolution or ordinance, of fees or
deposits to be used for the purpose of reimbursing the City for its costs of
administering the provisions of this Chapter. [Ord. No. 249, § 010, adopted 9/
22/92.]
   I.   "Funded Player" shall mean any proposition player who plays controlled
Games at a licensed Card Club with financing provided by a Funding Source.
[Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
   J.   "Funding Source" shall mean the person(s) who provide(s) the financing,
including, but not limited to, loans, credit, currency, negotiable instrument,
chips or any other representation or thing of value to a Funded Player for use
in the playing of a controlled Game at a Card Club. [Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted
12/13/23.]
   K.   "Funding Source Key Management" shall mean every person with the actual
or ostensible authority to manage, supervise, instruct, direct or control the
Funding Source in the provision of financing, including, but not limited to,
loans, credit, currency, negotiable instruments, chips or any other
representation or thing of value to a Funded Player for use in the playing of a
controlled Game at a Card Club. [Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
   L.   “Games” means any Game permitted to be played at a Card Club pursuant
to the California Penal Code or other provisions of State law, as they now
exist or as they are amended, or this Chapter. [Amended by Ord. No. 301, § B,
adopted 9/26/95; amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
   M.   “Gross Revenue of the Card Game Business” means and includes seat
rental fees and any and all other table revenues directly derived from Card
Games conducted on or within the Card Room, less any direct promotional
expenses, and shall not include fees charged to players that are returned to
the players as tournament or jackpot bonuses. As used herein, "Direct
Promotions Expenses" include, but are not limited to, gambling chips provided
by casinos to customers that have no cash value and cannot be redeemed for cash
at any time, and player points that are used to incentivize customers to
increase gaming play. “Gross Revenue of the Card Game Business” does not
include revenue derived from the sale of food, beverages, sundries or from any
other non-gaming activities. [Ord. No. 249, § 010, adopted 9/22/92; amended by
Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
   N.   "Key Management Employee" shall mean every person with the actual or
ostensible authority (1) to direct gaming operations; or (2) to direct
supervisory and general employees of a Card Club engaged in its gaming
operations; and (3) to direct the counting of, or accounting for, revenue
generated by the club. The term "Key Management Employee" includes, without
limitation, those persons who fill such positions as shall be designated by the
City Manager as key employees. [Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
   O.   “License” means License issued pursuant to this Chapter allowing the
operation of a Card Club. [Ord. No. 249, § 010, adopted 9/22/92.]
   P.   “Licensee” means the holder of a License. [Ord. No. 249, § 010, adopted
9/22/92.]
   Q.   “License Fees” means business License taxes levied upon each Licensee
pursuant to this Chapter. [Ord. No. 249, § 010, adopted 9/22/92.]
   R.   “Owner” means every person, firm, association, partnership,
corporation, or other entity having any interest, legal or equitable, in any
Card Club or Card Club License. [Ord. No. 249, § 010, adopted.]
   S.   “Person” means and includes a natural person or any other legal entity.
[Ord. No. 249, § 010, adopted 9/22/92.]
   T.   “Playing Cards” or “Card Games” means the Playing of a Game or Card
Game permitted to be played at a Card Club pursuant to the California Penal
Code or other provisions of State law, as they now exist or as they are
amended, or this Chapter. [Amended by Ord. No. 301, § C, adopted 9/26/95;
amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
      1.   “Playing Cards” or “Card Games” also means the playing of any
additional kind of Game or gaming device or machine at a Card Club, whether or
not such Game or gaming device or machine involves the use of cards which are
not prohibited and made unlawful by the California Penal Code or other
provisions of State law, as they now exist or as they are amended, or this
Chapter. [Amended by Ord. No. 301, § D, adopted 9/26/95; amended by Ord. No.
646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
   U.   “Pointholder” means any person having any interest whatsoever, or at
all, in the ownership of a Card Club, whether legal, equitable, or of
whatsoever kind or character, including, but not limited to, trust
beneficiaries, or stockholders of a corporation to whom a License is issued.
[Ord. No. 249, § 010, adopted 9/22/92.]
   V.   “Purpose to Commence” or “Purport to Conduct” means and includes any
showing, representation, indication or action which:
      1.   By means of sign, advertisement or advertising matter, whether in,
upon or about any premises or otherwise; or
      2.   By the appearance or arrangement of any premises; or
      3.   By acts or statements of any person, or by the agents, servants, or
employees of any person, indicates, suggests, holds out or represents that any
person is, would be, or appears to be conducting or in a position to conduct
any business referred to in this Chapter within the City.
[Ord. No. 249, § 010, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.16.020   Licenses - Required.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to commence or conduct, or purport
to commence or conduct, within the City, any business, activity, enterprise,
undertaking, or place, where tables or other items or units of furniture are
used directly or indirectly for Playing Cards or Card Games for which a fee,
commission, or compensation is directly or indirectly charged, accepted, or
received from players who participate in any such Playing of Games, unless such
person shall first obtained a License to do so under and in compliance with the
provisions of this Chapter. [Ord. No. 249, § 020, adopted 9/22/92.]
   B.   No application form for a License for a Card Club shall be received,
filed or processed by the City Manager when the total number of current and
valid license for Card Clubs in the City equals the total permitted.
[Ord. No. 249, § 020, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07; amended
by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
5.16.030   Licenses - Applications.
It is the declared policy of the City Council that Pointholders, Key Management
Employees, Funded Players, Funded Sources and Funded Sources Key Management
apply for and be issued licenses by the City after a personal background
investigation is completed, and that such persons be supervised so as to better
protect the public health, safety, morals, good order and public welfare.
Except as provided hereinbelow with respect to a Card Club License, no
Applicant, person or Licensee shall acquire a vested right in any License
issued, registration issued, finding of suitability, or approval granted by the
City Council at any stage in the proceedings. [Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/
13/23.]
Any person desiring or proposing to commence or conduct any business, activity,
enterprise, undertaking, or place named, designated, specified or referred to
in this Chapter for the Playing of Cards or Card Games shall file with the City
Manager a written application for a License to do so as required by the
provisions of this Chapter. Concurrently with the filing of the application,
each person identified therein shall be fingerprinted by the City Manager or
his/her designee, and no application shall be deemed filed until the
fingerprinting is completed. Each such application shall contain and clearly
and truthfully, under oath or affirmation, set forth and show, in addition to
such other information as the City Manager shall require, the following
information:
   A.   The date of the application; [Ord. No. 249, § 030, adopted 9/22/92.]
   B.   The true name of the Applicant, and any other names by which the
Applicant is or has been known; [Ord. No. 249, § 030, adopted 9/22/92.]
   C.   The status of the Applicant as being an individual, firm, association,
partnership, joint venture or corporation; [Ord. No. 249, § 030, adopted 9/22/
92.]
   D.   If the Applicant is an individual, the residence and business address
of such Applicant; [Ord. No. 249, § 030, adopted 9/22/92.]
   E.   If the Applicant is other than a individual, the true name, residence
and business address of each Pointholder, partner, principal, joint venturer,
shareholder, director, or officer of the Applicant; and any other names by
which said Pointholders, partners, principals, joint venturers, shareholders,
directors, or officers have been or are known; [Ord. No. 249, § 030, adopted 9/
22/92.]
   F.   A full and complete financial statement of the Applicant, whether it is
an individual, corporation, partnership, or other entity, and a full and
complete financial statement of each Pointholder, partner and officer of the
Applicant; provided, the financial statements required by this Subsection shall
be deemed confidential in character and shall not be open to public inspection,
but shall be available to those city officials having jurisdiction over the
provisions of this Chapter, and to the Bureau of Gambling Control and the
California Gambling Control Commission; [Ord. No. 249, § 030, adopted 9/22/92;
amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
   G.   The type and nature of the Card Games proposed to be played, and a
statement by the Applicant that said Games are not prohibited or made unlawful
by the Penal Code or other provisions of State law, as they now exist or as
they are amended in the future, or this Chapter; [Amended by Ord. No. 301, § E,
adopted 9/26/95; amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
   H.   The number of tables or other units to be placed, employed or used;
[Ord. No. 249, § 030, adopted 9/22/92.]
   I.   A description of any other business conducted or proposed to be
conducted at the same location; [Ord. No. 249, § 030, adopted 9/22/92.]
   J.   A statement that the Applicant understands that the application shall
be considered by the City Council only after a full investigation and report
have been made by the City Manager; [Ord. No. 249, § 030, adopted 9/22/92.]
   K.   A statement that the Applicant understands and agrees that any business
or activity conducted or operated under any License issued under such
application shall be operated in full conformity with all the laws of the state
and the laws and regulations of the City applicable thereto, and that any
violation of any such laws or regulations in such place of business, or in
connection therewith, shall render any License therefor subject to disciplinary
action, including, but not limited to, fines, suspension or revocation; [Ord.
No. 249, § 030, adopted 9/22/92; amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/
23.]
   L.   A statement that Applicant, and each Pointholder thereof, has applied
for, or obtained a Gambling Establishment and Owner License from the California
Gambling Control Commission, with proof thereof; [Ord. No. 249, § 030, adopted
9/22/92; amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
   M.   A statement that the Applicant has read the provisions of this Chapter,
and particularly the provisions of this Section, and understands the same.
[Ord. No. 249, § 030, adopted 9/22/92.]
5.16.040   Reserved.
5.16.050   License Fees and Deposits.
No application for a License shall be accepted or processed unless accompanied
by a filing and processing fee of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), which
shall not be refundable to Applicant. In the event Applicant successfully
obtains a License in accordance with the terms and provisions of this Chapter,
Applicant may apply and receive credit for said ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) of said filing and processing fee toward the payment of the gross
revenue license fees payable pursuant to the provisions of Section
5.16.070, less administrative costs, environmental costs and all other like
costs expended by the City in conjunction with the processing and investigation
of the application.
[Ord. No. 249, § 050, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07; amended
by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
5.16.060   Approval of the Pointholder Fee.
No application for approval of Pointholder status shall be accepted or
processed unless accompanied by a filing and processing fee of three thousand
dollars ($3,000.00) for each Pointholder making application for approval. No
part of said three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) shall be refundable to
Applicant.
[Ord. No. 249, § 060, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.16.070   Gross Revenue License Fees.
   The Applicant shall pay the following fees to the City.
   A.   A quarterly license fee of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), plus four
hundred dollars ($400.00) for each gaming table in excess of fourteen (14),
said license fee to be paid in advance for each calendar quarter no later than
the fifteenth (15th) day of the first month of that quarter. [Ord. No. 646, §
2, adopted 12/13/23.]
   B.   In addition to the fees in Subsection (A) of this Section, a minimum
quarterly permit fee of six thousand dollars ($6,000.00), said fee to be paid
by the fifteenth (15th) day of the month following the end of the calendar
quarter. The quarterly permit fee will be one percent (1%) of gross revenue,
not to exceed the amount listed on the quarterly permit fee schedule. [Ord. No.
646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
   C.   Permit Fee Schedule per Quarter, effective December 1, 2022.
 
Quarterly Gross Revenue Permit Fee
$2,000,000 - $3,000,000 $6,000 + 3.0% of excess over $2,000,000
$3,000,000 - $4,000,000 $36,000 + 3.5% of excess over $3,000,000
$4,000,000 - $5,000,000 $71,000 + 4.0% of excess over $4,000,000
$5,000,000 and over     $111,000 + 5.0% of excess over $5,000,000
 
[Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
   D.   Statement of Revenue. Each Licensee shall file with the City before the
fifteenth (15th) day of each calendar quarter, a statement under oath, showing
the true and correct amount of gross revenue derived from the Card Game
business licensed by the Licensees issued to or held by such Licensee for the
preceding calendar quarter. Such statement shall be accompanied by the payment
of the correct amount of Permit Fee due and owing in accordance with the
provisions of Subsections B. and C. of this Section, and such sums correctly
reflecting the quarterly fees payable for the preceding quarter shall be
accepted by the City, subject, however, to the right of the City to audit the
matters referred to in the statement, to determine the correctness of the
figures as set forth in such statement, and the amount payable to City pursuant
to the provisions of Subsections B. and C. of this Section.
      In addition to the foregoing, a certification shall be attached to the
statement, or included therein, which certification or declaration shall be
substantially in the following form:
      "I hereby declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and
correct."
               Licensee, Managing Partner or Owner (strike out the title which
is not applicable)
[Ord. No. 347, § C, adopted 4/14/98; amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/
13/23.]
   E.   Audit of Records. The books, records and accounts of any Card Club may
be audited by the City. Such an audit shall be performed by a qualified
accountant selected by the City Manager and approved by the City Council. Any
information obtained pursuant to the provisions of this Section or any
statement filed by the Licensees shall be deemed confidential and shall not be
subject to public inspection except as required by law or in connection with
the enforcement of the provisions of this Chapter, but shall be available to
persons charged by law with the administration of the provisions of this
Chapter or pursuant to the order of any court of competent jurisdiction.
[Amended by Ord. No. 347, § D, adopted 4/14/98.]
   F.   Refusal to Display Records. Any failure or refusal of any such Licensee
to make and file any statement as required within the time required, or to pay
any sums due by way of License Fees when the same are due and payable in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter, or to permit inspection of such
books, records and accounts of such Licensee as are authorized by this Chapter,
shall be full and sufficient grounds for suspension and revocation of the
License of any such Licensee.
[Amended by Ord. No. 347, § E, adopted 4/14/98; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/
07.]
5.16.080   Investigations and Reports.
   A.   Investigations Required. Whenever an application has been filed with
the City Manager for a License pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter, the
City Manager shall make an investigation, which may include, but is not limited
to, the following:
      1.   A full and complete investigation of the Applicant (including
Pointholders, partners and officers, if any);
      2.   A full and complete investigation as to the type of tables or units
to be used at, or in connection with, the proposed business, and the rules for
and type of Games proposed to be played, which investigation shall also include
the proposed locations of the tables or other units in, within, or about the
proposed place of business; and
      3.   A determination that the Applicant, and each Pointholder thereof,
has obtained, prior to City Council action on the application, a valid license
from the California Gambling Control Commission.
   B.   Reports Required. The City Manager shall make such investigation within
thirty (30) days from the date of submission of a completed application, and
shall report to the City Council with reference thereto at the end of said
thirty (30) day period. The City Manager shall make investigations as to all
matters within his/her jurisdiction concerning the public health, welfare and
safety as may be concerned with such application.
[Ord. No. 249, § 080, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07; amended
by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
5.16.090   City Council Consideration of Application.
   A.   Consideration and Decision by City Council. Upon presentation and
recommendation by the City Manager, the City Council shall consider the License
application. The City Council may, in its discretion, decide to grant or deny
the License. The decision of the City Council shall be final.
   B.   License Conditions. Any such License granted by the City Council shall
be deemed issued subject to all the terms, conditions, and provisions of this
Chapter, as well as all applicable laws of the City, State and Federal
governments; the City Council may impose additional conditions as may be
reasonably necessary to ensure compliance with this Chapter. In the event the
City issues a conditional License, the conditional License shall be deemed
effective upon the satisfaction of all conditions of approval.
[Ord. No. 249, § 090, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07; amended
by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
5.16.100   Denial of Application.
The City Council may deny issuance of any License under the provisions of this
Chapter in any of the following cases:
   A.   If the proposed business or activity to be operated is or will be in
violation of any Federal, State or City law or regulation; or
   B.   If the Games for which a License is applied are unlawful; or
   C.   If the Applicant, and each Pointholder thereof, has not first applied
for an obtained a valid license from the California Gambling Control
Commission; or
   D.   If any Applicant has made any false statement in the application or as
to any other information presented as part of the application process; or
   E.   If any Applicant does not have the financial capability or business
organization to operate a Card Club in a manner which would adequately protect
the patrons of the Card Club and the citizens of the community,
[Ord. No. 249, § 100, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07; amended
by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
5.16.110   Location of Card Club.
A Card Club shall be located in a district designated for Card-Room use in
accordance with the Adelanto Zoning Code.
[Amended by Ord. No. 349, § 3, adopted 6/9/98; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07;
amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
5.16.120   Expiration of Licenses; Renewal.
   A.   Expiration. Licenses may be granted for a maximum duration of ten (10)
years.
   B.   Renewal. Prior to expiration, Licensees may apply for renewal of
Licenses. Renewal applications shall be processed in the same manner as a new
application for a Card Club License.
   C.   All licenses issued by the City shall expire by operation of law if the
Licensee fails to commence operations upon the later of: (1) twelve (12) months
from the date of the issuance of the License; or (2) the date of the adoption
of this section. Upon a showing of Licensee’s good faith efforts to commence
operations, the City Manager may extend the time for a Licensee to commence
operations.
[Ord. No. 249, § 120, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07; amended
by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
5.16.130   Reserved.
5.16.140   Transfer and Assignment of Licenses.
Any transfer or assignment of any License shall be considered for all purposes
in the same manner as a new application for a Card Club License in the City,
and all the provisions of this Chapter applicable to new and original
applications shall apply.
[Ord. No. 249, § 140, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07; amended
by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
5.16.150   Suspension and Revocation of Licenses; Fines.
   A.   General. All Licenses issued pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter
shall be subject to suspension or revocation in the time and manner set forth
in this Section.
   B.   Grounds. Any License issued pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter
shall be suspended or revoked if it is found that in the time and manner
hereinafter described:
      1.   The California Gambling Control Commission has suspended or revoked
a Licensee's License; or
      2.   A Licensee has violated, or permitted, allowed or caused the
violation of any provision of this Chapter, any regulation issued pursuant to
this Chapter, or any state law or regulation relating to the operation of a
Card Club; or
      3.   A Licensee has failed to pay, when due and payable, any of the
License Fees or other fees provided for in this Title; or
      4.   A Licensee has permitted, allowed or caused any violation of any
condition of approval imposed upon the issuance of such License; or
      5.   A Licensee has made any fraudulent statement as to a material fact
on an application form, or as to any other information presented as part of the
application process.
   C.   Fines. In the event of a violation described in Subsection B.2., 3., 4.
or 5. of this Section, a fine, not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each violation, may be imposed on the Licensee in lieu of suspension or
revocation.
   D.   Action of City Manager. Whenever the City Manager has information that
a violation, constituting a ground for suspension, revocation or fine has
occurred, he/she shall forthwith investigate the same. If he/she determines
that such a violation has occurred, he/she shall forthwith set the matter for
consideration by the City Council at its next most convenient meeting. The City
Manager shall give notice to the Licensee of the time and the place of the
hearing before the City Council, not less than five (5) days in advance of the
date set for such hearing.
   E.   Hearing. At the time set for such hearing, the City Council shall hear
the evidence presented by the City Manager, or his/her designee, purporting to
show that grounds exist for suspension, revocation or a fine; thereafter, the
City Council shall permit the Licensee, and any other interested person, to
present such evidence as may be relevant to dispute the existence of such
facts. The City Council may continue the hearing from time to time. If it is
satisfied that probable cause for revocation exists, and that continued
operation of the Card Club jeopardizes, or threatens to jeopardize, the public
welfare, the City Council may suspend the License pending the conclusion of the
hearing.
   F.   Decision of City Council. If based upon the evidence presented, the
City Council finds that facts are presented which constitute grounds for
suspension or revocation, it shall suspend or revoke the License or, in lieu of
revocation or suspension, in the event of a violation described in Subsection
B.2., 3., 4. or 5. of this Section, shall impose a fine, not to exceed ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00). If it finds that such facts are not present, the
City Council shall dismiss the proceedings. The decision of the City Council
shall be final and conclusive.
[Ord. No. 249, § 150, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07; amended
by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
5.16.160   Rules and Regulations.
The following rules and regulations are established and promulgated by the City
Council with reference to Card Clubs, Card Rooms and Card Games for which
Licenses are issued under the provisions of this Chapter. Licensees holding or
obtaining Licenses under the provisions of this Chapter, shall, in writing,
agree to be bound by and observe each and all of the provisions of this Chapter
relating to such Licenses.
 
2024 S-45   5-56
City of Adelanto Municipal Code   Title 5 - Business Licenses and Regulations
   RULE NO. 1: No Licensee shall use, operate or permit the use or operation of
more tables or units than allowed pursuant to its License.
   RULE NO. 2:
   A.   No Licensee shall permit any person to play in any Game licensed by the
provisions of this Chapter at any time while such person appears to be, or, in
the opinion of the Licensee or its duly authorized agents or employees, is
under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs, and no person who is
under, or who appears to be under, the influence of intoxicating liquor or
drugs shall play in any such Game.
   B.   No Licensee shall permit any person to enter the premises while such
person appears to be, or, in the opinion of the Licensee, or its duly
authorized agents or employees, is under the influence of intoxicating liquor
or drugs.
   RULE NO. 3: Each Licensee shall make available to any patron or potential
patron of the Card Club, written players’ house rule, in printed form, that
have been filed with and approved by the City Manager. Except in a duly
authorized tournament, no Licensee shall permit any person playing in any of
the Games licensed by this Chapter to make any individual bet or wager in
excess of the maximum bets set forth for the particular Game as specified in
the players’ house rules.
   RULE NO. 4: No Licensee shall operate or use any table or unit or manage,
conduct or carry on any business or activity licensed by this Chapter after the
time that such license issued by the City has been or is expired, suspended or
revoked pursuant to this Chapter.
   RULE NO. 5: Each and all of the Games conducted or operated in the Card Club
pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter shall be conducted and operated in
full conformity with, and subject to, all the provisions of all applicable laws
in existence in this State.
   RULE NO. 6: No Licensee shall permit or allow any person under the age of
twenty-one (21) years to play in any Game licensed hereunder, or for any non-
employee under the age of twenty-one (21) years to be present at any time in
any area of the Card Club in which Card Games are being played.
[Ord. No. 249, § 160, adopted 9/22/92.]
   RULE NO. 7: The only Games permitted to be played in a licensed club shall
be the Card Games as defined in Section 5.16.010 (Subsections L. and T.). [Ord.
No. 249, Section 160, amended by Ord. No. 301, § F, adopted 9/26/95; amended by
Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
   RULE NO. 8: The playing of all Games provided for in this Chapter shall be
confined to all areas designated as “Card Rooms” which shall be located on the
first or ground floor of a licensed Card Club, and no playing of any Game
provided for or permitted by this Chapter shall be permitted at any other
location of such premises. [Ord. No. 249, § 160, adopted 9/22/92.]
   RULE NO. 9: A Card Club shall be open for inspection during all hours to the
City Manager, or his/her duly authorized representative, without a search
warrant. The Card Club may be open twenty-four (24) hours a day and seven (7)
days a week. [Ord. No. 249, § 160, amended by Ord. No. 349, § 1, adopted 6/9/
98; amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
   RULE NO. 10: A Card Club may be licensed to operate not more than thirty-one
(31) tables. [Amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23]
   RULE NO. 11: A Card Club must be located in a commercial or mixed use zone.
[Amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23]
   RULE NO. 12: If a Licensee employs dealers for the convenience of the
players so that no player deals, while so dealing, the dealer shall:
   A.   Other than dealing the cards and making collections as set forth in
this Section, not participate in anyway in the Game, not bet, and not take any
percentage of the winnings;
   B.   Collect the established seat rental fee or other playing fee provided
for in Section 5.16.170 and segregate and secure said amounts for collection
purposes; and
   C.   Comply with regulations promulgated by the City Manager concerning
identification standards.
   RULE NO. 13: The giving of credit or lending of anything of value to a
patron and the cashing of checks of patrons shall be permitted only if the
Licensee's written check-cashing and credit policies are submitted to and
approved by the City Manager. No credit of any kind shall be extended to city
employees or officers.
   RULE NO. 14: Licensees holding valuables for safekeeping may do so only
under the following conditions:
   A.   Only cash may be held; no other valuables, including coins or paper
money worth more than face value, may be held.
   B.   No person may deposit money for safekeeping without the written
approval of a managing employee of the Licensee. Money may be deposited or
withdrawn only by the person named on the account. Accurate records of all
deposits and withdrawals shall be kept for a period of not less than two (2)
years. No person shall hold more than one (1) such account at any one (1) Card
Club.
   C.   The actual deposits held and the records of all transactions shall be
available for inspection by the City Manager upon demand.
[Ord. No. 249, § 160, adopted 9/22/92.]
   RULE NO. 15: The Licensee shall provide reasonable security in order to
safeguard the property and well-being of those who patronize the Card Club as
well as all employees. The Licensee shall prepare a security plan and submit it
to the City Manager for approval by the City Manager and Chief of Police.
[Added by Ord. No. 349, § 2, adopted 6/9/98.]
   RULE NO. 16: There shall be no wagering limits at any Card Club in Adelanto.
The wagering limit may be determined exclusively by the Card Club.
[Added by Ord. No. 349, § 5, adopted 6/9/98; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.16.170   Seat Rental and Other Playing Fees.
The Licensee shall determine, set and post, within the Card Club in a public
place, seat rental and other playing fees charged to persons playing in Games
authorized by this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 249, § 170, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07; amended
by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
5.16.180   Application for Employment Identification Card.
   A.   It is unlawful for any licensed Card Club in the City to employ any
person who does not have a valid, unsuspended and unrevoked employment
identification card, bearing the employee’s photograph.
   B.   Any person wishing to obtain an employment identification card shall
file an application with the City Manager. The application shall be complete in
all respects and shall include photographing and fingerprinting. A processing
fee, in an amount set by the City Council, shall be paid to the city for such
fingerprinting and photographing, issuance of the identification card, and for
a background investigation to be conducted by the City Manager or his/her
designee.
   C.   Each application for an employment identification card by any person
wishing to obtain employment in the Card Club shall contain, in addition to
such other information as the City Manager shall require, the following current
information under penalty of perjury:
      1.   The true name and any other name by which the proposed employee has
been known and all residence addresses during the past five (5) years;
      2.   Current occupation or employment;
      3.   Employment during the past five (5) years;
      4.   Physical characteristics, including, age, date of birth, height,
weight, and color of hair and eyes;
      5.   Driver’s license and Social Security numbers;
      6.   A history of all arrests and convictions for any felony or
misdemeanor offense, other than traffic violations, and of violations of any
municipal codes or ordinances within the past ten (10) years; and
      7.   A current full face photo.
   D.   The City Manager shall process the application and may approve,
conditionally approve, or deny such application. The City Manager may deny an
application for an identification card in the following cases:
      1.   If the Applicant has been convicted of any crime punishable as a
felony;
      2.   If the Applicant has been convicted of an offense involving
dishonesty;
      3.   If the Applicant has engaged in bookmaking, loan sharking, or other
illegal gambling activities or has been convicted of an offense involving such
activities;
      4.   If the Applicant is not a person of good character, integrity and
honesty;
      5.   If the Applicant has made any false statement in the application or
as to any other information presented as part of the application process; or
      6.   If the approval of the Applicant would be inimical to the interests
of legitimate gaming.
      If an application is denied, the Licensee may appeal such denial on
behalf of the Applicant by written notice to the City Manager, who shall cause
a hearing to be held within thirty (30) days after such notice. The City
Manager, or his/her designee, may approve, conditionally approve, or deny such
appeal. The hearing officer’s decision shall be final and conclusive. The cost
of such hearing shall be borne by the Licensee.
   E.   An employment identification card may be suspended or revoked under the
following circumstances:
      1.   The commission of any act which would have been grounds for the
denial of an identification card pursuant to Subsection D. of this Section; or
      2.   The violation of any condition imposed in issuing such
identification card. The identification card may be immediately suspended by
the City Manager if the offense is such to cause an immediate threat to the
public welfare. Such immediate suspension shall remain in effect for seven (7)
days or until a final decision is rendered by a hearing officer appointed by
the City Manager, whichever occurs first.
      The hearing officer may suspend or revoke an identification card after a
hearing following five (5) days notice to the employee. The employee shall be
permitted to submit any relevant evidence to the hearing officer. The decision
of the hearing officer shall be final, and all costs shall be borne by the
employee.
   F.   Unless specifically exempted by the City Manager in writing, each
employee, at all times while acting within the scope of his/her employment on
the Card Club premises, shall wear in a prominently visible place upon his/her
person said identification card.
   G.   The information received by the City pursuant to the provisions of this
Section shall be treated as confidential and shall be accessible only to those
City officials having jurisdiction over the provisions of this Chapter, and to
management personnel of the Licensee.
[Ord. No. 249, § 180, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07; amended
by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
5.16.190   Pointholders - Applications for Sale or Transfer of Points.
   A.   It is unlawful for any Licensee or any person having any interest
whatsoever or at all in the ownership of a Card Club, whether legal or
equitable, or as trustor or trustee, or of whatsoever kind or character, to
sell or transfer such points and/or interest without the prior, written consent
and permission of the City Council.
   B.   Sales and transfers cannot be approved any earlier than five (5) years
from the date the License is issued.
   C.   Any person desiring to sell, transfer, assign, or otherwise hypothecate
any point or interest in a Card Club duly licensed pursuant to the provisions
of this Chapter shall file with the City Manager a written application for
permission to transfer such interest, as is hereinafter described. Each such
application shall contain and clearly and truthfully set forth, under oath and/
or affirmation, and show, in addition to such other information as the City
Manager and/or the City Council may require, the following information:
      1.   The date of the application;
      2.   The true name of the Applicant and proposed purchaser or transferee,
and any other name by which the proposed purchaser or transferee has been
known;
      3.   The status of the proposed purchaser or transferee as being an
individual, corporation, association, partnership, joint venture, trustor or
trustee;
      4.   The residence and business address for the last five (5) years of
the proposed purchaser or transferee, if an individual;
      5.   If the transferee is other than an individual, the true name,
residence and business address for the last five (5) years of each of the
proposed purchaser or transferee Pointholders, partners and officers;
      6.   A full and complete financial statement of the proposed purchaser or
transferee, whether it is an individual, corporation, partnership or other
entity, and a full and complete financial statement of each proposed purchaser
or transferee Pointholder, partner or officer; provided, the financial
statements required by this Subsection shall be deemed confidential in
character and shall not be open to public inspection, but shall be available to
those city officials having jurisdiction over the provisions of this Chapter;
      7.   The name of the licensed Card Club for which a transfer of interest
or point is sought;
      8.   The number of points and/or the nature of interest sought to be
sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise hypothecated; and
      9.   A statement that the proposed purchaser has applied for or has been
granted a license issued by the California Gambling Control Commission.
      10.   A statement that the application will be considered by the City
Council only after a full investigation and report has been made by the City
Manager and the report of investigation forwarded to the City Council.
   D.   Investigation Required. Whenever an application pursuant to the
provisions of this Section has been filed with the City for a sale or transfer
pursuant to the provisions of this Section, the City Manager shall promptly and
diligently make an investigation and shall report to the City Council with
reference thereto within thirty (30) days from the filing of the application,
as follows:
      1.   A full and complete investigation of the proposed purchaser or
transferee (including the proposed Pointholders, partners or officers),
including a determination that the proposed purchaser has applied for or
obtained a valid Gambling Establishment and Owner license issued by the
California Gambling Control Commission;
      2.   Concurrently with the filing of the application, each person named
in the application as a proposed purchaser or transferee, or Pointholder,
partner or officer thereof, shall be fingerprinted by the City Manager or his/
her designee. No application shall be deemed filed until the fingerprinting is
completed.
   E.   License Fees. Each such sale or transfer application shall be
accompanied by a processing fee in the amount as established by Section
5.16.060, to cover the cost of the investigation. The fee shall be the property
of and be retained by the City, whether the application for sale or transfer is
granted or denied.
   F.   Granting or Denial of Application.
      1.   Whenever an application for such a sale or transfer is presented to
the City Council, the City Council shall consider such application on the same
basis as is applicable to a new License application.
      2.   The City Council shall not approve an application if the proposed
purchaser has not first obtained a valid Gambling Establishment and Owner
license issued by the California Gambling Control Commission. Otherwise, the
City Council may, in its sole discretion, either approve, conditionally
approve, or deny the application, with or without specification of grounds. The
decision of the City Council shall be final and conclusive.
      3.   The Applicant shall agree as part of this application that the sole
and exclusive discretion as to the granting or denial of any such application
shall be vested in the City Council.
[Ord. No. 249, § 190, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07; amended
by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
5.16.200   Pointholders - Updating of Investigations - Divestments.
   A.   All Owners and Pointholders in any Card Club shall have their
background investigations updated every two (2) years. Such updating shall
consist of a check by teletype to Criminal Investigation and Identification in
Sacramento, California, and the filing by each Licensee, Owner or Pointholder,
and partner or officer thereof, of updated financial statements.
   B.   Any person having any interest whatsoever or at all in the ownership of
a Card Club, whether legal or equitable, or a trustor or trustee, or of
whatsoever kind or character, who has not previously submitted to the procedure
required under Section
5.16.190.C. through F., shall file, as a prerequisite to the continued holding
of an ownership interest, the application to be investigated, shall pay the
fee, and shall be reviewed by the City Manager and City Council as provided in
that section for persons applying for new ownership interest. If the City
Council denies any application, within one hundred twenty (120) days after the
receipt of a notice of such denial, said person shall divest himself/herself of
such ownership interest. The City Attorney may invoke appropriate civil
remedies to enforce compliance.
   C.   1.   The approval of an Owner or Pointholder may be revoked by the City
Council, after a hearing held not less than thirty (30) days after notice has
been given to the Pointholder, if the City Council finds that:
         a.   The Attorney General of the State has suspended or revoked the
Owner’s or Pointholder s registration under the Gaming Registration Act of the
State, or after issuing a conditional registration, fails or refuses to issue,
a valid registration; or
         b.   An Owner or Pointholder has violated, or permitted, allowed, or
caused the violation of, any provision of this Chapter, any regulation issued
pursuant to this Chapter, any condition of approval imposed upon the issuance
of the Card Club License, or any State law or regulation relating to the
operation of a Card Club; or
         c.   An Owner or Pointholder has made any fraudulent statement as to a
material fact on an application form or as to any other information presented
as part of the application process; or
         d.   An Owner or Pointholder is convicted of any crime involving
illegal gambling or gaming activities or moral turpitude, or is convicted of a
crime punishable as a felony.
      2.   The City Council, in making its decision, shall consider any
mitigating factor presented by the Owner or Pointholder. The decision of the
City Council shall be final.
      3.   The ownership interest shall be divested within one hundred twenty
(120) days after the notice of revocation. The City Manager may extend the time
to divest the ownership interest upon a showing of good faith. The City
Attorney may invoke appropriate civil remedies to enforce compliance.
      4.   No person required to divest an ownership interest in a Card Club
following a revocation of approval shall transfer such ownership interest to
his/her spouse, child, sibling, or parent, or to his/her spouse's child,
sibling or parent, without the approval of the City Council.
[Ord. No. 249, § 200, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07; amended
by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
5.16.210   Unlawful Act.
   A.   Unlawful Locations. It is unlawful for any person to play, or permit
the playing, of any Game regulated or referred to by the provisions of this
Chapter at any place within the City, except upon a parcel of real property
located entirely within the City limits that is designated for Card-Room use in
accordance with the Adelanto Zoning Code, and operated under a permit and
licensed under licenses held or issued pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter. [Ord. No. 249, § 210A, adopted 9/22/92; amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2,
adopted 12/13/23.]
   B.   Unlawful Games. It is unlawful for any person to play in, or permit the
playing of, any Game at any place licensed pursuant to this Chapter which Game
is not permitted by the provisions of this Chapter as amended, or in any Game
played in violation of this Chapter. [Ord. No. 249, § 210.B, adopted 9/22/92;
amended by Ord. No. 301, § G, adopted 9/26/95.]
   C.   City Employees and Officers. It is unlawful to provide credit of any
kind, or to provide gratuities, goods or services in, upon or about the Card
Club to City employees or officers at reduced or no cost.
   D.   Operation of Card Clubs. It is unlawful for any operator of a Card Club
permitted under this Chapter, or for any owner, principal, employee or agent of
a Card Club permitted under this Chapter:
      1.   To knowingly permit any unlawful activity to take place upon the
premises of the Card Club or to fail to take reasonable steps to prevent such
activities from taking place, including, but not limited to, illegal gambling
activities and cheating. The Licensee shall have the power to formulate
reasonable policies and procedures to control such activities, and these
policies and procedures may be published in the players’ house rules.
      2.   To permit any employee on duty to play in any of the Games
authorized by this Chapter other than pursuant to policies of the Licensee that
are disclosed in the players’ house rules.
   E.   Cheating. It is unlawful for any person to attempt to gain any unfair
advantage for any player in a licensed Card Game through a fraudulent technique
or mechanical or electrical device. Prohibited cheating techniques include, but
are not limited to dealing, drawing, distributing or burning any playing cards
other than the top card of a deck; prearranging or shuffling any playing cards
in a manner other than in a random manner; altering in any way the shape,
appearance, texture or number of cards to play; switching any card; or using
any apparatus or method to gain information not available to other players.
[Ord. No. 249, § 210, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07; amended
by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
5.16.220   Exclusion of Persons from Card Clubs.
   A Licensee may exclude or eject from the premises any person who has been
engaged in or been convicted of bookmaking, loan sharking, the sale of
controlled substances, illegal gambling activities, cheating, prostitution, or
whose presence in or about such Card Club would be inimical to the interest of
legitimate gaming. No person shall be excluded or ejected solely on the basis
of a protected classification.
[Ord. No. 249, § 220, adopted 9/22/92; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07; amended
by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted 12/13/23.]
5.16.230   Administration of Chapter by City Manager.
The City Manager shall formulate in writing all necessary rules and regulations
to implement and administer the provisions of this Chapter, and shall do all
things necessary and proper to carry out the spirit and intent of this Chapter,
including, but not limited to:
   A.   Preserving and keeping all documents identified in this Chapter as
confidential documents so that the contents thereof shall not become known
except to persons required by law to effect the administration or enforcement
of this Chapter;
   B.   Promulgating and/or requiring prior approval of accounting procedures
to be utilized by Licensees to ensure accurate reporting of Card Club revenues;
and
   C.   Delegating the duties and powers vested in the City Manager by this
Chapter to appropriate City employees or officers.
[Ord. No. 249, § 230, adopted 9/22/92; reiterated by Ord. No. 347, § 2, adopted
4/14/98; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07; amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted
12/13/23.]
5.16.240   Violations.
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of this
Chapter. In the event of any violation, the City Manager shall promptly notify
the Licensee in writing of all of the facts upon which the violation is based,
detailing with specificity the nature and extent of the facts that relate to
the alleged violation. As set forth in the notice, the Licensee shall have a
reasonable time to cure the violation. Upon a showing of good cause, the City
Manager may extend the time within which the violation shall be cured. All
remedies and penalties prescribed by this Chapter, or that are available under
any other provision of the Municipal Code and any other provision of law or
equity, are cumulative.
[Ord. No. 249, § 240, adopted 9/22/92; reiterated by Ord. No. 347, § 2, adopted
4/14/98; Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07; amended by Ord. No. 646, § 2, adopted
12/13/23.]
Chapter 5.20
PRIVATE PATROL SERVICES AND PRIVATE PATROLMEN
Sections:
   
5.20.010   Registration
   
5.20.020   Proof of Registration
5.20.010   Registration.
It is unlawful for any private patrol service to employ or have associated with
it in the conduct of its business any private person who is not currently
registered pursuant to Business and Professions Code Section 7581(e). Current
registration shall be presented to any law enforcement or code enforcement
officer upon request.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.20.020   Proof of Registration.
Each applicant shall prove to the satisfaction of the Collector that he or she
possesses a valid license under the Private Investigator Act of the State of
California. A current copy of the State license shall be filed with the
application.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 5.24
BINGO
Sections:
   
5.24.010   License Required
   
5.24.020   License Application
   
5.24.030   Investigation
   
5.24.040   Operation of Bingo Game
   
5.24.050   Financial Interest
   
5.24.060   Profits
   
5.24.070   Participation Limited to Those Present
   
5.24.080   Bingo Game Open to Public
   
5.24.090   Value of Prizes
   
5.24.100   Minors Prohibited from Participation
   
5.24.110   Display of License
   
5.24.120   License not Transferable
   
5.24.130   Disciplinary Action - Grounds
5.24.010   License Required.
No person other than an eligible organization may conduct bingo games. Such
eligible organizations shall not conduct bingo games without first having
secured a license to conduct such games from the City.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.24.020   License Application.
   A.   Applicants for a bingo license shall file a written, signed and
acknowledged application with the Collector including all information required
by Section
5.04.070. In addition to the information required by Section
5.04.070 the following information shall be provided:
      1.   The dates, hours and location where the bingo games will be
operated;
      2.   The name or names of the person or persons having the management or
supervision of said games;
      3.   Whether food and beverages will be available;
      4.   Such other reasonable information as may be required as to the
identity or character of the applicant, manager or members of applicant
operating the games.
   B.   The application shall be accompanied by a copy of the tax exempt status
determination issued by the State Franchise Tax Board to the applicant
organization showing the applicant organization is exempt under the provisions
of Revenue and Taxation Code Sections 23701(a), 23701(b), 23701(d), 23701(e),
23701(f), 23701(g), and 23701(1).
   C.   The applicant shall submit with the application a declaration under
penalty of perjury of a duly authorized officer or representative of the
organization, which states that the applicant organization owns or leases the
property on which the bingo games are to be held and that such property is used
by such organization for an office or for purposes for which the organization
is organized. Said declaration shall also indicate that the proceeds of such
games will only be used for charitable purposes, except as provided in this
Chapter.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.24.030   Investigation.
   After receiving the application, the Collector shall refer the application
to the Building, Planning, Fire and Police Departments for investigation. The
departments shall make reports of their findings, together with a
recommendation as to whether or not the applicant shall be granted a license,
to the Collector within ten (10) working days after the application was
referred. The license shall be issued for a specified location.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.24.040   Operation of Bingo Game.
A bingo game shall be conducted only on property owned or leased by the
eligible organization and used by it for an office or for performance of the
purposes for which the organization is organized. The property owned or leased
by the organization need not be used or leased exclusively by such
organization. The bingo game shall be operated and staffed only by members of
the licensed organization which organized the game. Such members shall not
receive a profit, wage or salary from any bingo game. Only the organization
licensed to conduct a bingo game shall operate such game or participate in the
promotion, supervision or any other phase of such game. Bingo games shall not
be held on more than ten (10) days in each calendar month nor for more than
five (5) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period. No bingo shall be permitted
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.24.050   Financial Interest.
No person except the eligible organization licensed to conduct a bingo game
shall hold a financial interest in such game.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.24.060   Profits.
   A.   Non-profit Organizations Under Revenue and Taxation Code Section 23701
(d). All profits derived from a bingo game by organizations exempt from payment
of the bank and corporation tax by Revenue and Taxation Code Section 23701(d)
shall be kept in a special fund or account and shall not be commingled with any
other fund or account. Such profits shall be used only for charitable purposes.
   B.   Other Licensed Organizations. With respect to other licensed
organizations authorized to conduct bingo games, all proceeds derived from a
bingo game shall be kept in a special fund or account and shall not be
commingled with any other fund or account. Such proceeds shall be used only for
charitable purposes, except as follows:
      1.   Such proceeds may be used for prizes;
      2.   A portion of such proceeds, not to exceed twenty percent (20%) of
the proceeds after the deduction for prizes, or two thousand dollars
($2,000.00) per month, whichever is less, may be sued for rental of property,
overhead and administrative expenses.
   C.   Records. Records required by this Chapter shall be retained by licensee
for a period of three (3) years. Licensee’s records shall be available for
inspection by the Chief of Police or designee or City officials upon demand. It
is unlawful and a violation of this Chapter to fail to retain these records or
make same available for inspection upon demand.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.24.070   Participation Limited to Those Present.
No person shall be allowed to participate in a bingo game, unless the person is
physically present at the time and place in which the bingo game is being
conducted.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.24.080   Bingo Game Open to Public.
All bingo games shall be open to the public, not just to the members of the
licensed organization.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.24.090   Value of Prizes.
The total value of prizes awarded during the conduct of any bingo game shall
not exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) in cash or kind, or both, for
each separate game which is held.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.24.100   Minors Prohibited from Participation.
No minor shall be allowed to participate in any bingo game. Every licensee
shall display the license issued by the City in a conspicuous place in the
premises where the bingo games are conducted.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.24.110   Display of License.
Every licensee shall display the license issued by the City in a conspicuous
place in the premises where the bingo games are conducted.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.24.120   License not Transferable.
Each license issued hereunder shall be issued to an eligible organization and
for a specific location and shall in no event be transferable from one (1)
organization or location to another.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.24.130   Disciplinary Action - Grounds.
In addition to the provisions of
Chapter 5.04, the following shall be considered grounds for denial, revocation
or other disciplinary action:
   A.   Made any inaccurate, false, misleading or fraudulent statements, has
failed to fully disclose all required information in an application or to
provide all required documentation in support thereof; or
   B.   Violated any provision of this Title or of any statute relating to the
permitted activity; or
   C.   Been convicted of a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude; or
   D.   A bad moral character, intemperate habits or a bad reputation for
truth, honesty or integrity; or
   E.   Committed any unlawful, false, fraudulent, deceptive or dangerous act
while conducting permitted bingo games; or
   F.   Conducted the permitted bingo game in a manner contrary to the peace,
health, safety and general welfare of the public; or
   G.   Failed to comply with zoning, building, fire and environmental health
services regulations of the City.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 5.28
DANCE HALLS
Sections:
   
5.28.010   License Required
   
5.28.020   Application and Reasons for Denial of License
   
5.28.030   Issuance and Posting of License
   
5.28.040   Investigation
   
5.28.050   Hours of Operation
   
5.28.060   Employment
   
5.28.070   Regulations
5.28.010   License Required.
It is unlawful for any person to commence or operate or permit the operation of
a public dance or a public dance hall without first obtaining a license to do
so pursuant to this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.28.020   Application and Reasons for Denial of License.
Application for such license shall be made to the Collector in writing and
shall state the names and addresses of the persons having authority and control
over the location and the owners of the location and the place where the dance,
or dance hall is to be conducted. Upon receipt of such application, together
with the license fee, as in this Title provided, the Collector shall thoroughly
investigate the application and shall deny the same if:
   A.   The applicant, whether an individual, any partner, corporate officer or
director, has been convicted of a felony or of any crime involving moral
turpitude;
   B.   The structures or real property where the applicant intends to conduct
business pursuant to a license do not comply with all applicable laws or are
injurious to the public health or safety; or
   C.   The applicant has previously had a dance hall license forfeited,
suspended or revoked under the provisions of this Chapter or any City
ordinance.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.28.030   Issuance and Posting of License.
   A.   Upon approval of such license by the Collector, the Collector shall
issue a license to the applicant; such license shall set forth the name of the
applicant and the place where the dance or dance hall is to be conducted. Each
license shall be nontransferable, shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises in respect to which it is issued and shall be exhibited to any law
enforcement officer or City official upon demand.
   B.   Each license issued hereunder is separate and distinct and no person
shall seek to exercise the privileges granted thereunder except the person to
whom it is issued and at the specific place for which it was issued.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.28.040   Investigation.
The Collector may, upon its own decision and shall upon the verified complaint
in writing of any person, investigate the conduct of any such dance or dance
hall and shall have power to temporarily suspend or permanently revoke a
license issued hereunder in accordance with this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.28.050   Hours of Operation.
It is unlawful for any person, corporation or association of persons to
operate, conduct or carry on a public dance, or a public dance hall, or for any
person to dance at any public dance or in any public dance hall, between the
hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.28.060   Employment.
It is unlawful for any person, to employ anyone on a salary or on a commission
or for anything of value, directly or indirectly, whose obligation, duty or
business it is or shall be to dance with or act as a dancing partner at any
public dance or at any public dance hall. It is further unlawful and a
violation of this Chapter for anyone to engage in such employment.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.28.070   Regulations.
It is unlawful for any person to operate, conduct or carry on a public dance or
a public dance hall in any manner which is detrimental to public health,
welfare or safety or which causes a disturbance of the peace or a public
nuisance.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 5.32
JUNK DEALERS, PAWNBROKERS, SECONDHAND DEALERS AND SALVAGE COLLECTORS
Sections:
   
5.32.010   License Required
   
5.32.020   Investigation
   
5.32.030   Inspection
   
5.32.040   Property
   
5.32.050   Daily Reports and Purchase Forms
5.32.010   License Required.
Every junk dealer, pawnbroker, secondhand dealer and salvage collector shall be
licensed by the City and pay an annual license fee, in accordance with
Chapter 5.04.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.32.020   Investigation.
Upon receipt of a complete application with all required documentation and
fees, the Collector shall refer copies of the application to the Building,
Planning, Fire and Police Departments for investigation concerning the
applicant's business and character. These investigating departments shall
report their findings, together with their approval of or objection to the
issuance of a license to the Collector within ten (10) business days of the
referral. The Collector shall, upon receipt of these reports and any
recommendations either issue or deny the issuance of the license.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.32.030   Inspection.
Every junk dealer, pawnbroker, secondhand dealer and salvage collector shall
hold and keep exposed any property acquired by them in the course of their
business for inspection on their business premises during business hours.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.32.040   Property.
Junk dealers shall hold all personal property received as received except
automobile bodies until the expiration of three (3) days after the submission
of the daily report required by this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.32.050   Daily Reports and Purchase Forms.
   A.   Junk dealers, pawnbrokers and secondhand dealers licensed under this
Chapter shall report in writing to the Police Department, in a manner as
approved by the Police Department, all personal property requiring reporting by
this Chapter. The daily reports shall be accompanied by a purchase form for
each individual transaction. The specific information required on the purchase
form is as follows:
      1.   Dealer’s name, business, address and telephone number;
      2.   Date of purchase;
      3.   Seller’s name, description, residence address, vehicle license
number, driver’s license or county business license number;
      4.   Material category descriptions;
      5.   Weight of material, amount paid and time of payment;
      6.   Description and identification number of automobile and automobile
bodies. Such information may be provided by submission of a vehicle report
completed by the seller of any automobile or automobile body. The vehicle
report forms will be made available by the Police Department.
   B.   The purchase forms and daily reports shall include a general
description as to the composition of scrap or junk. Products such as castings,
wire, tubing, pipe or similar items may be commonly described. Nonferrous
materials shall be reported and ferrous materials including fence material,
pipe, chain, machinery parts, foundry castings, cable, automobiles and
automobile bodies shall be reported.
   C.   Transactions totaling five dollars ($5.00) or less need not be reported
except for automobiles or automobile bodies, which may be reported in
accordance with Subsection A.6. of this Section.
   D.   Pawnbrokers and secondhand dealers shall make their reports in
compliance with the provisions of the Business and Professions Code Section
21628 and Financial Code Section 21208.
   E.   Salvage collectors shall maintain purchase records.
   F.   The daily reports and purchase forms shall be written in the English
language in a clear and legible manner. The records required by this Section
shall be retained by the applicant for a period of three (3) years and shall be
available for inspection upon demand by any law enforcement officer. The
failure to complete, file and retain the records required pursuant to Section
5.32.040 is a violation of this Chapter and is unlawful.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 5.36
POOL AND BILLIARD HALLS
Sections:
   
5.36.010   Public Welfare
   
5.36.020   Prohibited Activities
   
5.36.030   Exemptions
5.36.010   Public Welfare.
The City Council may refuse to grant a license for a pool and billiard hall if,
in the opinion of a majority of the Council, the establishment and maintaining
of a billiard hall or pool room would be contrary to the public welfare of the
neighborhood.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.36.020   Prohibited Activities.
The following activities shall be prohibited within pool and billiard halls and
rooms:
   A.   Gambling or possession of any gambling device;
   B.   Operating a pool or billiard hall between the hours of 12:00 midnight
and 6:00 a.m.;
   C.   To allow any person under the age of eighteen (18) to be present or
remain in the billiard hall or pool room;
   D.   Not to allow at least one (1) door or window, of at least twenty (20)
square feet, through which the public may at all times see the entire interior
of any such pool hall, room or place during day time, and where any light is
therein at night time, and no obstruction of any kind whatever shall be
permitted.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.36.030   Exemptions.
This Chapter shall not apply to any bona fide lodge, club, society, veterans’
organization or similar group having one (1) or more billiard tables or pool
tables on their private premises solely for the amusement and entertainment of
their members and guests, and where no fee is charged for the use of such
billiard tables or pool tables and the use of such tables is not open to the
public.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 5.40
CABLE, VIDEO AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDERS
Sections:
PART 1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
5.40.010   Purpose and Intent
   
5.40.020   Defined Terms and Phrases
   
5.40.030   Suspension and Waiver of Application Fee Deposits
PART 2.   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEMS
   
5.40.040   Authority and Findings
   
5.40.050   Franchise Terms and Conditions
   
5.40.060   Franchise Applications and Renewal
   
5.40.070   Contents of Cable Television Franchise Agreements
   
5.40.080   Consumer Protection and Service Standards
PART 3.   OPEN VIDEO SYSTEMS
   
5.40.090   Applicability
   
5.40.100   Application Required
   
5.40.110   Review of the Application
   
5.40.120   Agreement Required
PART 4.   OTHER VIDEO AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES AND SYSTEMS
   
5.40.130   Other Multichannel Video Programming Distributors
   
5.40.140   Video Providers-Registration; Customer Service Standards
   
5.40.150   Telecommunications Service Provided by Telephone Corporations
PART 5.   USE OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
   
5.40.160   Findings; Policies and Procedures
PART 6.   VIOLATIONS; SEVERABILITY
   
5.40.170   Violations; Enforcement
   
5.40.180   Severability
   
5.40.190   Application of Section
   
5.40.200   Notice of Adoption
   
5.40.210   Continuing Application of Ordinance No. 324
PART 1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
5.40.010   Purpose and Intent.
   A.   The development of cable, video and telecommunications services and
systems may provide significant benefits for, and have substantial impacts
upon, the residents of the City.
   B.   Because of the complex and rapidly changing technology associated with
cable, video and telecommunications services and systems, the public
convenience, safety and general welfare can best be served by the City’s
exercise of its regulatory powers.
   C.   This Chapter adopts provisions that authorize the City to regulate
cable, video, and telecommunications service providers to the extent authorized
by Federal and State law, including but not limited to the Federal Cable
Communications Policy Act of 1984, the Federal Cable Television Consumer
Protection and Competition Act of 1992, the Federal Telecommunications Act of
1996, applicable regulations of the Federal Communications Commission, and
applicable California statutes and regulations.
   D.   The cable, video and telecommunications services that are addressed in
this Chapter include services provided by cable television systems, open video
systems, master antenna television systems, satellite master antenna television
systems, direct broadcast satellite systems, multichannel multipoint
distribution systems, local multipoint distribution systems and other providers
of video programming, whatever their technology, as well as voice and data
services provided by telephone corporations.
   E.   The purpose and intent of this Chapter is to provide for the attainment
of the following objectives:
      1.   To enable the City to discharge its public trust in a manner
consistent with rapidly evolving Federal and State regulatory policies,
industry competition and technological development.
      2.   To authorize and to manage reasonable access to the City’s public
rights-of-way and public property for cable, video and telecommunications
purposes on a competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory basis, and in a
manner consistent with all applicable Federal and State statutes and
regulations.
      3.   To obtain fair and reasonable compensation for the City and its
residents for authorizing the private use of the public rights-of-way and
public property.
      4.   To promote competition in cable, video and telecommunications
services, minimize unnecessary local regulation of cable, video and
telecommunications service providers and encourage the delivery of advanced and
competitive cable, video and telecommunications services on the broadest
possible basis to local government and to the businesses, institutions and
residents of the City.
      5.   To establish clear local guidelines, standards and time frames for
the exercise of local authority with respect to the regulation of cable, video
and telecommunications service providers.
      6.   To encourage the deployment of advanced cable, video and
telecommunications infrastructure that satisfies local needs, delivers enhanced
services, and provides informed consumer choices in an evolving cable, video
and telecommunications marketplace.
      7.   To maintain and to enhance public, educational and governmental
programming opportunities that will enable local government to communicate with
its residents and to provide them with alternate means of disseminating
information.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.40.020   Defined Terms and Phrases.
The words, terms, phrases and their derivations set forth in this Chapter have
the meanings set forth below. Unless otherwise expressly stated, words, terms
and phrases not defined in this Chapter will be given their meaning as used in
Title 47 of the United States Code, as amended, and, if not defined in that
Code, their meaning as used in Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
Words used in the present tense include the future tense, and words in the
singular include the plural number.
   A.   “Affiliate” means, when used in relation to any person, another person
who owns or controls, is owned or controlled by, or is under common ownership
or control with, such person.
   B.   “Cable Service” means the one (1) way transmission to subscribers of
video programming, or other programming services, and subscriber interaction,
if any, that is required for the selection or use of that video programming or
other programming service. For the purposes of this definition, “video
programming” means programming provided by, or generally considered comparable
to programming provided by, a television broadcast station; and “other
programming service” means information that a cable system operator makes
available to all subscribers generally.
   C.   “Cable System,” or “Cable Communications System” or “Cable Television
System,” means a facility, consisting of a set of closed transmission paths and
associated signal generation, reception and control equipment that is designed
to provide cable service that includes video programming and that is provided
to multiple subscribers within a community. The term “cable system” does not
include:
      1.   A facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals of
one (1) or more television broadcast stations;
      2.   A facility that serves subscribers without using any public right-
of-way;
      3.   A facility of a common carrier that is subject, in whole or in part,
to the provisions of Title II of the Communications Act, except that such
facility will be considered a cable system (other than for purposes specified
in Communications Act Section 621(c)) to the extent such facility is used in
the transmission of video programming directly to subscribers, unless the
extent of such use is solely to provide interactive on-demand services;
      4.   An open video system that complies with Communications Act Section
653; or
      5.   Any facilities of an electric utility that are used solely for
operating its electric utility system.
   D.   “Cable System Operator” means any person or group of persons:
      1.   Who provides cable service over a cable system and directly or
through one (1) or more affiliates owns a significant interest in that cable
system; or
      2.   Who otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of that cable system.
   E.   “City” means the City of Adelanto as represented by its City Council or
by any delegate acting within the scope of its delegated authority.
   F.   “CFR” means the Code of Federal Regulations. Thus, the citation of “47
CFR 80.1" refers to Title 47, Part 80, Section 1, of the Code of Federal
Regulations.
   G.   “Communications Act” means the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. §§
153 et seq.), as amended by the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, the
Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, and the
Telecommunications Act of 1996.
   H.   “FCC” or “Federal Communications Commission” means the Federal
administrative agency, or any lawful successor, that is authorized to regulate
telecommunications services and telecommunications service providers on a
national level.
   I.   “Franchise” means an initial authorization, or the renewal of an
initial authorization, granted by the City Council, whether such authorization
is designated as a franchise, agreement, permit, license, resolution, contract,
certificate or otherwise, that authorizes the construction or operation of a
cable system or an open video system.
   J.   “Franchise Fee” means any fee or assessment of any kind that is
authorized by State or Federal law to be imposed by the City on a Grantee as
compensation in the nature of rent for the Grantee’s use of the public rights-
of-way. The term “franchise fee” does not include:
      1.   Any tax, fee or assessment of general applicability (including any
such tax, fee, or assessment imposed on both utilities and cable operators or
their services, but not including a tax, fee or assessment which is unduly
discriminatory against cable operators or cable subscribers);
      2.   Capital costs that are required by the franchise to be incurred by a
Grantee for public, educational or governmental access facilities;
      3.   Requirements or charges that are incidental to the award or
enforcement of the franchise, including payments for bonds, security funds,
letters of credit, insurance, indemnification, penalties or liquidated damages;
or
      4.   Any fee imposed under Title 17, United States Code.
   K.   “Franchise Service Area” or “Service Area” means the entire geographic
area of the City as it is now constituted, or may in the future be constituted,
unless otherwise specified in the ordinance or resolution granting a franchise,
or in a franchise agreement.
   L.   “Grantee” means any person that is awarded a franchise in accordance
with this Chapter, and that person’s lawful successor, transferee, or assignee.
   M.   “Multichannel Video Programming Distributor” or “Video Programming
Distributor” means a person such as, but not limited to, a cable system
operator, an open video system operator, a multichannel multipoint distribution
service, a direct broadcast satellite service, or a television receive-only
satellite program distributor, who makes available multiple channels of video
programming for purchase by subscribers or customers.
   N.   “Open Video System” means a facility consisting of a set of
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception and control
equipment that is designed to provide cable service, including video
programming, and that is provided to multiple subscribers within the City,
provided that the FCC has certified that such system is authorized to operate
in the City and complies with 47 CFR 1500 et seq., titled “Open Video Systems.”
   O.   “Open Video System Operator” means any person or group of persons who
provides cable service over an open video system and directly or through one or
more affiliates owns a significant interest in that open video system, or
otherwise controls or is responsible for the management and operation of that
open video system.
   P.   “Person” means an individual, partnership, limited liability company,
association, joint stock company, trust, corporation or governmental entity.
   Q.   “Public, Educational or Government Access Facilities” or “PEG Access
Facilities,” means the total of the following:
      1.   Channel capacity designated for noncommercial public, educational,
or government use; and
      2.   Facilities and equipment for the use of that channel capacity.
   R.   “Subscriber” or “Customer” or “Consumer” means any person who, for any
purpose, subscribes to the services provided by a multichannel video
programming distributor and who pays the charges for those services.
   S.   “Street” or “Public Right-of-Way” means each of the following that has
been dedicated to the public and maintained under public authority or by others
and is located within the City limits: streets, roadways, highways, avenues,
lanes, alleys, sidewalks, easements, rights-of-way and similar public property
that the City from time to time authorizes to be included within the definition
of a street.
   T.    “Telecommunications” means the transmission, between or among points
specified by the user, of information of the user's choosing, without change in
the form or content of the information as sent and received.
   U.   “Telecommunications Equipment” means equipment, other than customer
premises equipment, used by a telecommunications service provider to provide
telecommunications service, including software that is integral to that
equipment.
   V.   “Telecommunications Service” means the offering of telecommunications
directly to the public for a fee, or to such classes of users as to be
effectively available directly to the public, regardless of the equipment or
facilities that are used.
   W.   “Telecommunications Service Provider” means any provider of
telecommunications service.
   X.   “____ U.S.C. § ____” means the United States Code. Thus, the citation
of “47 U.S.C. § 153” refers to Title 47, Section 153, of the United States
Code.
   Y.   “Video Programming Provider” means any person or group of persons who
has the right under the Federal copyright laws to select and to contract for
the carriage of specific video programming on a cable system or an open video
system.
   Z.   “Video Provider” means any person, company, or service that provides
one or more channels of video programming to a residence, including a home,
multi-family dwelling complex, congregate-living complex, condominium,
apartment or mobilehome, where some fee is paid for that service, whether
directly or as included in dues or rental charges, and whether or not public
rights-of-way are used in the delivery of that video programming. A “video
provider” includes, without limitation, providers of cable television service,
open video system service, master antenna television, satellite master antenna
television, direct broadcast satellite, multipoint distribution services and
other providers of video programming, whatever their technology.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.40.030   Suspension and Waiver of Application Fee Deposits.
   A.   With regard to any application fee deposit for an initial franchise, or
for the renewal of a franchise, or for the transfer or change in. control of a
franchise that is authorized by this Chapter, the City Manager may suspend that
application fee deposit in accordance with this Section.
   B.   The City Manager, in consultation with the City Attorney, will review
all written information submitted by the applicant or franchisee in support of
its contention that applicable law prohibits imposition of the application fee
deposit provided for by this Chapter. If a determination is made that
applicable law supports the contention of the applicant or franchisee, then the
City Manager may suspend the imposition of the application fee deposit;
provided, however, that such suspension must be ratified by the City Council
within thirty (30) days after the City Manager’s determination and, if
ratified, the application fee deposit will be deemed to have been waived.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
PART 2.   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEMS
5.40.040   Authority and Findings.
   A.   In accordance with applicable Federal and State law, the City is
authorized to grant one (1) or more nonexclusive franchises to construct,
reconstruct, operate and maintain cable television systems within the City
limits.
   B.   The City Council finds that the development of cable television
services may provide significant benefits for, and substantial impacts upon,
the residents of the City. Because of the complex and rapidly changing
technology associated with cable television, the City Council further finds
that the public convenience, safety, and general welfare can best be served by
establishing regulatory powers to be exercised by the City. This Part 2 is
intended to specify the means for providing to the public the best possible
cable television services, and every franchise issued in accordance with this
Part 2 is intended to achieve this primary objective. It is the further intent
of this Part 2 to adopt regulatory provisions that will enable the City to
regulate cable television services to the maximum extent authorized by Federal
and State law.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.40.050   Franchise Terms and Conditions.
   A.   Franchise Purposes. A franchise granted by the City under the
provisions of this Part 2 may authorize the Grantee to do the following:
      1.   To engage in the business of providing cable television services
that are authorized by law and that Grantee elects to provide to its
subscribers within the designated franchise service area.
      2.   To erect, install, construct, repair, rebuild, reconstruct, replace,
maintain and retain, cable lines, related electronic equipment, supporting
structures, appurtenances and other property in connection with the operation
of the cable system in, on, over, under, upon, along and across streets and
public rights-of-way within the designated franchise service area.
      3.   To maintain and operate the franchise properties for the
origination, reception, transmission, amplification and distribution of
television and radio signals, and for the delivery of cable services and such
other services as may be authorized by law.
   B.   Franchise Required. It is unlawful for any person to construct,
install, or operate a cable television system within any street or public way
in the City without first obtaining a franchise under the provisions of this
Part 2.
   C.   Term of the Franchise.
      1.   A franchise granted under this Part 2 will be for the term specified
in the franchise agreement, commencing upon the effective date of the
resolution adopted by the City Council that authorizes the franchise.
      2.   A franchise granted under this Part 2 may be renewed upon
application by the grantee in accordance with the then-applicable provisions of
state and Federal law and this Part 2.
   D.   Franchise Service Area. A franchise is effective within the territorial
limits of the City, and within any area added to the City during the term of
the franchise, unless otherwise specified in the resolution granting the
franchise or in the franchise agreement.
   E.   Federal or State Jurisdiction. This Part 2 will be construed in a
manner consistent with all applicable Federal and State laws, and it applies to
all franchises granted or renewed after the effective date of this Chapter, to
the extent authorized by applicable law.
   F.   Franchise Non-Transferable.
      1.   Grantee may not sell, transfer, lease, assign, sublet, or dispose
of, in whole or in part, either by forced or involuntary sale, or by ordinary
sale, contract, consolidation or otherwise, the franchise or any of the rights
or privileges therein granted, without the prior written consent of the City
Council, which consent may not be unreasonably denied or delayed. Any attempt
to sell, transfer, lease, assign, or otherwise dispose of the franchise without
the written consent of the City Council is null and void. The granting of a
security interest in any assets of grantee, or any mortgage or other
hypothecation, will not be deemed a transfer for the purposes of this
Subsection. A transfer to a person or entity owned or controlled by or under
common ownership or control of grantee shall not be deemed a transfer for the
purposes of this Subsection.
      2.   The requirements of Subsection 1. apply to any change in control of
grantee. The word “control” as used herein is not limited to the ownership of
major stockholder or partnership interests, but includes actual working control
in whatever manner exercised. If grantee is a partnership or a corporation,
prior authorization of the City Council is required where ownership or control
of twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the partnership interests or of the
voting stock of grantee, or any company in the tier of companies controlling
the grantee, whether directly or indirectly, is acquired by a person or a group
of persons acting in concert, none of whom, individually or collectively, owns
or controls those partnership interests or that voting stock of the grantee, or
grantee’s upper tier of controlling companies, as of the effective date of the
franchise.
      3.   Unless precluded by Federal law, grantee must give prior written
notice to the City of any proposed foreclosure or judicial sale of all or a
substantial part of grantee’s franchise property. That notification will be
considered by the City as notice that a change in control of ownership of the
franchise will take place, and the provisions of this Subsection that require
the prior written consent of the City Council to that change in control of
ownership will apply.
      4.   For the purpose of determining whether it will consent to an
acquisition, transfer or change in control, the City may inquire about the
qualifications of the prospective transferee or controlling party, and grantee
must assist the City in that inquiry. In seeking the City’s consent to any
change of ownership or control, grantee or the proposed transferee, or both,
must complete Federal Communications Commission Form 394 or its equivalent.
This application must be submitted to the City not less than one hundred twenty
(120) days prior to the proposed date of transfer. The transferee must
establish that it possesses the legal, financial, and technical capability to
remedy all then-existing defaults and deficiencies, and, during the remaining
term of the franchise, to operate and maintain the cable system and to comply
with all franchise requirements. If the legal, financial, and technical
qualifications of the proposed transferee are determined to be satisfactory,
then the City will consent to the transfer of the franchise.
      5.   Any financial institution holding a pledge of grantee’s assets to
secure the advance of money for the construction or operation of the franchise
property has the right to notify the City that it, or a designee satisfactory
to the City, will take control of and operate the cable television system upon
grantee’s default in its financial obligations. Further, that financial
institution must also submit a plan for such operation within ninety (90) days
after assuming control. The plan must ensure continued service and compliance
with all franchise requirements during the period that the financial
institution will exercise control over the system. The financial institution
may not exercise control over the system for a period exceeding one (1) year
unless authorized by the City, in its sole discretion, and during that period
of time it will have the right to petition the City to transfer the franchise
to another grantee.
      6.   Unless prohibited by applicable law, grantee must reimburse the City
for the City’s reasonable review and processing expenses incurred in connection
with any transfer or change in control of the franchise. These expenses may
include, without limitation, costs of administrative review, financial, legal,
and technical evaluation of the proposed transferee, consultants (including
technical and legal experts and all costs incurred by these experts), notice
and publication costs, and document preparation expenses. The total amount of
these reimbursable expenses may be subject to maximum limits that are specified
in the franchise agreement between the City and grantee. No reimbursement may
be offset against any franchise fee payable to the City during the term of the
franchise.
   G.   Geographical Coverage.
      1.   Unless otherwise provided in the franchise agreement, grantee must
design, construct, and maintain the cable television system to have the
capability to pass every dwelling unit and commercial building in the franchise
service area, subject to any service-area line extension requirements or
territorial restrictions set forth in the franchise agreement.
      2.   After service has been established by activating trunk or
distribution cables for any service area, grantee must provide standard
installations to any requesting subscriber within that activated part of the
service area within seven (7) days from the date of request, or such longer
time as may be requested by the subscriber, provided that grantee is able to
secure on reasonable terms and conditions all rights-of-way and permits
necessary to extend service to that subscriber within that period. Standard
installations are defined as installations that are located up to one hundred
twenty-five (125) feet from the existing distribution system and do not require
trenching to serve.
   H.   Nonexclusive Franchise. Every franchise granted is nonexclusive. The
City specifically reserves the right to grant, at any time, such additional
franchises for a cable television system that it deems appropriate, subject to
applicable State and Federal law. If an additional franchise is proposed to be
granted to a new applicant, a noticed public hearing must first be held if
required by the provisions of Government Code Section 53066.3.
   I.   Multiple Franchises.
      1.   The City may grant any number of franchises, subject to applicable
State and Federal law. The City may limit the number of franchises granted,
based upon, but not necessarily limited to, the requirements of applicable law
and the following specific local considerations:
         a.   The capacity of the public rights-of-way to accommodate multiple
cables in addition to the cables, conduits, and pipes of the existing utility
systems, such as electrical power, telephone, gas and sewerage.
         b.   The benefits that may accrue to subscribers as a result of cable
system competition, such as lower rates and improved service.
         c.   The disadvantages that may result from cable system competition,
such as the requirement for multiple pedestals on residents’ property, and the
disruption arising from numerous excavations within the public rights-of-way.
      2.   The City may require that any new cable operator be responsible for
its own underground trenching and the associated costs if, in the City’s
opinion, the rights-of-way in any particular area cannot reasonably accommodate
additional cables.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.40.060   Franchise Applications and Renewal.
   A.   Filing of Applications. Any person desiring an initial franchise for a
cable television system must file an application with the City. An application
fee deposit in an amount established by resolution of the City Council must
accompany the application. That application fee deposit will cover all
anticipated costs associated with reviewing and processing the application,
including without limitation costs of administrative review, financial, legal
and technical evaluation of the applicant, consultants (including technical and
legal experts and all costs incurred by those experts), notice and publication
requirements, and document preparation expenses. If actual costs exceed the
application fee deposit, the applicant must pay the difference to the City
within thirty (30) days following receipt of an itemized statement of those
costs. If actual costs are less than the application fee deposit, the remaining
balance will be refunded to the applicant.
   B.   Applications - Contents. An application for an initial franchise for a
cable television system must contain, as applicable:
      1.   A statement describing the proposed franchise service area and an
explanation whether this proposed service area is, or will be, part of a larger
regional cluster of franchise service areas.
      2.   A resume of the applicant’s prior history, including the applicant’s
experience and expertise in the cable television industry.
      3.   A list of the partners, general and limited, of the applicant, if a
partnership, or the percentage of stock owned or controlled by each
stockholder, if a closely-held corporation. If the applicant is a publicly-
owned partnership or corporation, each owner of ten percent (10%) or more of
the partnership interests, or of the issued and outstanding capital stock, must
be identified. If the applicant is a limited liability company, the following
information must be provided: the address of its principal executive office;
the name and business or residence address of each member and of each holder of
an economic interest in the limited liability company, together with the
contribution and the share in profits and losses of each member and holder of
an economic interest; the name and business or residence address of any manager
or managers and the chief executive officer, if any, appointed or elected in
accordance with the articles of organization or operating agreement.
      4.   A list of officers, directors, and managing employees of the
applicant, and a description of the background and qualifications of each such
person.
      5.   A statement specifying the number of people employed by the
applicant, whether on a full-time or part-time basis.
      6.   The names and addresses of any parent or subsidiary of the
applicant, or any other business entity owning or controlling applicant in
whole or in part, or that is owned or controlled in whole or in part by the
applicant.
      7.   Financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles that demonstrate the applicant’s financial ability to:
         a.   Construct, operate, maintain and remove any new physical plant
that is proposed to be constructed in the City.
         b.   Comply with the City’s public, educational, and governmental
access requirements.
         c.   Comply with the City’s requirement that franchise fees be paid on
the applicant’s gross revenues derived from the operation of the cable system
to provide cable services.
      8.   An accurate map showing the location of any existing
telecommunications facilities in the City that the applicant intends to use, to
purchase or to lease.
      9.   A description of the cable services and any other services that will
be offered by the applicant using existing or proposed facilities.
      10.   The proposed construction and service schedule, the proposed rate
structure for cable services, and the proposed commitment to provide public,
educational, and governmental access capacity, services, facilities and
equipment.
      11.   Any additional information that the City deems to be reasonably
necessary to evaluate the applicant’s qualifications.
   C.   Consideration of Initial Applications.
      1.   Upon receipt of an application for an initial franchise, the City
Manager or the City Manager’s designee must prepare a report and make
recommendations to the City Council concerning that application.
      2.   A public hearing will be noticed prior to any initial franchise
grant, at a time and date approved by the City Council. Within thirty (30) days
after the close of the hearing, the City Council will make a decision, based
upon the documents and testimony received at the hearing, whether the franchise
should be granted, and, if granted, subject to what conditions. The City
Council may grant one (1) or more franchises, or may decline to grant any
franchise.
   D.   Franchise Renewal. Franchise renewals will be processed in accordance
with then-applicable law and with the renewal terms, if any, of the franchise
agreement. The City and grantee, by mutual consent, may enter into renewal
negotiations at any time during the term of the franchise. Unless prohibited by
applicable law, a renewal application fee deposit in an amount established by
resolution of the City Council must accompany the renewal application or the
renewal request. That renewal application fee deposit will cover all
anticipated costs associated with reviewing and processing the renewal
application, including the review of grantee’s prior compliance with the
franchise, the ascertainment of the community’s cable-related needs and
interests, the engagement of technical and legal consultants, and expenses
related to negotiations and document preparation. If actual costs exceed the
renewal application fee deposit, grantee must pay the difference to the City
within thirty (30) days following receipt of an itemized statement of those
costs. If actual costs are less than the renewal application fee deposit, the
remaining balance will be refunded to grantee. No renewal application fee may
be offset against any franchise fee payable to the City during the term of the
franchise. The City Council may authorize the renewal of a cable television
franchise agreement by resolution.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.40.070   Contents of Cable Television Franchise Agreements.
   A.   The provisions of a franchise agreement for the operation of a cable
television system may relate to or include, without limitation, the following
subject matters:
      1.   The geographical area, duration and nonexclusive nature of the
franchise.
      2.   The applicable franchise fee to be paid to the City, including the
percentage amount, the method of computation and the time for payment.
      3.   Requirements relating to compliance with and implementation of State
and Federal laws and regulations pertaining to the operation of the cable
television system.
      4.   Requirements relating to the construction, upgrade or rebuild of the
cable television system, as well as the provision of special services, such as
outlets for public buildings, emergency alert capability and parental control
devices.
      5.   Requirements relating to the maintenance of a performance bond, a
security fund, a letter of credit or similar assurances to secure the
performance of the grantee’s obligations under the franchise agreement.
      6.   Requirements relating to comprehensive liability insurance, workers’
compensation insurance and indemnification.
      7.   Requirements relating to consumer protection and customer service
standards, which requirements may include, without limitation, compliance with
the statutes, rules and regulations set forth in Section
5.40.080 below.
      8.   Requirements relating to grantee's support of local cable usage,
including the provision of public, educational and governmental access
channels, the coverage of public meetings and special events and financial
support for the required access channels.
      9.   Requirements relating to grantee's obligation to provide an
institutional network, and channel capacity on that institutional network for
educational or governmental use, subject to the City’s rules and procedures for
the use of such channel capacity and for compatibility with any
telecommunications network that has been or may be developed by the City.
      10.   Requirements relating to construction, operation and maintenance of
the cable television system within the City’s streets and public rights-of-way,
including compliance with all applicable building codes and permit requirements
of the City, the abandonment, removal or relocation of facilities and
compliance with FCC technical standards.
      11.   Requirements relating to record keeping, accounting procedures,
reporting, periodic audits, performance reviews, the inspection of grantee’s
books and records and reimbursement for technical audits and franchise fee
audits under specified circumstances.
      12.   Acts or omissions constituting material breaches of or defaults
under the franchise agreement, and the applicable penalties or remedies for
such breaches or defaults, including fines, penalties, liquidated damages,
suspension, revocation and termination.
      13.   Requirements relating to the sale, assignment or other transfer or
change in control of the franchise.
      14.   Grantee’s obligation to maintain continuity of service and to
authorize, under certain specified circumstances, the City’s operation and
management of the cable system.
      15.   Such additional requirements, conditions, policies and procedures
as may be mutually agreed upon by the parties to the franchise agreement and
that will, in the judgment of City staff and the City Council, best serve the
public interest and protect the public health, welfare and safety.
   B.   If there is any conflict or inconsistency between the provisions of a
franchise agreement authorized by the City Council and provisions of this
Chapter, the provisions of the franchise agreement will control.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.40.080   Consumer Protection and Service Standards.
   A.   Operational Standards.
      1.   Grantee must maintain the necessary facilities, equipment and
personnel to comply with the following consumer protection and service
standards under normal operating conditions:
         a.   Sufficient toll-free telephone line capacity during normal
business hours to ensure that telephone calls are answered promptly. Telephone
answer time by a customer service representative, including wait time, may not
exceed thirty (30) seconds when the connection is made. If the call needs to be
transferred, transfer time must not exceed thirty (30) seconds.
         b.   Callers must receive a busy signal less than three percent (3%)
of the time, measured quarterly.
         c.   Emergency toll-free telephone line capacity on a twenty-four (24)
hour basis, including weekends and holidays. After normal business hours, the
telephone calls may be answered by a service or an automated response system,
including an answering machine. Calls received after normal business hours must
be responded to by a trained company representative on the next business day.
         d.   A conveniently-located local business and service or payment
office open during normal business hours at least eight (8) hours daily on
weekdays, and at least four (4) hours weekly on evenings or weekends, and
adequately staffed with trained customer service representatives to accept
subscriber payments and to respond to service requests, inquiries and
complaints.
         e.   An emergency system maintenance and repair staff, capable of
responding to and repairing major system malfunctions on a twenty-four (24)
hour per day basis.
         f.   A trained installation staff must provide service to any
subscriber requiring a standard installation within seven days after receipt of
a request, or such longer time as may be requested by the subscriber, in all
areas where trunk and feeder cable have been activated. “Standard
installations” are those that are located up to one hundred twenty-five (125)
feet from the existing distribution system, unless otherwise defined in the
franchise agreement.
         g.   Grantee must schedule, within a specified four-hour time period
Monday through Saturday (legal holidays excluded), all appointments with
subscribers for installation of service, service calls and other activities at
the subscriber’s location. Grantee may schedule installation and service calls
outside of normal business hours for the convenience of the subscriber. Grantee
may not cancel an appointment with a subscriber after the close of business on
the business day prior to the scheduled appointment, except in the case of an
emergency. If a grantee representative is delayed in keeping an appointment
with a subscriber and will not be able to honor the scheduled appointment, the
subscriber must be contacted prior to the time of the scheduled appointment,
and the appointment must be rescheduled, as necessary, at a time that is
convenient for the subscriber. Grantee must undertake appropriate quality
control measures to ensure that the customer is satisfied with the work.
         h.   Subscribers who have experienced a late or a missed appointment
due to the fault of grantee will receive either a free installation or a twenty
dollar ($20.00) credit.
         i.   Upon a subscriber’s request, grantee will arrange for pickup or
replacement of converters or other equipment provided by the grantee at the
subscriber’s address within fourteen (14) days after the request is made if the
subscriber is mobility-limited,
      2.   Under normal operating conditions, the standards of Subsections a.,
b., c, f. and g. above must be met not less than ninety percent (90%) of the
time, measured on a quarterly basis. Upon grantor’s request, grantee must
submit to the City quarterly reports setting forth its compliance with those
standards.
   B.   Service Standards.
      1.   Grantee will render efficient service, make repairs promptly, and
interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible.
Except in emergency situations, scheduled interruptions will occur during a
period of minimum use of the cable system, preferably between 12:00 midnight
and 6:00 a.m. Unless the scheduled interruption lasts for no more than two (2)
hours and occurs between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. (in which event twenty-
four (24) hours prior notice must be given to the City), forty-eight (48) hours
prior notice must be given to subscribers.
      2.   Grantee will maintain a repair force of technicians who will respond
to subscriber requests for service within the following time frames:
         a.   For a system outage: Within two (2) hours, including weekends,
after receiving subscriber calls or requests for service that by number
identify a system outage of sound or picture on one or more channels, affecting
five (5) or more subscribers to the system.
         b.   For an isolated outage: Within twenty-four (24) hours, including
weekends, after receiving requests for service identifying an isolated outage
of sound or picture on one (1) or more channels.
         c.   For inferior signal quality: No later than the following business
day, excluding Sundays and holidays, after a request for service identifying a
problem concerning picture or sound quality.
      3.   Grantee will be deemed to have responded to a request for service
under the provisions of this Subsection B. when a technician arrives at the
service location and begins work on the problem if the problem cannot be
corrected remotely. If a subscriber is not home when the technician arrives,
the technician must leave written notification of arrival.
      4.   Grantee may not charge for the repair or replacement of defective or
malfunctioning equipment provided by grantee to subscribers, unless the defect
or malfunction was caused by the subscriber.
      5.   Grantee must determine the nature of the problem within twenty-four
(24) hours after commencing work and resolve all cable system related problems
within three (3) business days, unless technically infeasible.
   C.   Billing and Information Standards.
      1.   Subscriber bills must be clear, concise and understandable. Bills
must be fully itemized, with itemizations including, but not limited to, basic
and premium service charges and equipment charges. Bills must also clearly
delineate all activity during the billing period, including optional charges,
rebates and credits.
      2.   The first billing to a subscriber after a new installation or
service change must be prorated based upon when the new or changed service
commenced. Subscribers must not be charged a late fee or otherwise penalized
for any failure attributable to grantee, including the failure to timely or
correctly bill the subscriber.
      3.   In case of a billing dispute, grantee must respond in writing to a
written complaint from a subscriber within thirty (30) days after receiving the
complaint at the office specified on the billing statement for receiving that
complaint.
      4.   Upon request by a subscriber, credits or refunds must be provided by
grantee to subscribers who experience an outage, interruption or disconnection
of service of four (4) or more consecutive hours, provided that such loss of
service is neither caused by the subscriber nor attributable to scheduled
repairs, maintenance or construction in circumstances where grantee has
provided advance written notice to subscriber, and the loss of service does not
exceed the time period specified by grantee. For subscribers terminating
service, credits or refunds must be issued promptly, but no later than thirty
(30) days after the return of any grantee-supplied equipment.
      5.   Grantee must provide written information on each of the following
matters at the time of the installation of service, at least annually to all
subscribers, and at any time upon request:
         a.   Products and services offered.
         b.   Prices and options for programming services and conditions of
subscription to programming and other services.
         c.   Installation and service maintenance policies.
         d.   Instructions on the use of the cable service.
         e.   Channel positions of programming carried on the system,
         f.   Billing and complaint procedures.
         g.   Consumer protection and service standards and penalties for
noncompliance.
      6.   Subscribers must be notified in writing of any changes in rates,
programming services, or channel positions as soon as possible. Notice must be
given to subscribers a minimum of thirty (30) days in advance of those changes
if the change is within the control of the grantee. In addition, grantee will
endeavor to notify grantor of those changes at least five (5) working days
before subscribers are notified.
      7.   Grantee must maintain a public file containing all written notices
provided to subscribers under these consumer protection and service standards
and all published promotional offers made by grantee to subscribers. These
documents must be maintained for a minimum period of two (2) years.
   D.   Verification of Compliance with Standards.
      1.   Upon thirty (30) days prior written notice, the City may require
grantee to provide a written report demonstrating its compliance with any of
the consumer service standards specified in this Section. Grantee must provide
sufficient documentation to enable the City to verify compliance.
      2.   A repeated and verifiable pattern of noncompliance with the consumer
protection and service standards of this Section, after the grantee’s receipt
of written notice and an opportunity to cure, may be deemed a material breach
of the franchise agreement.
   E.   Subscriber Complaints and Disputes.
      1.   Grantee must establish written procedures for receiving, acting upon
and resolving subscriber complaints without intervention by the City. The
written procedures must prescribe the manner in which a subscriber may submit a
complaint, either orally or in writing, specifying the subscriber’s grounds for
dissatisfaction. The grantee must file a copy of these procedures with the
City. These procedures must include a requirement consistent with Section
5.40.080.C.3.
      2.   Upon request, and subject to applicable law protecting subscriber
privacy rights, the City has the right to review grantee’s response to
subscriber complaints.
      3.   All subscribers have the right to continue receiving service so long
as their financial and other obligations to grantee are honored. If grantee
elects to rebuild, modify, or sell the system, or if grantor gives notice of
intent to terminate or not to renew the franchise, grantee must act to ensure
that all subscribers receive service while the franchise remains in force.
      4.   Upon a change of control of grantee, or if a new operator acquires
the cable system, the original grantee must cooperate with grantor, or the new
operator in maintaining continuity of service to all subscribers. During that
transition period, grantee is entitled to the revenues derived from its
operation of the cable system.
   F.   Disconnection and Downgrades.
      1.   A subscriber may terminate or downgrade service at any time, and
grantee must promptly comply with the subscriber's request within seven (7)
days or at any later time requested by the subscriber. No period of notice
prior to voluntary termination or downgrade of service may be required of
subscribers. Grantee will impose no charges for the voluntary termination of
all services unless a visit to the subscriber’s premises is required to remove
a converter box or other equipment or property owned by grantee. Grantee may,
in accordance with applicable law, charge a fee to downgrade service if a
service call is required.
      2.   Grantee may disconnect a subscriber’s service in compliance with
paragraphs I, J, and K of Government Code Section 53088.2. If service is
disconnected for nonpayment of past due fees or charges, grantee must promptly
reinstate service upon payment in full by the subscriber of all such fees and
charges, including late charges.
      3.   Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection 2. above, grantee may
immediately disconnect service to a subscriber if the subscriber is damaging or
destroying the grantee’s cable system or equipment.
      4.   Grantee may also disconnect service to a subscriber when service
causes signal leakage exceeding Federal limits. If service is disconnected,
grantee will immediately resume service without charge upon the satisfactory
correction of the signal leakage problem if the signal leakage problem is
attributable to grantee.
      5.   Grantee may also disconnect service in cases where customers are
stealing service or have made threats of physical violence upon grantee’s
personnel.
      6.   Upon termination of service to a subscriber, grantee will endeavor
to remove its equipment from the subscriber’s premises within thirty (30) days.
   G.   Changes in Service. Except as otherwise provided by Federal or State
law, subscribers must not be required to pay any additional fee or charge,
other than the regular service fee, in order to receive the services selected.
No charge may be imposed for any service or equipment that the subscriber has
not affirmatively selected. Payment of the regular monthly bill will not by
itself constitute an affirmative selection.
   H.   Deposits. Grantee may require a reasonable, nondiscriminatory deposit
on equipment provided to subscribers. Such deposits must be placed in an
interest-bearing account. The deposit must be returned, with interest earned to
the date of repayment, within thirty (30) days after the equipment is returned
to grantee.
   I.   Parental Control Option. Grantee must provide parental control devices
at no charge to all subscribers who desire to block the video or audio portion
of any pay channels providing adult programming that the subscriber finds
objectionable. For other programming, such devices will be provided at a
reasonable charge to the subscriber.
   J.   Additional Requirements.
      1.   All officers, agents, and employees of grantee, or of its
contractors or subcontractors, who, in the normal course of work come into
contact with members of the public, or who require entry onto subscribers’
premises, must display a photo-identification card. Grantee must account for
all identification cards at all times. All vehicles of grantee or its
subcontractors must be clearly identified as vehicles engaged in providing
services for grantee.
      2.   In addition to the consumer protection and service standards
specified in this Section, grantee must comply with all applicable consumer
protection and service standards that are imposed upon cable operators by the
following:
         a.   Federal statutes, and the rules, regulations and orders of the
FCC, including the following:
            (1)   The provisions of 47 CFR 76.630 as it now exists or may later
be amended, which relate to compatibility with consumer electronics equipment.
            (2)   The provisions of 47 U.S.C. § 551 as it now exists or may
later be amended, which relate to the protection of subscriber privacy.
         b.   The provisions of Government Code Sections 53054 et seq., which
is titled the “Cable Television and Video Provider Customer Service and
Information Act.”
         c.   The provisions of Government Code Sections 53088 et seq., which
is titled the “Video Customer Service Act.”
         d.   The provisions of Civil Code Section 1722(b)(1)-(6), which relate
to service or repair transactions between cable television companies and their
subscribers.
         e.   The provisions of Penal Code Section 637.5, which relate to
subscribers’ rights to privacy protection.
      3.   If there is any conflict or inconsistency between a consumer
protection and service standard specified in this Section, and a standard set
forth in the statutes, rules, regulations, and orders that are referenced above
in Subsection 2., then the standard that is specified in this Section will
apply to the extent authorized by applicable law.
   K.   Penalties for Noncompliance.
      1.   Purpose. The purpose of this paragraph is to authorize monetary
penalties for the violation of the customer service standards established by
this Section. The liquidated damages or other monetary sanctions applicable to
grantee’s material violation of any customer service standards set forth in
this Subsection will be specified in the franchise agreement between the City
and grantee. The imposition of penalties authorized by this Subsection will not
prevent the City or any other affected party from exercising any other remedy
to the extent permitted by law.
      2.   Administration and Appeals.
         a.   Assessment of Monetary Penalties. The City Manager or the City
Manager’s designee is authorized to administer this Subsection. Decisions by
the City Manager to assess monetary penalties against grantee must be in
writing and must contain findings supporting the decisions. Decisions by the
City Manager are final, unless appealed to the City Council.
         b.   Appeals to City Council. If grantee or any interested person is
aggrieved by a decision of the City Manager, the aggrieved party may, within
ten (10) days of the written decision, appeal that decision in writing to the
City Council. The City Council may affirm, modify or reverse the decision of
the City Manager.
         c.   Judicial Remedy. This paragraph does not preclude any affected
party from pursuing any judicial remedy available to that party without regard
to this Subsection.
         d.   Notification of Violation. The City must give grantee written
notice of any alleged violation of the consumer service standards and allow
grantee at least thirty (30) days from receipt of the notice to remedy the
specified violations. For the purpose of assessing penalties, a material breach
is deemed to have occurred for each day, following the expiration of the period
for cure specified herein, that any breach has not been remedied by grantee,
irrespective of the number of subscribers affected.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
PART 3.   OPEN VIDEO SYSTEMS
5.40.090   Applicability.
The provisions of this Part 3 apply to an open video system operator, as
defined in Section
5.40.020, that intends to deliver video programming to consumers in the City
over an open video system.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.40.100   Application Required.
   A.   Before commencing the delivery of video programming services to
consumers in the City over an open video system, the open video system operator
must file an application with the City. That application must include or be
accompanied by the following, as applicable:
      1.   The identity of the applicant, including all affiliates of the
applicant.
      2.   Copies of FCC Form 1275, all “Notices of Intent” filed under 47 CAR
76.1503(b)(1), and the Order of the FCC, all of which relate to certification
of the applicant to operate an open video system in the City in accordance with
Communications Act Section 653(a)(1) and the FCC’s rules.
      3.   The area or areas of the City that the applicant desires to serve.
      4.   A description of the open video system services that will be offered
by the applicant over its existing or proposed facilities.
      5.   A description of the transmission medium that will be used by the
applicant to deliver the open video system services.
      6.   Information in sufficient detail to establish the applicant’s
technical qualifications, experience and expertise regarding the ownership and
operation of the open video system described in the application.
      7.   Financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles that demonstrate the applicant’s financial ability to:
         a.   Construct, operate, maintain and remove any new physical plant
that is proposed to be constructed in the City.
         b.   Comply with the City’s public, educational and governmental
access requirements as specified below in Section
5.40.120B.4.
         c.   Comply with the City’s requirement that gross revenue fees be
paid in the maximum amount authorized under Federal law, as specified below in
Section
5.40.120B.2.
      8.   An accurate map showing the location of any existing
telecommunications facilities in the City that the applicant intends to use, to
purchase or to lease.
      9.   If the applicant’s operation of the open video system will require
the construction of new physical plant and facilities in the City, the
following additional information must be provided:
         a.   A preliminary construction schedule and completion dates.
         b.   Preliminary engineering plans, specifications and a network map
of any new facilities to be constructed in the City, in sufficient detail to
identify:
            (1)   The location and route requested for the applicant’s proposed
facilities.
            (2)   The locations, if any, for interconnection with the
facilities of other telecommunications service providers.
            (3)   The specific structures, improvements, facilities and
obstructions, if any, that the applicant proposes to add, remove or relocate on
a temporary or permanent basis.
         c.   The applicant’s statement that, in constructing any new physical
plant, the applicant will comply with all applicable ordinances, rules and
regulations of the City, including the payment of all required permit and
processing fees.
      10.   The information and documentation that is required to be submitted
to the City by a video provider, as specified below in Subsection B. of Section
5.40.140.
      11.   Such additional information as may be requested by the City
Manager.
      12.   An application fee deposit in an amount established by resolution
of the City Council.
   B.   If any item of information specified above in Subsection A. is
determined under Federal or State law to be unlawful, the City Manager is
authorized to waive the requirement that such information be included in the
application.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.40.110   Review of the Application.
Within thirty (30) days after receipt of an application filed under Section
5.40.100 that is deemed to be complete, the City Manager will give written
notice to the applicant of the City’s intent to negotiate an agreement setting
forth the terms and conditions under which the operation of the proposed open
video system will be authorized by the City. The commencement of those
negotiations will be on a date that is mutually acceptable to the City and to
the applicant.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.40.120   Agreement Required.
   A.   No video programming services may be provided in the City by an open
video system operator unless the operator and the City have executed a written
agreement, which may be designated as a franchise, setting forth the terms and
conditions under which the operation of the proposed open video system will be
authorized by the City. That agreement may be authorized and approved by
resolution of the City Council.
   B.   The agreement between the City and the open video system operator may
contain provisions that relate to the following subject matters, to the extent
that such provisions and subject matters are not preempted by Federal law or
regulations:
      1.   The nature, scope and duration of the agreement, including
provisions for its renewal or extension.
      2.   The obligation of the open video system operator to pay to the City,
at specified times and in lieu of the franchise fees permitted under
Communications Act Section 522, fees on the gross revenue received by the
operator, as authorized by 47 CAR 76.1511, in accordance with the following
standards and procedures:
         a.   The amount of the fees on the gross revenue will be the maximum
amount authorized by Communications Act Section 653(c)(2)(B), which is the rate
imposed by the City on the existing franchised cable operator.
         b.   The term “gross revenue” means (i) all gross revenue received by
an open video system operator or its affiliates, including all revenue received
from subscribers and all carriage revenue received from unaffiliated video
programming providers; and (ii) all advertising revenue received by the
operator or its affiliates in connection with the provision of video
programming, where such revenue is included in the calculation of the cable
franchise fee paid to the City by the incumbent franchised cable operator. The
term “gross revenue” does not include revenue, such as subscriber or
advertising revenue, collected by unaffiliated video programming providers.
      3.   The obligation of the open video system operator to comply with
requirements relating to information collection and record keeping, accounting
procedures, reporting, periodic audits, and inspection of records in order to
ensure the accuracy of the fees on the gross revenue that are required to be
paid as specified above in Subsection 2.
      4.   The obligation of the open video system operator to meet the City’s
requirements with respect to public, educational and governmental access
channel capacity, services, facilities and equipment, as provided for in 47 CAR
76.1505. In this regard, the following standards and procedures are applicable:
         a.   The open video system operator is subject to the same public,
educational and governmental access requirements that apply within the cable
television franchise service area with which its system overlaps.
         b.   The open video system operator must ensure that all subscribers
receive all public, educational and governmental access channels within the
franchise service area in which the City’s subscribers are located.
         c.   The open video system operator may negotiate with the City to
establish the operator’s obligations with respect to public, educational and
governmental access channel capacity, services, facilities and equipment. These
negotiations may include the City's franchised cable operator if the City, the
open video system operator, and the franchised cable operator so desire.
         d.   If the open video system operator and the City are unable to
reach an agreement regarding the operator’s obligations with respect to public,
educational and governmental access channel capacity, services, facilities and
equipment within the City’s jurisdiction, then the following obligations will
be imposed:
            (1)   The open video system operator must satisfy the same public,
educational, and governmental access obligations as the City’s franchised cable
operator by providing the same amount of channel capacity for public,
educational and governmental access and by matching the City’s franchised cable
operator's annual financial contributions in support of public, educational and
governmental access services, facilities and equipment that are actually used
by the City. For in-kind contributions, such as cameras or production studios,
the open video system operator may satisfy its statutory obligation by
negotiating mutually agreeable terms with the City’s franchised cable operator,
so that public, educational and governmental access services to the City are
improved or increased. If such terms cannot be agreed upon, the open video
system operator must pay to the City the monetary equivalent of the franchised
cable operator’s depreciated in-kind contribution, or, in the case of
facilities, the annual amortization value. Any matching contributions provided
by the open video system operator must be used to fund activities arising under
Communications Act Section 611.
            (2)   The City will impose upon the open video system operator the
same rules and procedures that it imposes upon the franchised cable operator
with regard to the open video system operator’s use of channel capacity
designated for public, educational and governmental access use when that
capacity is not being used for such purposes.
         e.   The City’s franchised cable operator is required under Federal
law to permit the open video system operator to connect with its public,
educational and governmental access channel feeds. The open video system
operator and the franchised cable operator may decide how to accomplish this
connection, taking into consideration the physical and technical
characteristics of the cable and the open video systems involved. If the
franchised cable operator and the open video system operator cannot agree on
how to accomplish the connection, the City has the right to decide. The City
may require that the connection occur on City-owned property or on public
rights-of-way.
         f.   All costs of connection to the franchised cable operator’s
public, educational and governmental access channel feed must be borne by the
open video system operator. These costs will be counted towards the open video
system operator’s matching financial contributions set forth above in
Subsection d.(1).
         g.   The City will not impose upon the open video system operator any
public, educational, or governmental access obligations that are greater than
those imposed upon the incumbent franchised cable operator.
         h.   If there is no incumbent franchised cable operator, the
provisions of 47 CAR 76.1505(d)(6) will be applicable in determining the
obligations of the open video system operator.
         i.   The open video system operator must adjust its system to comply
with new public, educational and access obligations imposed on the City’s
incumbent franchised cable operator following a renewal of the cable television
franchise; provided, however, that the open video system operator will not be
required to displace other programmers using its open video system to
accommodate public, educational and governmental access channels. The open
video system operator must comply with such new public, educational and
governmental access obligations whenever additional capacity is or becomes
available, whether it is due to increased channel capacity or to decreased
demand for channel capacity.
      5.   If the City and the open video system operator cannot agree on the
application of the FCC’s rules regarding the open video system operator's
obligations to provide public, educational and governmental access under the
provisions of Subsection 4 set forth above, then either party may file a
complaint with the FCC in accordance with the dispute resolution procedures set
forth in 47 CAR 76.1514. No agreement will be executed by the City until the
dispute has been finally resolved.
      6.   If the open video system operator intends to maintain an
institutional network, as defined in Communications Act Section 611(f), the
City will require that educational and governmental access channels be
designated on that institutional network to the same extent that those channels
are designated on the institutional network of the City’s franchised cable
operator.
      7.   The authority of an open video system operator to exercise editorial
control over any public, educational or governmental use of channel capacity
will be restricted in accordance with the provisions of 47 CAR 76.1505(f).
      8.   The obligation of the open video system operator to comply with all
applicable Federal, State and local statutes, ordinances and regulations
relating to customer service standards, including those specified in Section
5.40.080.
      9.   If new physical plant is proposed to be constructed within the City,
the obligation of the open video system operator to comply with the following
rights-of-way use and management responsibilities that are also imposed by the
City upon other cable television and telecommunications service providers in a
nondiscriminatory and competitively neutral manner:
         a.   Compliance with all applicable state statutes and City codes,
including applications for excavation, encroachment and construction permits
and the payment of all required permit and inspection fees.
         b.   The coordination of construction activities.
         c.   Compliance with established standards and procedures for
constructing lines across private property.
         d.   Compliance with all applicable insurance and indemnification
requirements.
         e.   The repair and resurfacing of construction-damaged streets.
         f.   Compliance with all public safety requirements that are
applicable to cable television and telecommunications service providers using
public property or public rights-of-way.
      10.   Acts or omissions constituting breaches or defaults of the
agreement, and the applicable penalties, liquidated damages and other remedies,
including fines or the suspension, revocation or termination of the agreement.
      11.   Requirements relating to the sale, assignment or transfer of the
open video system.
      12.   Requirements relating to the open video system operator’s
compliance with and implementation of State and Federal laws, rules and
regulations pertaining to the operation of the open video system.
      13.   Such additional requirements, conditions, terms, policies and
procedures as may be mutually agreed upon by the City and the open video system
operator and that will, in the judgment of the City Council, best serve the
public interest and protect the public health, welfare and safety.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
PART 4.   OTHER VIDEO AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES AND SYSTEMS
5.40.130   Other Multichannel Video Programming Distributors.
The term “cable system,” as defined in Federal law and as set forth in Section
5.40.020, does not include a facility that serves subscribers without using any
public rights-of-way. Consequently, the categories of multichannel video
programming identified below are not deemed to be “cable systems” and are
therefore exempt from the City’s franchise requirements and from certain other
local regulatory provisions authorized by Federal law, provided that their
distribution or transmission facilities do not involve the use of the City’s
streets or public rights-of-way.
   A.   Multichannel multipoint distribution service (“MMES”), also known as
“wireless cable,” which typically involves the transmission by an FCC-licensed
operator of numerous broadcast stations from a central location using line-of-
sight technology.
   B.   Local multipoint distribution service ("LMDS"), another form of over-
the-air wireless video service for which licenses are auctioned by the FCC, and
which offers video programming, telephony and data networking services.
   C.   Direct broadcast satellite ("DBS"), also referred to as “direct-to-home
satellite services,” which involves the distribution or broadcasting of
programming or services by satellite directly to the subscriber’s premises
without the use of ground receiving or distribution equipment, except at the
subscriber’s premises or in the uplink process to the satellite. Local
regulation of direct-to-home satellite services is further proscribed by the
following Federal statutory provisions:
      1.   47 U.S.C. § 303(v) confers upon the FCC exclusive jurisdiction to
regulate the provision of direct-to-home satellite services.
      2.   Telecommunications Act of 1996 Section 602 states that a provider of
direct-to-home satellite service is exempt from the collection or remittance,
or both, of any tax or fee imposed by any local taxing jurisdiction on direct-
to-home satellite service, The terms “tax” and “fee” are defined by Federal
statute to mean any local sales tax, local use tax, local intangible tax, local
income tax, business license fee, utility tax, privilege tax, gross receipts
tax, excise tax, franchise fees, local telecommunications tax, or any other
tax, license or fee that is imposed for the privilege of doing business,
regulating, or raising revenue for a local taxing jurisdiction.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.40.140   Video Providers - Registration; Customer Service Standards.
   A.   Notwithstanding the definition of the term “video provider” in Section
5.40.020, the provisions of this Section
5.40.140 do not apply to providers of direct-to-home satellite services, also
known as direct broadcast satellite (“DBS”).
   B.   Unless the customer protection and customer service obligations of a
video provider, as that term is defined in Section
5.40.020 (but excluding "DBS"), are specified in a franchise, license, lease or
similar written agreement with the City, a video provider must comply with all
applicable provisions of the following state statutes:
      1.   The Cable Television and Video Customer Service and Information Act
(Government Code Sections 53054 et seq.).
      2.   The Video Customer Service Act (Government Code Sections 53088 et
seq.).
   C.   All video providers that are operating in the City on the effective
date of this Chapter, or that intend to operate in the City after its effective
date, and are not required under applicable law to operate under a franchise,
license, lease or similar written agreement with the City, must register with
the City. The registration form must include or be accompanied by the
following:
      1.   The video provider’s name, address and local telephone numbers.
      2.   The names of the officers of the video provider.
      3.   A copy of the video provider’s written policies and procedures
relating to customer service standards and the handling of customer complaints,
as required by Government Code Sections 53054 et seq. These customer service
standards must include, without limitation, standards regarding the following:
         a.   Installation, disconnection, service and repair obligations,
employee identification and service call response time and scheduling.
         b.   Customer service telephone and office hours.
         c.   Procedures for billing, charges, refunds and credits.
         d.   Procedures for termination of service.
         e.   Notice of the deletion of a programming service, the changing of
channel assignments or an increase in rates.
         f.   Complaint procedures and procedures for bill dispute resolution.
         g.   The video provider’s written acknowledgment of its obligation
under Government Code Section 53055.1 to provide to new customers a notice
describing the customer service standards specified above in Subsections a.
through f. at the time of installation or when service is initiated. The notice
must also include, in addition to all of the information described above in
Subsections a. through f., all of the following:
            (1)   A listing of the services offered by the video provider that
clearly describes all levels of service and the rates for each level of
service.
            (2)   The telephone number or numbers through which customers may
subscribe to, change or terminate service, request customer service or seek
general or billing information.
            (3)   A description of the rights and remedies that the video
provider may make available to its customers if the video provider does not
materially meet its customer service standards.
         h.    The video provider’s written commitment to distribute annually
to its employees and customers, and to the City, a notice describing the
customer service standards specified above in Subsections a. through f. This
annual notice must include the report of the video provider on its performance
in meeting its customer service standards, as required by Government Code
Section 53055.2. Subject to the written notice and cure provisions of
Government Code Section 53056(b), a video provider that fails to distribute the
annual notice required by Government Code Section 53055.1 will be assessed a
monetary penalty in the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each year in
which the annual notice is not distributed to all of its customers.
      4.   Unless a video provider is exempt under Federal law from its
payment, a registration fee in an amount established by resolution of the City
Council to cover the reasonable costs incurred by the City in reviewing and
processing the registration form.
      5.   In addition to the registration fee specified above in Subsection
4., the written commitment of the video provider to pay to the City, when due,
all costs and expenses reasonably incurred by the City in resolving any
disputes between the video provider and its subscribers, which dispute
resolution is mandated by Government Code Section 53088.2(o).
   D.   The customer service obligations imposed upon video providers by the
Video Customer Service Act (Government Code Sections 53088 et seq.) consist of
the following:
      1.   Every video provider must render reasonably efficient service, make
repairs promptly and interrupt service only as necessary.
      2.   All video provider personnel contacting subscribers or potential
subscribers outside the office of the provider must be clearly identified as
associated with the video provider.
      3.   At the time of installation, and annually thereafter, all video
providers must provide to all customers a written notice of the programming
offered, the prices for that programming, the provider’s installation and
customer service policies, and the name, address and telephone number of the
City’s office that is designated for receiving complaints.
      4.   All video providers must have knowledgeable, qualified company
representatives available to respond to customer telephone inquiries Monday
through Friday, excluding holidays, during normal business hours.
      5.   All video providers must provide to customers a toll-free or local
telephone number for installation, service and complaint calls. These calls
must be answered promptly by the video providers.
      6.   All video providers must render bills that are accurate and
understandable.
      7.   All video providers must respond promptly to a complete outage in a
customer’s service. The response must occur within twenty-four (24) hours of
the reporting of that outage to the provider, except in those situations beyond
the reasonable control of the video provider. A video provider will be deemed
to respond to a complete outage when a company representative arrives at the
outage location within twenty-four (24) hours and begins to resolve the
problem.
      8.   All video providers must provide a minimum of thirty (30) days
written notice before increasing rates or deleting channels. All video
providers must make every reasonable effort to submit the notice to the City in
advance of its distribution to customers. The thirty (30) day notice is waived
if the increases in rates or deletion of channels are outside the control of
the video provider. In those cases, the video provider must make reasonable
efforts to provide customers with as much notice as possible.
      9.   All video providers must allow every residential customer who pays
his/her bill directly to the video provider at least fifteen (15) days from the
date the bill for services is mailed to the customer, to pay the listed charges
unless otherwise agreed to pursuant to a residential rental agreement
establishing tenancy. Customer payments must be posted promptly. No video
provider may terminate residential service for nonpayment of a delinquent
account unless the video provider furnishes notice of the delinquency and
impending termination at least fifteen (15) days prior to the proposed
termination. The notice must be mailed, postage prepaid, to the customer to
whom the service is billed. Notice must not be mailed until the sixteenth
(16th) day after the date the bill for services was mailed to the customer. The
notice of delinquency and impending termination may be part of a billing
statement. No video provider may assess a late fee any earlier than the twenty-
second (22nd) day after the bill for service has been mailed.
      10.   Every notice of termination of service pursuant to the preceding
Subsection 9. must include all of the following information:
         a.   The name and address of the customer whose account is delinquent.
         b.   The amount of the delinquency.
         c.   The date by which payment is required in order to avoid
termination of service.
         d.   The telephone number of a representative of the video provider
who can provide additional information and handle complaints or initiate an
investigation concerning the service and charges in question. Service may only
be terminated on days in which the customer can reach a representative of the
video provider either in person or by telephone.
      11.   Any service terminated without good cause must be restored without
charge for the service restoration. Good cause includes, but is not limited to,
failure to pay, payment by check for which there are insufficient funds, theft
of service, abuse of equipment or system personnel or other similar subscriber
actions.
      12.   All video providers must issue requested refund checks promptly,
but no later than forty-five (45) days following the resolution of any dispute,
and following the return of the equipment supplied by the video provider, if
service is terminated.
      13.   All video providers must issue security or customer deposit refund
checks promptly, but no later than forty-five (45) days following the
termination of service, less any deductions permitted by law.
      14.   Video providers must not disclose the name and address of a
subscriber for commercial gain to be used in mailing lists or for other
commercial purposes not reasonably related to the conduct of the businesses of
the video providers or their affiliates, unless the video providers have
provided to the subscriber a notice, separate or included in any other customer
notice, that clearly and conspicuously describes the subscriber’s ability to
prohibit that disclosure. Video providers must provide an address and telephone
number for a local subscriber to use without toll charge to prevent disclosure
of the subscriber’s name and address.
   E.   As authorized by Government Code Section 53088(q), the following
schedule of penalties is adopted. These penalties may be imposed for the
material breach by a video provider of the consumer protection and service
standards, that are set forth above in Subsection D, provided that the breach
is within the reasonable control of the video provider. These penalties are in
addition to any other remedies authorized by this article or by any other law,
and the City has discretion to elect the remedy that it will apply. The
imposition of penalties authorized by this Subsection E. will not prevent the
City or any other affected party from exercising any other remedy to the extent
permitted by law, including but not limited to any judicial remedy as provided
below in Subsection 2.
      1.   Schedule of Penalties.
         a.   For a first material breach: the maximum penalty is two hundred
dollars ($200.00) for each day of material breach, but not to exceed a
cumulative total of six hundred dollars ($600.00) for each occurrence of
material breach, irrespective of the number of customers affected.
         b.   For a second material breach of the same nature for which a
monetary penalty was previously assessed within the preceding twelve (12) month
period: the maximum penalty is four hundred dollars ($400.00) per day, not to
exceed a cumulative total of one thousand two hundred dollars ($1,200.00) for
each occurrence of the material breach, irrespective of the number of customers
affected.
         c.   For a third or further material breach of the same nature for
which a monetary penalty was previously assessed within the preceding twelve
(12) month period: the maximum penalty is one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per
day, not to exceed a cumulative total of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) for
each occurrence of the material breach, irrespective of the number of customers
affected.
         d.   The maximum penalties referenced above may be increased by any
additional amount authorized by state law.
      2.   Judicial Remedies Not Affected. The imposition of penalties in
accordance with the provisions of Subsection 1. above does not preclude any
affected party from pursuing any judicial remedy that is available to that
party.
      3.   Administration. Notice and Appeal.
         a.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee is authorized to
administer this Subsection E. Decisions by the City Manager to assess penalties
against a video provider must be in writing and must contain findings
supporting the decisions. Decisions by the City Manager are final, unless
appealed to the City Council.
         b.   If the video provider or any interested person is aggrieved by a
decision of the City Manager, the aggrieved party may, within ten (10) days of
the written decision, appeal that decision in writing to the City Council. The
City Council may affirm, modify or reverse the decision of the City Manager.
         c.   The imposition of monetary penalties under Subsection 1. above is
subject to the following requirements and limitations:
            (1)   The City must give the video provider written notice of any
alleged material breach and must allow the video provider at least thirty (30)
days from receipt of that notice to remedy the breach.
            (2)   For the purpose of assessing monetary penalties, a material
breach will be deemed to have occurred for each day following the expiration of
the period for cure specified in Subsection (1) above that the material breach
has not been remedied by the video provider, irrespective of the number of
customers affected.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.40.150   Telecommunications Service Provided by Telephone Corporations.
   A.   The City Council finds and determines as follows:
      1.   The Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996 preempts and declares
invalid all state rules that restrict entry or limit competition in both local
and long-distance telephone service.
      2.   The California Public Utilities Commission (“CPUC”) is primarily
responsible for the implementation of local telephone competition, and it
issues certificates of public convenience and necessity to new entrants that
are qualified to provide competitive local telephone exchange services and
related telecommunications service, whether using their own facilities or the
facilities or services provided by other authorized telephone corporations.
      3.   California Public Utilities Code Section 234(a) defines a “telephone
corporation” as “every corporation or person owning, controlling, operating or
managing any telephone line for compensation within this state.”
      4.   California Public Utilities Code Section 616 provides that a
telephone corporation “may condemn any property necessary for the construction
and maintenance of its telephone line.”
      5.   California Public Utilities Code Section 2902 authorizes municipal
corporations to retain their powers of control to supervise and regulate the
relationships between a public utility and the general public in matters
affecting the health, convenience, and safety of the general public, including
matters such as the use and repair of public streets by any public utility and
the location of the poles, wires, mains or conduits of any public utility on,
under or above any public streets.
      6.   California Public Utilities Code Section 7901 authorizes telephone
and telegraph corporations to construct telephone or telegraph lines along and
upon any public road or highway, along or across any of the waters or lands
within this state, and to erect poles, posts, piers or abutments for supporting
the insulators, wires and other necessary fixtures of their lines, in such
manner and at such points as not to incommode the public use of the road or
highway or interrupt the navigation of the waters.
      7.   California Public Utilities Code Section 7901.1 confirms the right
of municipalities to exercise reasonable control as to the time, place and
manner in which roads, highways and waterways are accessed, which control must
be applied to all entities in an equivalent manner. Nothing in Section 7901.1
adds to or subtracts from any existing authority that municipalities have with
respect to the imposition of fees.
      8.   Government Code Section 50030 provides that any permit fee imposed
by a city for the placement, installation, repair or upgrading of
telecommunications facilities, such as lines, poles or antennas, by a telephone
corporation that has obtained all required authorizations from the CPUC and the
FCC to provide telecommunications services, must not exceed the reasonable
costs of providing the service for which the fee is charged, and must not be
levied for general revenue purposes.
   B.   In recognition of and in compliance with the statutory authorizations
and requirements set forth above in Subsection A., the following regulatory
provisions are applicable to a telephone corporation that desires to provide
telecommunications service by means of facilities that are proposed to be
constructed within the City’s public rights-of-way:
      1.   The telephone corporation must apply for and obtain, as may be
applicable, an excavation permit, an encroachment permit or a building permit
(“ministerial permit”).
      2.   In addition to the information required by this Code in connection
with an application for a ministerial permit, a telephone corporation must
submit to the City the following supplemental information:
         a.   A copy of the certificate of public convenience and necessity
issued by the CPUC to the applicant, and a copy of the CPUC decision that
authorizes the applicant to provide the telecommunications service for which
the facilities are proposed to be constructed in the City’s public rights-of-
way. Any applicant that, prior to 1996, provided telecommunications service
under administratively equivalent documentation issued by the CPUC may submit
copies of that documentation in lieu of a certificate of public convenience and
necessity.
         b.   If the applicant has obtained from the CPUC a certificate of
public convenience and necessity to operate as a “competitive local carrier,”
the following additional requirements are applicable:
            (1)   As required by Decision No. 95-12-057 of the CPUC, the
applicant must establish that it has timely filed with the City a quarterly
report that describes the type of construction and the location of each
construction project proposed to be undertaken in the City during the calendar
quarter in which the application is filed, so that the City can coordinate
multiple projects, as may be necessary.
            (2)   If the applicant’s proposed construction project will extend
beyond the utility rights-of-way into undisturbed areas or other rights-of-way,
the applicant must establish that it has filed a petition with the CPUC to
amend its certificate of public convenience and necessity and that the proposed
construction project has been subjected to a full-scale environmental analysis
by the CPUC, as required by Decision No. 95-12-057 of the CPUC.
            (3)   The applicant must inform the City whether its proposed
construction project will be subject to any of the mitigation measures
specified in the Negative Declaration [“Competitive Local Carriers (CLC’s)
Projects for Local Exchange Communication Service throughout California”] or to
the Mitigation Monitoring Plan adopted in connection with Decision No. 95-12-
057 of the CPUC. The City’s issuance of a ministerial permit will be
conditioned upon the applicant’s compliance with all applicable mitigation
measures and monitoring requirements imposed by the CPUC upon telephone
corporations that are designated as “competitive local carriers.”
   C.   The City reserves all rights that it now possesses or may later acquire
with respect to the regulation of any cable or telecommunications service that
is provided, or proposed to be provided, by a telephone corporation. These
reserved rights may relate, without limitation, to the imposition of reasonable
conditions in addition to or different from those set forth in this Section,
the exaction of a fee or other form of consideration or compensation for use of
public rights-of-way, and related matters; provided, however, that such
regulatory rights and authority must be consistent with Federal and State law
that is applicable to cable or telecommunications services provided by
telephone corporations.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
PART 5.   USE OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
5.40.160   Findings; Policies and Procedures.
   A.   The City Council finds and determines that numerous and repetitive
excavations in the public rights-of-way diminish the useful life of the surface
pavement and generally cause adverse negative impacts for local residents,
local businesses, and vehicular and pedestrian traffic. The City Council
further finds and determines that the utility substructure in the public
rights-of-way is subject to potential adverse negative impacts as a consequence
of new economic and regulatory policies that foster increased competition
between various utility service providers, including telephone corporations,
and between other service providers, such as cable system operators. In order
to mitigate these potential adverse negative impacts, the following policies
are adopted:
      1.   The City Manager is directed to develop and to implement public
rights-of-way policies and procedures that incorporate, to the extent
reasonably feasible and consistent with all applicable laws and regulations,
the following requirements that are intended to encourage the shared use by
utility and other service providers of existing facilities in the public
rights-of-way:
         a.   A requirement that utility and other service providers requesting
permits review information provided by the City that identifies the location of
facilities, such as underground conduits, that are available for shared use,
and the owners of those facilities.
         b.   A requirement that utility and other service providers requesting
permits submit a written statement that describes in reasonable detail the
efforts made to obtain from other utility service providers the right to use
excess capacity within existing facilities, and to thereby avoid the
construction of new facilities.
         c.   A requirement that utility and other service providers occupying
the public rights-of-way submit annually to the City a map, which may be in an
electronic-data format maintained in the ordinary course of business, that
shows the location of their respective facilities in the public rights-of-way.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, an updated annual map need not be provided
unless there are changes to the location of the service provider’s facilities
in the public rights-of-way.
         d.   Any additional requirements that will encourage utility and other
service providers to share excess capacity within previously-constructed
facilities and to coordinate the construction of new facilities in order to
minimize the number of excavations in the public rights-of-way.
      2.   The City Manager is directed to ensure that all utility and other
service providers, including telephone corporations and cable system operators,
comply with all local design, construction, maintenance and safety standards
that are consistent with State and Federal laws and regulations and that are
contained within, or are related to, any permit that authorizes the
construction of facilities within the public rights-of-way, including all
applicable insurance provisions.
      3.   Based upon the City’s projected plans for street construction or
renovation projects, the City Manager is authorized to establish on a quarterly
basis one or more construction time periods or “windows” for the installation
of facilities within arterial or collector streets, or where City
rehabilitation or maintenance activities within the public rights-of-way will
be affected. Cable system operators, telephone corporations, and other utility
service providers that submit applications for permits to construct facilities
after a predetermined date may be required to delay such construction until the
next quarterly “window” that is established by the City; provided, however,
that exemptions and exceptions may be established for the emergency repair of
facilities within arterial or collector streets, or for safety-related work
that must be completed prior to the next construction time period or “window.”
   B.   The City Council finds and determines that the installation in the
public rights-of-way of numerous above-ground facilities by utility service
providers, including telephone corporations, and other service providers may
create safety hazards and adverse visual impacts. Consequently, the City is
authorized to impose, in a manner consistent with all applicable laws and
regulations, reasonable conditions in order to mitigate those potential adverse
impacts that may result, whether on an individual or a cumulative basis, from
permitted above-ground facilities. Those conditions may include or relate to,
without limitation, the following:
      1.   Prior to issuance of the requisite permits, all above-ground
facilities proposed to be installed by a utility or other service provider in
the public rights-of-way must be clearly delineated on the plans when they are
submitted for the City’s review.
      2.   The design and installation by qualified professionals of
landscaping and barriers to minimize public view of above-ground facilities
whose location has been approved by the City.
      3.   The maintenance of all above-ground facilities in good condition,
including compliance with the City’s maintenance standards and ordinances
regarding graffiti removal.
      4.   The placement of above-ground facilities, such as overhead drops, as
close as possible to other utility drops, consistent with all applicable
electrical codes.
      5.   Reasonable limitations upon the number of above-ground facilities
that may be installed within a designated geographical area.
      6.   Reasonable limitations upon the dimensions or volume, or both, of
above-ground facilities.
      7.   The specification of colors, as are available from the manufacturer
used by the service provider, of above-ground facilities reasonably requested
by the City to ensure that these facilities blend with the surrounding
environment to the maximum extent possible.
      8.   Such additional conditions regulating the time, place and manner of
installations of above-ground facilities as will reasonably mitigate potential
safety hazards and adverse visual impacts attributable to these facilities.
   C.   The City reserves all rights that it now possesses or may later acquire
to adopt and implement City-wide requirements for the undergrounding of above-
ground facilities, or any portion thereof, in a competitively neutral and non-
discriminatory manner. To the extent authorized by law, all utility and other
service providers will be required to comply with those requirements at their
sole expense.
   D.   Disputes relating to the application of the policies, conditions and
limitations set forth in Section
5.40.170 to utility service providers, cable system operators or other users of
the public rights-of-way are subject to appeal to the City Council.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
PART 6.   VIOLATIONS; SEVERABILITY
5.40.170   Violations; Enforcement.
   A.   Unless precluded by applicable law, any person who violates any
provision of this Chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and is punishable as
provided for in Title 1 of this Code.
   B.   The misdemeanor penalty specified above in Subsection A. is not
applicable to a violation of any provision of this Chapter for which another
sanction or penalty may be imposed under any franchise, license, lease or
similar written agreement between the City and a multichannel video programming
distributor or telecommunications service provider.
   C.   The City may initiate a civil action in any court of competent
jurisdiction to enjoin any violation of this Chapter.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.40.180   Severability.
If any provision of this Chapter is determined by any court of competent
jurisdiction, or by any Federal or State agency having jurisdiction over its
subject matter, to be invalid and in conflict with any Federal or State law or
regulation now or hereafter in effect, or is determined by that court or agency
to require modification in order to conform to the requirements of that
paramount law or regulation, then that provision will be deemed a separate,
distinct, and independent part of this Chapter, and such determination will not
affect the validity and enforceability of any other provisions. If that Federal
or State law or regulation is subsequently repealed or amended so that the
provision of this Chapter determined to be invalid or subject to modification
is no longer in conflict with that law or regulation, then that provision will
again become effective and will thereafter be binding on the City and any
affected cable or telecommunications service provider; provided, however, that
the City must give the affected cable or telecommunications service provider
thirty (30) days written notice of that change before requiring compliance with
that provision, or such longer period of time as may be reasonably required for
the cable or telecommunications service provider to comply with that provision.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.40.190   Application of Section 5.40.080.
In adopting this Chapter, it is the intent of the City Council that Section
5.40.080, titled “Consumer Protection and Service Standards,” will apply to all
franchised video programming distributors, including Falcon Cable Systems
Company II, L.P., dba Charter Communications. To the extent that any consumer
protection and service standard referenced in uncodified Ordinance No. 324 is
inconsistent or in conflict with any provision of Section
5.40.090, said standard in Ordinance No. 324 is hereby repealed and superseded.
Similarly, to the extent that any consumer protection and service standard set
forth in the Cable Television Franchise Agreement between the City and Falcon
Cable Systems Company II, L.P., is inconsistent or in conflict with any
provision of Section
5.40.090, said standard in the Cable Television Franchise Agreement is hereby
superseded.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.40.200   Notice of Adoption.
Following the City Council’s adoption of this Chapter, the City Clerk is
directed to provide a copy by certified mail to the franchised cable operator,
Falcon Cable Systems Company II, L.P., dba Charter Communications. Upon the
expiration of ninety (90) days following the transmittal of this Chapter to
Charter Communications, the provisions of Section
5.40.080 relating to consumer protection and service standards will apply to
the operation of the cable television system within the franchise service area
under the Cable Television Franchise Agreement referenced above in Section 3.
The authority for this action by the City is derived from the following
sources:
   A.   47 CFR 76.309, titled “Customer Service Obligations,” which provides in
relevant part as follows:
      “(a)   A cable franchise authority may enforce the customer service
standards set forth in paragraph (c) of this Section against cable operators.
The franchise authority must provide affected cable operators ninety (90) days
written notice of its intent to enforce the standards.”
      “(b)   Nothing in this rule should be construed to prevent or prohibit:
* * *
         (3)   Any State or any franchising authority from enacting or
enforcing any consumer protection law, to the extent not specifically preempted
herein; or
         (4)   The establishment or enforcement of any State or municipal law
or regulation concerning customer service that imposes customer service
requirements that exceed, or address matters not addressed by the standards set
forth in paragraph (c) of this section.”
   B.   Government Code Sections 53088 et seq., titled the “Video Customer
Service Act.” Section 53088.2(p) of this Act provides as follows:
      “(p)   Nothing in this division limits the power of a city, county, or
city and county or video provider to adopt and enforce service standards and
consumer protection standards which exceed those established in this division.”
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.40.210   Continuing Application of Ordinance No. 324.
Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary set forth in this Chapter,
Ordinance No. 324, which is uncodified and titled “Adelanto, CA, Cable
Television Franchise Ordinance,” will continue in full force and effect.
Ordinance No. 324 will continue to be applicable to the existing Cable
Television Franchise Agreement between the City and its franchised cable
operator, Charter Communications, or its duly authorized assignee or
transferee. Ordinance No. 324 is subject to repeal by the City Council at such
time as the franchised cable operator executes an amendment to the existing
cable television franchise agreement, or executes a cable television franchise
renewal agreement, the terms of which subject the franchised cable operator to
Chapter 5.40 of Title 5 of the Municipal Code, as adopted by the ordinance
enacting this Chapter.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 5.44
FORTUNE TELLING
Sections:
   
5.44.010   Fortune Telling and Similar Practices
   
5.44.020   Occult Powers and Similar Practices
   
5.44.030   Advertising Fortune Telling or Occult Powers
   
5.44.040   Exceptions
   
5.44.050   Penalty
5.44.010   Fortune Telling and Similar Practices.
Every person who carries on, practices or professes to practice the business or
art of astrology, phrenology, life reading, fortune telling, cartomancy,
clairvoyance, clair-audience, crystal gazing, mediumship, mesmerism, oriental
mysteries, palmistry, spirit photography, spirit writing, spirit voices, spirit
materialization, etherealization, numerology, physiognomy, psychometry,
seership, prophecy, augury, divination, magic or necromancy, or other similar
art or business, and demands or receives directly or indirectly a fee or
reward, or who accepts any donation for the exercise or exhibition of his art
therein, or who gives an exhibition thereof at any place where an admission
fee, donation or reward is charged or received, directly or indirectly, or who
teaches or gives instruction in any such art or business and demands or
receives, directly or indirectly, a fee or reward, or who accepts any donation
for such teaching or instruction is guilty of a misdemeanor. [Ord. No. 26, § 1,
adopted 5/26/71; Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.44.020   Occult Powers and Similar Practices.
Every person who, by means of occult or psychic powers, faculties or forces,
spirits, cards, talismans, charms, potions, magnetism or magnetized articles or
substances, oriental mysteries or any craft or art described in Section
5.44.010 or similar art or craft, purports or does, find or restore lost or
stolen property, locate oil wells, gold or silver or other ore or metal or
natural product, restore lost love or friendship or affection, unite or procure
lovers, husbands, wives, lost relatives or friends, or by such means gives any
counseling or advise whatsoever, and who demands or receives directly or
indirectly a fee or reward, or who accepts any donation therefor, is guilty of
a misdemeanor.
[Ord. No. 26, § 2, adopted 5/26/71; Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.44.030   Advertising Fortune Telling or Occult Powers.
Every person who advertises by sign, circular, handbill or in any newspaper,
periodical or magazine, or any other publication of publications, or by any
other means, that he will do anything which is prohibited by this Title is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
[Ord. No. 26, § 3, adopted 5/26/71; Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.44.040   Exceptions.
The provisions of this Title shall not be construed to include, prohibit or
interfere with the exercise of any religious or spiritual function of any
priest, minister, rector or any accredited representative of any bona fide
church or religion where such priest, minister, rector or any accredited
representative holds a certificate of credit, commission or ordination under
the ecclesiastical laws of a religious corporation, incorporated under the laws
of any state or territory of the United States of America, or any voluntary
religious association, and who fully conforms to the rites and practices
prescribed by the supreme conferences, convocation, convention, assembly,
association or synod of the system or faith with which they are affiliated.
Provided, however, that any church or religious organization which is organized
for the primary purpose of conferring certificates of commission, credit or
ordination for a price, and not primarily for the purpose of teaching and
practicing a religious doctrine or belief, shall not be deemed to be a bona
fide church or religious organization. This Title shall not apply to any
magician practicing his business or art for the purpose of entertainment or
amusement. The provisions of this Title shall not apply to any physician,
surgeon, psychologist or dentist licensed under the Business and Professions
Code of the State of California.
[Ord. No. 26, § 4, adopted 5/26/71; Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.44.050   Penalty.
A violation of this Chapter or any provision thereof shall be punishable by a
fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment not
exceeding six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
[Ord. No. 26, Section 5, adopted 5/26/71; Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 5.48
TAXICABS
Sections:
   
5.48.010   License Required
   
5.48.020   Application for Taxicab Service License
   
5.48.030   Grounds for Denial or Revocation of Taxicab Service License
   
5.48.040   Application for a Taxicab Driver’s License
   
5.48.050   Grounds for Denial or Revocation of Taxicab Driver’s License
   
5.48.060   Exemptions
5.48.010   License Required.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of operating or
causing to be operated any taxicab service within the incorporated area of the
City, without having a license to do so under the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to drive a taxicab in the incorporated
area of the City without having a taxicab driver’s license to do so under the
provisions of this Chapter. A copy of the City license shall be prominently
displayed in each vehicle at all times.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.48.020   Application for Taxicab Service License.
Any person desiring to obtain a license to operate a taxicab service under this
Chapter shall submit a written application pursuant to Section
5.04.070 to the Collector. In addition to the information required by Section
5.04.070, the following information shall be provided:
   A.   The number of vehicles to be operated under the permit;
   B.   The make, type, year, manufacturer, vehicle license number and
passenger seating of the vehicles to be used by the applicant;
   C.   The proposed color scheme, insignia or other distinguishable
characteristics of the taxicab to be used, including the type of illuminated
sign to be mounted on the top of the vehicle and legend thereon;
   D.   Evidence of public liability insurance of not less than one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for each person killed or injured and not less
than three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for injury or death of any
two (2) or more persons in any one accident, and for damages to property of at
least fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) from any one accident;
   E.   Legal and registered ownership of the vehicles to be used by the
applicant. It shall be the licensee’s responsibility to notify the Collector of
any changes in vehicles registered to their license;
   F.   Prior experience of the applicant and each driver in the taxicab
business, including any prior denial, revocation or suspension by any public
agency of any taxicab service or taxicab driving permit, license or certificate
for a period of five (5) years prior to application;
   G.   All felony convictions or those involving a crime of moral turpitude of
the applicant and of all persons having an ownership interest in the proposed
taxicab service;
   H.   Written evidence satisfactory to the City that each driver employed by
the applicant has complied, and currently complies, with the provisions of
Government Code Section 53075.5(b)(3), or any successor provision thereto,
pertaining to pre-employment and periodic testing of drivers for controlled
substances and alcohol, and with provisions therein pertaining to payment for
drug and alcohol testing programs and related reporting requirements.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.48.030   Grounds for Denial or Revocation of Taxicab Service License.
In addition to the provisions of
Chapter 5.04, taxicab service license shall be denied or revoked by the
Collector on the following grounds:
   A.   Failure to have or maintain insurance as required by this Chapter at
all times;
   B.   Failure to maintain vehicles in good and safe order and in compliance
with all laws;
   C.   The application is found to contain inaccurate, false, misleading or
fraudulent statements or omissions of material facts or the application was not
accompanied by all required supporting documentation;
   D.   Failure to pay any fees as required under this Title;
   E.   A driver’s conviction of more than two (2) violations of any state laws
pertaining to the operation of a motor vehicle in any calendar year;
   F.   Employing of a driver who does not have a valid taxicab driver’s
license under the requirements of this Chapter;
   G.   Violation of any provisions of this Chapter or this Code.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.48.040   Application for a Taxicab Driver’s License.
   A.   Any person desiring to obtain a taxicab driver’s license shall submit a
written application and all supporting documentation to the Collector. In
addition to the information required by Section
5.04.070, the following information shall be required:
      1.   Pertinent personal data and proof of possession of a valid Class 3
driver’s license issued by the State of California;
      2.   Physical and mental condition, including any condition that might
hinder or impair his or her ability to safely drive a taxicab;
      3.   Motor vehicle record for three (3) years prior to application;
      4.   Any criminal convictions of the applicant during the previous three
(3) years;
      5.   Experience in driving motor vehicles, taxis and other vehicles for
hire during the previous five (5) years;
      6.   The name and address of the taxicab service by whom the applicant
will be employed;
      7.   Written evidence satisfactory to the city that, within the previous
year, the applicant tested negative for controlled substances and/or alcohol,
as specified and required in Government Code Section 53075.5(b)(3), or any
successor provision thereto.
   B.   Each applicant shall be fingerprinted and photographed by the Police
Department and a criminal records check shall be conducted on the applicant.
The applicant will be required to pay the sheriff’s established fees for such
services in addition to the taxicab driver’s license fee. A driver obtaining a
permit renewal need not be fingerprinted and photographed if the Chief of
Police determines that such is not necessary for proper administration of this
Chapter.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.48.050   Grounds for Denial or Revocation of Taxicab Driver’s License.
In addition to the provisions of
Chapter 5.04, a taxicab driver’s license shall be denied or revoked by the
Collector on the following grounds:
   A.   The person does not possess a valid Class 3 driver’s license issued by
the State of California;
   B.   The person is less than eighteen (18) years of age;
   C.   The person is required to register pursuant to Penal Code Section 290;
   D.   The person has been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude,
soliciting for prostitution, narcotics or dangerous drugs, unless a period of
not less than three (3) years has elapsed since the date of conviction or the
date of release from confinement for such offense, whichever is later;
   E.   The person has been convicted for driving a motor vehicle recklessly or
under the influence of a controlled substance within the preceding three (3)
years preceding the date of his or her application for a license;
   F.   Conviction of more than two (2) violations of any State law pertaining
to the operation of a motor vehicle in any calendar year;
   G.   Driving any taxicab the driver knew or should have known was not in
good order and repair;
   H.   The application is found to contain inaccurate, false, misleading or
fraudulent statements or omissions of material facts or the application was not
accompanied by all required supporting documentation;
   I.   The person has committed a violation of any of the provisions of this
Chapter or of this Code.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.48.060   Exemptions.
This Chapter shall not apply to public transportation service being performed
pursuant to a contract or franchise with the City or any other public entity in
this State.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 5.52
THEATERS
Sections:
   
5.52.010   Application Requirements
   
5.52.020   Viewing Area
   
5.52.030   Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited
   
5.52.040   Exemptions
5.52.010   Application Requirements.
In addition to the application requirements specified in Section
5.04.070, the following shall be required:
   A.   A statement that the applicant, licensee, his agent, employee or any
person connected with the licensee as partner, director, officer, stockholder,
general manager or other associate has not:
      1.   Knowingly made any false, misleading or fraudulent statement of a
fact in an application for a license or in any statements made to City
departments, the local fire authority or the Police Department investigating
the application; or
      2.   Violated any provision of this Chapter or any statute relating to
his permitted activity; or
      3.   Been convicted of a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude;
or
      4.   Committed any unlawful, fraudulent or dangerous act while conducting
the permitted business; or
      5.   Violated any rule or regulation adopted by the City Council relating
to the licensee’s business; or
      6.   Conducted the licensed business in a manner contrary to the peace,
health, safety or general welfare of the public; or
      7.   Failed to comply with zoning, building and safety regulations of the
City, the San Bernardino County Environmental Health Services Department, or
the Adelanto fire district prior to the commencement of business operations.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.52.020   Viewing Area.
   A.   It is unlawful to maintain, operate or manage or permit to be
maintained, operated or managed any theater in which the viewing areas are not
visible from a continuous main aisle or are obscured by a curtain, door, wall
or other enclosure. For purposes of this Section, “viewing area” means the area
where a patron or customer is positioned while watching the performance,
picture, show or film, and the internal configuration of each viewing area
shall be such that the activities of the patron or customer viewing the
performance, picture, show or film are visible from the main aisle. For
purposes of this Section, “obscured” means covered at any point from the
surface upon which a patron or customer’s feet are placed to a point forty-
eight (48) inches above that surface. Violation of this Section shall
constitute a misdemeanor, and shall be punishable by a fine of not more that
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), by imprisonment for not more than six (6)
months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   B.   Any theater lawfully in existence prior to the adoption of or any
amendment to this Chapter shall conform to the provisions of this Chapter
within ninety (90) days of the effective date of this Chapter.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.52.030   Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited.
It is unlawful for any person to sell, furnish, give away or permit anyone to
consume any alcoholic beverage in any theater. It is also unlawful for any
person to possess, consume or be under the influence of any alcoholic beverage
while in any theater.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.52.040   Exemptions.
Any provision of this Chapter may be waived by action of the City Council in
writing as to any civic, educational, charitable or other noncommercial
presentation or event.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 5.56
GRADING OF FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Sections:
   
5.56.010   Purpose, Findings and Intent
   
5.56.020   Scope
   
5.56.030   Adoption of the San Bernardino County Code
   
5.56.040   Enforcement Agency Designated
   
5.56.050   Schedule and Collection of Fees
   
5.56.060   Violations - Penalty
5.56.010   Purpose, Findings and Intent.
   A.   This Section is adopted by the City Council pursuant to the City’s
police powers to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.
   B.   Government Code Sections 50022.2 and 50022.9 authorize local agencies
to enact ordinances that adopt any County Code, ordinance or part thereof by
reference.
   C.   On June 22,2004, the San Bernardino County Board of Supervisors enacted
County Ordinance No. 3930 to adopt certain amendments to the San Bernardino
County Department of Public Health to fully enforce the Program in the City, it
is necessary to adopt by reference County Ordinance No. 3930.
   D.   The Program became operative in the unincorporated areas of the County
of San Bernardino on October 1, 2004, but in order for the San Bernardino
County Department of Health to fully enforce the Program in the City, it is
necessary to adopt by reference County Ordinance No. 3930.
   E.   Inspections of food establishments are a means of protecting public
health, and the display of the Inspection Grading Summary Report provides
consumers with important information regarding health and sanitary conditions
in food establishments.
   F.   In order to promote the health, safety and welfare of residents,
consumers and visitors to the City, the City Council desires to have the
Program become operative within the corporate boundaries of the City.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.56.020   Scope.
The provisions of this Chapter for the Inspection Grading of Food
Establishments shall apply at all times, or at those times herein specified,
anywhere within the City that any food and/or beverage products are sold or
served.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.56.030   Adoption of the San Bernardino County Code.
   A.   The City adopts by reference, and makes a part of this Chapter by
reference, San Bernardino County Ordinance No. 3930, entitled:
      “An Ordinance of the County of San Bernardino, State of California,
Adding Chapter 14 Division 3 of Title 3 and Adding Subsection 16.0213B(b)(17)
to Chapter 2 of Division 6 of Title 1, All of the San Bernardino County Code,
Relating to Inspection Grading of Food Establishments.”
   B.   The aforementioned Sections of the San Bernardino County Code, adopted
by San Bernardino County Ordinance No. 3930, are adopted as the Inspection
Grading of Food Establishments Program of the City (the “Program”).
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.56.040   Enforcement Agency Designated.
The County of San Bernardino Department of Environmental Health Services is
designated as the enforcement agency for the City and is authorized to provide
the qualified personnel necessary to enforce the provisions of this Chapter.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.56.050   Schedule and Collection of Fees.
The schedule of fees contained within San Bernardino County Ordinance No. 3930,
adopted herein, is hereby adopted as the fees in effect in the City, and shall
be applicable within the city to provide for the costs of administration and
enforcement of this Chapter. The City Council finds and determines that the
fees adopted herein are reasonably related to the actual cost of administration
and enforcement of the Program. The San Bernardino County Department of
Environmental Health Services shall administer and collect these fees for
deposit with the County Treasurer to offset the costs assumed by the County in
administering and enforcing this Program for and within the City.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.56.060   Violations - Penalty.
   A.   In accordance with San Bernardino County Code Section 33.14106(c),
adopted by reference herein and applicable to this Chapter, the letter grade
card posted in accordance with the Program shall not be defaced, marred,
camouflaged, hidden or removed. It shall be unlawful to operate a food
establishment unless the letter grade is posted. Removal of the letter grade
card is a violation of this Chapter and may result in the suspension or
revocation of the Public Health Permit and shall be punishable as specified in
San Bernardino County Code Section 33.0112, which is adopted by reference
herein and applicable to this Chapter.
   B.   In addition, any violation of this Section may be punishable in
accordance with
Chapter 1.20 of this Code.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 5.60
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
Sections:
   
5.60.010   Purpose and Intent
   
5.60.020   General Definitions
   
5.60.030   Massage Therapy Permits Required
   
5.60.040   Location
   
5.60.050   Special Massage Therapy Events Permit
   
5.60.060   Temporary Personal and Outcall Massage Therapy Permits
   
5.60.070   Consent
   
5.60.080   Certificate of Occupancy
   
5.60.090   Business License
   
5.60.100   City Manager’s Responsibility
   
5.60.110   Massage Therapy Establishment Permit Application
   
5.60.120   Personal Massage Therapist Permit Application
   
5.60.130   Outcall Massage Therapist Permit Application
   
5.60.140   Processing Application
   
5.60.150   Denial of Application and Grounds for Denial
   
5.60.160   Exemptions
   
5.60.170   Appeal of Denial
   
5.60.180   Current Information
   
5.60.190   Renewal of Permit
   
5.60.200   Massage Therapy Establishments; Inspections
   
5.60.210   Massage Therapy Establishments; Exterior Lighting
   
5.60.220   Massage Therapy Establishments; Exterior Signage
   
5.60.230   Massage Therapy Establishments; Exterior Views
   
5.60.240   Massage Therapy Establishments; Posting Requirements
   
5.60.250   Massage Therapy Establishments; Reception Area
   
5.60.260   Massage Therapy Establishments; Massage Therapy Rooms
   
5.60.270   Massage Therapy Establishments; Client Registration
   
5.60.280   Massage Therapy Establishments; Dress and Identification
   
5.60.290   Massage Therapy Establishments; Hours of Operation
   
5.60.300   Massage Therapy Establishments; Showers, Baths and Toilets
   
5.60.310   Massage Therapy Establishments; Sanitary Conditions
   
5.60.320   Massage Therapy Establishments; Loudspeakers and Sound Equipment
   
5.60.330   Outcall Massage Therapy; Client Registration
   
5.60.340   Outcall Massage Therapy; Dress and Identification
   
5.60.350   Outcall Massage Therapy; Hours of Services
   
5.60.360   Prohibited Activities
   
5.60.370   Transfer of Ownership
   
5.60.380   Relocation
   
5.60.390   Change of On-site Manager
   
5.60.400   Reference Applies to Amendments
   
5.60.410   Computation of Time
   
5.60.420   Nonconforming Uses and Permits
   
5.60.430   Suspension and Revocation
   
5.60.440   Enforcement; Separate Offense for Each Day
   
5.60.450   Public Nuisance
   
5.60.460   Criminal Penalties
   
5.60.470   Civil Fines
   
5.60.480   Civil Injunction
   
5.60.490   Administrative Remedies
   
5.60.500   Additional Remedies
   
5.60.510   Regulations Nonexclusive
   
5.60.520   Massage Establishments that Only Use Massage Therapists Certified
Under State Law
5.60.010   Purpose and Intent.
   A.   The purpose of this Chapter is to protect the public’s health and
safety and the personal safety of massage therapists through the establishment
of certain licensing standards pertaining to massage therapy business
activities within the City and to recognize massage therapy as a legitimate
business occupation and health enhancement service.
   B.   This Chapter is not intended to permit any of the following uses,
conduct, and/or activities which are specifically prohibited under the
following Penal Code sections:
      1.   Section 266(d) which prohibits receipt of money for placement of any
person for purposes of cohabitation;
      2.   Section 266(e) which prohibits the purchase of any person for
purposes of prostitution or placement of any person for immoral purposes;
      3.   Section 266(f) which prohibits the sale of any person for immoral
purposes;
      4.   Section 266(h) which prohibits pimping;
      5.   Section 266(i) which prohibits pandering;
      6.   Section 314 which prohibits lewd or obscene conduct;
      7.   Section 315 which prohibits houses of ill-fame;
      8.   Section 316 which prohibits disorderly houses which disturb the
immediate neighborhood;
      9.   Section 317 which prohibits places of prostitution;
      10.   Section 11225 which prohibits places of prostitution, places of
lewdness, or places used as a bathhouse permitting conduct capable of
transmitting AIDS; and
      11.   Section 647(a) which prohibits lewd conduct.
   C.   This Chapter is not intended to apply to cosmetologists, barbers, or to
persons licensed to practice any healing under the provisions of Division 2
(commencing with Section 500) of the Business and Professions Code where such
persons are solely providing certain massage therapy services which are
specifically exempted from local regulation pursuant to state law. This
Chapter, however, shall apply to those above-mentioned practitioners who intend
to provide any massage therapy services that are beyond the scope of the
massage therapy services specifically exempted from local regulation by State
law.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.020   General Definitions.
   A.   The following words and phrases when used in this Chapter shall, for
the purposes of this Chapter, have the meanings ascribed to them in this
Section:
      1.   “Certified Copy” means a copy of a document that is certified by the
issuer as being a true and accurate copy of the original document or a similar
document bearing an original signature of the issuer.
      2.   “Certified Statement” means a written assertion, claim or
declaration bearing the original signature of the issuer.
      3.   “City” means the City of Adelanto.
      4.   “City Manager” means the City Manager of the City of Adelanto.
      5.   “Client” means any person who receives a massage in exchange for any
form of consideration including, but not limited to, the payment of money.
      6.   “Communicable Disease” means tuberculosis, or any disease which may
be transmitted from a massage therapist to a client through normal physical
contact during the performance of any massage service as permitted under this
Chapter.
      7.   “Complete Application” means an application which provides all of
the requisite information required to be provided by an applicant pursuant to
this Chapter and is accompanied by the requisite application deposit fees.
      8.   “Director” means the Director of the Department of Community
Development.
      9.   “Employee” means a person who works for any permittee, regardless of
whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or other compensation by the
permittee.
      10.   “Establishment” means any of the following: (1) the opening or
commencement of a massage therapy related business as a new business or as an
accessory use to an existing business, (2) the conversion of an existing
business, whether or not it is a massage therapy business, to any other type of
massage therapy business as defined in this Chapter, (3) the relocation of any
massage therapy business to any other location, or (4) the substantial
enlargement of an existing massage therapy business.
      11.   “Filing Date of Application” means the date on which the City
determines that a complete application has been submitted to the City by the
applicant.
      12.   “Full Nudity” or “Semi-nudity” means any of the following: (1) the
appearance or display of an anus, male or female genital, public region, or a
female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola, and/or (2)
a state of undress which less than completely and opaquely covers an anus, male
or female genital, public region or a female breast below a point immediately
above the top of the areola.
      13.   “Massage” means any method of pressure on, or friction against, or
stroking, kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating, or stimulating the
external parts of the human body, excluding any specified anatomical area other
than the gluteal region, with the hands or with the aid of any mechanical or
electrical apparatus or appliances, with or without supplementary aids such as
creams, ointments, or other similar preparations commonly used in the practice
of massage, under such circumstances that it is reasonably expected that the
person to whom the treatment is provided or some third person on his or her
behalf will pay money or give any other consideration or any gratuity therefor.
      14.   “Massage Therapy Establishment” or “Massage Establishment” means
any commercial establishment with one or more employees having a source of
income or compensation derived from the practice of massage and which has a
fixed place of business and a valid City business license.
      15.   “Massage Therapist” means an individual who has obtained a permit
as required by this Chapter to engage in the practice of massage for
compensation, whether in a massage establishment as an employee or independent
contractor or on an outcall massage therapy basis.
      16.   “On-site Manager” means the person who supervises, directs or
manages the employees including, but not limited to, all massage therapists
performing massage therapy services at a massage therapy establishment.
      17.   “Operator” means any of the following: (1) the owner, (2) the
permit holder, (3) custodian, (4) manager, or (5) person in charge of any
massage therapy establishment.
      18.   “Outcall Massage Therapist” means any individual who engages in or
performs massages for consideration at a remote and not at a fixed location.
      19.   “Permit” means a massage therapy permit as required by this Chapter
that is a written license to engage in the practice of massage for
compensation, whether as a massage therapy establishment, an outcall massage
therapist or a personal massage therapist authorized to perform massage therapy
as an employee or independent contractor at a massage therapy establishment.
      20.   “Permittee” means the person in whose name a permit to operate or
perform certain massage therapy business activities has been issued pursuant to
this Chapter whether for the operation of a massage therapy establishment or an
outcall massage therapy service or as a personal massage therapist.
      21.   “Person” means any of the following: (1) an individual, (2) a
proprietorship, (3) a partnership, (4) a corporation, (5) an association, or
(6) any other legal entity.
      22.   “Personal Massage Therapist” means any person who is permitted
under this Chapter to perform massage activities as an employee of a massage
therapy establishment or an independent contractor at a massage therapy
establishment.
      23.   “Police Chief” means the Chief of Police of the City of Adelanto.
      24.   “Reception Area” means the area of a massage therapy establishment
where clients or other persons enter the business and are greeted and/or
received by the operator, personal massage therapist and/or other employee of
said business, or otherwise check in for their massage therapy sessions.
      25.   “Recognized School of Massage” means any school or educational
institution licensed or approved by the state in which it is located, whose
purpose it is to upgrade the professionalism of massage therapists and which
teaches the theory, ethics, practice, profession or work of massage and which
requires a resident course of study before the student shall be furnished with
a diploma or a certificate of graduation from such school or institution of
learning following the successful completion of such course of study or
learning. Schools offering a correspondence course not requiring actual
attendance shall not be deemed a recognized school.
      26.   “Specified Anatomical Area” means human genitals, public region,
anus, or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola.
      27.   “Specified Sexual Activities” means any of the following: (1) the
fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, public region, anus, or
female breasts, (2) sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated,
including, but not limited to, intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or
sodomy, or (3) excretory functions as part of or in connection with the
fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, public region, buttocks,
anus, or female breasts, sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated,
including intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy.
      28.   “Stand-alone Massage Therapy Establishment” means a massage therapy
establishment that is operated as the predominant business activity on the
subject premises rather than as an accessory use to a barbershop, beauty salon,
hotel or resort, or any other type of business.
      29.   “Transfer of Ownership or Control of a Massage Therapy
Establishment” means any of the following, whether voluntary or involuntary:
(1) the sale, lease or sublease of the business, (2) the transfer of securities
which constitute a controlling interest in the business, whether by sale,
exchange, or similar means, or (3) the establishment of a trust, gift or other
similar legal devise which transfers ownership or control of the business,
except for transfer by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of a
person possessing the ownership or control.
   B.   Where terms are not specifically defined in this Chapter, in this Code,
in any applicable statute, rule, code or regulation, or in any of the uniform
codes adopted and incorporated by reference by this Code, they shall have the
meanings set forth in their ordinary accepted meanings within the context with
which they are used. The most current edition of Webster’s Third New
International Dictionary of the English Language, Unabridged, shall be
construed as providing ordinary accepted meanings for any duly adopted City
policy or regulation described in this Chapter.
   C.   Words used in the singular include the plural and the plural the
singular.
   D.   Words used in the masculine gender include the feminine and the
feminine the masculine.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.030   Massage Therapy Permits Required.
   A.   A person may operate, maintain, run, or manage a massage therapy
establishment only if that person has been validly issued a massage therapy
establishment permit by the City pursuant to this Chapter for the subject
massage therapy establishment.
   B.   A person may perform, practice, administer, or conduct massages in
exchange for money, gratuities, or any other legal consideration at a massage
therapy establishment only if that person has been validly issued a personal
massage therapist permit by the City pursuant to this Chapter for the subject
massage therapy establishment.
   C.   A person may operate, maintain, run, or manage an outcall massage
therapy service only if that person has been validly issued an outcall massage
therapist permit by the City pursuant to this Chapter for the subject outcall
massage services.
   D.   A person may perform, practice, administer, or conduct massages in
exchange for money, gratuities, or any other legal consideration at their
residence only if that person has been validly issued a personal massage
therapist permit and a home occupation permit by the City pursuant to the
applicable regulations for the subject personal massage services.
   E.   The provisions set forth in this Section apply to the “establishment,”
as defined in Section
5.60.020, of any massage therapy establishment or outcall massage therapy
service.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.040   Location.
Massage therapy establishments may be located as a stand alone use or as an
accessory use to a barber shop or beauty parlor in any land use zone in which
barber shops and/or beauty parlors are permitted or conditionally permitted
provided that the proposed location of the massage therapy establishment is not
located within three hundred (300) feet from a parcel upon which a sexually
oriented business is located which shall be measured in a straight line,
without regard to intervening structures, from the closest exterior structural
wall of each business.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.050   Special Massage Therapy Events Permit.
   A.   When extra massage therapists are required for a one-day special event
at a massage therapy establishment permitted to operate in the City pursuant to
this Chapter, the permittee shall supply the City with the following
information on an application provided by the City:
      1.   The name of the applicant;
      2.   The address of the special event;
      3.   A copy of the massage therapy establishment permit validly issued by
the City pursuant to this Chapter;
      4.   A list of the massage therapists who will be working at the special
event;
      5.   Copies of each massage therapists' diploma or certificate of
graduation from a recognized school of massage verifying that the massage
therapist has completed at least one hundred (100) hours of massage therapy
training;
      6.   Copies of any validly issued massage therapy license or permit the
participating massage therapists may have from other cities;
      7.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by each participating
massage therapist that he or she does not have any communicable disease which
is capable of being transmitted to clients through the kind of physical contact
normally associated with the massage activities described in this Chapter;
      8.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by each participating
massage therapist that provides that he or she has not been convicted of any of
the following: (a) pandering as set forth in Penal Code Section 266(i), (b)
keeping or residing in a house of ill-fame as set forth in Penal Code Section
315, (c) keeping a disorderly house as set forth in Penal Code Section 316, (d)
prevailing upon a person to visit a place of illegal gambling or prostitution
as set forth in Penal Code Section 318, (e) lewd conduct as set forth in Penal
Code Section 647(a), or (f) prostitution activities as set forth in Penal Code
Section 647(a) or (b);
      9.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by each participating
massage therapist that provides that he or she has not been convicted in any
other state of any offense which, if committed or attempted in this state,
would have been punishable as one or more of the offenses set forth in Penal
Code Sections 266(i), 315, 316, 318 or 647(a) or (b);
      10.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by each participating
massage therapist that provides that the applicant is not required to register
as a sex offender as set forth in Penal Code Section 290;
      11.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by each participating
massage therapist that provides that he or she has not been convicted of any
felony offense involving the sale of any controlled substance specified in
Health and Safety Code Sections 11054, 11055, 11056, 11057 or 11058; and
      12.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by each participating
massage therapist that provides that he or she has not been convicted in any
other state of any offense which, if committed or attempted in this state,
would have been punishable as a felony offense involving the sale of any
controlled substance specified in Health and Safety Code Sections 11054, 11055,
11056, 11057 or 11058.
   B.   Each participating massage therapist shall provide the Police
Department with the current processing fee and with the authorization to
conduct the necessary background investigations to determine the truthfulness
and correctness of the information provided by applicant.
   C.   All of the above information shall be submitted to the City at least
seven (7) days prior to the date of the special event.
   D.   The applicant shall pay an application deposit fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for each one (1) day permit at the time of filing an
application pursuant to this Section. If additional funds are necessary to
cover the above costs, the applicant shall pay such additional costs to the
City before further processing of the application may proceed. Any unused
portion of the deposit shall be refunded to the applicant.
   E.   Grounds for denial of the special event permit shall include any of the
grounds for denial set forth in Section
5.60.150.A or grounds for suspension and revocation set forth in Section
5.60.430.B.
   F.   The decision of the City Manager or his/her designee shall be final.
   G.   Nothing in this Section shall be construed to permit such massage
therapists to perform or conduct any massage therapist activities at any other
location in the, City at any other time, unless such massage therapist has
obtained a validly issued massage therapist permit pursuant to this Chapter.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.060   Temporary Personal and Outcall Massage Therapist Permits.
   A.   The City Manager or his/her designee may issue a temporary massage
therapy permit to any person whose application is pending for a personal or
outcall massage therapy permit pursuant to this Chapter, provided that the
applicant has a personal or outcall massage therapy permit validly issued by
another jurisdiction which has permit provisions comparable to the permit
provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   Comparable provisions shall include, but not be limited to, the
fingerprinting, medical clearance and background clearance requirements set
forth in this Chapter.
   C.   All temporary permits shall automatically expire thirty (30) days after
the date of issuance of the subject temporary permit or on the date a decision
is made by the City Manager, or his/her designee, on the respective massage
therapy permit application, whichever occurs first. The City Manager shall have
the discretion to extend the term of any temporary permit an additional thirty
(30) days provided that the entire term of the subject temporary permit does
not exceed a total period of ninety (90) days.
   D.   The decision of the City Manager shall be final.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.070   Consent.
By applying for a permit under this Chapter, the applicant shall be deemed to
have consented to the provisions of this Chapter and to the exercise by the
City’s officials, representatives and employees charged with implementing and/
or enforcing the provisions set forth in this Chapter.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.080   Certificate of Occupancy.
No certificate of occupancy shall be issued for any newly constructed structure
or substantial expansion or enlargement of a structure that will contain a
massage therapy establishment until a massage therapy establishment permit has
been validly issued for the subject premises pursuant to this Chapter.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.090   Business License.
No business license shall be issued to any person for any massage therapy
business unless such person has first obtained a validly issued massage therapy
establishment permit or an outcall massage therapy permit pursuant to this
Chapter.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.100   City Manager’s Responsibilities.
The City Manager or his/her designee shall be responsible for granting or
denying all massage therapy permits described in this Chapter, and such permits
shall only be granted or denied pursuant to the provisions described herein or
any other applicable law.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.110   Massage Therapy Establishment Permit Application.
   A.   An application for a massage therapy establishment permit shall be made
on a form provided by the City.
   B.   The following information and the following documents must be submitted
with all applications for massage therapy establishment permits:
      1.   If the applicant is:
         a.   An individual, the applicant shall provide his/her legal name,
any aliases, and date of birth,
         b.   A partnership, the applicant shall provide the complete name of
the partnership, the legal names of all the general partners, any aliases, and
dates of birth,
         c.   A corporation, the applicant shall provide the complete name of
the corporation, the legal names and any aliases, dates of birth and capacity
of all officers;
      2.   The name of the business;
      3.   The name of the prospective on-site manager, if different from the
applicant;
      4.   The location of the proposed massage therapy establishment,
including a legal description of the property, street address, and telephone
number(s) currently in service;
      5.   The applicant’s home and/or business address and the home and/or
business address of the prospective on-site manager if other than the
applicant;
      6.   A recent photograph of the applicant and the prospective on-site
manager if other than the applicant;
      7.   Driver’s license number or identification number of the applicant
and the prospective on-site manager if other than the applicant;
      8.   The applicant’s and the prospective on-site manager’s, if other than
the applicant, fingerprints taken by the police department or other law
enforcement agency within the previous sixty (60) days, and approved by the
Chief of Police;
      9.   The applicant’s and the prospective on-site manager’s, if other than
the applicant, Social Security numbers and/or State or Federally issued tax
identification number;
      10.   The previous addresses of applicant and the prospective on-site
manager, if other than the applicant for the ten (10) years prior to the date
of the application and the dates of residency at each such address;
      11.   The names, addresses and descriptions of all current and former
businesses owned, operated or managed by applicant and prospective on-site
manager, if other than the applicant for the ten (10) years prior to the date
of the application and the dates the applicant and the prospective on-site
manager owned, operated or managed such business;
      12.   If the application is for a stand alone massage therapy
establishment, a sealed certified transcript and a certified copy of the
applicant’s or prospective on-site manager’s (if other than applicant) diploma
or certificate of graduation from a recognized school of massage verifying that
the applicant has completed at least six hundred (600) hours of massage therapy
training;
      13.   A list of all of applicant’s and prospective on-site manager’s, if
other than the applicant convictions, excluding traffic violations;
      14.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the applicant and
prospective on-site manager, if other than the applicant, that provides that
the declarant has 266(i), (b) keeping or residing in a house of ill-fame as set
forth in Penal Code Section 315, (c) keeping a disorderly house as set forth in
Penal Code Section 316, (d) prevailing upon a person to visit a place of
illegal gambling or prostitution as set forth in Penal Code Section 318, (e)
lewd conduct as set forth in Penal Code Section 647(a), or (f) prostitution
activities as set forth in Penal Code Section 647(b);
      15.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the applicant and
prospective on-site manager, if other than the applicant, that provides that
the declarant has not been convicted in any other state of any offense which,
if committed or attempted in this state, would have been punishable as one or
more of the offenses set forth in Penal Code Sections 266(i), 315, 316, 318 or
647(a) or (b);
      16.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the applicant and
prospective on-site manager, if other than the applicant, that provides that
the declarant is not required to register as a sex offender as set forth in
Penal Code Section 290;
      17.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the applicant and
prospective on-site manager, if other than the applicant, that provides that
the declarant has not been convicted of any felony offense involving the sale
of any controlled substance specified in Health and Safety Code Sections 11054,
11055, 11056, 11057 or 11058;
      18.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the applicant and
prospective on-site manager, if other than the applicant, that provides that
the declarant has not been convicted in any other state of any offense which,
if committed or attempted in this state, would have been punishable as a felony
offense involving the sale of any controlled substance specified in Health and
Safety Code Sections 11054, 11055, 11056, 11057 or 11058;
      19.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the applicant and
prospective on-site manager, if other than the applicant, regarding whether the
declarant has had a previous massage therapy establishment permit, an outcall
massage therapist permit, a personal massage therapist permit or any other
massage permit issued pursuant to this Chapter or any other similar massage
permit ordinance of the City or other jurisdiction, which was denied, suspended
or revoked; and if any such denial, suspension or revocation occurred, the
declarant shall provide the name and location of the massage establishment for
which the license or permit was denied, suspended or revoked, the date of the
denial, suspension or revocation, and the reason or reasons for the denial,
suspension or revocation;
      20.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the applicant and
prospective on-site manager, if other than the applicant, regarding whether the
declarant has been a sole proprietor, general partner, officer, or director of
any massage establishment or other massage business that has had a previous
massage establishment permit or other massage permit issued pursuant to this
Chapter or any other similar massage ordinance of the City or other
jurisdiction which was denied, suspended or revoked and if any such denial,
suspension or revocation occurred, the declarant shall provide the name and
location of the massage establishment or business for which the permit was
denied, suspended or revoked, the date of the denial, suspension or revocation,
and the reason or reasons for the denial, suspension or revocation;
      21.   A certified statement from the real property owner authorizing the
proposed use of the premises as a massage establishment; and
      22.   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises of
the massage establishment, drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked
dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
(6) inches, including a statement of total floor space occupied by the massage
establishment.
   C.   The applicant shall provide proof of legal title or a possessory or
leasehold interest in the real property upon which the proposed massage
establishment will be operated.
   D.   The applicant and the prospective on-site manager, if other than the
applicant, shall provide the police department with the current processing fee
and with the authorization to conduct the necessary background investigations
to determine the truthfulness and correctness of the information provided by
applicant and to determine whether applicant is qualified pursuant to this
Chapter to receive the requested massage therapy establishment permit.
   E.   The applicant and the prospective on-site manager, if other than the
applicant, shall date and sign the application under penalty of perjury that
the information contained in the application is true and correct.
   F.   The applicant shall pay an application deposit fee of two hundred
dollars ($200.00) at the time of filing an application pursuant to this
Section, to pay for the administrative costs associated with the Community
Development Department’s review of the application. If additional funds are
necessary to cover the above costs, the applicant shall pay such additional
costs to the city before further processing of the application may proceed. Any
unused portion of the deposit shall be refunded to the applicant.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.120   Personal Massage Therapist Permit Application.
   A.   An application for a personal massage therapist permit shall be made on
a form provided by the City.
   B.   The following information and the following documents must be submitted
with all applications for personal massage therapist permits:
      1.   The applicant’s legal name, any aliases and date of birth;
      2.   The name of the applicant’s massage therapy establishment employer
or prospective massage therapy establishment employer;
      3.   The applicant’s home and business addresses;
      4.   The previous home addresses of applicant for the ten (10) years
prior to the filing date of the application and the dates of residency at each
such address;
      5.   The names, addresses and descriptions of all current and former
businesses owned, operated or managed by applicant for the ten (10) years prior
to the filing date of the application and the dates applicant owned, operated
or managed such business;
      6.   A recent photograph of the applicant;
      7.   The applicant’s driver’s license number or identification number;
      8.   The applicant’s fingerprints taken by the Police Department or other
law enforcement agency within the previous sixty (60) days, and approved by the
Chief of Police;
      9.   The applicant’s Social Security number and/or State or Federally
issued tax identification number;
      10.   Certified copy of the applicant’s diploma or certificate of
graduation from a state recognized school of massage and a sealed certified
transcript verifying that the applicant has completed at least three hundred
(300) hours of massage therapy training;
      11.   A certified statement from a physician licensed to practice
medicine in the United States that provides that the applicant has, within
sixty (60) days prior to the filing date of the application, been examined by
said physician and it has been determined that the applicant is free of any
communicable disease which is capable of being transmitted to clients through
the physical contact that is normally associated with the massage activities
described in this Chapter;
      12.   A list of all of applicant’s convictions, excluding traffic
violations;
      13.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the applicant that
provides that the applicant has not been convicted of any of the following: (a)
pandering as set forth in Penal Code Section 266(i), (b) keeping or residing in
a house of ill-fame as set forth in Penal Code Section 315, (c) keeping a
disorderly house as set forth in Penal Code Section 316, (d) prevailing upon a
person to visit a place of illegal gambling or prostitution as set forth in
Penal Code Section 318, (e) lewd conduct as set forth in Penal Code Section 647
(a), or (f) prostitution activities as set forth in Penal Code Section 647(a)
or (b);
      14.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the applicant that
provides that the applicant has not been convicted in any other state of any
offense which, if committed or attempted in this state, would have been
punishable as one or more of the offenses set forth in Penal Code Sections 266
(i), 315, 316, 318 or 647(a) or (b);
      15.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the applicant that
provides that the applicant is not required to register as a sex offender as
set forth in Penal Code Section 290;
      16.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the applicant that
provides that the applicant has not been convicted of any felony offense
involving the sale of any controlled substance specified in Health and Safety
Code Sections 11054, 11055, 11056, 11057 or 11058;
      17.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the applicant that
provides that the applicant has not been convicted in any other state of any
offense which, if committed or attempted in this state, would have been
punishable as a felony offense involving the sale of any controlled substance
specified in Health and Safety Code Sections 11054, 11055, 11056, 11057 or
11058;
      18.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the applicant
regarding whether the applicant has had a previous massage therapy
establishment permit, an outcall massage therapist permit, a personal massage
therapist permit, or any other massage permit issued pursuant to this Chapter
or any other similar massage permit ordinance of the City or other
jurisdiction, which was denied, suspended or revoked and if any such denial,
suspension or revocation occurred, the applicant shall provide the name and
location of the massage therapy establishment or business for which the permit
was denied, suspended or revoked, the date of the denial, suspension or
revocation, and the reason or reasons for the denial, suspension or revocation;
and
      19.   A declaration signed under penalty of. perjury by the applicant
regarding whether the applicant has been a sole proprietor, general partner,
officer, or director of any massage therapy business that has had a massage
therapy establishment permit, an outcall massage therapist permit, a personal
massage therapist permit, or any other massage permit issued pursuant to this
Chapter or any other similar massage permit ordinance of the City, which was
denied, suspended or revoked and if any such denial, suspension or revocation
occurred, the applicant shall provide the name and location of the massage
establishment or business for which the permit was denied, suspended or
revoked, the date of the denial, suspension or revocation, and the reason or
reasons for the denial, suspension or revocation.
   C.   The applicant shall provide the police department with the current
processing fee and with the authorization to conduct the necessary background
investigations to determine the truthfulness and correctness of the information
provided by applicant and whether the applicant is qualified pursuant to this
Chapter to receive the requested personal massage therapist permit.
   D.   The applicant shall date and sign the application under penalty of
perjury that the information contained in the application is true and correct.
   E.   The applicant shall pay an application deposit fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) at the time of filing an application pursuant to this Section
to pay for the administrative costs associated with the Community Development
Department's review of the application. If additional funds are necessary to
cover the above costs, the applicant shall pay such additional costs to the
city before further processing of the application may proceed. Any unused
portion of the deposit shall be refunded to the applicant.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.130   Outcall Massage Therapist Permit Application.
   A.   An application for an outcall massage therapist permit shall be made on
a form provided by the City.
   B.   The following information and the following documents shall be
submitted with all applications for an outcall massage therapist permit:
      1.   The applicant’s legal name, any aliases and date of birth;
      2.   The jurisdictions that the applicant plans to provide outcall
massage therapist services;
      3.   The applicant’s home and business address;
      4.   The name of applicant’s current or proposed business;
      5.   The business telephone number applicant is using or plans to use as
a contact telephone number for clients;
      6.   The previous home addresses of applicant for the ten (10) years
prior to the filing date of the application and the dates of residency at each
such address;
      7.   The names, addresses and descriptions of all current and former
businesses owned, operated or managed by applicant for the ten (10) years prior
to the filing date of the application and the dates applicant owned, operated
or managed such business;
      8.   A recent photograph of the applicant;
      9.   The applicant’s driver’s license number, permit number or
identification number;
      10.   The applicant’s Social Security number and/or State or Federally
issued tax identification number;
      11.   The applicant’s fingerprints taken by the Police Department or
other law enforcement agency within the previous sixty (60) days, and approved
by the Chief of Police;
      12.   Certified copy of the applicant’s diploma or certificate of
graduation from a recognized school of massage and a sealed certified
transcript verifying that the applicant has completed at least five hundred
(500) hours of massage therapy training;
      13.   A certified statement from a physician licensed to practice
medicine in the United States that provides that the applicant has, within
sixty (60) days prior to filing date of the application, been examined by such
physician and it has been determined that the applicant is free of any
communicable disease which is capable of being transmitted to clients through
the type of physical contact that is normally associated with the massage
activities described in this Chapter;
      14.   A list of all of applicant’s convictions, excluding traffic
violations;
      15.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the applicant that
provides that the applicant has not been convicted of any of the following: (a)
pandering as set forth in Penal Code Section 266(i), (b) keeping or residing in
a house of ill-fame as set forth in Penal Code Section 315, (c) keeping a
disorderly house as set forth in Penal Code Section 316, (d) prevailing upon a
person to visit a place of illegal gambling or prostitution as set forth in
Penal Code Section 318, (e) lewd conduct as set forth in Penal Code Section 647
(a), or (f) prostitution activities as set forth in Penal Code Section 647(a)
or(b);
      16.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the applicant that
provides that the applicant has not been convicted in any other state of any
offense which, if committed or attempted in this state, would have been
punishable as one or more of the offenses set forth in Penal Code Sections 266
(1), 315, 316, 318 or 647(a) or (b);
      17.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the applicant that
provides that the applicant is not required to register as a sex offender as
set forth in Penal Code Section 290;
      18.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the applicant that
provides that the applicant has not been convicted of any felony offense
involving the sale of any controlled substance specified in Health and Safety
Code Sections 11054, 11055, 11056, 11057 or 11058;
      19.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the applicant that
provides that the applicant has not been convicted in any other state of any
offense which, if committed or attempted in this state, would have been
punishable as a felony offense involving the sale of any controlled substance
specified in Health and Safety Code Sections 11054, 11055, 11056, 11057 or
11058;
      20.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the applicant
regarding whether the applicant has had a previous massage therapy
establishment permit, an outcall massage therapist permit, a personal massage
therapist permit, or any other massage permit issued pursuant to this Chapter
or any other similar massage permit ordinance of the City or other
jurisdiction, which was denied, suspended or revoked and if any such denial,
suspension or revocation occurred, the applicant shall provide the name and
location of the massage establishment or business for which the permit was
denied, suspended or revoked, the date of the denial, suspension or revocation,
and the reason or reasons for the denial, suspension or revocation;
      21.   a.   A declaration signed under penalty of perjury by the applicant
regarding whether the applicant has been a sole proprietor, general partner,
officer, or director of any massage therapy business that has had a massage
therapy establishment permit, an outcall massage therapist permit, a personal
massage therapist permit, or any other massage permit issued under this Chapter
or any other similar massage permit ordinance of the City or other
jurisdiction, denied, suspended or revoked;
         b.   If any such denial, suspension or revocation occurred, the
applicant shall provide the name and location of the massage establishment for
which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked, the date of the denial,
suspension or revocation, and the reason or reasons for the denial, suspension
or revocation.
   C.   The applicant shall provide the Police Department with the current
processing fee and with the authorization to conduct the necessary background
investigations to determine the truthfulness and correctness of the information
provided by applicant and whether the applicant is qualified pursuant to this
Chapter to receive the requested outcall massage therapist permit.
   D.   The applicant shall date and sign the application under penalty of
perjury that the information contained in the application is true and correct.
   E.   The applicant shall pay an application deposit fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) at the time of filing an application pursuant to this Section
to pay for the administrative costs associated with the Community Development
Department's review of the application. If additional funds are necessary to
cover the above costs, the applicant shall pay such additional costs to the
city before further processing of the application may proceed. Any unused
portion of the deposit shall be refunded to the applicant.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.140   Processing Applications.
   A.   All applications shall be submitted to the City’s Community Development
Department of the City.
   B.   Upon receipt of an application and payment of the application deposit
fee, the City shall immediately stamp the application as received on that date.
   C.   The filing of concurrent applications by a single individual for
personal and outcall massage therapist permits shall require only one (1)
application deposit fee for both applications.
   D.   The application will not be accepted unless the application deposit fee
and proof of the fingerprinting are submitted with the respective application.
   E.   Not later than thirty (30) days after the City has received the
application, the City shall determine in writing whether the application is
complete and shall immediately transmit the determination to the applicant.
   F.   In the event the determination is made that the application is not
complete, then the written determination shall specify those parts of the
application that are incomplete and shall indicate the manner in which they may
be made complete.
   G.   If the written determination is not made within thirty (30) days after
receipt of the application, the application shall be deemed complete for
purposes of this Chapter.
   H.   After the application has been deemed complete, the application shall
be submitted to the Police Department, Planning Division, Building and Safety
Division, Fire Department, and divisions thereof for their respective review
and investigation to determine the accuracy of the information contained in the
application and compliance with all applicable regulations.
   I.   Each department or division identified in this Section shall submit
their comments regarding their respective review and investigation of the
subject application to the City Manager or his/her designee.
   J.   The City Manager, or his/her designee, shall grant or deny an
application within sixty (60) business days of receipt of a complete
application.
   K.   Upon the expiration of the sixtieth day after receipt of a complete
application, if the City Manager, or his/her designee, has not provided written
notice of denial or approval of the application to the applicant, the
application shall be deemed tentatively granted and the applicant shall be
excused from the requirement that a duly issued permit be posted at the
premises until such time as a final decision is made on the subject application
pursuant to this Chapter.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.150   Denial of Application and Grounds for Denial.
   A.   An application for a massage therapy permit shall be denied upon a
showing of any of the following:
      1.   The location of the business does not comply with all applicable
zoning laws or the provisions of this Chapter;
      2.   The configuration and/or proposed or actual construction of the
premises, as set out in the sketch or plan submitted with the application,
reveals a violation of an applicable health, fire, building, safety or zoning
regulation or law of the Federal government, State of California, County of San
Bernardino, or ordinance of the City, including those set forth in this
Chapter;
      3.   The applicant or the prospective on-site manager, if other than the
applicant, is not eighteen (18) years of age or older;
      4.   The application contains false information;
      5.   The applicant or the prospective on-site manager, if other than the
applicant, did not receive a diploma or a certificate of graduation from a
recognized school of massage which verifies that he or she has obtained the
requisite number of hours of massage therapy training;
      6.   The applicant or the prospective on-site manager, if other than the
applicant, officers, was convicted of at least one of the following offenses:
(a) pandering as set forth in Penal Code Section 266(i), (b) keeping or
residing in a house of ill-fame as set forth in Penal Code Section 315, (c)
keeping a disorderly house as set forth in Penal Code Section 316, (d)
prevailing upon a person to visit a place of illegal gambling or prostitution
as set forth in Penal Code Section 318, (e) lewd conduct as set forth in Penal
Code Section 647(a) or (f) prostitution activities as set forth in Penal Code
Section 647(a) or (b);
      7.   The applicant, or the prospective on-site manager, if other than the
applicant, was convicted in another state of an offense which, if committed or
attempted in this state, would have been punishable as one or more of the
offenses set forth in Penal Code Sections 266(f), 315, 316, 318, or 647(a) or
(b);
      8.   The applicant, or the prospective on-site manager, if other than the
applicant, is required to register as a sex offender as set forth in Penal Code
Section 290;
      9.   The applicant, or the prospective on-site manager, if other than the
applicant, was convicted of a felony offense involving the sale of any one of
the controlled substance specified in Health and Safety Code Sections 11054,
11055, 11056, 11057 or 11058; or
      10.   The applicant, or the prospective on-site manager if other than the
applicant, was convicted in any other state of any offense which, if committed
or attempted in this state, would have been punishable as a felony offense
involving the sale of a controlled substance specified in Health and Safety
Code Sections 11054, 11055, 11056, 11057 or 11058.
   B.   If the City Manager, or his/her designee denies the application, he/she
shall notify the applicant of the denial in writing and state the reason(s) for
the denial.
   C.   Any subsequent information submitted to cure the grounds of a denied
application shall be treated as a new application.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.160   Exemptions.
A massage therapy permit shall not be required for therapists that are
supporting a local athletic program or event when massage services are being
provided to the participants of the event.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.170   Appeal of Denial.
   A.   An applicant may contest the denial of an application for any permit,
other than a special massage therapy permit or a temporary massage therapy
permit, described in this Chapter by filing an appeal to the City Council that
conforms to the following requirements:
      1.   All appeals shall be in writing. and shall contain the following
information: (a) name(s) of the person filing the appeal (“appellants”); (b) a
brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the relief sought and the
reasons why the permit should be issued; and (c) the signatures of all parties
named as appellants and their mailing addresses.
      2.   Any appeal filed that fails to provide all of the information
required by this Section shall be deemed incomplete.
      3.   A complete and proper appeal of the denial of a permit application
shall be filed with the City Clerk within ten (10) calendar days of service of
the letter denying the application.
      4.   Any appeal not timely filed shall be rejected.
      5.   A filing fee as established by City Council resolution or any
amendments thereto for an appeal must be paid to the City at or prior to the
time of the filing of the appeal.
      6.   Any appeal of a denial of a permit application filed without payment
of the filing fee shall be deemed incomplete.
      7.   Not later than thirty (30) calendar days from the date the appeal is
filed, the City Clerk or his/her designee shall determine whether the appeal is
complete.
      8.   If the appeal is determined to be incomplete, the City Clerk, or
his/her designee, shall immediately mail to the appellant a notice of
incomplete filing that shall provide a written explanation of each reason why
the appeal has been determined to be incomplete.
      9.   If service of the notice of incomplete filing is completed within
ten (10) calendar days from the date the appeal is filed, the ten (10) calendar
days time period within which to file a completed appeal shall not be extended.
   B.   Failure to timely and properly file an appeal shall constitute a waiver
of all rights to an appeal hearing.
   C.   As soon as practicable, after receiving the written appeal, the City
Clerk shall schedule a public hearing before the City Council at the next
regularly scheduled City Council meeting for which there is sufficient time to
have the matter properly noticed.
   D.   As soon as practicable, after scheduling the appeals hearing, the City
Clerk shall prepare a notice of appeals hearing (“hearing notice”) which shall
be in substantially the same form as follows:
      You are hereby notified that a hearing will be held before the City
Council at _____ on the _____day of __________, _____, at the hour of ______,
to hear your appeal of the City Manager’s denial of your massage permit
application. You may be present at the hearing. You may be, but need not be,
represented by an attorney. You may present any relevant evidence at the
hearing.
   E.   In addition to any other public hearing notice requirements as may be
required by any applicable law, the City Clerk, or his/her designee, shall
cause a copy of the hearing notice to be provided to the appellant at least ten
(10) days prior to the public hearing date either by causing a copy of the
notice to be delivered to the appellant personally or by causing a copy of the
notice to be delivered by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested, and addressed to the appellant at the address shown on the appeal.
   F.   Proof of service of the hearing notice shall be certified at the time
of service by a written declaration under penalty of perjury executed by the
persons effecting service, declaring the date and manner in which service was
made.
   G.   The declaration pertaining to the proof of service shall be affixed to
a copy of the hearing notice.
   H.   The City Clerk, or his/her designee, shall cause a copy of the hearing
notice to be provided to the City Manager.
   I.   The City Manager, or his/her designee, shall prepare an appeal hearing
packet for the City Council to review prior to the hearing.
   J.   The appeal hearing packet shall include a copy of the City Manager’s
findings and decision on the application for the permit, a staff report, and
any other relevant evidence.
   K.   The City Council shall review all relevant evidence and hear all
relevant oral testimony submitted by, for and against the appellant and the
appellant shall be provided with a reasonable opportunity to be heard on the
matter at the public hearing.
   L.   The City Council shall consider at the appeal hearing only those
matters or issues which were specifically raised by the appellant in his or her
written appeal and which are relevant to the issues of the hearing.
   M.   The City Council has the authority to determine the relevance of any
evidence to the hearing.
   N.   The City Council has the authority to exclude unduly repetitious and
cumulative evidence, regardless of its relevancy.
   O.   The City Council shall not have the authority to waive any requirements
of the municipal code and/or any applicable statutes, rules, codes or
regulations.
   P.   If the appellant fails to attend the scheduled appeal hearing, the
appeal hearing shall proceed without the appellant and the appellant shall be
deemed to have waived his or her rights to be orally heard at the hearing.
   Q.   The City Council may take the following actions:
      1.   Reject the City Manager’s findings and determinations based upon the
conclusion that the City Manager misapplied the provisions of this Chapter and
reverse the City Manager’s decision;
      2.   Modify the City Manager’s findings and determinations to conform
with the application of the provisions of this Chapter and reverse or affirm
the City Manager’s decision;
      3.   Accept the City Manager’s findings and determinations on the grounds
that the City Manager properly applied the provisions of this Chapter to the
appellant and application and affirm the City Manager’s decision; or
      4.   Remand the matter to the City Manager with instructions to
reconsider the application in light of new information presented to the City
Council prior to or at the public hearing.
   R.   The City Council shall prepare and serve a written notice of decision
upon the appellant(s) and the City Manager within thirty (30) calendar days
from the date the public hearing is deemed closed.
   S.   The notice of decision shall state whether the City Manager’s decision
has been either upheld in full or in part or rescinded in full or in part.
   T.   The notice of decision shall also contain a brief summary of the
evidence considered, findings of fact, and the effective date of the decision.
   U.   The City Clerk shall cause a copy of the notice of decision to be
provided to the appellant(s) by causing a copy of the notice to be delivered to
the appellant(s) personally or by causing a copy of the notice to be delivered
to the appellant(s) by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested, and addressed to all the addresses shown on the application.
   V.   Proof of service of the notice of decision shall be certified at the
time of service by a written declaration under penalty of perjury executed by
the person effecting service, declaring the date and manner in which service
was made.
   W.   The declaration regarding the notice of decision shall be affixed to a
copy of the notice of decision.
   X.   The decision of the City Council shall be final.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.180   Current Information.
During the effective duration of the permit, the permittee shall promptly
update, correct or supplement the information contained in his or her
application on file with the City when necessary to keep the information
contained therein current and accurate.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.190   Renewal of Permit.
   A.   All permits shall expire one (1) year from the date they are issued.
   B.   Applications for renewal of a permit shall be made thirty (30) days
prior to the expiration date of the permit in accordance with the applicable
application procedures set forth in this Chapter.
   C.   The applicant shall pay a renewal application deposit fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) at the time of filing a renewal application in
addition to any necessary background investigation costs of the police
department. Multiple permits held by a single individual can be renewed for a
single application deposit fee. If additional funds are necessary to cover the
above costs, the applicant shall pay such additional costs to the Community
Development Department before further processing of the renewal application may
proceed. Any unused portion of the deposit shall be refunded to the applicant.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.200   Massage Therapy Establishments; Inspections.
Representatives of the City including, but not limited to representatives of
the Police Department, Community Development Department, building and safety
division, fire department, health department and divisions thereof, may inspect
the premises of a massage therapy establishment for the purposes of insuring
compliance with the law at any time such establishment is occupied or open for
business pursuant to the inspection provisions set forth in the Municipal Code,
uniform codes adopted by the City, and applicable State and local laws and
regulations.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.210   Massage Therapy Establishments; Exterior Lighting.
All off-street parking locations entrances and exits provided for or belonging
to the massage therapy establishment shall be illuminated from dusk to closing
hours with a lighting system that provides an average maintained horizontal
illumination of one (1) foot candle of light on the parking surface and
walkways.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.220   Massage Therapy Establishments; Exterior Signage.
   A.   A recognizable and readable sign that complies with all sign
regulations of the City shall be posted at the main entrance of the massage
therapy establishment identifying the name of the massage therapy
establishment.
   B.   A recognizable and readable sign that complies with all sign
regulations of the City shall be posted at the main entrance of the massage
therapy establishment identifying the hours of operation of the massage therapy
establishment.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.230   Massage Therapy Establishments; Exterior Views.
All building openings, entries, windows, etc., of a massage establishment shall
be located, covered or screened in such a manner as to prevent an unobstructed
view from the exterior of the building into dressing rooms, massage therapy
rooms, restrooms, and other areas where patrons of the business may not be
fully clothed.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.240   Massage Therapy Establishments; Posting Requirements.
   A.   The massage therapy establishment permit shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises within the reception area of the massage
establishment.
   B.   A copy of the personal massage therapy permit for each personal massage
therapist shall be kept on file on the premises of the massage establishment.
   C.   A copy of each diploma or certificate of graduation for each personal
massage therapist shall be kept on file on the premises of the massage
establishment.
   D.   A recent photograph of each personal massage therapist shall be kept on
file on the premises of the massage establishment.
   E.   A list of massage therapy services available at the massage
establishment, a description of services in readily understandable language,
and the cost of such services shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises within the reception area of the massage establishment.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.250   Massage Therapy Establishments; Reception Area.
At least one (1) artificial light providing a lighting intensity of not less
than thirty (30) foot candle power at floor level shall be installed in the
reception area.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.260   Massage Therapy Establishments; Massage Therapy Rooms.
   A.   At least one (1) artificial light providing a lighting intensity of not
less than twenty (20) foot candle power at floor level shall be installed in
each massage therapy room.
   B.   There shall be no locks on any massage therapy room or any other device
which impedes or obstructs access to the massage therapy room.
   C.   There shall be walls installed between each massage therapy room and
such walls shall contain no openings other than doors between adjacent rooms.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.270   Massage Therapy Establishments; Client Registration.
   A.   All massage therapy establishment permittees shall maintain a client
registration file that shall include the following information:
      1.   First, middle and last name of client;
      2.   Signature of client;
      3.   Complete address of client;
      4.   Date and time of visit; and
      5.   First, middle and last name of personal massage therapist who
administered massage services.
   B.   Every client shall provide the information set forth above and sign his
or her name on the client registration form provided by the permittee before
any massage services may be provided.
   C.   All client registration files shall be made available for inspection by
the Police Department or other law enforcement agency upon written request of
the Chief of Police within three (3) working days of receiving such request.
   D.   The information contained in client registration files shall be
maintained by permittee for a period of three (3) calendar years of the last
date the respective information was entered into the file.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.280   Massage Therapy Establishments; Dress and Identification.
   A.   All employees shall wear non-transparent outer garments covering their
specified anatomical areas.
   B.   All employees shall wear badges that identify their first and/or last
names and their employment position with the massage establishment.
   C.   All massage establishment employees shall possess while on the premises
of a massage establishment a valid identification with a photograph of himself/
herself at all times while present on the premises of the massage establishment
during the hours of operation of the establishment.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.290   Massage Therapy Establishments; Hours of Operation.
   A.   Massage therapy establishments are prohibited from operating between
the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 7:30 a.m.
   B.   Permittees shall be prohibited from permitting clients to remain on the
premises of the massage establishment after closing hours.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.300   Massage Therapy Establishments; Showers, Baths and Toilets.
   A.   Only one (1) client shall be permitted in a room containing a shower
stall, bath stall or toilet facility at any one time unless otherwise permitted
by any applicable local, State, or Federal law or regulation or accompanied by
a massage therapist for massage therapy purposes.
   B.   Each room containing a shower, bath and/or toilet shall have a door
that is self closing and locking.
   C.   An artificial light providing a lighting intensity of not less than
thirty (30) foot candle power at floor level shall be installed in any room
containing a shower, bath and/or toilet.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.310   Massage Therapy Establishments; Sanitary Conditions.
   A.   The premises of the massage therapy establishment shall have adequate
equipment for disinfecting and/or sanitizing nondisposable instruments and
materials used in administering massages.
   B.   All nondisposable instruments and materials shall be disinfected and/or
sanitized after each use on each client.
   C.   All walls, ceilings, floors, showers, bathtubs, water basins, toilets
and all other facilities must be maintained in good repair and in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   D.   All showers, bathtubs, water basins and toilets shall be thoroughly
cleaned at least once each day the massage therapy establishment is in
operation.
   E.   Water basins with hot and cold running water from a potable source and
soap dispensers shall be available to clients.
   F.   A trash receptacle shall be provided in each massage therapy room and
any room containing a shower, bathtub, water basin and/or toilet.
   G.   Bathtubs shall be thoroughly cleaned after each use.
   H.   All clients shall be provided clean and sanitary towels, sheets and
linens.
   I.   Towels, sheets and linens shall be provided in sufficient quantity and
shall not be used by more than one (1) person unless such towels, sheets and
linens have been re-laundered.
   J.   Separate closed cabinets or containers shall be provided for the
storage of clean and soiled towels, sheets and linens, and such cabinets or
containers shall be plainly marked “clean linen” and “soiled linen.”
   K.   Massage table cover pads that come into contact with the body of a
client shall be clean.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.320   Massage Therapy Establishments; Loudspeakers and Sound Equipment.
Loudspeakers or sound equipment shall not be used by a massage therapy
establishment for amplification of sound to a level discernible by the public
beyond the walls of the building or leaseable space in which the use is
conducted.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.330   Outcall Massage Therapy; Client Registration.
   A.   All outcall massage therapists shall maintain a client registration
book or appointment book that shall include the following information:
      1.   First, middle and last name of client;
      2.   Date and time of visit;
      3.   Address of location of the subject massage therapy services;
      4.   First, middle and last name of personal massage therapist who
administered massage service.
   B.   All client registration or appointment books shall be made available
for inspection by the Police Department or other law enforcement agency upon
written request of the Chief of Police within three (3) working days of
receiving such request.
   C.   A client registration or appointment books shall be maintained by
permittee for each calendar year and each client registration or appointment
book shall be maintained by permittee for a period of three (3) calendar years.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.340   Outcall Massage Service; Dress and Identification.
   A.   All outcall massage therapists shall wear non-transparent outer
garments covering their specified anatomical areas while performing any massage
services authorized by their respective permit.
   B.   All outcall massage therapists shall wear badges that identify their
first and/or last names.
   C.   All outcall massage therapists shall possess evidence of their permits
and valid identification on their person at all times during the course of
providing any services authorized by the subject permit.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.350   Outcall Massage Therapists; Hours of Services.
   A.   Outcall massage therapists are prohibited from providing massage
services between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   B.   Outcall massage therapists shall notify the manager of any lodging
establishment at which services have been requested by a registered guest or
guest of the registered guest of such lodging establishment prior to providing
massage services to the registered guest or guest of the registered guest.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.360   Prohibited Activities.
   A.   Any and all employees, including any owner, operator or manager, of a
massage therapy establishment and all outcall massage therapists and their
clients are prohibited from exposing their specified anatomical areas
(including the buttocks of the employee, owner, operator or manager) to each
other during the course of the performance or administration of any service
pursuant to a validly issued massage therapy permit.
   B.   Any and all employees, including any owner, operator or manager, of a
massage therapy establishment and all outcall massage therapists and their
clients are prohibited from touching either their own or one another’s
specified anatomical areas during the course of the performance or
administration of any service pursuant to a validly issued massage therapy
permit.
   C.   Any and all employees, including any owner, operator or manager, of a
massage therapy establishment and all outcall massage therapists are prohibited
from being in a state of full nudity or semi-nudity (which includes exposure of
the buttocks of any employee, owner, operator or manager) during the course of
the performance or administration of any service pursuant to a validly issued
massage therapy permit.
   D.   Any and all employees, including any owner, operator or manager, of a
massage therapy establishment and all outcall massage therapists and their
clients are prohibited from engaging in any specified sexual activities during
the course of the performance or administration of any service pursuant to a
validly issued massage therapy permit.
   E.   Any and all employees, including any owner, operator or manager, of a
massage therapy establishment and all outcall massage therapists shall be
prohibited from performing or administering any massage services to a minor
unless written permission is provided by the minor’s parent or legal guardian.
   F.   Any and all employees, including any owner, operator or manager, of a
massage therapy establishment and outcall massage therapists shall be
prohibited from performing or administering any massage services and charging
any amount that is not posted on the list of services and charges.
   G.   No permittee shall employ any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
   H.   No permittee shall operate, maintain, run or manage any massage therapy
establishment or outcall massage therapy services under any business name not
specified in the permit.
   I.   No permittee shall provide alcoholic beverages to clients either on the
premises of a massage therapy establishment or during the course of providing
any services as an outcall massage therapist.
   J.   No permittee shall be permitted to transfer or assign any permit issued
pursuant to this Chapter to another person, entity, or to another location
which shall include another legal parcel or another address.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.370   Transfer of Ownership.
All transfers of ownership of any business operating pursuant to a permit
validly issued pursuant to this Chapter shall result in the automatic
termination of the permit.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.380   Relocation.
Relocation of any business operating pursuant to this Chapter shall result in
the automatic termination of the subject permit.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.390   Change of On-site Manager.
A change of the on-site manager of a massage establishment without submitting a
new massage establishment permit application shall result in the automatic
termination of the subject permit.
[Ord. No. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.400   Reference Applies to Amendments.
Whenever a reference is made to any part of the Municipal Code or to any
ordinance of the City, reference applies to all amendments and additions now or
hereafter made.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.410   Computation of Time.
   A.   The time in which any act provided by this Chapter is to be done is
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is a holiday that is also excluded.
   B.   If the last day for the performance of any act set forth in this
Chapter is a holiday, then the time in which to perform the act is extended to
and including the next day which is not a holiday.
   C.   If the last day for the performance of any act provided by this Chapter
is Saturday or Sunday, then the time in which to perform the act is extended to
and including the next Monday.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.420   Nonconforming Uses and Permits.
   A.   All permittees legally permitted to engage in massage therapy business
activities on the effective date of this Chapter, which are in noncompliance as
a result of an amendment to this Chapter shall be deemed legal nonconforming
and will be allowed to continue operation provided they are in compliance with
all limitations and requirements of their original permit except as noted
below.
   B.   Any expansion of massage services beyond those specified in the
original approval shall require a newly issued permit pursuant to this Chapter.
   C.   All legal nonconforming individual permittees shall come into
compliance with all licensing and operational criteria identified in this
Chapter by the effective date of this Chapter.
   D.   All legal nonconforming establishment applicants and the prospective
on-site manager(s), if other than the applicant, shall come into compliance
with all licensing and operational criteria identified in this Chapter by the
effective date of this Chapter.
   E.   All legal nonconforming establishments shall come into compliance with
all licensing and operational criteria identified in this Chapter by the
effective date of this Chapter.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.430   Suspension and Revocation.
   A.   A massage permit validly issued pursuant to this Chapter shall be
subject to suspension or revocation for the following reasons:
      1.   The permittee, any of its employees, or massage therapists working
for permittee as independent contractors engages in any of the prohibited
activities described in Section
5.60.360;
      2.   The permittee, any of its employees, or massage therapists working
for permittee as independent contractors are convicted of any of the following:
(a) pandering as set forth in Penal Code Section 266(i), (b) keeping or
residing in a house of ill-fame as set forth in Penal Code Section 315, (c)
keeping a disorderly house as set forth in Penal Code Section 316, (d)
prevailing upon a person to visit a place of illegal gambling or prostitution
as set forth in Penal Code Section 318, (e) lewd conduct as set forth in Penal
Code Section 647(a), or (f) prostitution activities as set forth in Penal Code
Section 647(a) or (b);
      3.   The permittee, any of its employees, or massage therapists working
for permittee as independent contractors are convicted in any other state of
any offense which, if committed or attempted in this state, would have been
punishable as one or more of the offenses set forth in Penal Code Sections 266
(i), 315, 316, 318 or 647(a) or (b);
      4.   The permittee, any of its employees, or massage therapists working
for permittee as independent contractors are required to register as a sex
offender as set forth in Penal Code Section 290;
      5.   The permittee, any of its employees, or massage therapists working
for permittee as independent contractors are convicted of any felony offense
involving the sale of any controlled substance specified in Health and Safety
Code Sections 11054, 11055, 11056, 11057 or 11058;
      6.   The permittee, any of its employees, or massage therapists working
for permittee as independent contractors are convicted in any other state of
any offense which, if committed or attempted in this state, would have been
punishable as a felony offense involving the sale of any controlled substance
specified in Health and Safety Code Sections 11054, 11055, 11056, 11057 or
11058;
      7.   The permittee fails to provide Information pursuant to Section
5.60.150;
      8.   A certified statement from the real property owner is received by
the City indicating that the permittee is not authorized to operate, run or
manage a massage establishment on the subject premises;
      9.   The actual physical configuration of the premises does not conform
with the sketch or diagram submitted with the approved application;
      10.   It is discovered by the City Manager that information contained in
the approved application was false;
      11.   The permittee has knowledge that a client has contracted a
communicable disease such as tuberculosis or a sexually transmitted disease
from the permittee, any of permittee's employees, or any massage therapists
working for permittee as an independent contractor through physical contact
with the permittee or permittee’s employees during the course of providing
massage therapy services pursuant to a massage therapy permit;
      12.   The permittee, any of permittee’s employees or any massage
therapists working for permittee as an independent contractor refuse to permit
representatives of the City, including, but not limited to police department,
community development/planning department, building and safety division, fire
department, health department and divisions thereof, to inspect the premises of
a massage establishment pursuant to Section
5.60.200;
      13.   The permittee fails to comply with the following provisions:
         a.   The exterior lighting requirements set forth in Section
5.60.180,
         b.   The exterior signage requirements set forth in Section
5.60.190,
         c.   The exterior view requirements set forth in Section
5.60.200,
         d.   The posting requirements set forth in Section
5.60.210,
         e.   The reception area requirements set forth in Section
5.60.220,
         f.   The massage therapy room requirements set forth in Section
5.60.230,
         g.   The client registration requirements set forth in Sections
5.60.270 and
5.60.330,
         h.   The dress and identification requirements set forth in Sections
5.60.280 and
5.60.340,
         i.   The hours of operation and services requirements set forth in
Sections
5.60.290 and
5.60.350, respectively,
         j.   The shower, bath and toilet requirements set forth in Section
5.60.300,
         k.   The sanitary conditions requirements set forth in Section
5.60.310, and/or
         I.   The loudspeaker or sound equipment requirements set forth in
Section
5.60.320.
   B.   Revocation or suspension of any permit validly issued pursuant to this
Chapter shall be accomplished pursuant to the procedures set forth in this
Code, applicable ordinance(s) of the City, and State law.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.440   Enforcement; Separate Offense for Each Day.
Any person that violates any provision of this Chapter shall be guilty of a
separate offense for each and every day during any portion of which any such
person commits, continues, permits, or causes a violation thereof, and shall be
punished accordingly.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.450   Public Nuisance.
Any violation of Sections
5.60.030A., B., or C.,
5.60.050A.,
5.60.180,
5.60.210,
5.60.220,
5.60.230,
5.60.240,
5.60.250,
5.60.260,
5.60.270,
5.60.280,
5.60.290,
5.60.300,
5.60.310,
5.60.320,
5.60.330,
5.60.340,
5.60.350,
5.60.360 of this Chapter by any person responsible for committing, causing or
maintaining such violation shall constitute a public nuisance which shall be
subject to the provisions of
Chapter 8.25 of the Municipal Code.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.460   Criminal Penalties.
   A.   Any person who violates, causes, maintains or permits another person to
violate any provision of this Chapter commits an infraction. Any person
convicted of an infraction shall be subject to a fine to the maximum amount
permitted by state law. Any person twice convicted of an infraction for repeat
violations of the same provision within a one (1) year period, may be charged
with a misdemeanor upon being issued a citation for the repeated violation of
the same provision. Any person convicted of a misdemeanor shall be subject to
punishment to the maximum permitted by State law.
   B.   Pursuant to Government Code Section 36900(a), the City attorney may
prosecute these violations in the name of the people of the State of
California.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.470   Civil Fines.
   A.   Any person convicted of an infraction, for each separate violation of
Sections
5.60.030A., B., or C.,
5.60.050A.,
5.60.180,
5.60.210,
5.60.220,
5.60.230,
5.60.240,
5.60.250,
5.60.260,
5.60.270,
5.60.280,
5.60.290,
5.60.300,
5.60.310,
5.60.320,
5.60.330,
5.60.340,
5.60.350,
5.60.360 of this Chapter, shall be subject to: (1) a fine in an amount not to
exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a first conviction of an
offense; (2) a fine in an amount not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for a second conviction of the same offense within a twelve (12) month period
from the date of the first offense; and (3) a fine in an amount not to exceed
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for a third conviction of the same
offense within a twelve (12) month period from the date of the first offense.
   B.   The fine for a fourth and subsequent convictions of the same offense
within a twelve (12) month period of the date from the first offense shall be
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.480   Civil Injunction.
The violation of any provision of this Chapter shall be and is declared to be
contrary to the public interest and shall, at the discretion of the City,
create a cause of action for injunctive relief.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.490   Administrative Remedies.
   A.   In addition to the civil remedies and criminal penalties set forth
above, any person that responsible for committing, causing or maintaining any
violation of this Chapter may be subject to administrative remedies, as set
forth by City ordinance.
   B.   Nothing in this Section shall preclude the City from also issuing an
infraction or misdemeanor citation upon the occurrence of the same subject
offense on a separate day.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.500   Additional Remedies.
   A.   Any violation of Sections
5.60.030A., B., or C.,
5.60.050A.,
5.60.180,
5.60.210,
5.60.220,
5.60.230,
5.60.240,
5.60.250,
5.60.260,
5.60.270,
5.60.280,
5.60.290,
5.60.300,
5.60.310,
5.60.320,
5.60.330,
5.60.340,
5.60.350,
5.60.360 of this Chapter by the holder of any City permit and/or City license
validly issued pursuant to this or any other Chapter of the Municipal Code
shall constitute grounds for modification, suspension and/or revocation of said
permit and/or license pursuant to the provisions set forth in this Code.
   B.   Nothing in this Chapter shall preclude the City from pursuing other
remedies provided by City ordinance, uniform codes adopted by the City, or by
State or Federal law including, but not limited to, denial or revocation of
certificates of occupancy, issuance of stop work orders and injunctive relief.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.510   Regulations Nonexclusive.
The provisions of this Chapter regulating massage establishments are not
intended to be exclusive, and compliance therewith shall not excuse
noncompliance with any other regulation(s) pertaining to the operation of
businesses as adopted by the City.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.60.520   Massage Establishments that Only Use Massage Therapists Certified
Under State Law.
Consistent with state law and subject to the exceptions listed below, if the
massage establishment only uses massage therapists certified pursuant to the
procedures outlined in California Business and Professions Code §§ 4600 et
seq., then the massage establishment shall be exempt from the requirements of
this Chapter. However, such massage establishments are subject to the following
requirements:
   A.   Massage establishments must file the certificates for all state
certified massage therapists with the City.
   B.   Massage establishments are required to obtain and pay for a business
license, the City is allowed to investigate the information provided, and the
City is allowed to deny or restrict a business license if the applicant has
provided materially false information.
   C.   Massage establishments are required to still comply with Adelanto
Municipal Code Sections
5.60.280 and
5.60.310.
   D.   The City retains the right to conduct reasonable inspections, during
regular business hours, to ensure compliance with state and local law or other
applicable fire and health and safety requirements.
   E.   The massage establishment is required to notify the City of any
intention to rename, change management, or convey the business to another
person or entity.
   F.   All applicable zoning and land use regulations are applicable to all
massage establishments.
If and when Business and Professions Code §§ 4600 et seq. and the rules therein
are repealed, this Section
5.60.520 is correspondingly also repealed and
Chapter 5.60 of the Adelanto Municipal Code shall be applicable to all massage
establishments within the City.
[Ord. No. 493, 2/24/10.]
Chapter 5.64
ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Sections:
   
5.64.010   Findings; Definitions
   
5.64.020   Adult-Oriented Business Regulatory Permit Required
   
5.64.030   Adult-Oriented Business Performer Permit Required
   
5.64.040   Adult-Oriented Business Performer Permit
   
5.64.050   Investigation and Action on Application
   
5.64.060   Suspension or Revocation of Adult-Oriented Business Regulatory and
Performer Permits
   
5.64.070   Appeal or Denial of Permit Suspension or Revocation
   
5.64.080   Register and Permit Number of Employees
   
5.64.090   Display of Permit and Identification Cards
   
5.64.100   Employment of Minors and Persons Without Permits Prohibited
   
5.64.110   Time Limit for Filing Application for Permit
5.64.010   Findings; Definitions.
   A.   The Findings set forth in
Chapter 17.85 of this Code, and in Section 1 of Ordinance No; 332, which is
adopted by reference therein, are adopted herein in full.
   B.   The Definitions set forth in
Chapter 17.85 of this Code, and in Subsection 2 of Article 1 of Section 2 of
Ordinance No. 332, which is adopted by reference in
Chapter 17.85, are adopted herein in full.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.64.020   Adult-Oriented Business Regulatory Permit Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct or carry on, or to
permit to be engaged in, conducted or carried on, in or upon any premises in
the City, the operation of an adult-oriented business unless the person first
obtains and continues to maintain in full force and effect an Adult-Oriented
Business Regulatory Permit from the City as herein required. [Ord. No. 332,
Subsection 3(a), adopted 5/27/97.]
The provisions of this Chapter regulating adult-oriented businesses are not
intended to be exclusive and compliance therewith shall not excuse
noncompliance with any other regulations pertaining to the operation of
businesses as adopted by the City Council of the City. [Ord. No. 332,
Subsection 4 of Article 4, adopted 5/27/97.]
In addition to the Adult-Oriented Business Regulatory Permit, a City business
license shall also be maintained in force and effect, pursuant to
Chapter 5.40 herein, for the operation of the adult-oriented business.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.64.030   Adult-Oriented Business Performer Permit Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or participate in any live
performance depicting specified anatomical areas or involving specified sexual
activities in an adult-oriented business unless the person first obtains and
continues in full force and effect an Adult-Oriented Business Performer Permit
from the City as herein required.
[Ord. No. 332, Subsection 3(b), adopted 5/27/97; Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.64.040   Adult-Oriented Business Performer Permit.
   A.   No person shall engage in or participate in any live performance
depicting specified anatomical areas or involving specified sexual activities
in an adult-oriented business, without a valid Adult-Oriented Business
Performer Permit issued by the City. All persons who have been issued an Adult-
Oriented Business Regulatory Permit shall promptly supplement the information
provided as part of the application for the Permit required by Section 3,
Article 2, Subsection 1 of Ordinance No. 332, and
Chapter 17.85 of this Code, with the names of all performers required to obtain
an Adult-Oriented Business Performer Permit, within thirty (30) days of any
change in the information originally submitted. Failure to submit such changes
shall be grounds for suspension of the Adult-Oriented Business Regulatory
Permit.
   B.   The Chief of Police shall grant, deny and renew Adult Business Employee
Permits.
   C.   The application for a permit shall be made on a form provided by the
Chief of Police. An original and two (2) copies of the completed and sworn
permit application shall be filed with the Chief of Police.
   D.   The completed application shall contain the following information and
be accompanied by the following documents:
      1.   The applicant’s legal name and any other names (including “stage
names” and aliases) used by the applicant;
      2.   Age, date and place of birth;
      3.   Height, weight, hair and eye color;
      4.   Present residence address and telephone number;
      5.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of:
         a.   Any of the offenses set forth in Penal Code Sections 315, 316,
266a, 266b, 266c, 266e, 266g, 266h, 647(a), 647(b) and 647(D), as those
sections now exist or may hereafter be amended or renumbered.
         b.   The equivalent of the aforesaid offenses outside the State of
California;
      6.   Whether such person is or has ever been licensed or registered as a
prostitute, or otherwise authorized by the laws of any other jurisdiction to
engage in prostitution in such other jurisdiction. If any person mentioned in
this Subsection has ever been licensed or registered as a prostitute, or
otherwise authorized by the laws of any other state to engage in prostitution,
as statement shall be submitted giving the place of such registration,
licensing or legal authorization, and the inclusive dates during which such
person was so licensed, registered, or authorized to engage in prostitution;
      7.   State driver’s license or identification number;
      8.   Satisfactory written proof that the applicant is at least eighteen
(18) years of age;
      9.   The applicant’s fingerprints on a form provided by the Police
Department, and a color photograph clearly showing the applicant’s face. Any
fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the applicant;
      10.   If the application is made for the purpose of renewing a license,
the applicant shall attach a copy of the license to be renewed.
   E.   The completed application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable
application fee. The amount of the fee shall be set by resolution of the City
Council.
   F.   Upon receipt of an application and payment of the application fee, the
Chief of Police shall immediately stamp the application as received and
promptly investigate the application.
   G.   If the Chief of Police determines that the applicant has completed the
application improperly, the Chief of Police shall promptly notify the applicant
of such fact and grant the applicant an extension of time of not more than ten
(10) days to complete the application properly. In addition, the applicant may
request an extension, not to exceed ten (10) days, of the time for the Chief of
Police to act on the application. The time period for granting or denying a
permit shall be stayed during the period in which the applicant is granted an
extension of time.
[Ord. No. 332, Subsection 6 of Article 2, adopted 5/27/97; Ord. 462, Section 3,
5/9/07.]
5.64.050   Investigation and Action on Application.
   A.   Within thirty (30) days after receipt of the properly completed
application, the Chief of Police shall grant or deny the application and so
notify the applicant as follows:
      1.   The Chief of Police shall write or stamp “Granted” or “Denied” on
the application and date and sign such notation.
      2.   If the application is denied, the Chief of Police shall attach to
the application a statement of the reasons for denial.
      3.   If the application is granted, the Chief of Police shall attach to
the application an Adult-Oriented Business Employee Permit.
      4.   The application as granted or denied and the permit, if any, shall
be placed in the United States mail, first class postage prepaid, addressed to
the applicant at the residence address stated in the application.
   B.   The Chief of Police shall grant the application and issue the permit
unless the application is denied for one or more of the reasons set forth in
Subsection D. of this Section.
   C.   If the Chief of Police grants the application or if the Chief of Police
neither grants nor denies the application within thirty (30) days after it is
stamped as received (except as provided in Subsection G. of Section
5.64.040), the applicant may begin performing in the capacity for which the
license was sought.
   D.   The Chief of Police shall deny the application for any of the following
reasons:
      1.   The applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading, or
fraudulent statement of a material fact in the application for a permit or in
any report or document required to be filed with the application;
      2.   The applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age;
      3.   The Adult-Oriented Business Employee Permit is to be used for
performing in a business prohibited by State or City law;
      4.   The applicant has been registered in any state as a prostitute;
      5.   The applicant has been convicted of any of the offenses enumerated
in Section
5.64.040D.5.a. or convicted of an offense outside the State of California that
would have constituted any of the described offenses if committed within the
State of California. A permit may be issued to any person convicted of the
described crimes if the conviction occurred more than five (5) years prior to
the date of the application.
   E.   Each Adult-Oriented Business Performer Permit shall expire one (1) year
from the date of issuance and may be renewed only by filing with the Chief of
Police a written request for renewal, accompanied by the application fee and a
copy of the permit to be renewed. The request for renewal shall be made at
least thirty (30) days before the expiration date of the permit. When made less
than thirty (30) days before the expiration date, the expiration of the permit
will not be stayed. Applications for renewal shall be acted on as provided
herein for application for permits.
[Ord. No. 332, Subsection 7 of Article 2, adopted 5/27/97; Ord. 462, Section 3,
5/9/07.]
5.64.060   Suspension or Revocation of Adult-Oriented Business Regulatory and
Performer Permits.
   A.   An Adult-Oriented Business Regulatory Permit or Adult-Oriented Business
Employee Permit may be suspended or revoked in accordance with the procedures
and standards of this Section.
   B.   In determining that grounds for permit revocation exist, the Chief of
Police shall furnish written notice of the proposed suspension or revocation to
the permittee. Such notices shall set forth the time and place of a hearing,
and the ground or grounds upon which the hearing is based, the pertinent Code
sections, and a brief statement of the factual maters in support thereof. The
notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, addressed to the last known address of
the permittee or shall be delivered to the permittee personally, at least ten
(10) days prior to the hearing date. Hearings shall be conducted in accordance
with procedures established by the Chief of Police, but at a minimum shall
include the following:
      1.   All parties involved shall have a right to offer testimonial,
documentary, and tangible evidence bearing on the issues; may be represented by
counsel; and shall have the right to confront and cross-examine witnesses. Any
relevant evidence may be admitted that is the sort of evidence upon which
reasonable persons are accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious affairs.
Any hearing under this Section may be continued for a reasonable time for the
convenience of a party or a witness. The Chief of Police’s decision may be
appealed in accordance with Section
5.64.080.
   C.   A permittee may be subject to suspension or revocation of his permit,
or be subject to other appropriate disciplinary action, for any of the
following causes arising from the acts or omissions of the permittee, or an
employee, agent, partner, director, stockholder or manager of an adult-oriented
business:
      1.   The permittee has knowingly made any false, misleading or fraudulent
statement of material fact in the application for a permit, or in any report or
record required to be filed with the City;
      2.   The permittee, employee, agent, partner, director, stockholder, or
manager of an adult-oriented business has knowingly allowed or permitted, and
has failed to make a reasonable effort to prevent the occurrence of any of the
following on the premises of the adult-oriented business, or in the case of an
adult-oriented business performer, the permittee has engaged in one of the
activities described below while on the premises of an adult-oriented business:
         a.   Any act of unlawful sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation
or masturbation;
         b.   Use of the establishment as a place where unlawful solicitation
for sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation or masturbation openly occur;
         c.   Any conduct constituting a criminal offense which requires
registration under Penal Code Section 290;
         d.   The occurrence of acts of lewdness, assignation, or prostitution,
including any conduct constituting violations of Penal Code Sections 315, 316
or 318 or Subdivision b of Section 647;
         e.   Any act constituting a violation of provisions in the Penal Code
relating to obscene matter or distribution of harmful matter to minors,
including but not limited to Sections 311 through 313.4; or
         f.   Any conduct prohibited by this Chapter.
      3.   Failure to abide by any disciplinary action previously imposed by an
appropriate City official.
   C.   After holding the hearing in accordance with the provisions of this
Section, if the Chief of Police finds and determines that there are grounds for
disciplinary action, based upon the severity of the violation, the Chief of
Police shall impose one (1) of the following:
      1.   A warning;
      2.   Suspension of the permit for a specified period not to exceed six
(6) months; or
      3.   Revocation of the permit.
[Ord. No. 332, Subsection 8 of Article 2, adopted 5/27/97; Ord. 462, Section 3,
5/9/07.]
5.64.070   Appeal or Denial of Permit Suspension or Revocation.
After denial of an application for an Adult-Oriented Business Regulatory Permit
or an Adult-Oriented Business Performer Permit, or after denial of renewal of a
permit, or suspension or revocation of a permit, the application or person to
whom the permit was granted may seek review of such administrative action by
the City Council in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. If the
denial, suspension or revocation is affirmed on review, the applicant or
permittee may seek prompt judicial review of such administrative action
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.5 or 1094.8. The City shall
make all reasonable efforts to expedite judicial review, if sought by
permittee.
[Ord. No. 332, Subsection 9 of Article 2, adopted 5/27/97; Ord. 462, Section 3,
5/9/07.]
5.64.080   Register and Permit Number of Employees.
Every permittee of an adult-oriented business which provides live entertainment
depicting specified anatomical areas or involving specified sexual activities
must maintain a register of all persons so performing on the premises and their
permit numbers. Such register shall be available for inspection during regular
business hours by any police officer or health officer of the City.
[Ord. No. 332, Subsection 2 of Article 3, adopted 5/27/97; Ord. 462, Section 3,
5/9/07.]
5.64.090   Display of Permit and Identification Cards.
   A.   Every adult-oriented business shall display at all times during
business hours the permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter for
such adult-oriented business in a conspicuous place so that the same may be
readily seen by all persons entering the adult-oriented business.
   B.   The Chief of Police shall provide each adult-oriented business
performer required to have a permit pursuant to this Chapter, with an
identification card containing the name, address, photograph and permit number
of such performer.
   C.   An adult-oriented business performer shall have such card available for
inspection at all times during which such person is on the premises of the
adult-oriented business.
[Ord. No. 332, Subsection 3 of Article 3, adopted 5/27/97; Ord. 462, Section 3,
5/9/07.]
5.64.100   Employment of Minors and Persons Without Permits Prohibited.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any permittee, operator or other person in
charge of any adult-oriented business to employ, or provide any service for
which it requires such permit, to any person who is not at least eighteen (18)
years of age.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any permittee, operator or other person in
charge of any adult-oriented business to permit to enter, or remain within the
adult-oriented business, any person who is not at least eighteen (18) years of
age.
[Ord. No. 332, Subsection 3 of Article 3, adopted 5/27/97.]
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator, manager, or permittee in
charge of or in control of an adult-oriented business which provides live
entertainment depicting specified anatomical areas or involving specified
sexual activities to allow any person to perform such entertainment who is not
in possession of a valid, unrevoked Adult-Oriented Business Performer Permit.
[Ord. No. 332, Subsection 3 of Article 4, adopted 5/27/97; Ord. 462, Section 3,
5/9/07.]
5.64.110   Time Limit for Filing Application for Permit.
All persons who possess an outstanding business license heretofore issued for
the operation of an adult-oriented business and all persons required by this
Chapter to obtain an Adult-Oriented Business Performer Permit, must apply for
and obtain such a permit within ninety (90) days of the effective date of
Ordinance No. 332. Failure to do so and continued operation of an adult-
oriented business, or the continued performances depicting specified anatomical
areas or specified sexual activities in an adult-oriented business after such
time without a permit shall constitute a violation of this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 332, Subsection 4 of Article 4, adopted 5/27/97, effective 6/26/97;
Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 5.68
NON-PROFIT CAR WASHES
Sections:
   
5.68.010   Permit Required
   
5.68.020   Non-profit Car Wash Application and Permit
   
5.68.030   Permit on Site During Car Wash
   
5.68.040   Number and Time of Non-profit Car Washes
   
5.68.050   Water Conservation Methods Required
   
5.68.060   Signs and Solicitation
5.68.010   Permit Required.
No person, persons or organization shall conduct a non-profit car wash unless a
permit is approved by the Planning Director or his/her designee.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.68.020   Non-profit Car Wash Application and Permit.
   A.   Any person, persons or organization intending to conduct a non-profit
car wash shall file an application with the Planning Department for a permit
not less than three (3) days, prior to the date of such car wash.
   B.   The applicant shall state the date and location of the proposed car
wash, the name(s) of the person(s) primarily responsible for conducting such
car wash and a description of the charitable non-profit group or organization
which will receive the proceeds.
   C.   The permit shall be issued by the Planning Director or his/her
designee. The subject permit may be revoked by the Planning Director or his/her
designee if the applicant violates any provisions of this Chapter, or any false
information/representation is contained within the application. If the
applicant provides satisfactory explanation of the violation, false
information/representation, the Planning Director may reactivate the permit.
   D.   The applicant shall provide proof to the satisfaction of the Planning
Director or his/her designee thereof that the organization or group which shall
receive the proceeds is non-profit and/or charitable in nature. Such proof may
include a written determination by any duly authorized taxing agency of such
non-profit or charitable status, or such non-profit or charitable status may be
determined as a matter of law based upon statute.
   E.   There shall be no fee for said permit.
   F.   No permits may be issued or used during any period of time when a Stage
2 “threatened water supply shortage” or a Stage 3 “water shortage emergency”
has been declared by the Board of the Adelanto Public Utilities Authority.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.68.030   Permit on Site During Car Wash.
The valid permit shall be present on site during all times when the car wash is
being conducted. Said permit shall be produced upon request by any appropriate
City official acting within his/her official capacity.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.68.040   Number and Time of Non-profit Car Washes.
   A.   No person, persons or sponsoring organization shall conduct more than
six (6) non-profit car washes in any calendar year.
   B.   Each day or portion of a day on which a car wash is conducted shall
count as one (1) car wash.
   C.   Said car wash shall only be conducted between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 8:00 p.m.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.68.050   Water Conservation Methods Required.
   A.   All water hoses shall have a shut-off nozzle attached so that the water
will not run continuously.
   B.   Vehicles must be washed from a bucket.
   C.   If runoff becomes excessive, the permittee shall discontinue activities
until the standing water subsides.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.68.060   Signs and Solicitation.
   A.   Notwithstanding any County code provisions to the contrary, signs
advertising a non-profit car wash shall be displayed only on the premises on
which the car wash is conducted; and no sign shall exceed nine (9) square feet.
No signs may be placed on any sidewalks or within any public right-of-way.
   B.   No solicitation may be done from any sidewalk or within any public
right-of-way in a manner which impedes or otherwise endangers or interferes
with the public’s use thereof.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 5.72
ENTERTAINMENT IN BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
Sections:
   
5.72.010   Findings
   
5.72.020   Entertainment Permit Required
   
5.72.030   Violations
5.72.010   Findings.
   A.   This City and other cities have experienced emerging problems
associated with business establishments which provide ancillary entertainment
in connection with regular business activities.
   B.   The problems relate to crowds, boisterous conduct, unruly conduct,
noise, congestion, traffic hazards, unauthorized parking, after hours
activities, criminal conduct and general anti-social behavior which is beyond
the ability of the business operator to control.
   C.   That “entertainment” as used herein shall include all types of
displays, music, karaoke, entertainers, exhibits, modeling, lingerie,
demonstrations, floor shows, dancing, sports, contests and any other activity
the purpose of which is to provide entertainment to customers with or without
charge.
[Ord. No. 258, Section 1, adopted 11/10/92; Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.72.020   Entertainment Permit Required.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to provide hereafter any place of
business where “entertainment” as defined herein is permitted or allowed to be
conducted without first obtaining an Entertainment Permit (“EP”) as provided in
the manner and means set forth in this Chapter.
   B.   Any applicant for an EP shall file an application with the Police
Department stating in detail the nature, duration and frequency of the proposed
entertainment. If such entertainment is patently of a nature protected by the
First Amendment, then such EP shall be issued summarily, in accordance with
Chapter 5.64, unless the Chief of Police finds that the proposal will cause a
secondary effect upon the public peace, welfare, safety and morals that such EP
should be denied in the public interest. If the proposed EP does not involve
First Amendment rights, then the decision to approve or deny shall be based on
the welfare of the community and the police problems involved. Action by the
Chief of Police to approve or deny shall be taken within ten (10) days after
the application is deemed complete and all information requested has been
supplied.
   C.   If the EP is approved, it shall contain such conditions as will
mitigate any secondary impacts found; if the EP is denied, the reasons for
denial shall be provided, together with alternate locations where such EP might
be approved.
   D.   Any applicant dissatisfied with the approval or disapproval of an EP by
the Chief of Police may within ten (10) days thereafter appeal to the City
Council, which shall hold a public hearing thereon at its next regular meeting
complying with agenda requirements. The decision of the City Council shall be
final.
[Ord. No. 258, Section 2, adopted 11/10/92; Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.72.030   Violations.
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of this
Chapter. Violations of this Chapter, including any conditions, rules, or
regulations issued pursuant thereto, shall be punishable as a misdemeanor and/
or by suspension or revocation as specified in this Chapter. Such penalties
shall be cumulative and may be imposed, and each day on which a violation
continues, and each violation that takes place shall constitute a separate
offense.
[Ord. No. 258, Section 3, adopted 11/10/92; Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 5.76
COMMERCIAL FILMING
Sections:
   
5.76.010   Definitions
   
5.76.020   Scope
   
5.76.030   Application for Permit
   
5.76.040   Insurance Requirements
   
5.76.050   Regulations
   
5.76.060   Violation and Penalty
5.76.010   Definitions.
Unless the context in which used requires otherwise, the following words when
used with initial capitalization shall have the meaning set forth in this
Section. Variants of defined terms, when used with initial capitalization shall
be construed in the same manner set forth herein for the defined terms
themselves:
   A.   “Motion picture, television, still photography” includes all activities
attendant to staging or shooting commercial motion pictures, television shows
or programs, and commercials.
   B.   “Charitable films” includes commercials, motion pictures, television,
video tapes, or still photography produced by a nonprofit organization, which
qualifies under Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code as a charitable organization. No person directly or indirectly involved
shall receive a profit from the marketing and production of the films or from
showing the films, tapes or photos.
   C.   “News media” includes filming or video taping for the purpose of
spontaneous, unplanned television news broadcasts by reporters, photographers
or cameramen.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.76.020   Scope.
   A.   Except as exempted, no person, corporation or business shall use any
public or private property, facility or residence for the purpose of taking
commercial motion pictures or television pictures or commercial still
photography without first applying for and receiving a permit to do so from the
Department of Community Development.
   B.   The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to the following:
      1.   News Media. Reporters, photographers or cameramen in the employ of a
newspaper, news service, or similar entity engaged in on-the-spot broadcasting
of news events concerning those persons, scenes, or occurrences which are on
the news and of general public interest.
      2.   Private Use. The non-commercial filming or video taping of motion
pictures solely for private use on private property.
      3.   Charitable Films. Projects which have qualified for a charitable
exemption under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.76.030   Application for Permit.
   A.   Permit Applications - Filing. A commercial filming permit application
shall be filed with the Department of Community Development, and shall be
completed with the following information:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant or duly
authorized representative, and if available, of the director, first assistant
director, unit production manager or location manager.
      2.   The name and address of the individual or production company to whom
the permit is to be issued.
      3.   The type of production or project.
      4.   The date(s), time(s), and exact location(s) (including preparation
and striking days) where the filming shall occur.
      5.   A brief description of the proposed filming activity, including any
other activity which would affect the use of public facilities in the area.
      6.   The number of individuals in cast and crew.
      7.   A description of the types and number of vehicles to be utilized.
      8.   If an applicant intends to use either wild animals, chemicals,
explosives or fire, or intends to engage in any other hazardous activity, a
statement to that effect.
   B.   Fees and Expenses. The charge for the permit shall be that charge set
from time to time by resolution of the City Council. In addition, each
applicant shall reimburse the City for the actual costs of providing any
necessary personnel, including but not limited to, police and fire personnel to
the applicant for the purpose of assisting the production.
   C.   Submittal.
      1.   All applications for a permit shall be submitted at least one (1)
working day prior to the date desired; provided, however, that if the project
will interfere with traffic or present a potential public safety hazard, such
application shall be submitted at least five (5) working days prior to the
desired date.
      2.   If the project shall take place in whole or in part on private
property, the application for a permit shall be accompanied by written
permission from the vested owners of the property.
      3.   If the project will interfere in any way with the normal flow of
traffic in the City, the applicant shall provide a traffic control plan for
review and approval.
         a.   The plan must utilize the services of local law enforcement
personnel and/or California Highway Patrol.
         b.   The plan must require the applicant to furnish and install
advance warning signs and any other traffic control devices in conformance with
City regulations.
         c.   The City, based on traffic safety consideration, may agree to the
restriction of traffic to one (1) twelve (12) foot lane of traffic or to the
stopping of such traffic intermittently.
         d.   Without prior written approval by the City, the traffic shall not
be detoured across a double yellow line.
         e.   Unless otherwise approved, camera cars shall observe all traffic
laws, and shall be driven in the direction of traffic.
         f.   The applicant shall agree to comply with all traffic control
requirements set by the City.
   D.   Issuance. The permit shall be issued by the City Planner and shall be
prominently displayed on site at all times.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.76.040   Insurance Requirements.
   A.   Before any permit is issued, the applicant shall provide the City with
evidence of a policy of liability insurance issued by a solvent corporation
holding a certificate of authority to engage in the insurance business in the
State of California in an amount not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00). The policy shall name the applicant and the City, its
officers, agents, servants, and employees, as coinsured and the Flood Control
District if applicable, for protection against any loss, claims, liability,
injury and damage of any nature arising out of, or in any way connected to the
filming conducted by applicant, and the insurance coverage shall be primary and
not contributing with any other insurance of the City.
   B.   No cancellation or reduction in coverage or modification of this
policy, for any reason, shall become effective until the expiration of thirty
(30) days written notice of such cancellation, reduction or modification of
coverage shall have been given to the City Finance Director.
   C.   The applicant shall enter into a hold harmless and indemnification
agreement provided by the City prior to the issuance of any permit.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.76.050   Regulations.
   A.   Rules and Regulations. The City Planner or his/her designee shall issue
from time to time as deemed necessary, rules and regulations as approved from
time to time by resolution of the City Council to implement the provisions of
this Chapter. Such rules and regulations shall have the force of law, and the
failure to obey same shall be considered a violation of the provisions of this
Chapter. The rules and regulations shall be promulgated with the intent of:
      1.   Maintaining the health and safety of all persons and property within
the City.
      2.   Avoidance of undue disruption of persons and traffic within the
affected areas of the City.
   B.   Clean Up. The permittee shall conduct operations in an orderly fashion
with continuous attention to storage of equipment not in use and clean up of
trash and debris. All areas of use shall be cleaned of trash and debris and
restored to its original condition upon completion of the filming. The
permittee may be required to post a deposit in an amount set by resolution of
the City Council to ensure clean up and restoration. Said deposit shall be
utilized to offset any clean up or restoration expenses caused. Any unused
portions of the deposit shall be reimbursed.
   C.   Disruption. Any emergency road work shall have priority over any
commercial filming.
   D.   The City Planner may accommodate, at the applicant’s request, minor
changes to the permit to include time and date changes if reasonable.
   E.   All permittees filming in a flood control channel must vacate the
channel upon water release and shall name the flood control district as an
additional insured when filming in or adjacent to flood control property.
   F.   Unless the site is equipped with fire rings, gas jets shall be used in
lieu of fires to simulate a campfire, subject to the application of existing
fire protection regulations.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
5.76.060   Violation and Penalty.
Any person who holds a permit either by himself or through his direction,
consent, assent, permission, or acquiescence who shall violate any of the
provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 1.20 of this Code.
[Ord. 462, Section 3, 5/9/07.]
Chapter 5.80
TOBACCO RETAILER’S LICENSE
Sections:
   
5.80.010   Purpose
   
5.80.020   Definitions
   
5.80.030   Tobacco Retailer’s License Required
   
5.80.040   Limits on Eligibility for a Tobacco Retailer License
   
5.80.050   Application Procedure
   
5.80.060   Issuance of License
   
5.80.070   License Renewal and Expiration
   
5.80.080   Licenses Nontransferable
   
5.80.090   License Conveys a Limited, Conditional Privilege
   
5.80.100   Fee for License
   
5.80.110   Compliance Monitoring
   
5.80.120   Suspension or Revocation of License for Violation
   
5.80.130   Tobacco Retailing Without a Valid License
   
5.80.140   Sale of Flavored Tobacco Products Prohibited
   
5.80.150   Violations
5.80.010   Purpose.
The purpose of this chapter is to encourage responsible tobacco retailing and
discourage violations of tobacco related laws that prohibit the sale or
distribution of tobacco products, including all smoking materials as defined in
Section
5.80.020, to minors. This chapter is not intended to expand or reduce the
degree to which the acts regulated by federal or state law are criminally
proscribed or to alter the penalty provided therefore.
[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]
5.80.020   Definitions.
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this chapter, shall have the
meanings defined in this section unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
   A.   "Arm's Length Transaction" means a sale in good faith and for valuable
consideration that reflects the fair market value between two informed and
willing parties, neither of which is under any compulsion to participate in the
transaction. A sale between relatives, related companies or partners, or a sale
for which a significant purpose is avoiding the effect of the violations of
this chapter is not an Arm's Length Transaction.
   B.   "Cigar" means any roll of tobacco other than a cigarette wrapped
entirely or in part in tobacco or any substance containing tobacco and weighing
more than three pounds per thousand.
   C.   "Cigarette" means: (1) any roll of tobacco wrapped in paper or in any
substance not containing tobacco; and (2) any roll of tobacco wrapped in any
substance containing tobacco which, because of its appearance, the type of
tobacco used in the filler, or its packaging and labeling, is likely to be
offered to, or purchased by, consumers as a cigarette described herein.
   D.   "Characterizing Flavor" means a taste or aroma, other than the taste or
aroma of tobacco, imparted either prior to or during consumption of a tobacco
product or any byproduct produced by the tobacco product, including, but not
limited to, tastes or aromas relating to menthol, mint, wintergreen, fruit,
chocolate, vanilla, honey, candy, cocoa, dessert, alcoholic beverage, herb, or
spice; provided, however, that a tobacco product shall not be determined to
have a characterizing flavor solely because of the use of additives or
flavorings or the provision of ingredient information.
   E.   "Consumer" means a person who purchases a tobacco product for
consumption and not for sale to another.
   F.   "Department" means Planning Division and any agency or person
designated by the Department to enforce or administer the provisions of this
chapter.
   G.   "Flavored Tobacco Product" means any tobacco product, as defined in
this chapter, that imparts a characterizing flavor.
   H.   "Person" means any natural person, partnership, cooperative
association, corporation, personal representative, receiver, trustee, assignee,
or any other legal entity.
   I.   "Proprietor" means a person with an ownership or managerial interest in
a business. An ownership interest shall be deemed to exist when a person has a
ten percent (10%) or greater interest in the stock, assets, or income of a
business other than the sole interest of security for debt. A managerial
interest shall be deemed to exist when a person can or does have or share
ultimate control over the day-to-day operations of a business.
   J.   "Sale" or "Sell" means any transfer, exchange, barter, gift, offer for
sale, or distribution for a commercial purpose, in any manner or by any means
whatsoever.
   K.   "Tobacco Paraphernalia" means any item designed or marketed for the
consumption, use, or preparation of tobacco products.
   L.   "Tobacco Product" means:
      1.   Any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco or nicotine
that is intended for human consumption, whether smoked, heated, chewed,
absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means,
including, but not limited to cigarettes, cigars, little cigars, chewing
tobacco, pipe tobacco, snuff; and
      2.   Any electronic device that delivers nicotine or other substances to
the person inhaling from the device, including, but not limited to, an
electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic pipe, or electronic hookah.
      3.   Notwithstanding any provision of subsections (1) and (2) to the
contrary, "Tobacco Product" includes any component, part, or accessory intended
or reasonably expected to be used with a tobacco product, whether or not sold
separately. "Tobacco Product" does not include drugs, devices, or combination
products authorized for sale by the United States Food and Drug Administration,
as those terms are defined in the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.
   M.   "Tobacco Retailer" means any person who sells, offers for sale, or does
or offers to exchange for any form of consideration, tobacco, tobacco products,
or tobacco paraphernalia.
   N.   "Tobacco Retailing" shall mean the doing of any of these things. This
definition is without regard to the quantity of tobacco products or tobacco
paraphernalia sold, offered for sale, exchanged, or offered for exchange.
[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]
5.80.030   Tobacco Retailer's License Required.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to act as a tobacco retailer in the
City without first obtaining and maintaining a valid tobacco retailer's license
pursuant to this chapter for each location at which tobacco retailing is to
occur.
   B.   Lawful Business Operation. In the course of tobacco retailing or in the
operation of the business or maintenance of the location for which a license
issued, it shall be a violation of this chapter for a licensee, or any of the
licensee's agents or employees, to violate any local, state, or federal law
applicable to tobacco products, tobacco paraphernalia, or tobacco retailing.
   C.   Display of License. Each tobacco retailer license shall be prominently
displayed in a publicly visible location at the licensed location.
[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]
5.80.040   Limits on Eligibility for a Tobacco Retailer License.
Mobile Vending. No license may be issued to authorize tobacco retailing at
other than a fixed location, including, but not limited to, tobacco retailing
by persons on foot or from vehicles.
[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]
5.80.050   Application Procedure.
   A.   Application for a tobacco retailer's license shall be submitted in the
name of each proprietor proposing to conduct retail tobacco sales and shall be
signed by each proprietor or an authorized agent thereof.
   B.   It is the responsibility of each proprietor to be informed regarding
all laws applicable to tobacco retailing, including those laws affecting the
issuance of a tobacco retailer's license. No proprietor may rely on the
issuance of a license as a determination by the City that the proprietor has
complied with all laws applicable to tobacco retailing. A license issued
contrary to this chapter, contrary to any other law, or on the basis of false
or misleading information supplied by a proprietor shall be revoked pursuant to
Section
5.80.120(C) of this chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to vest
in any person obtaining and maintaining a tobacco retailer's license any status
or right to act as a tobacco retailer in contravention of any provision of law.
   C.   All applications shall be submitted on a form supplied by the
Department and shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name, address, and telephone number of each proprietor of the
business seeking a license.
      2.   The business name, address, and telephone number of the single fixed
location for which a license is sought.
      3.   A single name and mailing address authorized by each proprietor to
receive all communications and notices (the "authorized address") required by,
authorized by, or convenient to the enforcement of this chapter. If an
authorized address is not supplied, each proprietor shall be understood to
consent to the provision of notice at the business address specified in
subparagraph (2) above.
      4.   Proof that the location for which a tobacco retailer's license is
sought has been issued a valid state license for the sale of tobacco products,
if the tobacco retailer sells products that require such license.
      5.   Whether or not any proprietor or any agent of the proprietor has
admitted violating, or has been found to have violated, this chapter and, if
so, the dates and locations of all such violations within the previous five (5)
years.
   D.   Such other information as the Department deems necessary for the
administration or enforcement of this chapter as specified on the application
form required by this section.
   E.   A licensed tobacco retailer shall inform the Department in writing of
any change in the information submitted on an application for a tobacco
retailer's license within ten (10) business days of a change.
   F.   All information specified in an application pursuant to this section
shall be subject to disclosure under the California Public Records Act
(California Government Code section 6250 et seq.) or any other applicable law.
[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]
5.80.060   Issuance of License.
   A.   Upon the receipt of a complete application for a tobacco retailer's
license and the license fee required by this chapter, the Department shall
issue a license unless substantial evidence demonstrates that one or more of
the following bases for denial exists:
      1.   The information presented in the application is inaccurate or false.
Intentionally supplying inaccurate or false information shall be a violation of
this chapter;
      2.   The application seeks authorization for tobacco retailing for a
proprietor to whom this chapter prohibits a license to be issued; and/or
      3.   The application seeks authorization for tobacco retailing that is
prohibited pursuant to this Code including without limitation the Adelanto
Zoning Ordinance, Title 14 Building and Construction, and Title 5 Business
Licenses and Regulations, or that is unlawful pursuant to any other state, and
federal law.
   B.   Beginning from the effective date of this chapter, all proprietor
proposing to conduct retail tobacco sales have until June 30, 2020 to obtain a
tobacco retailer's license.
[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]
5.80.070   License Renewal and Expiration.
   A.   Renewal of License. A tobacco retailer's license is invalid if the
appropriate fee has not been timely paid in full or if the term of the license
has expired. The term of a tobacco retailer license is one (1) year. Each
tobacco retailer shall apply for the renewal of their tobacco retailer's
license and submit the license fee no later than thirty (30) days prior to
expiration of the term.
   B.   Expiration of License. A tobacco retailer's license that is not timely
renewed shall expire at the end of its term. To renew a license not timely
renewed pursuant to subparagraph A., the proprietor must:
      1.   Submit the license fee and application renewal form; and
      2.   Submit a signed affidavit affirming that the proprietor:
         a.   Has not sold and will not sell any tobacco product or tobacco
paraphernalia after the license expiration date and before the license is
renewed; or
         b.   Has waited the period of time required by Section
5.80.130 of this chapter for tobacco retailing without a valid license before
seeking renewal of the license.
[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]
5.80.080   Licenses Nontransferable.
   A.   A tobacco retailer's license may not be transferred from one person to
another or from one location to another. A new tobacco retailer's license is
required whenever a tobacco retailing location has a change in proprietor(s).
   B.   Any other provision of this chapter, prior violations at a location
shall continue to be counted against a location and license ineligibility
periods shall continue to apply to a location unless:
      1.   The location has been transferred to new proprietor(s) in an arm's
length transaction; and
      2.   The new proprietor(s) provide the City with clear and convincing
evidence that the new proprietor(s) have acquired or are acquiring the location
in an arm's length transaction.
[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]
5.80.090   License Conveys a Limited, Conditional Privilege.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to grant any person obtaining and
maintaining a tobacco retailer's license any status or right other than the
limited conditional privilege to act as a tobacco retailer at the location in
the City identified on the face of the permit. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to render inapplicable, supersede, or apply in lieu of, any other
provision of applicable law, including, but not limited to:
   A.   Any provision of this Code including without limitation the Adelanto
Zoning Ordinance, Title 14 Building and Construction, and Title 5 Business
Licenses and Regulations; and/or
   B.   Any condition or limitation on smoking in an enclosed place of
employment pursuant to California Labor Code Section 6404.5. Obtaining a
tobacco retailer's license does not make the retailer a "retail or wholesale
tobacco shop" for the purposes of California Labor Code Section 6404.5.
[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]
5.80.100   Fee for License.
The fee to issue or to renew a tobacco retailer's license shall be established
from time to time by resolution of the City Council. The fee shall be
calculated so as to recover the cost of administration and enforcement of this
chapter, including, for example, issuing a license, administering the license
program, retailer education, retailer inspection and compliance checks,
documentation of violations, and prosecution of violators, but shall not exceed
the cost of the regulatory program authorized by this chapter. All fees and
interest upon proceeds of fees shall be used exclusively to fund the program.
Fees are nonrefundable except as may be required by law.
[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]
5.80.110   Compliance Monitoring.
   A.   Compliance with this chapter shall be monitored by the Department. In
addition, any peace officer may enforce the penal provisions of this chapter.
The City may designate additional persons to monitor compliance with this
chapter.
   B.   The City Council of the City of Adelanto does not intend and nothing in
this chapter shall be interpreted to penalize the purchase, use, possession, or
attempted purchase, use, or possession of tobacco products or tobacco
paraphernalia by persons under twenty-one (21) years of age; provided, however,
that persons under twenty-one (21) years of age remain subject to generally
applicable laws regulating such conduct without respect to the person's age.
[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]
5.80.120   Suspension or Revocation of License for Violation.
   A.   Suspension or Revocation of License for Violation. In addition to any
other penalty authorized by law, a tobacco retailer's license shall be
suspended or revoked if any court of competent jurisdiction determines, or the
Department finds based on a preponderance of the evidence, after the licensee
is afforded notice and an opportunity to be heard, that the licensee, or any of
the licensee's agents or employees, has violated any of the requirements,
conditions, or prohibitions of this chapter or has pleaded guilty, "no contest"
or its equivalent, or admitted to a violation of any law designated in Section
5.80.030 above.
      1.   Upon a finding by the Department of a first violation of this
chapter at a location within any five-year (5) period, the license shall be
suspended for thirty (30) days.
      2.   Upon a finding by the Department of a second violation of this
chapter at a location within any five-year (5) period, the license shall be
suspended for ninety (90) days.
      3.   Upon a finding by the Department of a third violation of this
chapter at a location within any five-year (5) period, the license shall be
suspended for one (1) year.
      4.   Upon a finding by the Department of four or more violations of this
chapter at a location within any five-year (5) period, the license shall be
revoked.
   B.   Appeal of Suspension or Revocation. A decision of the Department to
suspend or revoke a license is appealable to the City Manager and any appeal
must be filed in writing with City Manager's office within ten (10) days of
mailing of the Department's decision. If such an appeal is timely made, it
shall stay enforcement of the appealed action. An appeal to the City Manager is
not available for a revocation made pursuant to subsection (c) below.
   C.   Revocation of License Wrongly Issued. A tobacco retailer's license
shall be revoked if the Department finds, after the licensee is afforded notice
and an opportunity to be heard, that one or more of the bases for denial of a
license under Section
5.80.060 existed at the time application was made or at any time before the
license issued. The decision by the Department shall be the final decision of
the City. Such a revocation shall be without prejudice to the filing of a new
license application.
[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]
5.80.130   Tobacco Retailing without a Valid License.
In addition to any other penalty authorized by law, if a court of competent
jurisdiction determines, or the Department finds based on a preponderance of
evidence, after notice and an opportunity to be heard, that any person has
engaged in tobacco retailing at a location without a valid tobacco retailer's
license, either directly or through the person's agents or employees, the
person shall be ineligible to apply for, or to be issued, a tobacco retailer's
license after a violation of this section at a location where the violation
occurred within any five-year (5) period. Unless ownership of the business at
the location has been transferred in an arm's length transaction, no new
license shall be issued for the person or the location, until thirty (30) days
have passed from the date of the violation.
[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]
5.80.140   Sale of Flavored Tobacco Products Prohibited.
It shall be a violation of this chapter for any tobacco retailer or any of the
tobacco retailer's agents or employees to sell or offer for sale, or to possess
with intent to sell or offer for sale, any flavored tobacco product.
[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]
5.80.150   Violations.
   A.   The remedies provided by this chapter are cumulative and in addition to
any other remedies available at law or in equity.
   B.   Whenever evidence of a violation of this chapter is obtained in any
part through the participation of a person under the age of twenty-one (21)
years old, such a person shall not be required to appear or give testimony in
any civil or administrative process brought to enforce this chapter and the
alleged violation shall be adjudicated based upon the sufficiency and
persuasiveness of the evidence presented.
   C.   Violations of this chapter are subject to a civil action brought by the
City Attorney, punishable by a civil fine as set forth in Section
1.20.010 of this Code.
   D.   Violations of this chapter shall be prosecuted as set forth in Section
1.20.010 of this Code.
   E.   Violations of this chapter are hereby declared to be public nuisances.
   F.   In addition to other remedies provided by this chapter or by other law,
any violation of this chapter may be remedied by a civil action brought by the
City, including, for example, administrative or judicial nuisance abatement
proceedings, civil code enforcement proceedings, and suits for injunctive
relief.
   G.   For the purposes of the civil remedies provided in this chapter:
      1.   Each day on which a tobacco product or tobacco paraphernalia is
offered for Sale in violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate
violation of this chapter; and
      2.   Each individual retail tobacco product and each individual retail
item of tobacco paraphernalia that is distributed, sold, or offered for sale in
violation of chapter shall constitute a separate violation of this chapter.
[Ord. No. 606, 12/11/19.]
Chapter 5.82
SIDEWALK VENDORS
Sections:
   
5.82.010   Purpose
   
5.82.020   Definitions
   
5.82.030   Permits Required; Fees
   
5.82.040   Regulation of Sidewalk Vendors
   
5.82.050   Exceptions
   
5.82.060   Violations and Penalties
   
5.82.070   Ability-to-Pay Determination
5.82.010   Purpose.
It is the purpose and intent of
Chapter 5.82 to comply with state legislation decriminalizing sidewalk vending
and to provide important entrepreneurial and economic opportunities by allowing
sidewalk vending in city parks and on public sidewalk and other paved
pedestrian paths. It is a further purpose and intent of this
Chapter 5.82 to regulate sidewalk vending in order to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the residents of Adelanto in a manner consistent with
state law. In order to meet these objectives, business licenses and sidewalk
vending permits shall be required to vend in city parks, on sidewalks, or on
other paved public pedestrian paths. The provisions of this
Chapter 5.82 are in addition to any permits, licenses and approvals which may
be required to conduct business in the City, and in addition to any permits,
licenses and approval required under state, county or other law.
[Ord. No. 632, 7/13/22.]
5.82.020   Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A.   “Food item” shall mean all food and drink intended for human
consumption.
   B.   “Public right-of-way” shall mean any public sidewalk or any public
property within the City.
   C.   "Roaming sidewalk vendor" shall mean a sidewalk vendor who moves from
place to place and stops only to complete a transaction, and includes, but is
not limited to pushcarts.
   D.   “Sidewalk vendor” shall mean a person who sells food or merchandize
from a pushcart, stand, display, pedal-driven cart, wagon, showcase, rack, or
other non-motorized conveyance, or from one’s person, upon public street,
public right-of-way, or public property.
   E.   “Stationary sidewalk vendor” shall mean a sidewalk vendor who vends
from a fixed location.
[Ord. No. 632, 7/13/22.]
5.82.030   Permits Required; Fees.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in or employ any person to
engage in the business of sidewalk vending without first obtaining and
maintaining a sidewalk vending permit pursuant to this
Chapter 5.82 to conduct such business.
   B.   Fees for such permits shall be in an amount determined by resolution.
   C.   To apply for a sidewalk vending permit, an applicant must provide:
      1.   A completed application form containing:
         a.   The applicant’s name and mailing address;
         b.   A description of the merchandise offered for sale or exchange;
         c.   Although applicant shall not be restricted to a proposed area of
operation, the applicant shall submit a proposed area of operation with
reference to street and other identifying landmarks;
         d.   If applicable, the name of any business entity the applicant
works for or with;
         e.   Certification that the information in the application is true;
and
         f.   Agreement to comply with all provisions of this chapter and all
applicable provisions of this code.
      2.   A copy of the applicant’s California driver’s license or
identification number, individual taxpayer identification number, social
security number, federal identification number, or other identification number
issued by a foreign government.
      3.   If vending food, a copy of a valid health permit issued by the
County of San Bernardino.
      4.   Copies of all other applicable required licenses and permits.
   D.   Permits must be renewed on an annual basis.
   E.   Up to five (5) permits may be issued to any one (1) person. Each
sidewalk vendor permit shall only permit the operation of one (1) sidewalk
vendor at any one (1) time. A sidewalk vendor permit is not transferrable to
another person.
   F.   The Director of Development Services or their designee may suspend or
revoke any permit issued pursuant to this chapter for any of the following
reasons:
      1.   Revocation, suspension, or nonrenewal of the required San Bernardino
County Health Department permit, if applicable for food vendors.
      2.   Upon the fourth violation or subsequent violations of the
regulations set forth in this
Chapter 5.82.
   G.   The issuance of a sidewalk vending permit does not authorize otherwise
unlawful activities and does not exempt permittees from complying with other
applicable regulations.
[Ord. No. 632, 7/13/22.]
5.82.040   Regulation of Sidewalk Vendors.
   A.   Sidewalk vendors shall have a valid permit from the San Bernardino
Department of Public Health Division of Environmental health operating permit
for food sales, except where the County does not issue permits for the type of
sidewalk vending operating by the vendor. The revocation of a County permit
shall result in the automatic suspension of the sidewalk vending permit issued
by the City.
   B.   Sidewalk vendors shall display their City-issued sidewalk vending
permit on the street-side portion of their pushcart, stand, display, pedal-
driven cart, wagon, showcase, rack, or other non-motorized conveyance when
operating in the public right-of-way.
   C.   Sidewalk vendors shall not display items for sale on the ground.
Sidewalk vendors shall only display their merchandise from a pushcart, stand,
display, pedal-driven cart, wagon, showcase, rack, or other non-motorized
conveyance.
   D.   All vendor conveyances shall be maintained in a clean and working
state.
   E.   Sidewalk vendors shall maintain a clean selling area, provide a means
for patrons to dispose of trash, and haul away all trash generated by his or
her operation. Every sidewalk vendor shall provide a refuse container with a
capacity of at least five (5) gallons. Sidewalk vendors shall dispose of trash
at vendor’s own place of business or residence; sidewalk vendors shall not
place trash in public trash cans or in a private trash can not related to the
sidewalk vendor’s operation.
   F.   Sidewalk vendors shall not use any signs in connection with the sale,
display or offering for sale of items, except for those signs affixed to or
painted on the sides or canopy of the pushcart, stand, display, pedal-driven
cart, wagon, showcase, rack, or other non-motorized conveyance.
   G.   Sidewalk vendors using electricity must do so only through the use of a
generator or battery pack which may be contained on the floor, the sidewalk
vending pushcart, stand, display, pedal-driven cart, wagon, showcase, rack, or
other non-motorized conveyance. Sidewalk vendors shall not use extension cords
to connect to a power source not contained on the sidewalk vending pushcart,
stand, display, pedal-driven cart, wagon, showcase, rack, or other nonmotorized
conveyance.
   H.   Sidewalk vending must be contained to the sidewalk vending cart.
Sidewalk vendors may not augment operations by setting up accessories,
equipment, tables, chairs, or stools near the sidewalk vending pushcart, stand,
display, pedal-driven cart, wagon, showcase, rack, or other non-motorized
conveyance.
   I.   Sidewalk vending is limited to the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.
   J.   Stationary sidewalk vendors are prohibited from operating in areas that
are zoned as exclusively residential, except for major intersections.
Stationary sidewalk vendors may operate in mixed-use areas and non-conforming
residential structures so long as they operate adjacent to a permitted
commercial use. Roaming sidewalk vendors operating in areas that are zoned as
exclusively residential shall stop only to complete transactions.
   K.   Sidewalk vendors shall not sell, display, or offer to sell items in the
following:
      1.   Within six hundred (600) feet of the Police Department or Fire
Station.
      2.   Within five hundred (500) feet of a permitted swap meet, or any area
subject to a City-issued special event permit for the duration of the permit.
      3.   On a center divider, a landscaped center median or landscaped
parkway.
      4.   Within twenty-five (25) feet of another vendor, measured on the same
side of any public right-of-way.
   L.   To maintain accessibility standards for the City’s residents with
disabilities, every sidewalk vendor operating on public property or in the
public right-of-way must ensure that no obstruction is placed in the sidewalk
or public right-of-way that would reduce the width of the sidewalk to less than
forty-eight (48) inches, exclusive of the top of the curb. No obstruction shall
be in a sidewalk or public right-of-way less than six (6) feet in width when
the sidewalk is adjacent to the curb.
   M.   A stationary sidewalk vendor may not occupy more than fifteen (15)
square feet on public property or in the public right-of-way.
   N.   Vending of counterfeit merchandise is prohibited.
   O.   A sidewalk vending permit does not provide an exclusive right to
operate within any specific portion of public property of public right-of-way.
No person shall attempt to reserve any portion of any public property or public
right-of-way exclusively for his or her operation.
   P.   Sidewalk vendors shall not leave or maintain any accessories,
equipment, or objects used for sidewalk vending purposes on public property or
in any portion of the public rightof-way after sunset or before sunrise. Any
equipment or objects left overnight on public property or in any portion of the
public right-of-way will be considered discarded and may be disposed of by the
City.
   Q.   Sidewalk vendors shall not engage in vending in such a manner as to
cause onlookers, customers, or others to obstruct the free flow, access, or
view of pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
   R.   Sidewalk vendors shall not operate in traffic intersections, streets,
street medians, or street dividers.
   S.   Sidewalk vendors shall not stop, operate, or vend within fifty (50)
feet of any intersection.
   T.   Sidewalk vendors shall not stop, operate, or vend within twenty-five
(25) feet of any red curb or fire lane.
   U.   Sidewalk vending in City parks is limited to sidewalks and other paved
areas within the park.
   V.   Sidewalk vendors shall be prohibited from selling food or merchandise
at public parks where the City has entered into an agreement for the exclusive
sale of food or merchandise with a particular concessionaire.
[Ord. No. 632, 7/13/22.]
5.82.050   Exceptions.
   The City Manager may issue, upon application, temporary street vending
permits to be valid for no longer than the period designated in the special
event permit issued by the City. Notwithstanding the provisions of this
chapter, such temporary permits may authorize sale of non-food items.
[Ord. No. 632, 7/13/22.]
5.82.060   Violations and Penalties.
   A.   Every person vending without a sidewalk vending permit or violating any
other provision of this chapter is guilty of an administrative violation
punishable by an administrative fine not to exceed:
      1.   One hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first violation; or
      2.   Two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second violation within a period
of twelve (12) consecutive calendar months of the first violation; or
      3.   Five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each additional violation within
a period of twelve (12) consecutive calendar months of the first violation.
   B.   Failure to pay an administrative fine is not punishable as an
infraction or misdemeanor. Additional fines, fees, assessments, or any other
financial conditions beyond those authorized will not be assessed. However, the
City may levy a lien on the violator’s real or personal property, including the
vehicle used for vending purposes.
[Ord. No. 632, 7/13/22.]
5.82.070   Ability-to-Pay Determination.
   A.   Any fine issued under Section
5.82.060 will be accompanied with a notice of an instruction regarding the
right to request an ability-to-pay determination.
   B.   If the requestor is receiving public benefits under Government Code
section 68632, subdivision (a), or has a monthly income which is one hundred
twenty-five percent (125%) or less than the current poverty guidelines updated
periodically in the Federal Register by the United States Department of Health
and Human Services, the Community Development Director or his or her designee
will limit the total amount of the requestor’s administrative fine to twenty
percent (20%) of the total and may:
      1.   Allow the person to complete community service in lieu of paying the
total administrative fine; or
      2.   Waive the administrative fine; or
      3.   Offer an alternative disposition.
[Ord. No. 632, 7/13/22.]
Chapter 5.84
FOOD TRUCKS
Sections:
   
5.84.010   Purpose
   
5.84.020   Definitions
   
5.84.030   Permits Required; Fees
   
5.84.040   Regulation of Food Trucks
   
5.84.050   Food Trucks on Public Right-of-Way
   
5.84.060   Exceptions
   
5.84.070   Violations and Penalties
5.84.010   Purpose.
It is the purpose and intent of Chapter
5.84 to allow mobile food vending, also known as “food trucks” or “food truck
vending” within the City that complies with City, county, and state laws and
regulations. It is a further purpose and intent of this Chapter
5.84 to regulate food truck vending in order to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the residents of Adelanto in a manner consistent with state and
local law. In order to meet these objectives, business licenses and food truck
permits shall be required to vend in the City. The provisions of this Chapter
5.84 are in addition to any permits, licenses and approvals that may be
required to conduct business in the City, and in addition to any permits,
licenses and approvals required under state, county, or other law.
[Ord. No. 638, 4/12/23.]
5.84.020   Definitions.
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this Chapter, shall have the
meanings defined in this section unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
   A.   “Food or food products” means any type of edible substance or beverage.
   B.   “Food truck operator” means a person that operates or assists in the
operation of a food truck.
   C.   “Food Truck” means any motorized device or vehicle by which any person
or property may be propelled or moved upon a highway, or which may be towed by
a motorized device or vehicle, from which food or food products are prepared,
sold, offered for sale, displayed, bartered, exchanged or otherwise given. This
definition shall exclude sidewalk vendors, roaming sidewalk vendors, and
stationary sidewalk vendors as defined in Section
5.82.020.
   D.   “Food Truck Permit” shall mean a business license issued pursuant to
this Chapter for the purpose of operating a food truck in the City.
   E.   “Public right-of-way” means any street, avenue, boulevard, highway,
sidewalk or alley or similar place which is owned or controlled by a
governmental entity, and the area along and upon any public road or highway.
   F.   “Vend or vending” means to sell, offer for sale, display, barter,
exchange, or otherwise give food or food products from a food truck.
   G.   “Vendor” means a person who vends, including an employee or agent of a
vendor.
[Ord. No. 638, 4/12/23.]
5.84.030   Permit Required; Fees.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in or employ any person to
engage in the business of operating a food truck vehicle without first
obtaining and maintaining a food truck permit pursuant to this Chapter
5.84 to conduct such business.
   B.   Fees for such permits shall be in an amount determined by resolution.
   C.   To apply for a food truck permit, an applicant must provide:
      1.   A signed and completed application form containing:
         a.   The applicant’s name, mailing address, and telephone number;
         b.   The applicant’s business name, including the name identifying and
posted on the subject food truck;
         c.   Ownership type (e.g., sole proprietorship, or corporation, etc.);
         d.   A description of the type of food or beverages to be sold and
hours of operation;
         e.   A description and photograph (including colors and any signs) of
the food truck(s) to be used, including vehicle identification number(s) and
license plate number(s);
         f.   A copy of a valid health permit issued by the County of San
Bernardino;
         g.   Copies of all other applicable required licenses, certificates,
and permits, including, but not limited to, Public Health Operating Permit,
Operators Food Handler’s Certificate, Food Vehicle Certificate Sticker,
Seller’s Permit, and proof of liability insurance;
         h.   Certification that the information in the application is true;
and
         i.   Agreement to comply with all provisions of this Chapter, all
applicable provisions of this code, and all applicable federal, state and local
laws, rules, regulations, ordinances, etc.
      2.   Payment for permit fees.
   D.   Food truck permits must be renewed yearly and are not transferrable.
   E.   Upon applying for a food truck permit and upon applying for renewal of
a food truck permit, food truck operators shall provide a list of sites on
which the food truck vehicle has been, or will be, stationed through the
previous and upcoming year, as well as owner authorizations that correspond to
those properties.
   F.   The City Manager or their designee may revoke or suspend any food truck
permit issued pursuant to this Chapter for any of the following reasons:
      1.   Revocation, suspension, or nonrenewal of the required permit from
the San Bernardino County Department of Public Health Division of Environmental
Health Services;
      2.   Upon the second violation of the same regulation set forth in this
Chapter
5.84 in a single year; or
      3.   Upon the third violation of the regulations set forth in this
Chapter
5.84 in a single year.
      4.   Upon failure to pay administrative fines pursuant to Section
5.84.070.
   G.   A food truck operator shall also have a valid business license from the
City.
[Ord. No. 638, 4/12/23.]
5.84.040   Regulation of Food Trucks.
   A.   Food truck operators shall comply with all applicable federal, state,
and local laws.
   B.   Food trucks shall have a valid permit from the San Bernardino County
Department of Public Health Division of Environmental Health Services. The
revocation of a County permit shall be communicated to the City in writing and
shall result in the automatic suspension of the food truck permit issued by the
City. A copy of said permit shall be kept in the food truck and shall be
visible at all times.
   C.   Food trucks shall display in conspicuous view their City-issued food
truck permit or decal and business license on the customer-facing portion of
their vehicle when operating within the City.
   D.   Food trucks shall maintain a clean selling area and haul away all trash
generated by their operation. Every food truck shall provide a refuse container
in the immediate vicinity of the food truck. Prior to leaving the location, the
food truck operator shall pick up, remove and dispose of all trash generated by
the food truck’s operation located within a fifty (50) foot radius of the food
truck’s location. Trash generated by food truck operations shall not be
disposed of in public trash receptacles.
   E.   No discharging of any liquid waste is permitted except at a County-
approved commissary.
   F.   Food trucks shall not use any signs in connection with the sale,
display or offering for sale of items or food, except for those signs affixed
to or painted on the food truck vehicle, and menus or promotional signs
situated in the immediate vicinity of the food truck.
   G.   The use of flashing lights, strobe lights, and flood lights is
prohibited.
   H.   Food trucks shall not operate within fifty (50) feet of a fire hydrant
or within twenty-five (25) feet of a bus stop.
   I.   Vending must be contained to the food truck. Food truck operators may
not augment operations by setting up accessories, equipment, tables, chairs, or
stools near the vehicle.
   J.   Food trucks shall be limited to operating in residential areas from 8:
00 a.m. through 8:00 p.m. on days Sunday through Thursday, and from 8:00 a.m.
through 9:00 p.m. on days Friday and Saturday. In all other areas of the City,
food trucks shall be limited to operating between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
11:00 p.m. every day.
   K.   Food truck operators shall have with them all of the following
documents while vending within the City:
      1.   Proof of liability insurance;
      2.   Food handler’s certificate;
      3.   Seller’s permit;
      4.   City-issued business license;
      5.   City-issued food truck permit or decal; and
      6.   Operating permit issued by the San Bernardino County Department of
Public Health Division of Environmental Health Services.
   L.   A food truck permit does not provide an exclusive right to operate
within any specific portion of public property or public right-of-way. No
person shall attempt to reserve any portion of any public property or public
right-of-way exclusively for the operation of their food truck.
   M.   Food truck operators shall not leave or maintain a food truck or any
accessories, equipment, or objects used for food truck vending purposes on
public property or in any portion of the public right-of-way overnight. Any
equipment or objects left overnight on public property or in any portion of the
public right-of-way will be considered discarded and may be disposed of by the
City.
   N.   Food trucks shall be stored overnight at or within a commissary or
other location approved by the San Bernardino County Department of Public
Health.
   O.   Food truck operators shall not engage in vending in such a manner as to
cause onlookers, vehicle drivers, customers, or others to obstruct the free
flow, access, or view of pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
   P.   No food truck shall operate in such a way so as to reduce or impair
motorists’ view of any cross street, crosswalk, driveway or any other similar
location where traffic, be it vehicular, pedestrian or bicycle, can be expected
to enter the street, and in any way contributes to a traffic hazard or unsafe
driving conditions.
   Q.   Food truck vending operations shall at all times comply with the
provisions of the City’s Noise Control Ordinance, Chapter
9.110 of Title 9 of the Adelanto Municipal Code.
   R.   The food truck operator shall maintain and supply to the City, copies
of policies of commercial general liability and automobile liability, in an
amount of no less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence,
naming the City as an additional insured.
   S.   Food truck operators shall be prohibited from vending food or food
products at public parks where the City has entered into an agreement for the
exclusive sale of food or food products with a particular concessionaire or
vendor.
   T.   Food trucks shall be operated within 200 feet travel distance of an
approved and readily available toilet and handwashing facility to ensure that
restroom facilities are available to employees whenever the food truck is
stopped to conduct business for more than a one (1)-hour period. Food truck
operators must provide written evidence of permission from an adjoining
property or business owner to use their restroom facilities.
   U.   Food truck operators shall obtain property owner authorization when
temporarily or permanently vending on private or on City-owned property, and
shall carry evidence of written property owner authorization at all times. If
operating in state right-of-way, the mobile vendor shall provide evidence of
the state's authorization.
   V.   This section is not intended to be enforced against sidewalk vendors,
roaming sidewalk vendors, and stationary sidewalk vendors as defined in Section
5.82.020.
[Ord. No. 638, 4/12/23.]
5.84.050   Food Trucks on Public Right-of-Way.
Food truck operators may locate food trucks in the public right-of-way as long
as the food truck operator adheres to all other provisions of this Chapter and
the following standards and conditions:
   A.   The food truck operations shall not obstruct pedestrian or vehicular
traffic.
   B.   If parked alongside a roadway, food vending shall be limited solely to
that side of the food truck facing away from vehicular traffic and shall be
prohibited on the traffic-facing side of the food truck.
   C.   A food truck operator shall not distribute any item from the food truck
in a manner that causes any person to stand, sit, or otherwise occupy any
portion of the street.
   D.   A food truck operator shall not encroach onto a public sidewalk with
any part of its food truck or any other equipment or furniture related to the
operation of its business.
   E.   No food truck shall be parked, stopped or left standing in any manner
that blocks or impedes vehicular access to any driveway or restricts the free
movement of emergency vehicles.
   F.   The food truck is in full compliance with all parking regulations and
Vehicle Code provisions that apply to the location at which it is parked.
[Ord. No. 638, 4/12/23.]
5.84.060   Exceptions.
   A.   No food truck permit shall be required when food truck vending is
associated with the operation of a City-issued temporary special event permit,
subject to the conditions thereof.
   B.   No food truck permit shall be required when food truck operations are
solely limited to private event catering services and when all of the following
provisions are met:
      1.   The food truck is situated entirely on private property;
      2.   Service is limited to the guests of the catered event only; and
      3.   No payment transactions shall occur for individual orders taken by
the food truck operator.
[Ord. No. 638, 4/12/23.]
5.84.070   Violations and Penalties.
Any violation of the provisions of this Chapter, at the discretion of the City
taking into account the nature of an alleged violation and any previously
issued warnings, is punishable as an infraction or misdemeanor, and any
violation of the provisions of this Chapter is subject to an administrative
citation, at the discretion of the City, punishable by an administrative fine
as follows:
      1.   Five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the first violation within a
calendar year.
      2.   Seven hundred dollars ($750.00) for the second violation within a
calendar year.
      3.   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for the third violation within a
calendar year.
Failure to pay an administrative fine within thirty (30) calendar days may
result in revocation or suspension of a food truck permit and/or business
license pursuant to Section
5.84.030(E)(4).
[Ord. No. 638, 4/12/23.]
TITLE 6
RESERVED
TITLE 7
ANIMALS
Chapters:
   
7.04   Animal Control
   
7.05   Rabies Vaccination (Biting and Bitten Animals)
   
7.06   Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous or Vicious Animals; Public Nuisance
Animal Hearings
Chapter 7.04
ANIMAL CONTROL
Sections:
   
7.04.010   Definitions
   
7.04.020   Mandatory Licensing
   
7.04.030   Impoundment of Animals - Persons Charged with Enforcement
   
7.04.040   Disposition of Dead Animals
   
7.04.050   Animal Waste
   
7.04.060   Control of Animals
   
7.04.070   Animal Noise
   
7.04.080   Selling Animals
   
7.04.085   Breeding Prohibited
   
7.04.090   Wild, Exotic or Non-domestic Animals in Captivity
   
7.04.095   Livestock
   
7.04.100   Annual Permit/Business License
   
7.04.110   Enforcement
   
7.04.120   Animal Limitations
   
7.04.125   Commercial Kennels
   
7.04.130   Apiaries
   
7.04.135   Commercial Catteries
   
7.04.140   Penalty Provisions
   
7.04.145   Abatement of Public Nuisance
   
7.04.150   Notification of Nuisance
   
7.04.160   Appeal Procedure through a Hearing Officer
   
7.04.170   Decision by Hearing Officer
   
7.04.180   Hearing Procedures
   
7.04.190   Judicial Action/Abatement
   
7.04.200   Cost Recovery
7.04.010 Definitions.
As used in this Title, the following terms shall be defined as follows:
   A.   "A" Definitions.
      "Adequate Care” or "Care" means the responsible practice of good animal
husbandry, handling, production, management, confinement, feeding, watering,
protection, shelter, transportation, treatment, grooming, the provision of
veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering or impairment of health and,
when necessary, euthanasia, appropriate for the age, species, condition, size
and type of the animal.
      "Adequate Exercise" or "Exercise" means the opportunity for the animal to
sufficiently move to maintain normal muscle tone and mass for the age, species,
size and condition of the animal.
      "Adequate Feed" means access to, and the provision of, food which is of
sufficient quantity and nutritive value to maintain each animal in good health;
is accessible to each animal; is prepared so as to permit ease of consumption
for the age, species, condition, size and type of each animal; is provided in a
clean and sanitary manner; is placed so as to minimize contamination by
excrement and pests; and is provided at suitable intervals for the species,
age, and condition of the animal, but at least once daily, except as prescribed
by a veterinarian or as dictated by naturally occurring states of hibernation
or fasting normal for the species.
      "Adequate Shelter" or "Shelter" means provision of, and access to,
shelter that is suitable for the species, age, condition, size, and type of
each animal; provides adequate space for each animal; is safe and protects each
animal from injury, rain, hail, direct sunlight, standing water, the adverse
effects of heat or cold, physical suffering, and impairment of health; is
properly cleaned; enables each animal to be clean and dry, except when
detrimental to the species; and for dogs and cats, provides a solid surface,
resting platform, pad, floor mat, or similar device that is large enough for
the animal to lie on in a normal manner and can be maintained in a sanitary
manner. Under this Title, commercial kennels whose wire grid or slat floors do
not protect the animal's feet or toes from injury are not adequate shelter.
      "Adequate Space" means sufficient space to allow each animal to (i)
easily stand, sit, lie, turn about, and make all other normal body movements in
a comfortable, normal position for the animal and (ii) interact safely with
other animals in the enclosure. When an animal is tethered, "adequate space"
means a tether that permits the actions in (i) and (ii) and is appropriate to
the age and size of the animal according to professionally accepted standards
for the species; is attached to the animal by a properly applied collar,
halter, or harness configured so as to protect the animal from injury and
prevent the animal or tether from becoming entangled with other objects or
animals, or from extending over an object or edge that could result in the
strangulation or injury of the animal; and is at least eight (8) feet in
length, except when the animal is being walked on a leash or is attached by a
tether to a lead line. When freedom of movement would endanger the animal,
temporarily and appropriately restricting movement of the animal according to
professionally accepted standards for the species is considered provision of
adequate space.
      "Adequate Water" means provision of, and access to, clean, fresh, potable
water of a drinkable temperature which is provided in a suitable manner, in
sufficient volume, and at suitable intervals, but at least once every twelve
hours, to maintain normal hydration for the age, species, condition, size and
type of each animal, except as prescribed by a veterinarian or as dictated by
naturally occurring states of hibernation or fasting normal for the species;
and is provided in clean, durable receptacles which are accessible to each
animal and are placed so as to minimize contamination of the water by excrement
and pests or an alternative source of hydration consistent with generally
accepted husbandry practices.
      "Animal" means any vertebrate creature, domestic or wild, and includes
these categories: birds, fish, mammals, amphibians and reptiles.
      "Animal Control Officer" or "Humane Officer" means any person designated
by the City as a law enforcement officer who is qualified to perform such
duties under the laws of the State of California, or a Code Enforcement
Officer, Peace Officer or any other person designated by the City Manager with
whom the City has contracted to oversee field animal control operations, kennel
and office operations.
      "Animal Menagerie" means any place where wild animals are kept or
maintained for private or commercial purposes, including places where wild
animals are boarded, trained or kept for hire.
      "Animal Shelter" means any facility operated by a humane society or
municipal agency or its authorized agents, excluding the San Bernardino County
Sheriff’s Department, for the purpose of impounding animals under the authority
of this Chapter or State law for care, confinement, return to owner, adoption
or euthanasia.
      "Assistance Dog" means a specially trained and licensed canine assigned
to a disabled person for the specific purpose of assisting the disabled person.
Assistance dogs include, but are not limited to, guide dogs for the blind,
hearing dogs, canine companions and pet- assisted therapy dogs.
      "At Large" means any animal, other than a domestic cat or wild animal in
its established habitat, which is off the owner's premises and which is not
physically and continuously restrained by a person physically and mentally
capable of controlling the animal at all time by means of a leash, chain, or
other physical apparatus of sufficient strength and length to prevent the
animal from making unsolicited contact with any person or any other animal,
except dogs used for law enforcement purposes or for herding and control of
livestock when under immediate command control. Any animal on the premises of
the owner not completely confined by a building, wall or fence of sufficient
height, strength, and construction to restrain the animal and prevent the
animal from escaping, or secured to the premises by a chain or leash of
sufficient strength to prevent the animal from escaping, and so arranged that
the animal will remain upon the premises when the leash or chain is stretched
to its full length shall be deemed "at large." The use of an electric or
invisible fence, or other similar device, is not sufficient restraint.
      "Auction" means any place or facility where animals are regularly bought,
sold or traded, except for those facilities otherwise defined in this Chapter.
This definition does not apply to individual sales of animals by private
owners.
   B.   "B" Definitions.
      "Birds" shall refer to those birds typically sold in local pet stores and
kept as household pets, such as canaries, parrots and other birds of similar
size and character.
      "Breeder" means any person, business or organization that is recognized
as a "breeder" under the laws of the State of California.
      "Breeding" means the production of offspring, whether such offspring
result from sexual activity or artificial insemination, and whether such sexual
activity was intentional or the result of improper confinement.
   C.   "C" Definitions.
      "Canine Hybrid" means (1) any canine which has or had a pure wolf or pure
coyote as a parent or grandparent; or (2) an animal represented by its owner to
an Animal Control officer, law enforcement officer, or to a veterinarian to be
the offspring, cross, mix or hybrid of a wolf or coyote within the preceding
two generations; or (3) any animal which, because of its pure wolf or pure
coyote ancestry, cannot be vaccinated against rabies.
      "Cattery" means any building, structure, enclosure or premises, not
including a commercial cattery and which are otherwise in accordance with all
applicable zoning regulations, whereupon, or within which, five (5) or more
cats, four (4) months of age or older, are kept or maintained.
      "Circus" means a commercial variety show featuring animal acts for public
entertainment.
      "Commercial Animal Establishment" or “Commercial Kennel" or "Commercial
Cattery" means any pet shop, grooming shop, guard dog auction, riding school or
stable, zoological park, circus, performing animal exhibition or boarding or
breeding kennel or cattery open to the general public. This definition does not
apply to privately owned, not-for-hire ranches.
      "Commercial Fertilizer Operation (CFO)" means the storage, stockpiling,
drying, mechanical processing, packing or stacking of manure in substantial
quantities.
      "Commercial Horticulture" means the growing of fruits, vegetables,
flowers and ornamental plants for sale.
      "Commercial Ranch" means a property used for the commercial breeding,
grazing, raising and/or training of animals.
      "Coop" means and includes any pen, coop or enclosure wherein live fowl
are kept and maintained.
      "Crowing Fowl" means and includes any male fowl capable of making a sound
peculiar to its species or type.
   D.   "D" Definitions.
      "Dangerous Animal" means an animal, except a dog assisting a public
safety officer engaged in law enforcement duties, which demonstrates any or all
of the following behavior:
      1.   An unprovoked attack that results in serious injury to, or the death
of, any person when such person is acting lawfully;
      2.   An unprovoked attack that results in the death of another animal or
livestock when the animal or livestock is off the property of the owner of the
attacking animal;
      3.   A second unprovoked attack within a thirty-six (36) month period on
a person that requires a defensive action by any person to prevent bodily
injury when the person is acting lawfully;
      4.   A second unprovoked attack within a thirty-six (36) month period on
another animal or livestock that results in serious injury when the animal or
livestock is off the property of the owner of the attacking animal;
      5.   A second unprovoked attack within a thirty-six (36) month period on
any person that results in less than a serious injury when the person is acting
lawfully.
      "Domestic Animal" means any animal customarily kept by humans for
companionship and considered "pets," including, but not limited to, dogs, cats,
birds, rabbits, hamsters, potbellied pigs, guinea pigs, mice, rats, iguanas and
the like; and animals which have historically and commonly been tamed for the
use of man (e.g., horses, cows, dogs, and sheep). Feral cats are not domestic
animals.
   E.   "E" Definitions.
      "Emergency Veterinary Treatment" means veterinary treatment to prevent or
alleviate suffering, stabilize a life-threatening condition, or to prevent
further transmission or progression of disease.
      "Enclosure" means structure used to house or restrict animals from
running at large or harming themselves and should be of appropriate size for
the age, species and condition of the animal consistent with generally accepted
husbandry standards for the species.
      "Exotic Animal" means any species of animal not normally considered
domestic or livestock. For purposes of this definition, "exotic animal" shall
be defined and include those animals defined in Fish & Game Code Section 2116
as "wild animals." This includes, but is not limited to, the species listed in
Fish & Game Code Section 2118.
   F.   "F" Definitions.
      "Fish" shall refer to those types of fish typically sold in local pet
stores and kept as household pets.
      "Fowl" means and includes male and female chicken, duck, goose, seafowl,
peacock, turkey and pheasant.
   G.   "G" Definitions.
      "Guard Dog" or "Security Dog" means any dog used for the purpose of guard
or security duty.
   H.   "H" Definitions.
      "Household Pet" means a small, tamed, domestic animal housed and
maintained inside a residence, including, but not limited to, birds, fish,
reptiles and rodents.
      "Housing facility" means any room, building, or area used to contain a
primary enclosure or enclosures.
      "Humane" means any action taken in consideration of, and with the intent
to provide for, the animal's behavioral and physical health and well being.
   I.   "I" Definitions.
      "Impoundment" means the picking up of an animal by a duly authorized
person and bringing same into an animal shelter for confinement, custody and
disposition.
   J.   "J" Definitions.
   [Intentionally left blank]
   K.   "K" Definitions.
      "Kennel" means any building, structure, enclosure or premises, not
including a commercial kennel and which are otherwise in accordance with all
applicable zoning regulations, whereupon, or within which, five (5) or more
dogs, four (4) months of age or older, are kept or maintained.
   L.   "L" Definitions.
      "Livestock" means animals kept by humans that do not customarily inhabit
their owners' dwellings, including all domestic or domesticated bovine animals
(cattle type); equine animals (horse type); ovine animals (sheep type); porcine
animals (pig type); cervine animals (deer like); caprine animals (goat type);
ratite animals (ostrich type); enclosed domesticated rabbits or hares raised
for human food or fiber; or any other individual animal specifically raised for
food or fiber, and any species of chickens, ducks, pigeons, geese, turkeys or
other domesticated fowl, but excludes companion animals.
   M.   "M" Definitions.
      "Manure" means animal excrement or livestock excreta. Manure does not
include waste ("paunch") from the alimentary canal of cows, horses, sheep,
goats, pigs or other animals.
      "Minor" means a person who is not of legal age, or under eighteen (18)
years old.
   N.   "N" Definitions.
   [Intentionally left blank]
   O.   "O" Definitions.
      "Owner" means any person who is the legal owner, keeper, harborer,
guardian, possessor, custodian, or has a propriety interest in harboring or
having care, charge, control, custody or possession of an animal. Ownership is
also established by a person registering as the owner on a license or other
legal document or by a person claiming ownership and taking possession of an
animal. An animal is deemed to be harbored if it is fed or sheltered for five
(5) or more consecutive days. “Person” includes any individual, firm,
partnership, corporation, trust and any association of persons.
   P.   "P" Definitions.
      "Pit Bull" means any dog that is an American Pit Bull Terrier, American
Staffordshire Terrier, Staffordshire Bull Terrier, or any mixed breed of dog
which contains, as an element of its breeding, one of these aforementioned
breeds and exhibits the majority of physical traits of any such breeds.
      "Pot-Bellied Pig" means a domesticated miniature Vietnamese, Chinese or
Asian pot-bellied pig not exceeding ninety (90) pounds in weight and eighteen
(18) inches in height (measured at the shoulder), and characterized by a swayed
back and straight tail.
      "Potentially Dangerous Animal" means an animal, except a dog assisting a
public safety officer engaged in law enforcement duties, which demonstrates for
the first time any or all of the following behavior:
      1.   An unprovoked attack on a person that requires a defensive action by
any person to prevent bodily injury when the person is acting lawfully;
      2.   An unprovoked attack on another animal or livestock that results in
serious injury when the animal or livestock is off the property of the owner of
the attacking animal;
      3.   An unprovoked attack on any person that results in less than a
serious injury when the person is acting lawfully;
      4.   Any unprovoked behavior that constitutes a physical threat of bodily
harm to any person when the person is off the property of the owner of the
animal.
      "Properly Cleaned" means that carcasses, debris, food, waste, and
excrement are removed from the yard, property, house and primary enclosure with
sufficient frequency to minimize the animal's contact with the above-mentioned
contaminants; that the primary enclosure is sanitized with sufficient frequency
to minimize odors, insects, and the hazards of disease preventing the animals
confined therein from being directly or indirectly sprayed with the stream of
water, or directly or indirectly exposed to hazardous chemicals or
disinfectants.
      "Public Nuisance" - Any animal or animals that unreasonably annoy humans,
endanger the life or health of other animals or persons or substantially
interfere with the rights of citizens, other than their owners, to enjoyment of
life or property. The term "public nuisance animal" shall mean and include, but
is not limited to, any animal that:
      1.   Is repeatedly found at large;
      2.   Damages the property of anyone other than its owner;
      3.   Molests or intimidates pedestrians or passers by;
      4.   Chases vehicles;
      5.   Excessively makes disturbing noises, including, but not limited to,
continued and repeated howling, barking, whining or other utterances causing
unreasonable annoyance, disturbance or discomfort to neighbors or others in
close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
      6.   Causes fouling of the air by odor, by unclean or unmaintained
enclosures and thereby creates unreasonable annoyance or discomfort to
neighbors or others in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept
or harbored;
      7.   Causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or surroundings where the
animal is kept or harbored;
      8.   Is offensive or dangerous to the public health, safety or welfare by
virtue of the number and/or types of animals maintained or attacks other
domestic animals; or
      9.   Is an unspayed female in estrus left unattended so as to attract
stray males.
   Q.   "Q" Definitions.
   [Intentionally left blank]
   R.   "R" Definitions.
      "Reptiles" shall refer to small, non-venomous reptiles which are thirty-
six inches or less in length (measured from head to the tip of the tail), and
are typically sold in local pet stores and kept as household pets.
      "Responsible Person" means owner, person or individual, over eighteen
(18) years of age, having control, custody, care, charge of or living at dog or
animal's residence.
      "Rodents" shall refer to those which are typically sold in local pet
stores and kept as household pets, such as guinea pigs, hamsters, rats, mice
and other rodents of similar size and character.
   S.   "S" Definitions.
      "Service Dog" - Any dog under the control of a public safety officer in
the performance of, or training for, public service.
      "Small Domestic Animal" means mice, rats, hamsters, guinea pigs, snakes,
tropical fish, canaries, parrots, parakeets and other similar animals commonly
sold in pet stores and kept as household pets.
      “Substantial Injury” means a substantial impairment of the physical
condition of a person or animal which requires professional medical treatment,
including, but not limited to, loss of consciousness; concussion; bone
fracture; protracted loss or impairment of function of any bodily member or
organ; muscle tears, disfiguring lacerations, punctures, or a wound requiring
multiple sutures; or any injury requiring corrective or cosmetic surgery.
   T.   "T" Definitions.
   [Intentionally left blank]
   U.   "U" Definitions.
   [Intentionally left blank]
   V.   "V" Definitions.
   [Intentionally left blank]
   W.   "W" Definitions.
      "Weaned Age" means animals that are accustomed to food other than
mothers' milk. Fowl are considered to be weaned at two (2) months of age.
      "Wild Animal" means any animal which may not be imported, transported or
possessed without first obtaining a California Department of Fish and Game
permit, as set forth in Chapter 14 of the California Code of Regulations,
Section 671, or its successor regulations. Any wild, exotic, dangerous or
venomous animal, including but not limited to, mammals, fowl, fish or reptile,
including those born or raised in captivity, except the following: domestic
dogs (excluding hybrids with wolves, coyotes or jackals), domestic cats
(excluding hybrids with ocelots or margays), farm animals and horses, rodents
and captive-bred species of common cage birds.
   X.   "X" Definitions.
   [Intentionally left blank]
   Y.   "Y" Definitions.
   [Intentionally left blank]
   Z.   "Z" Definitions.
   [Intentionally left blank]
[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.04.020 Mandatory Licensing.
   A.   Licensing Required. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, harbor
or have custody of any dog over four (4) months of age within the City without
such dog having a current, valid license tag issued by the City. Each dog shall
have a current rabies vaccination as evidenced by a valid rabies certificate
issued by the veterinarian who performed the vaccination as a requisite to
licensing. A rabies vaccination certificate shall not be required if the
license is obtained at the time the dog is vaccinated at a City sponsored low-
cost clinic.
   B.   Licensing Guard/Security Dogs. While a dog is being used for security
purposes within the City, it must have an City dog license; and the license tag
must be securely fixed to the dog’s collar regardless of where the owner
resides and whether a license has been obtained for that jurisdiction.
   C.   License Application. Written application for licenses, which shall
include the name and address of applicant, description of the animal, the
appropriate fee and rabies certificate issued by a licensed veterinarian or
anti-rabies clinic showing a current vaccination, shall be made to the
licensing authority.
   D.   Term of License. If not revoked, licenses for the keeping of dogs shall
be issued for a period of three (3) months or more, not to exceed three (3)
years or the expiration date of the current rabies vaccination certificate.
   E.   Time of License Application. Application for a dog license must be made
within thirty (30) days after obtaining a dog or when the dog reaches the age
of four (4) months. This requirement does not apply to a nonresident keeping a
dog within the City for not longer than thirty (30) days so long as a current
license from another jurisdiction is continuously attached to the dog.
   F.   Issuance of Tag. Upon acceptance of the license application and fee,
the licensing authority shall issue a durable tag, stamped with an identifying
number.
   G.   Tag Must be Worn. Dogs must wear identification tags or collars at all
times when off the premises of the owners.
   H.   Record of Tags. The licensing authority shall maintain a record of the
identifying numbers of all tags issued and shall make this record available
pursuant to the Government Code as a public record.
   I.   Tags and Vaccinations. The licensing period shall run concurrently with
the rabies vaccination certificate.
   J.   License Fees. License fees shall be established and amended by
resolution of the City Council as part of the City’s Fee Schedule. Each
application for a license shall be accompanied by a license fee as specified in
the City’s Fee Schedule, provided such license is obtained:
      1.   Within thirty (30) days of the expiration date of the current
license;
      2.   Within thirty (30) days after said dog attains the age of four (4)
months;
      3.   Within thirty (30) days after purchase or obtaining control, care or
custody of a dog which previously attained the age of four (4) months and
provided further that proof of recent acquisition as indicated by the date of
purchase receipt is shown at the time of application; or
      4.   Within fifteen (15) days after the date of establishing residency in
Adelanto, if said dog has no current license from another jurisdiction.
      5.   Within thirty (30) days of establishing residency if said dog has a
current vaccination and license from another jurisdiction. The owner must
transfer the dog license to the City of Adelanto.
   K.   Licensing Fee. The licensing fee shall be established by the City
Council to cover the reasonable cost to the City of administering its licensing
program, together with the reasonable cost of providing an incentive for
sterilization.
   L.   Use of License. No person may use any license for any animal other than
the animal for which it was issued.
   M.   Penalty Fee. Any person who obtains a license not in conformity with
any of the provisions of this Chapter shall pay a penalty fee as specified in
the Adelanto Fee Schedule, which shall be adopted by resolution of the City
Council, in addition to the regular license fee.
   N.   Renewal of License. Each Adelanto dog license shall be valid for a
period of one (1), two (2) or three (3) years from the date of issuance,
depending on the fee paid, and shall be renewed prior to expiration or within a
period of thirty (30) days after expiration. The procedure for the renewal of
such license shall be in the same manner as the issuance of the original
license.
   O.   Duplicate License Tag. When the original license tag is lost, a
duplicate tag shall be obtained upon submission to the Animal Control
Department such proof as may be required. The cost of each duplicate tag shall
be as specified in the Adelanto Fee Schedule.
   P.   Wearing of Tag. It shall be the responsibility of every City resident
who owns, harbors, cares for or has in custody a licensed dog, to securely
attach or fasten the license tag to the dog’s collar or harness so that such
tag is worn by the dog at all times except while such dog remains indoors or in
any enclosed yard or pen where the dog resides.
   Q.   Falsification of License Tag. It shall be unlawful for any person to
place upon or attach to a dog any false, counterfeit or unauthorized tag for
the purpose of evading the provisions of this Chapter.
   R.   Unlawful Use of Tag. It shall be unlawful to attach a license tag on a
dog to which said tag was not originally issued. It shall be unlawful for an
unauthorized person to remove from any dog, any collar or harness or other
device to which is attached an Adelanto license tag for the current year or
remove such tag therefrom.
   S.   Transfer of Ownership. If, during the licensing year, a licensed dog in
the City is sold or title to the dog is otherwise transferred to a City
resident, such new owner may apply to the City for a transfer of such dog’s
license and pay a transfer fee as specified in the Adelanto Fee Schedule. Upon
receipt of the application fee, the Animal Control Department shall record the
transfer of the license to the new dog owner.
[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.04.030 Impoundment of Animals - Persons Charged with Enforcement.
   A.   Animal Control Officers, Humane Officers, Code Enforcement Officers,
Peace Officers, the City Manager and any person designated for that purpose by
the City Manager are authorized and empowered to, and shall, enforce the
provisions of this Title, and State and federal laws and regulations
authorizing such enforcement relating to the care, control and treatment of
animals, including, but not limited to the following:
      1.   Capture, receive, take-up and impound:
         a.   Any dog or other animal found running at large in violation of
this Chapter or any law of the State of California;
         b.   Any dog or other animal which is molesting any person;
         c.   Any dog or other animal which is molesting or harassing animals,
birds or pets upon the premises of any person;
         d.   Any animal, including wild animals or birds, being kept or
maintained within a person’s premises in violation of this Chapter or of any
law of the State of California;
         e.   Stray, unwanted or abandoned animals;
         f.   Dogs or other animals which are unlicensed and/or unvaccinated in
violation of this Chapter or other applicable laws;
         g.   Animals delivered for disposition, after the owner has paid the
required fee and released all title and interest in the animal by signing the
form provided by the Animal Control Officer for this purpose; or
         h.   Animals for which the owner or custodian is unable to care
because of imprisonment, illness or other preventing contingency, or in cases
in which the owner or custodian cannot be found;
      2.   Regularly and adequately feed, water and otherwise care for all dogs
or other animals impounded under the provisions of this Chapter or to provide
for such feeding and watering;
      3.   Receive, take-up and impound any sick or injured dog or other animal
whose owner is unknown or unidentified; to humanely destroy any such injured
dog or other animal, when, in the opinion of a licensed veterinarian, such
destruction is necessary and humane, and is performed in compliance with
Business & Professions Code section 4827; and to make proper disposition of
such animal. Should an injured or destroyed animal be an identified animal,
then the owner of said animal shall be immediately notified of its injury or
destruction;
      4.   Do and perform any other acts necessary to carry out the provisions
of this Title and of the laws of the State of California relating to dogs or
other animals.
   B.   If an Animal Control Officer has reasonable cause to believe that any
person has violated any of the provisions of this Title, or any State laws
which the Animal Control Officer is authorized to enforce, relating to the
care, control and treatment of animals, the Animal Control Officer may apply
the penalty provisions set forth in Sections
7.04.140 and
7.04.145 of this Chapter.
   C.   The Animal Control Officer having custody of any impounded dog or other
animal may, by humane methods, summarily destroy the same if:
      1.   The dog or other animal is suffering from any incurable or
contagious disease as certified to by a licensed veterinarian; or
      2.   The animal is suffering from a severe injury as certified to by a
licensed veterinarian; or
      3.   The animal is a newborn in need of maternal care and has been
impounded without its mother; or
      4.   It is an unlicensed "vicious dog or animal" as defined in Section
7.06.020(B) and declared as such pursuant to Section
7.06.030 of the Adelanto Municipal Code.
   D.   Any Animal Control Officer having in his custody any unlicensed,
impounded dog or other animal not suffering from any infectious or communicable
disease may, in accordance with the provisions of this Title, release the same
to any adult person who will pay the Shelter fees and charges as specified in
the City’s Fee Schedule, which shall be adopted by resolution of the City
Council.
   E.   All the provisions of this Chapter pertaining to impounded, unlicensed
dogs, except the licensing provisions thereof, shall apply to impounded
animals.
   F.   The Shelter keeper or Pound keeper or any duly authorized person shall
have the right to receive and dispose of dogs or other animals delivered into
his/her possession by the owners thereof and shall charge a specified fee for
each dog, cat, puppy, kitten or other animal delivered into his/her custody.
   G.   When the breed of an unspayed or unneutered dog is at issue, the Animal
Control Officer shall determine whether such dog is a pit bull. If the owner of
the dog wishes to appeal the Animal Control Officer’s determination that the
dog is a pit bull, he or she may, within ten (10) calendar days of the
determination, request a hearing before the hearing officer. The hearing shall
be held in accordance with Sections
7.04.160 through
7.04.180 of this Chapter.
   H.   Any impounded animal which has not been redeemed or sold may be
disposed of by euthanasia in accordance with State and City laws.
   I.   Disposition of Impounded Animals.
      1.   An impounded dog or other animal may be redeemed in accordance with
the provisions of this Title, by payment of a specified Shelter fee in addition
to the daily charges and other charges, if any, for each day the animal has
been impounded.
      2.   Any dog over the age of four (4) months which has been impounded
shall not be released from the Shelter, unless it is first licensed in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
      3.   Any Animal Control Officer acting under the provisions of this
Chapter and impounding a licensed dog, shall give notice in person, by phone or
by mail to the last known address of the owner, of the impounding of such dog.
If such dog is not redeemed and owner or possessor does not pay the fees
required as specified in this Chapter within ten (10) days after notice has
been given, the Shelter or Animal Control Department shall dispose of such dog
in accordance with the provisions of this Title.
   J.   Sterilization (Spay/Neuter) Requirements.
      1.   Cats - Spay/Neuter Requirements. No person owning or otherwise
having a cat over four (4) months of age in his/her care, charge, control,
custody or possession shall cause, permit or allow such cat to be unconfined in
or upon any public street, road, alley or other public or private place,
including the exterior yards of the animal owner’s property, unless such cat is
spayed or neutered. An Animal Control Officer may seize or impound every cat
found in violation of this Section and shall require the owners or guardians of
the cat to either spay or neuter the cat within fifteen (15) days of such
violation or produce a certificate of sterilization proving that the cat is
already altered. Failure to comply with this Section will result in a citation.
      2.   When a person is cited or a cat is impounded under this Section, the
owner of the cat, if known, shall be notified in writing and given seven (7)
calendar days to request a hearing held in accordance with Sections
7.04.160 through
7.04.180 of this Chapter. The decision of the hearing officer shall be final.
   K.   Impoundment - Challenge by Owner. If the owner of an animal wishes to
challenge an impoundment, the owner shall personally deliver or mail a written
request for a hearing before the Shelter supervisor. The request must be
received by the Shelter supervisor within four (4) days of the impoundment. The
Shelter supervisor shall review the request, together with additional evidence
presented at or before the time of the hearing, and shall determine whether or
not the impoundment was proper. Unless a provision of this Chapter requires
otherwise, if the Shelter supervisor determines that the impoundment was
improper, the animal shall be immediately returned to its owner.
   L.   Mandatory Sterilization for Second Impoundment.
      1.   Any animal which is impounded by any agency within the City two (2)
or more times while under the same ownership shall be microchipped and ordered
spayed or neutered within fifteen (15) days of being released to the owner (at
the owner’s expense and at the veterinarian of the owner’s choosing). The cost
of the microchipping shall be added to the redemption fee described in
Subsection I. of this Section. The owner of the animal shall provide written
documentation from the veterinarian performing the surgery to the Animal
Control Officer within seven (7) days of the surgery as verification that such
surgery occurred.
      2.   Any owner of an impounded animal subject to mandatory sterilization
under Subsection 1. of this Section may request, in writing and within seven 
(7) calendar days following notice of the second impoundment, a hearing to be
conducted by the Shelter supervisor or his/her designee. Such hearing shall be
held within five (5) calendar days of such request and shall determine whether
good cause exists for an exemption from the provisions of Subsection 1. herein.
If no good cause is established, then the animal shall be ordered spayed or
neutered.
      3.   Good cause for an exemption from mandatory sterilization shall exist
if the animal was at large due to an act of God, emergency, or other mitigating
factor not caused by the negligence of the owner or other person in control of
the animal, or upon presentation of documentation from the animal’s
veterinarian stating that a health condition exists that would preclude such a
surgery. The burden of proof to establish good cause for an exemption shall be
upon the owner and shall be established by a preponderance of the evidence.
   M.   Sterilization Prior to Adoption. No unclaimed impounded dog or cat
shall be released for adoption without first being sterilized or without
written statement from a licensed veterinarian that it would be detrimental to
the animal’s health to have it sterilized at this time. A sterilization fee
established by the City shall be collected at the time of adoption.
   N.   Record of Impounded Animals. The Shelter supervisor, or any other duly
authorized person, shall keep a record of all animals impounded by him/her
which shall show:
      1.   Date of impoundment.
      2.   License tag number, if any.
      3.   Complete description of animal.
      4.   Date and manner of its disposal.
      5.   If redeemed or sold, the name and address of the person by whom
redeemed or purchased, the amount of all fees and other moneys received or
collected and the disposition thereof.
[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.04.040 Disposition of Dead Animals.
   A.   When any dog or other animal or fowl owned by, or in the custody or
control of any person, or found in any person’s private property dies, such
person shall, within twenty-four (24) hours, provide for the burial,
incineration or other disposition of the body of such dead animal or fowl in a
safe and sanitary manner.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of the body of such dead
animal or fowl in or on any public or private property, other than his own,
without proper authorization from the City.
[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.04.050 Animal Waste.
   A.   No owner and/or responsible person in charge of the animal shall permit
such animal to defecate on any public sidewalk, street, improvement, park, or
other public place, or on any private property without the consent of the owner
of such private property, unless such owner and/or responsible person in charge
of the animal removes any such defecation to a proper trash receptacle.
   B.   When the Animal Control supervisor or his/her enforcement officer(s)
and/or inspector(s) determine that the owner and/or responsible person in
charge of the animal has violated subsection (a) of this Section, such animal
control personnel are authorized to:
      1.   Direct the owner and/or responsible person in charge of the animal
for the animal to immediately remove and dispose of the defecation to a proper
trash receptacle;
      2.   Issue a written notice to the owner and/or responsible person in
charge of the animal that if, within a twelve (12) month period following the
initial response, animal control personnel are again required to respond to the
same owner and/or responsible person in charge of the animal for violating
subsection (a) of this Section, a criminal and/or administrative citation will
be issued pursuant to Chapters 1.20 and 7.04 of this Code; and
      3.   Issue criminal and/or administrative citations to the owner and/or
responsible person in charge of the animal for recurrent violations of
subsection (a) of this Section within a twelve (12) month period.
   C.   No person owning or occupying property where an animal is kept shall
maintain such property in an unsanitary condition. An accumulation of uneaten
food, feces or other matter that emits an offensive odor or encourages insect
breeding shall constitute prima facie evidence of an unsanitary condition. This
provision shall not prohibit storage of uneaten food, feces or other matter in
a closed container prior to disposal.
[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.04.060 Control of Animals.
   A.   No owner and/or responsible person in charge of an animal shall permit
such animal to stray or run at large upon any public street, sidewalk, school
ground, public park, playground, place of public assembly or any other public
place, or any unenclosed private lot or other unenclosed private place, or upon
any enclosed private place or property without the consent of the owner or
person in control thereof. Parkways comprising the area between the street and
sidewalk are included as private property for purposes of this Chapter.
   B.   Any person who finds any animal which has strayed or is running at
large upon his own property or any other place contrary to the provisions of
this Chapter, may take possession of and hold same, provided, however, that he
shall notify the Animal Control Department that he has such animal in his
possession within twenty-four (24) hours after securing possession thereof, and
give such Animal Control Officer full information in regard to the animal,
including a complete description of such animal and license number, if any, and
surrender the same to the Animal Control Officer or Department upon demand.
   C.   No person in the City may lawfully bring his dog out of his premises or
property unless:
      1.   Said dog is restrained by a substantial leash not exceeding six (6)
feet in length, and the person is competent to restrain such dog; or
      2.   Said dog is properly restrained and enclosed in a car, cage or
similar enclosure; or
      3.   Said dog is used for law enforcement purposes or for herding and
control of livestock when under immediate command control.
   D.   Any dog found running at large, running loose or unrestrained may be
impounded by the Animal Control Officer for a period of seventy-two (72) hours.
Any unclaimed dogs shall then be disposed of in accordance with Section
7.04.030(H).
   E.   In addition to any penalty imposed as a result of any violation of this
Section, there shall be an apprehension fee for all impounded dogs, as set
forth in the City's Fee Schedule, which apprehension fee shall be collected
prior to release of the impounded dog. Said apprehension fee shall include a
penalty amount for second and subsequent apprehensions within any twelve (12)
month period.
   F.   Every person who keeps an animal confined in an enclosed area shall
provide it with an adequate exercise area. If the animal is restricted by a
leash, rope, or chain, the leash, rope, or chain shall be affixed in such a
manner that it will prevent the animal from becoming entangled or injured and
permit the animal's access to adequate shelter, feed, space and water.
Violation of this section constitutes a misdemeanor. This section shall not
apply to an animal which is in transit, in a vehicle, or in the immediate
control of a person.
[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.04.070 Animal Noise.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or allow to be kept, or
permit any animal to remain upon the premises under the control of such person,
when such animal habitually barks, whines, crows or makes loud or unusual
noises in such a manner as to disturb the peace and quiet of the neighbors
surrounding or in the vicinity of such premises, or whose barking, whining,
crowing or other sound interferes with any person of ordinary sensitivity in
the reasonable and comfortable enjoyment of life and property. The Animal
Control Officer shall promptly investigate or cause to be investigated all
complaints that this Section is being violated if such complaints are in
writing and contain the signature of the complainant.
   B.   When the Animal Control Supervisor or his/her enforcement officer(s)
and/or inspector(s) determine that an owner and/or responsible person in charge
of the animal has violated subsection A. of this Section, such animal control
personnel are authorized to:
      1.   Direct the owner and/or responsible person in charge of the animal
to immediately terminate the actions of the animal that are causing the loud
noise;
      2.   Issue a written notice to the owner and/or responsible person in
charge of the animal that if, within a twelve (12) month period following the
initial response, animal control personnel are again required to respond to the
same person for violating Section
7.04.070 of this Code a criminal and/or administrative citation will be issued
pursuant to Chapters
1.20 and
7.04 of this Code; and
      3.   Issue criminal and/or administrative citations to the owner and/or
responsible person in charge of the animal for recurrent violations of
subsection A. of this Section within a twelve (12) month period.
[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.04.080 Selling Animals.
No person shall sell, offer or display for sale, barter, or give any live
animal to any person on any public street or other public place within the City
other than a person maintaining a fixed place of business wherein such animals
are sold.
[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.04.085   Breeding Prohibited.
No person, as principal, agent, employee or otherwise, shall establish or
maintain any kennel for breeding purposes, or keep any dog, cat or other animal
for breeding purposes with the intent to sell any offspring resulting
therefrom, at any place within the City. "Breeding" shall be deemed to have
occurred upon the production of offspring, whether such offspring result from
sexual activity or artificial insemination, and whether such sexual activity
was intentional or the result of improper confinement.
[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.04.090 Wild, Exotic or Non-domestic Animals in Captivity.
   A.   No person shall have, keep, maintain, breed, sell, trade or let for
hire, any wild, exotic, dangerous or non-domestic animal without first applying
to and receiving special authorization from the State of California, Department
of Fish and Game. The keeping or maintenance of such animals shall also conform
to the City's Development Code and Municipal Code.
   B.   The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to licensed and
permitted circuses, carnivals, zoos or other collections of wild animals under
jurisdiction of the City, State or Federal government.
   C.   Exotic Animal Keeping. Animals kept as livestock or pets that are not
otherwise addressed by the animal keeping provisions of this Title shall be
deemed an "exotic animal." The keeping of exotic livestock or pets shall comply
with the following:
      1.   Exotic animal livestock shall only be permitted in the R1-.5 and DL
zones areas;
      2.   The keeping of exotic pets shall be subject to the following
limitations:
         a.   Licensing Requirements. Exotic pets shall be licensed in the same
manner as dogs, pursuant to the provisions of Title 7 of this Code.
         b.   Veterinary Certification. Prior to licensing of exotic pets,
veterinary certification shall be required, stating whether or not the animal
is spayed/neutered, that the animal is in good health and has received all
necessary vaccinations, and the height and weight of the animal.
         c.   Outdoor Confinement. Exotic pets shall be provided with a fenced
yard designed to assure confinement of the animal when kept out of doors. Such
yard areas must be kept in a clean, safe and odor-free condition.
         d.   Leash Requirement. While on the street, sidewalk or other public
place, exotic pets shall be restrained by a harness and leash not longer than
six feet in length, or other suitable restraint as deemed appropriate by the
Animal Control Supervisor.
   D.   For the purposes of these provisions, the term "exotic pet" shall
include, but not be limited to, the following animals:
      1.   Pot-bellied pigs, provided that there shall be no more than one pot-
bellied pig on any lot or parcel, the animal shall be spayed or neutered, and
all male potbellied pigs two (2) years of age or older shall have its tusks
removed;
      2.   Any other such animal not specifically addressed by this Title that,
in the opinion of the Animal Control Supervisor, will not pose a risk to the
public health, safety or general welfare, or create a public nuisance by reason
of generating excessive noise or odor.
[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.04.095   Livestock.
   A.   Livestock Generally.
      1.   Running at Large—Distance from Habitation. No person, as owner or
the one in control of any ox, steer, bull, cow, heifer, calf, horse, mare,
filly, gelding, stallion, colt, jack, jenny, mule, sheep, goat, or hog, shall
permit the same, of any thereof, to run at large or pasture, herd, stake, tie
or stable any thereof in any of the streets, avenues, places, lanes, alleys,
parks, or other public places in the City, or tie, stake, pasture, stable, or
otherwise keep any thereof upon any private property in the City so as to
permit any thereof to approach nearer than one hundred (100) feet to any
building used or occupied or designed for use and occupancy as a residence for
human habitation other than such building so occupied by the person owning or
having the control of any such animal, and other than such building, the
occupant of which continues his or her consent to the closer approach of any
such animal. The keeping of livestock shall only be permitted in the R1-.5 and
DL zoned areas.
      2.   Driving in Street. No person, as principal, agent, employee or
otherwise, shall drive or conduct along any street, avenue, place, lane, alley,
park or other public place any ox, steer, bull, cow, heifer, calf, horse, mare,
filly, gelding, stallion, colt, jack, jenny, mule, sheep, goat or hog without
having such animal or animals enclosed in some conveyance or tied or otherwise
attached to some person or vehicle in such manner that such animal or animals
cannot run at large or enter upon private property.
      3.   Herding on Unenclosed Private Property. No person, as principal,
agent, employee, or otherwise, shall herd any of the animals mentioned in this
chapter on any unenclosed private property.
      4.   Authority to Apprehend Livestock—Fees.
         a.   Any livestock other than bovine animals found running at large in
the City shall be apprehended by an Animal Control Officer. The owner of any
apprehended livestock shall pay apprehension fees and daily board and care fees
prior to recovering the livestock from the Animal Control Officer. Apprehension
fees and board and care fees shall be set by Resolution of the Mayor and City
Council. Unclaimed livestock may be disposed of by a public sale by sealed
bids. The livestock shall be sold to the highest bidder. The Animal Control
Supervisor shall determine minimum bid amounts. Unclaimed livestock not
disposed of by a public sale by sealed bids may be destroyed after seven (7)
calendar days.
         b.   Any bovine animal found running at large in the City shall be
apprehended by the Animal Control Officer. Within five (5) days of the
apprehension, the owner of any apprehended bovine animal shall pay apprehension
fees and daily board and care fees prior to recovering the bovine animal from
Animal Care & Control. Apprehension fees and board and care fees shall be set
by Resolution of the Mayor and City Council.
         c.   Within five (5) days from the date of apprehension, the Animal
Control Supervisor shall notify the State Director of Food and Agriculture of
any unclaimed bovine animal, horse, mule, or burro, and shall turn over to the
State Director of Food and Agriculture any bovine animal, pursuant to the
provisions of Food and Agricultural Code §§ 17001, et seq.
      5.   Minimum Distance from Domestic Water Well. All residential land
uses, activities and facilities shall comply with the requirement that animals
shall be kept a minimum of one hundred (100) feet from any domestic water well.
      6.   Ranches. Property used for the commercial breeding, grazing, raising
and/or training of animals shall be deemed a "commercial ranch" and shall
comply with the following:
         a.   The site shall contain a minimum of five (5) acres.
         b.   Where the ranch abuts a residentially zoned property, the site
shall be screened from view by a six (6) foot high decorative masonry block
wall or other similar view obstructing fence or wall, as approved by the Animal
Control Supervisor.
      7.   Violations. A violation of any of the terms or provisions of this
section shall be a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be punishable by a
criminal and/or administrative citation will be issued pursuant to Chapters
1.20 and
7.04 of this Code.
   B.   Horses.
      1.   Stabling of Uncastrated Stallions or Jacks. It is unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to stable, pasture or keep, or cause to be stabled,
pastured or kept, within fifty feet of any property line, any uncastrated
stallions or jacks. Any uncastrated stallions or jacks so kept shall be
confined by an enclosure with a minimum height of six (6) feet that is
constructed in such a manner as to prevent the animal's escape.
      2.   Removal of Manure. Manure shall be removed from stables or premises
every three (3) days or shall be spread at a place which has an area of twenty
thousand (20,000) square feet or more in a sanitary manner approved by the San
Bernardino County Director of the Department of Public Health (hereinafter
referred to as "Health Officer"), his or her designated deputy, or any City
employee designated by the Mayor and approved by the Health Officer, or shall
be maintained in an approved moisture and fly-proof manner. It shall not be
kept within fifty (50) feet of any adjoining property line.
      3.   Prohibition of Manure Storage Upon the Premises Where Manure is
Produced.
         a.   No person, firm, corporation, including a CFO, shall store manure
in piles, stacks or heaps, for more than one hundred twenty (120) days unless
prior written approval is obtained from Animal Care & Control. Requests for
time extension shall be made in writing to Animal Care & Control and state why
an extended period is necessary and the number of days requested.
         b.   In responding to such requests, Animal Care & Control shall
balance the potential hardship to the public and neighboring properties in
granting an extension, with the potential hardship to the petitioner in
complying with the one hundred twenty (120) day rule.
      4.   Registration of Horses. Each person, firm or corporation who
stables, pastures or keeps, or causes or permits the stabling, pasturing or
keeping of, any equine in the City shall register with the Department of Animal
Care & Control, and shall provide data concerning the number of equines, the
location of such equines and such other relevant information as said Department
may require.
   C.   Hogs.
      1.   Maintenance. All places where garbage is fed to hogs shall be
maintained in a sanitary condition and in accordance with the provisions
hereof.
      2.   Feeding Floors. All garbage fed to hogs shall be upon feeding
floors, which feeding floors must be of concrete and so constructed as to
permit controlled drainage; such drainage must be to the outside of the pens
and not accessible to hogs and must be disposed of in a manner not to create a
nuisance. The surface of all feeding floors must be maintained smooth enough to
permit efficient cleaning. All feeding floors must have all refuse, garbage,
and manure removed at least once daily, after which they must be flushed with
water and drained; except, that feeding floors in open lots where brood sows or
young shoats only are kept, will be considered as cleaned when they are
entirely dry after sweeping.
      3.   Storage Bins. No vat, bin, or other receptacle for the storage of
garbage shall be maintained unless the entire receptacle is above the level of
the ground and watertight and so equipped that the same may be washed, scrubbed
and drained and all such receptacles must have all garbage removed and be
thoroughly washed and cleaned at least once each day when in use.
      4.   Garbage in Pens. No garbage shall be left in any hog pen or in the
vicinity of any hog pen longer than from the day it is received or fed until
the next day. No refuse garbage shall be left in any such pen longer than from
the day it is received until the next day.
      5.   Water Troughs. All water troughs for the watering of hogs must be
constructed in such manner and so covered as to permit hogs to drink, but to
prevent as far as possible, the entry of other than their heads into the water
trough. All water troughs must be kept clean and provided with clean water. All
water troughs must be connected with efficient drainage and must not be
permitted to overflow, except such water troughs as may be located in open
lots, where brood sows or young shoats only are maintained. The surface for a
radius of at least six (6) feet from all such water troughs must be of concrete
or other mire proof material.
      6.   Hog Wallows. No hog wallows or mire will be permitted in any hog pen
or lot, except drain-equipped concrete walls, upon which must be maintained a
floating surface of at least one-half (½) inch heavy oil or water in which must
be contained a proper percentage of approved disinfectant. All such concrete
wallows must have their contents removed and be cleaned frequently enough to
maintain clean material in them. Hogs may have access to running streams of
water, provided no wallows are maintained adjacent to such streams; and further
provided that such access to streams by hogs will not create a menace to public
health.
      7.   Floors. Floors of all houses where hogs may enter, must be of
concrete or watertight boarding and must be maintained in a clean condition.
The use of clean bedding upon such floors will be permitted.
      8.   Dead Animals and Animal Refuse. Dead animals or animal refuse, other
than garbage as hereinbefore defined, shall not be fed to hogs unless first
sterilized by heat.
   D.   Fowl.
      1.   Distance from Dwelling. No person shall keep or maintain any live
fowl within the City less than fifty (50) feet from any single-family or two-
family dwelling or less than one hundred (100) feet from any hotel or dwelling
occupied by, or designed for the occupancy of three (3) or more families. The
keeping of fowl shall only be permitted in the R1-.5 and DL zoned areas.
      2.   Dealers Exempt. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be deemed to
prohibit the keeping of fowl by regularly licensed dealers for the purpose of
sale at their respective places of business. Such animals shall be kept and
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition and such dealers shall conform to
and abide by the rules and regulations of the health department with reference
to the keeping of such animals on the premises of such dealers.
      3.   Enclosure Sanitation. Wherever live fowl are permitted to be kept or
maintained in the City, no person, so keeping or maintaining such fowl, shall
fail at any time to keep the coops, pens or yards wherein such fowl are
enclosed in a clean and sanitary condition nor shall fail to remove the manure
or other debris from such enclosures daily. No person shall fail to conform to
and abide by the rules and regulations of the health department with reference
to the keeping of such fowl in such enclosures.
      4.   Domestic Fowl at Large. It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation having custody or control of any domestic bird or fowl to permit
such bird or fowl to be present upon any public street, sidewalk, school
ground, public park, playground or any public place, or any unenclosed private
property not owned or lawfully possessed by such person, or upon any private
property without the consent of the owner or lawful possessor thereof.
      5.   Impoundment.
         a.   Food and Water. No person shall impound any live fowl unless
provision is made by such person for the proper feeding and the furnishing of
water to such fowl at intervals not longer than twelve (12) hours apart.
         b.   Coop Size. No person shall impound any live fowl in a coop which
is less than twice as large in floor space or standing room as the total size
of all live fowl which may be impounded therein, and which is not sufficiently
high as to permit each fowl impounded therein to stand in a natural erect
position.
      6.   Wing Locking Prohibited. No person handling live fowl shall lock the
wings of such fowl.
      7.   Artificial Coloring Prohibited.
         a.   No person, by means of any application to or upon the exterior
portion thereof or in any other manner, shall dye, artificially color or alter
or otherwise change the natural color of any live fowl.
         b.   No person shall sell, offer or display for sale, barter or give
to any person any live fowl, the natural color of which animal has been changed
by dyeing, coloring, or any other artificial manner.
         c.   No person shall sell, offer for sale, barter or give away any
chick, duckling, or other fowl under four (4) weeks of age, as pets, toys,
premiums or novelties.
         d.   This section shall not be construed to prohibit the display or
sale of chicks, ducklings or other fowl in proper facilities by dealers,
hatcheries or stores engaged in the business of selling the same to be raised
for food purposes.
   E.   Goats.
      1.   Distance From Dwelling. No person shall keep or maintain any live
goat in the City within one hundred (100) feet of any residence or place of
habitation. The keeping of goats shall only be permitted in the R1-.5 and DL
zoned areas.
      2.   Enclosure Sanitation. Wherever live goats are permitted to be kept
or maintained in the City, no person so keeping or maintaining such goats shall
fail at any time to keep the pens, hutches, spaces or other enclosures wherein
such goats are enclosed in a clean and sanitary condition or fail to remove the
manure or other debris from such enclosures daily. No person shall fail to
conform to and abide by the rules and regulations of the health department with
reference to the keeping of such goats in such enclosures.
      3.   Running at Large Prohibited. It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation having custody or control of any goat to permit such goat to be
present upon any public street, sidewalk, school ground, public park,
playground or any public place, or any unenclosed private property not owned or
lawfully possessed by such person, or upon any private property without the
consent of the owner or lawful possessor thereof.
   F.   Rabbits.
      1.   Artificial Coloring Prohibited.
         a.   No person, by means of any application to or upon the exterior
portion thereof or in any other manner, shall dye, artificially color or alter
or otherwise change the natural color of any live rabbit.
         b.   No person shall sell, offer or display for sale, barter or give
to any person any live rabbit, the natural color of which animal has been
changed by dyeing, coloring, or any other artificial manner.
         c.   No person shall sell, offer for sale, barter or give away any
rabbit under two (2) months of age, as pets, toys, premiums or novelties.
         d.   This section shall not be construed to prohibit the display or
sale of rabbits in proper facilities by dealers, hatcheries or stores engaged
in the business of selling the same to be raised for food purposes.
      2.   Enclosure Sanitation. Wherever live rabbits are permitted to be kept
or maintained in the City, no person so keeping or maintaining such rabbits
shall fail at any time to keep the pens, hutches, spaces or other enclosures
wherein such rabbits are enclosed in a clean and sanitary condition or fail to
remove the manure or other debris from such enclosures daily. No person shall
fail to conform to and abide by the rules and regulations of the health
department with reference to the keeping of such rabbits in such enclosures.
      3.   Running at Large Prohibited. No person, firm or corporation having
custody or control of any rabbit may permit such rabbit to be present or to run
at large upon any public street, sidewalk, school ground, public park,
playground or any public place, or any unenclosed private property not owned or
lawfully possessed by such person, or upon any private property without the
consent of the owner or lawful possessor thereof.
[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.04.100 Annual Permit/Business License.
No person shall, within the City, conduct or operate any kennel, pet shop, pet
grooming parlor, public aquarium, game bird farm, petting zoo, wild animal
breeding or boarding facility, animal menagerie or other commercial animal
facility without first obtaining an annual permit or license under this Section
and business license from the City as required by the Municipal Code. Any such
establishment shall also conform to the City zoning and Development Codes and
all other applicable City ordinances.
   A.   Application for a License to Operate. An application for a license to
operate a kennel, pet shop, pet grooming parlor, public aquarium, game bird
farm, petting zoo, wild animal breeding or boarding facility, animal menagerie
or other commercial animal facility shall be made on a form provided by the
City.
   B.   General Regulations. Every person within the City who owns, conducts,
manages or operates any animal establishment for which a license is required by
this Chapter shall comply with each of the following conditions:
      1.   Housing facilities for animals shall be structurally sound and shall
be maintained in good repair to protect animals from injury and restrict
entrance of other animals;
      2.   All animals and all animal buildings or enclosures shall be
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition;
      3.   All animals shall be supplied with sufficient good wholesome food
and water as often as the feeding habits of the respective animals require and
adequate shelter from the elements;
      4.   Animal buildings and enclosures shall be so constructed and
maintained as to prevent the escape of animals;
      5.   All reasonable precautions shall be taken to protect the public from
the animals and animals from the public;
      6.   Every building or enclosure wherein animals are maintained shall be
properly ventilated to prevent drafts and to remove odors; heating and cooling
shall be provided as required according to physical needs of the animals;
      7.   All animal rooms, cages and runs shall be of sufficient size to
provide adequate and proper housing for animals kept therein;
      8.   All animal runs shall be of approved construction and shall be
provided with adequate waste and manure disposal and for drainage into an
approved sewer or individual sewer disposal installation;
      9.   Every precaution shall be taken to avoid the production of nuisances
and any hazard to the public health as a result of the presence of wild,
dangerous and/or exotic animals;
      10.   Every violation of applicable regulation shall be corrected within
a reasonable time to be specified by the Animal Control Officer.
      11.   Failure of the applicant for said license to comply with any of the
foregoing conditions shall be deemed just cause for the denial of any license,
whether original or renewal.
   C.   Expiration of License. Any license issued under this Chapter shall
expire at the end of three (3) years or less, depending on the fee paid.
   D.   Renewal of License. The procedure for the renewal of any license shall
be subject to the same conditions and shall be done in the same manner as the
issuance of an original license.
   E.   Inspection. The Animal Control Officer shall have the authority to
enter upon any area or premises at any reasonable time to enforce the
provisions of this Chapter.
   F.   Revocation of License or Animal Control Permit.
      1.   The Animal Control Officer may revoke any license or Animal Control
Permit issued pursuant to this Chapter, whenever he determines from an
inspection or substantiated complaints that any animal establishment fails to
meet all conditions contained in this Chapter or for any other violation of
applicable regulations.
      2.   Any revocation of a license or Animal Control Permit shall be
effective until all conditions of this Chapter have been met and complied with
to the satisfaction of the Animal Control Officer and written notice of this
fact has been given to the licensee. Upon receipt of notice of compliance, the
license or Animal Control Permit shall be deemed in full force and in effect
for the remainder of the original term for which it was issued.
   G.   Licenses or Animal Control Permits. Pursuant to this Chapter, licenses
and Animal Control Permits shall not be transferable except when original
property including animal establishment within such property is sold by owner
to another party and provided further that such animal establishment shall
remain within the confines of the original property.
[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.04.110 Enforcement.
   A.   In accordance with Section 836.5 of the California Penal Code, the
civil and criminal provisions of this Chapter shall be enforced by those
persons or agencies designated by municipal authority. It shall be a violation
of this Chapter to interfere with the Animal Control Officer in the performance
of his duties.
   B.   In addition to those City employees so designated in
Chapter 2.16 of the Municipal Code, the City Council has designated and
authorized employees of any public pound, Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals or humane society, who have qualified as humane officers pursuant to
Section 14502 of the Corporations Code, and which pound or societies have
contracted with the City to provide animal care, control or protection
services, to issue notices to appear in court pursuant to Chapter 5C
(commencing with Section 853.5) of Title 3 of Part 2 of the Penal Code for
violations of State or local animal control laws. Except where expressly
authorized by State law, said employees are not authorized to take any person
into custody even though the person to whom the notice is delivered does not
give his or her written promise to appear in court. The authority of said
employees hereunder is limited only to the jurisdiction of the City.
   C.   The City Council has further confirmed, determined and elected (where
and to the extent, if any, prescribed or required by law) to direct, authorize
and allow its staff and relevant entities/agencies with which it contracts,
under general direction of the City Manager, to appropriately exercise their
discretion to enforce all applicable State and local laws relating to the
control, care and/or treatment of animals.
   D.   The City Council has further expressed its intent, without invalidating
or replacing other provisions of this Title 7, to permit the City’s enforcement
staff and relevant entities/agencies with which the City contracts to have the
discretion to enforce all State and local laws pertaining to animal control,
care and treatment, subject to any limitations imposed by law or by the
Constitution of the State of California, by recognizing all applicable laws,
and future amendments thereto, pertaining to animal control, care and
treatment.
   E.   Interference with Officers. No person shall conceal or attempt to
conceal, remove/retrieve or attempt to remove/retrieve any animal regulated
pursuant to Title 7 from the Animal Control Supervisor, or from any other
officer authorized to enforce any of the provisions of this Title 7, while
engaged in the capture or in conveying to the animal shelter any such animal.
No person shall interfere in any manner with said animal control officers in
the performance of any duty incident to their office, or conceal or attempt to
conceal, remove/retrieve or attempt to remove/retrieve, any animal which has
been impounded by said animal control officers in any manner. In addition, it
shall be unlawful to remove, damage, or otherwise tamper with any traps,
equipment or animal control vehicles belonging to the City.
[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.04.120 Animal Limitations.
   A.   All animal keeping regulations and animal densities are subject to the
limitations shown in
Table 7.04.120.A, with the following exceptions: Any dog used for security
purposes shall be allowed within the C (General Commercial), CR (Commercial
Restricted), ADD (Airport Development District), LM (light Manufacturing) and
MI (Manufacturing/Industrial) zone districts so long as it is licensed pursuant
to Section 
7.04.020.B.
Table 7.04.120.A
            DISTRICT
TYPE OF USE DL-5, DL-9 DL-2.5 R1-.5 R1, AP, MHP, MHS R3-8
                                          DISTRICT
TYPE OF USE                               DL-5,   DL-2.5   R1-.5 R1, AP,  R3-8
                                          DL-9                   MHP, MHS
1.   4-H or FFA animal raising and/or  P       P        P     -        -
keeping
2.   Commercial horticulture1          P       P        P     -        -
3.   Animal Hospital                   CUP              -     -        -
4.   Bee Hives                         1 hive per 13500 -     -        -
                                          sf
5.   Commercial Equestrian Stables and P       P        -     -        -
Arenas
6.   Dogs and cats as follows:
Up to 2 dogs or 2 cats, or any
combination thereof, not to exceed a      -       -        -     -        P
combined total of two (2) with a maximum
weight of 25 pounds each
Up to 3 dogs or 3 cats, not to exceed a   -       -        P     P        -
combined total of three (3)
Up to 4 dogs and 4 cats, not to exceed a  P       P        -     -        -
combined total of eight (8)
7.   Exotic Animals                    CUP     CUP, 2 max     -        -
8.   Exotic Birds, except peafowl are  CUP     CUP, 2 max     -        -
allowed
9.   Farm cattle and other bovine      1 per 9000 sf    1 per -        -
                                                           lot
10.   Horses and other equine          1 per 9000 sf          -        -
11.   Llamas and alpaca                1 per   1 per    1 per -        -
                                          4500 sf 9000 sf  lot
12.   Kennels, commercial and non-     CUP              -     -        -
commercial
13.   Catteries, commercial and non-   CUP              -     -        -
commercial
 
            DISTRICT
TYPE OF USE DL-5, DL-9 DL-2.5 R1-.5 R1, AP, MHP, MHS R3-8
                                                                 DISTRICT
                                                                 DL-             R1,
TYPE OF USE                                                      5,   DL-  R1-.5 AP,  R3-
                                                                 DL-9 2.5        MHP, 8
                                                                                 MHS
14.   Ostriches, emus, rheas, kiwis or other ratite           1 per     -     -    -
                                                                 9000 sf
                                                                      1
15.   Pigs or other swine                                     P    per  -     -    -
                                                                      9000
                                                                      sf
                                                                      1    5 max
16.   Poultry and other fowl (including pigeons) caged/fenced P    per  +1    -    -
outside                                                               1800 male
                                                                      sf
                                                                      1
17.   Rabbits                                                 P    per  Total      -
                                                                      1800 6
                                                                      sf
18.   Sale of agriculture products                            P    P    -     -    -
                                                                 1    1
19.   Sheep, goats and other bovine                           per  per  2 per -    -
                                                                 3000 4500 lot
                                                                 sf   sf
20.   Small domestic animals kept as household pets           P    P    P     P    P
21.   Apiaries                                                P    P    -     -    -
 
1   These uses are permitted subject to compliance with the provisions of
Chapter 17.95, Home Occupations.
   B.   Offspring. The offspring born of such animals which increases the total
number upon the premises beyond the numbers permitted shall be removed from the
premises no later than thirty (30) days from the wean date. All fowl shall be
removed by three (3) months of age, subject to a land use permit from the City.
[Ord. No. 495, 5/12/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.04.125 Commercial Kennels.
   A.   Requirement of a License. Every person, firm or corporation engaged in
operating, control or management of a commercial kennel as herein defined shall
obtain a license from the Animal Control Supervisor, and a land use permit from
the City.
   B.   Regulation.
      1.   All dogs owned by, under the control of, or in possession of a
commercial kennel operator, shall be subject to the provisions of this Chapter
upon attaining the age of four (4) months. The Animal Control Officer shall
have the power, upon the giving of ten (10) days notice by United States mail
to any licensee under this Chapter and an opportunity to be heard, to revoke
any license granted to a commercial kennel operator for violation of this
Chapter.
      2.   Boarded dogs in commercial kennels shall be vaccinated and licensed
in name of owner. Failure to comply with this requirement shall be considered a
violation of this Chapter by the dog owner.
   C.   Construction.
      1.   Adequate housing shall be provided for the protection of dogs from
the elements.
      2.   Commercial kennel runs shall be effectively enclosed by suitable
fencing such as chain link, smooth concrete block or other suitable fencing
material. The exterior area of the premises shall be completely fenced or
otherwise enclosed.
      3.   Outside runs or properly constructed indoor runs shall be provided
in all commercial kennels.
         a.   Boarding commercial kennel runs shall be constructed of concrete
or other suitable type nonporous material. The floors shall slope one-fourth
(¼) inch per foot to a drain or to a drain way. All such drains shall be
properly plumbed, trapped and vented, and shall be connected to an approved
underground disposal system which shall consist of a septic tank and seepage
pit or leaching line as required by the Health Department. Adequate ventilation
must be provided for commercial kennels with indoor runs.
         b.   Breeding commercial kennel outdoor runs may be constructed of
four (4) inch minimum thickness of pea gravel or other suitable aggregate.
Indoor runs must be constructed as provided in Subsection C.1. of this Section.
      4.   Commercial kennels shall not be constructed closer than one hundred
(100) feet from any structure on adjacent property used for human habitation
nor closer than forty (40) feet to any dwelling on the premises, except that of
the owner/operator's home.
      5.   Provisions shall be made in boarding and breeding commercial kennels
for the separation of commercial kennel-owned dogs from those owned by other
persons.
   D.   Operation.
      1.   All breeding stock dogs four (4) months of age or older owned by the
commercial kennel shall be currently vaccinated against rabies with chick
embryo modified live virus rabies vaccine.
      2.   Dogs owned by the commercial kennel operator which are allowed
outside the confines of the commercial kennels shall be individually vaccinated
and shall have a current dog license attached to the collar.
      3.   All commercial kennels, runs, buildings and other equipment and
facilities used for the care of dogs shall be cleaned daily and shall be
disinfected as necessary to prevent the spread of disease. Boarding commercial
kennels shall disinfect all facilities used in the care of dogs between each
separate usage.
      4.   All droppings shall be removed from the commercial kennel daily.
Soiled papers and bedding material shall be removed from the commercial kennel
as frequently as necessary to maintain the commercial kennel in a clean,
sanitary manner. All such waste material shall be disposed of in a manner
satisfactory to the Animal Control Officer.
      5.   It is a violation of this Chapter to sell, give away, release or
otherwise dispose of an animal except for euthanasia, which has or is suspected
of having or has been exposed to any contagious or infectious disease
transmissible to other animals or to man. All such diseases shall be reported
to the Animal Control Officer or public health veterinarian.
      6.   Adequate provisions shall be made for the disposal of dead animals
which shall be satisfactory to the Animal Control Officer.
      7.   All dogs upon reaching the age of four (4) months shall be
vaccinated against rabies as provided herein, and when sold, the purchaser
shall be provided with a copy of the "certificate of vaccination" issued by the
veterinarian and shall be advised to secure a dog license tag within thirty
(30) days from date of purchase.
      8.   The requirements of this Section shall also apply to humane
societies and pet shops.
[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.04.130 Apiaries.
   A.   Provisions Supplement Laws. This Chapter shall in all respects be
construed to supplement and harmonize with the provisions of laws of the State
of California pertaining to bees and the beekeeping industry.
   B.   Location of Apiaries.
      1.   Apiaries shall be permitted in the DL zone districts subject to the
requirements of this Section.
      2.   Apiaries and their water supply shall be placed a minimum of one
hundred (100) feet from any property line and a minimum of five hundred (500)
feet from any street, road or highway, any public school, park, established bus
or transportation stop or from any dwelling or place of human habitation other
than that occupied by the owner or caretaker of the apiary.
      3.   All apiaries owned or kept within the City near school yards or
places where people congregate shall be located and maintained behind barriers
(natural or otherwise) to cause bees to fly at a high altitude over such school
yard or place where people congregate.
   C.   Number of Hives Allowed. A maximum of eight (8) bee hives per two and
one-half (2-1/2) acres is allowed.
   D.   Water Supply. Prior to locating or maintaining any apiary, a plentiful
supply of fresh water must be furnished and kept available to such apiary at
all times, unless an apiary is so located that the closest supply of water is
an isolated stream or reservoir where water is available to such bees and all
other sources of water at locations where people or animals remain are farther
from the apiary than the stream or reservoir. If no such stream or reservoir is
available to the bees, the owner or person in possession of said apiary shall
cause to be placed and maintained a watering place within one hundred (100)
yards of the apiary.
   E.   Abatement of Public Nuisance. No apiary shall be maintained or allowed
to remain in any particular location in the City but shall be moved to another
location when the Animal Control Officer determines that there are substantial
numbers of bees from such apiary which are entering land other than where such
apiary is situated and are causing a public nuisance to the extent that the
health, safety or welfare of the public is endangered or causing property
damage through such violation. The Animal Control Officer shall serve a written
notice of the violation to the apiary owner or person in possession of the
apiary requiring removal of the apiary within forty-eight (48) hours from the
time the notice is served, all as provided in Section
7.04.150.
[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.04.135 Commercial Catteries.
   A.   Requirement of a License. Every person, firm or corporation engaged in
operating, control or management of a commercial cattery as defined shall
obtain a permit from the Animal Control Supervisor, and a land use permit from
the City.
   B.   Construction, Operation and Maintenance.
      1.   All cats shall be confined and not allowed to run at large.
      2.   Adequate housing shall be provided for the protection of cats from
the elements.
      3.   The building within which cats are to be housed shall be provided
with adequate ventilation and lighting and shall be constructed so as to be
easily kept clean and sanitary at all times. Adequate ventilation shall be that
which minimizes drafts, avoids offensive odors and prevents moisture
condensation. Cat odors shall not be allowed to persist inside the building.
      4.   Adequate heating shall be provided for in the winter.
      5.   Cat cages shall be within an enclosed building and shall be of
suitable construction, e.g., fiberglass or stainless steel or other material
that will prevent the escape of the animal through destruction of material of
which the cage is made of and at the same time permits easy cleaning. The
minimum floor space of each cage shall be three (3) square feet for each adult
cat. Each cage shall be at least two (2) feet in height. No more than two (2)
adult cats used for breeding shall be placed inside each cage.
      6.   Inside runs shall be so constructed that a minimum space of three 
(3) square feet is provided per cat, and that the maximum number of cats to be
housed in each pen shall not exceed five (5). Wire netting used between pens
shall be such that the cats cannot put their paws through the wire netting
spaces. If dividers are of solid construction, this shall be of uniform
material and make. Enclosures shall be constructed so as to enable the animals
to remain dry and clean.
      7.   Each pen shall be provided with a cat scratching post.
      8.   Cat resting or sleeping shelves shall be provided.
      9.   All cats shall be provided with sufficient clean litter to contain
excreta, and these shall be disposed of daily in a manner approved by the
Animal Control Officer. Adequate provision shall be made for the disposal of
dead animals which shall be satisfactory to the Animal Control Officer.
      10.   Boarded cats shall be caged or penned individually and separated by
a floor to ceiling solid partition, unless they belong to the same owner, in
which case they may stay together, provided there is adequate space.
      11.   The operator of every commercial cattery shall be responsible to
take the appropriate preventive measures to preclude outbreaks of infectious
and contagious diseases as well as external parasites among the cats.
      12.   Adequate disinfection shall be provided. Beddings shall be cleaned
and laundered at the end of each boarding period prior to use by another cat.
      13.   Provisions shall be made for convenient access to clean food and
water. Food and water containers shall be kept clean and sanitary. Animal feed
shall be properly stored and protected from contamination and vermin
infestation.
   C.   Commercial Catteries Operated Along with Dog Kennels. Commercial
catteries in operation prior to adoption of this Chapter, whether operated in
conjunction with a dog kennel or not, shall be subject to the provisions of
these regulations immediately upon adoption of this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.04.140 Penalty Provisions.
   A.   Misdemeanor Violation. No person shall commit, cause or maintain a
violation of any provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of
this Chapter. Unless a different penalty is prescribed for violation of a
specific provision of this Chapter, or is otherwise required by law, every act
prohibited or declared unlawful and every failure to perform an act made
mandatory by this Chapter, is punishable as a misdemeanor. Every misdemeanor
offense is punishable by imprisonment in the City or County jail for a period
not exceeding six (6) months or by fine not exceeding one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), or by both, provided that where the City Attorney determines that
such action would be in the interest of justice, he/she may specify in the
accusatory pleading that the offense shall be an infraction.
   B.   Infraction Violation. Except as otherwise prescribed elsewhere in this
Chapter, every offense specifically declared to be or charged as an infraction
is punishable by a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first
violation, a fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second
violation of the same provision within one (1) year, and a fine not exceeding
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each additional infraction violation of the
same provision within one (1) year. An infraction is not punishable by
imprisonment. A person charged with an infraction shall not be entitled to a
trial by jury and shall not be entitled to have the public defender or other
counsel appointed at public expense to represent him/her, unless he/she is
arrested and not released on his/her written promise to appear, his/her own
recognizance or a deposit of bail. However, any person who has previously been
convicted two (2) or more times during any twelve (12) month period for any
violation of this Chapter for a crime made punishable as an infraction shall be
charged with a misdemeanor upon the third violation.
   C.   Obligation to Correct the Condition. Payment of any penalty herein
provided shall not relieve a person, firm, corporation or any other entity from
the responsibility of correcting the condition resulting from the violation.
   D.   Separate Offense. Each person committing, causing or maintaining a
violation of this Chapter or failing to comply with the requirements set forth
herein shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each; and every day
during any portion of which any violation of any provision of this Chapter is
committed, continued, maintained or permitted by such person and shall be
punishable accordingly.
   E.   Civil Remedies Available; Remedies Cumulative. In addition to the
penalties provided in ths Section, any condition caused or permitted to exist
in violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter shall constitute a public
nuisance and may be abated by the City by civil process by means of a
restraining order, preliminary or permanent injunction or in any manner
provided by law for the abatement of such nuisance. All remedies herein are
cumulative and non-exclusive.
   F.   Administrative Citation. In lieu of issuing an infraction citation, the
City may issue an administrative citation pursuant to an ordinance adopted by
the City, to any person responsible for committing, causing or maintaining a
violation of this Chapter. Nothing in this Section shall preclude the City from
also issuing a citation upon the occurrence of the same offense on a separate
day.
   G.   Administrative Fine. Any person issued an administrative citation
pursuant to this Chapter shall for each separate violation be subject to: (1)
an administrative fine in an amount not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for the first citation; (2) an administrative fine in an amount not to exceed
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a second citation issued for the same
offense within a twelve (12) month period of the date of the first offense; and
(3) a fine in an amount not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a
third and any subsequent citation issued for the same offense within a twelve
(12) month period of the date of the first offense.
   H.   Modification, Suspension and/or Revocation of Validly Issued City
Permit and/or City License. Except as otherwise provided by this Chapter, a
violation of any provision of this Chapter by the holder of a validly issued
City permit and/or City license shall constitute grounds for modification,
suspension and/or revocation of said permit and/or license.
   I.   Additional Penalties; Costs of Abatement. Nothing in this Chapter shall
preclude the City from pursuing the remedies made applicable hereto elsewhere
in this Municipal Code or under State law, including but not limited to, as
applicable, denial or revocation of certificates of occupancy, issuance of a
stop work order and injunctive relief. In any administrative or criminal
proceeding involving the abatement of a public nuisance, the City shall also be
entitled to recover its full reasonable costs of abatement, including, but not
limited to, investigation, analysis and prosecuting the enforcement against the
guilty party, upon submission of proof of such cost by the City.
   J.   Public Nuisance Remedies. The prevailing party in any proceeding
associated with the abatement of a public nuisance as provided herein or in
this Title 7 of the Municipal Code, shall be entitled to recovery of attorneys’
fees incurred in any such proceeding, where the City has elected, at the
initiation of that individual action or proceeding to seek recovery of its own
attorneys’ fees. In no action, administrative proceeding or special proceeding
shall an award of attorneys’ fees to a prevailing party exceed the amount of
reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by the City in the action or proceeding.
[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.04.145 Abatement of Public Nuisance.
Any violation of Sections
7.04.020 through
7.04.100 and
7.04.125 through
7.04.135 of this Chapter shall constitute a public nuisance and shall be abated
by licensing, removal, containment, restraint, spaying or neutering, or
maintaining a healthy environment pursuant to the procedures set forth in this
Chapter. The procedures for abatement set forth in this Chapter shall not be
exclusive and shall not in any manner limit or restrict the City from enforcing
any City ordinances or abating public nuisances in any other manner provided by
law.
[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.04.150 Notification of Nuisance.
Whenever the City Manager or his or her designee determines that any animal
within the City is being maintained contrary to one (1) or more of the
provisions of this Chapter, written Notice to Appear or Notice of Violation may
be delivered to the animal owner or the person in responsible charge of the
animal, identifying the violation(s) and Section(s) being violated. Such notice
shall set forth the administrative penalty or penalties and methods of
correcting the violation(s). Such notice shall be served upon the animal owner
or the person in responsible charge of the animal in person, by mail, or by
clearly posting the notice on the property in a conspicuous location. The
administrative penalty or penalties described in this Section shall be the same
sum(s) as set forth in Section
7.04.140 of this Chapter for conviction(s) of infractions(s), including
attorneys' fees and costs of abatement. If an appeal from the Notice to Appear
is not filed within the time described in Section
7.04.160 of this Chapter, then the existence of the violation(s) described in
the Notice to Appear or Notice of Violation shall be conclusively established
as a public nuisance and shall be abated in the manner described in said notice
and in Section
7.04.190 of this Chapter, and any administrative fine(s) set forth in said
notice, including attorneys' fees and costs, shall thereupon be due and
payable.
[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.04.160 Appeal Procedure through a Hearing Officer.
   A.   The animal owner or the responsible person in charge of the animal may
contest the Notice to Appear through a Hearing Officer, who shall be the City
Manager or his or her designee, by paying the penalty amount listed on the
Notice of Violation or similar document, and by filing a written appeal with
the City Manager or designee within thirty (30) calendar days from the date the
Notice to Appear was mailed or delivered. The appeal request shall contain:
      1.   A specific identification number of the subject Notice to Appear.
      2.   The name and address of the appellant.
      3.   A statement of appellant's legal interest in the animal.
      4.   A statement in ordinary and concise language of the specific(s) or
action protested and the grounds for contesting the citation, together with all
material facts in support thereof.
      5.   The date and signatures of the appellant.
   B.   As soon as practical after receiving the notice appealing the Notice to
Appear, the City Manager or designee, who shall act as a Hearing Officer, shall
set a date for the appeal to be heard, which shall not be less than seven (7)
calendar days nor more than ninety (90) calendar days from the date the notice
of appeal was filed. The Hearing Officer shall give each appellant written
notice of the time and the place of the hearing at least five (5) calendar days
prior to the date of the hearing, either by causing a copy of such notice to be
delivered to the appellant personally or by mailing a copy thereof, postage
prepaid, addressed to the appellant at his/her address shown on the Notice to
Appear. Continuances of the hearing may be granted by the Hearing Officer on
request of the appellant for good cause shown or on the Hearing Officer's
motion.
[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.04.170 Decision by Hearing Officer.
Upon the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall determine whether
the animal, as maintained, constitutes a public nuisance. If the Hearing
Officer so finds, the Hearing Officer shall declare such animal to be a public
nuisance setting forth his/her finding and ordering the abatement of the same
by having such animal licensed, removed, confined, restrained, spayed or
neutered, and/or maintained in a healthy environment, as may be appropriate.
The decision of the Hearing Officer may also uphold the administrative fine(s)
and costs set forth in the Notice to Appear or change the amount of the fine(s)
or eliminate the fine(s) if no violation is found to exist or to increase the
costs as appropriate. In the event the fine(s) is eliminated, the appellant
shall be entitled to refund of the appeal fee. The decision of the Hearing
Officer shall be final.
[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.04.180 Hearing Procedures.
   A.   All hearings shall be tape recorded.
   B.   The hearing need not be conducted according to the technical rules of
evidence.
   C.   Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of supplementing or
explaining any direct evidence but shall not be sufficient in itself to support
a finding unless it would be admissible over objection in civil actions in
courts of competent jurisdiction in this state. Any relevant evidence shall be
admitted if it is the type of evidence on which reasonable persons are
accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious affairs, regardless of the
existence of any common law or statutory rule which might make improper the
admission of such evidence over objection in civil actions in courts of
competent jurisdiction in this state.
   D.   Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath or affirmation.
   E.   Irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded.
[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.04.190 Judicial Action/Abatement.
Whenever the animal owner or responsible party fails to file a timely appeal or
fails to pay the penalty or penalties and/or correct the violation described in
Section
7.04.140 within thirty (30) days of the issuance of a Notice to Appear, in
addition to any other rights and remedies available to the City, prosecution of
the violation may be initiated.
[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.04.200 Cost Recovery.
   Pursuant to the procedures set forth in
Chapter 1.22 of this Code, the City is entitled to seek recovery of all
nuisance abatement costs incurred in connection with any action taken to abate
any violation or public nuisance under this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13; Ord. No. 568, Section 8, 5/10/17.]
Chapter 7.05
RABIES VACCINATION (BITING AND BITTEN ANIMALS)
Sections:
   
7.05.010   Duty to Report Animal Bites
   
7.05.020   Confinement of Biting Animal
   
7.05.030   Reporting and Confinement of Rabid Animals
   
7.05.040   Disposition of Animals Bitten by Rabid Animals
   
7.05.050   Posting of Quarantine Sign
   
7.05.060   Prohibiting the Keeping and Sale of Skunks
   
7.05.070   Possession of Unvaccinated Dog
   
7.05.080   Vaccination
   
7.05.090   Exceptions to Vaccination
   
7.05.100   Authority to Enter Any Premises
   
7.05.110   Penalty Provisions
7.05.010 Duty to Report Animal Bites.
It shall be the duty of any person having knowledge that any animal subject to
rabies, whether or not the animal is suspected of having rabies, has bitten any
human being within the City, to immediately report that fact to the Animal
Control Department or to the Police Department and provide full information
regarding the incident.
7.05.020 Confinement of Biting Animal.
   A.   Upon receipt of a report that a person has been bitten by an animal
subject to rabies (all warm-blooded mammals), any person authorized to enforce
the provisions of this Chapter is hereby empowered to enter upon any private
property, including the home or residence where the biting animal is kept or
has strayed, to inspect and strictly isolate, seize or impound if necessary, in
a place and manner approved by the Animal Control Officer, any such animal for
a period of ten (10) days (for dogs and cats) and fourteen (14) days (for other
animals). Rodents (members of the order Rodentia), rabbits and hares (members
of the order Lagomorpha) are not required to be quarantined.
   B.   The Animal Control Officer or licensed veterinarian may authorize, with
permission of the owner, if known, and other legal restrictions permitting, the
euthanasia of a biting animal for the purpose of laboratory examination for
rabies using the fluorescent rabies antibody (FRA) test.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove from any place of
isolation or quarantine any animal which has been isolated or quarantined under
the provisions of this Chapter, without the consent of the Animal Control
Officer.
7.05.030 Reporting and Confinement of Rabid Animals.
   A.   It is the duty of any person having knowledge of the whereabouts of an
animal known to have or suspected of having rabies to report the fact
immediately to the Animal Control Department. If such person is the owner or
possessor or has custody of such animal, he or she shall immediately confine it
and keep said animal strictly confined until it is established to the
satisfaction of said official that such animal has or does not have rabies.
   B.   Where such owner or possessor does not have the proper facility for
such confinement, or animal owner continually allows such animal to run loose
and at large, or where the owner of such rabid or suspected rabid animal is not
known, such animal shall be isolated in strict confinement under proper care
and under the observation of a licensed veterinarian in a pound, veterinary
hospital or other adequate facility in a manner approved by the Animal Control
Officer and shall not be killed or released for at least ten (10) days after
the onset of symptoms suggestive of rabies. If such animal creates a menace to
the public health and safety, the Animal Control Officer or his representative
may kill or destroy the animal forthwith and have it examined for rabies using
the fluorescent rabies antibody (FRA) test.
   C.   Whenever any such owned biting animal is quarantined in a place other
than the premises of its owner, all expenses incurred in its confinement shall
be the liability of the owner, possessor or custodian of such biting animal.
7.05.040 Disposition of Animals Bitten by Rabid Animals.
   A.   Any animal that is subject to rabies which has been exposed to a known
rabid animal or suspected rabid animal shall, upon notification of its owner,
possessor or custodian, be:
      1.   Immediately securely confined in a place and manner approved by the
Animal Control Officer for a period of six (6) months; or
      2.   Immediately destroyed unless the biting animal is determined by
laboratory examination to be negative from rabies, except that in the case of
dogs and cats, the following alternative is permitted:
         a.   The dog or cat shall be revaccinated and then quarantined for a
period of thirty (30) days provided such dog or cat has been vaccinated not
less than thirty (30) days prior, with a rabies vaccine approved by the
California State Department of Public Health.
         b.   The Animal Control Officer may, at his discretion, kill or
quarantine the animal so bitten where the owner, possessor or custodian thereof
is not readily accessible or is not known.
      3.   The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies will, upon demand,
be surrendered to the Animal Control Officer.
      4.   In the discretion of the Animal Control Officer, specimens of high
risk or medium risk animals involved in a biting incident shall be examined for
rabies. Specimens of low risk animals may be examined upon payment of
reasonable laboratory fees.
7.05.050 Posting of Quarantine Sign.
It shall be the duty of any person authorized to enforce the provisions of this
Chapter to post an appropriate sign in a conspicuous place at a location where
a dog or cat or any biting, vicious or rabid animal is being quarantined or
confined to warn the public of this fact. It shall be unlawful for anyone to
obstruct the posting of such a sign or to remove or destroy such a posted sign
without permission of the Animal Control Officer.
7.05.060 Prohibiting the Keeping and Sale of Skunks.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to (a) trap or capture
skunks for pets; (b) trap, capture or hold skunks in captivity for sale,
barter, exchange or gift; and (c) transport skunks from or into the City,
except that the importation or exportation of skunks may be permitted by the
Animal Control Officer for recognized zoological gardens or research
institutions.
7.05.070 Possession of Unvaccinated Dog.
It shall be unlawful for any person within the City of Adelanto to own, have an
interest in, harbor and feed, or have the care, charge, custody or possession
of a dog over the age of four (4) months, whether such dog is confined or not,
unless such dog has a current vaccination with a rabies vaccine approved by the
California State Department of Public Health and is officially tagged as
provided for in this Chapter. Said vaccines shall be used exclusively to
vaccinate all dogs within the City. Vaccination with said vaccines shall be
valid for a period not to exceed three (3) years.
7.05.080 Vaccination.
Rabies vaccination shall be performed only by a veterinarian who is duly
licensed to practice in the State of California. Vaccination for rabies may be
done in any veterinary clinic or hospital or in a low-cost rabies vaccination
clinic sponsored by the City of Adelanto.
7.05.090 Exceptions to Vaccination.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Chapter, a dog may be exempted from
rabies vaccination if such vaccination would jeopardize the health of such dog
due to infirmity or other disability provided the owner has in his possession a
written certification from a licensed veterinarian attesting to such infirmity
or disability. The owner or custodian of such dog shall, within ten (10) days
after the termination of such infirmity or disability, cause such dog to be
vaccinated and licensed. Any such dog with infirmity or disability shall be
securely confined within its owner’s or harborer’s premises so that it does not
come in contact with any other animal or person.
7.05.100 Authority to Enter Any Premises.
The Animal Control Officer shall have the authority to enter upon any area or
premises at any reasonable time to enforce the provisions of this Chapter.
7.05.110 Penalty Provisions.
Except as set forth hereinabove, the penalty provisions set forth in
Chapter 7.04, commencing at Section
7.04.130, are incorporated herein in full, and shall apply to any violation of
this Chapter and any public nuisance declared pursuant to this Chapter.
Chapter 7.06
POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS, DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS; PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL
HEARINGS
Sections:
   
7.06.010   Declaration of Public Nuisance
   
7.06.020   Public Nuisance Defined
   
7.06.030   Declaring an Animal or Dog Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous or
Vicious
   
7.06.040   Administrative Hearing
   
7.06.050   Determination and Orders; Notice; Compliance; Decision Final
   
7.06.060   Licensing and Vaccinating Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous or
Vicious Dog or Animal
   
7.06.070   Seizure and Impoundment of Dog or Animal
   
7.06.080   Cost Assessment When Dog or Animal is Seized
   
7.06.090   Sterilization Requirement for a Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous or
Vicious Dog or Animal
   
7.06.100   Destruction of Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous or Vicious Dog or
Animal
   
7.06.110   Restraint or Enclosure of Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous or
Vicious Dog or Animal
   
7.06.120   Notice of Disposal or Escape of Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous or
Vicious Dog or Animal
   
7.06.130   Owners of Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous or Vicious Dog or Animal
to Permit Compliance Inspection
   
7.06.140   Removal of Designation
   
7.06.150   Keeping of Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous, Potentially Vicious or
Vicious Dog or Animal
   
7.06.160   Penalty Provisions
   
7.06.170   Fees
7.06.010 Declaration of Public Nuisance.
   A.   It is the purpose and intent of this Chapter to establish the City's
own program, including procedures for the control of potentially dangerous,
dangerous and vicious dogs or animals, as recognized by Section 31683 of
Chapter 9 (entitled "Potentially Dangerous and Vicious Dogs") of Division 14 of
the California Food and Agricultural Code.
   B.   The City Council has found and determined that attacks by potentially
dangerous or vicious dogs or animals on human beings and domestic animals are
attributable to the failure of owners to register, confine and properly control
vicious potentially dangerous, dangerous and/or vicious dogs or animals.
   C.   Potentially dangerous, dangerous and vicious dogs or animals are hereby
declared a public nuisance.
   D.   For the purposes of this section, a person is peaceably and lawfully
upon the private property of an owner or possessor of the animal when he or she
is on the property in the performance of any duty imposed upon him or her by
the laws of this state or any city or county, or by the laws or postal
regulations of the United States, or when he or she is on the property upon
express or implied invitation.
[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.06.020 Public Nuisance Defined.
   A.   “Dangerous Dog or Animal” is defined as any of the following:
      1.   Any dog or animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition
to attack unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise threaten the safety of
human beings or domestic animals.
      2.   Any animal which twice within a forty-eight (48) month period and in
two separate incidents, has actively pursued, attacked, bitten or otherwise
inflicted on a person or animal engaged in lawful activity an injury less
severe than a ‘substantial injury’ (as defined in this Title 7).
      3.   Any animal which has once attacked, bitten, or otherwise caused
injury to a person or animal engaged in lawful activity, resulting in death or
substantial injury.
      4.   Any animal which has been previously declared a potentially
dangerous animal and the owner/custodian has failed to restrain the animal as
so directed and/or as provided in this Chapter.
      5.   Any dog or animal seized under Section 599aa of the Penal Code and
whose owner or keeper is convicted under subdivision (a) of Section 597.5 of
the Penal Code, or any animal used during or in the commission of a crime that
constitutes a misdemeanor or a felony where the facts and circumstances of the
animal’s involvement in the crime give reason to believe that the animal poses
a threat to public health and/or safety.
   B.   "Potentially Dangerous Dog or Animal" is defined as any of the
following:
      1.   Any dog or animal which when unprovoked, on two (2) separate
occasions within the prior thirty-six (36) month period, engages in any
behavior which requires a defensive action by any person to prevent bodily harm
when the person and the dog or animal are off the property of the owner or
keeper of the dog or animal.
      2.   Any dog or animal which, when unprovoked, bites a human being.
      3.   Any dog or animal, when unprovoked, on two (2) separate occasions
within the prior thirty-six (36) month period has killed, seriously bitten,
inflicted injury or otherwise caused injury attacking a domestic animal off the
property of the owner or keeper of such dog or animal.
      4.   Any dog or animal, which on three (3) separate occasions within a
twelve (12) month period, was observed being unrestrained off its owner's
premises by an Animal Control or Code Enforcement Officer or private citizen of
the City of Adelanto or was apprehended and/or impounded on three (3) separate
occasions for being unrestrained or uncontrolled off its owner's premises.
   C.   "Vicious Dog or Animal" is defined as any of the following:
      1.   Any dog or animal which, when unprovoked, in an aggressive manner,
inflicts substantial injury on or kills a human being.
      2.   Any dog or animal previously determined to be, and currently
designated as, a potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious dog or animal
which, after its owner or keeper has been notified of its determination,
continues the behavior described in Subsection B. above.
      3.   Any dog or animal currently listed and determined to be a
potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious dog or animal, which is not
properly licensed and vaccinated, and/or not properly restrained and/or
maintained on the owner’s property.
[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.06.030 Declaring an Animal or Dog Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous or
Vicious.
   A.   Determination that an Animal or Dog is Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous
or Vicious. If an Animal Control Officer, Code Enforcement Officer or law
enforcement officer has investigated and determined that there exists probable
cause to believe that a dog or animal is potentially dangerous, dangerous or
vicious, the Animal Control Supervisor, or designee, may set a hearing for the
purpose of determining whether or not the dog or animal in question should be
declared potentially dangerous or vicious.
   B.   Notice to Owner or Keeper; Hearing. The Animal Control Supervisor shall
notify the owner or keeper of the dog or animal that an administrative hearing
will be held by the City, at which time said owner may present evidence as to
why the dog or animal in question should not be declared potentially dangerous
or vicious. The owner or keeper of the dog or animal shall be served with
notice of the hearing, either in person, by first class mail or by certified
mail with return receipt requested at the owner's last known address, not less
than five (5) days, nor more than ten (10) days, before the time set for the
hearing. Service shall be deemed complete at the time the notice is personally
served or deposited in the mail. Failure of any person to receive such notice
shall not affect the validity of any proceedings thereunder. The hearings shall
be open to the public. The City Manager or designee shall conduct the
administrative hearing.
   C.   Notice shall be substantiated in the form set forth below:
      "Re: Notice of Administrative Hearing for determination and disposition
of Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous or Vicious Dogs or Animals.
      This is a Notice of Administrative Hearing before the City Manager of the
City of Adelanto or his/her designee, to determine whether your dog or animal
(name of dog or animal, description of animal if available) is a potentially
dangerous, dangerous or vicious dog (or animal). If your dog (or animal) is
found to be potentially dangerous and/or vicious as defined by the City of
Adelanto Municipal Code
Chapter 7.06, Section
7.06.030, the City Manager or his/her designee as Hearing Officer may issue any
one (1) or more of, but not limited to, the following orders:
      1.   The dog or animal shall be properly licensed and vaccinated.
      2.   The dog or animal shall be maintained on the owner's property and
kept indoors or in a securely fenced yard from which the dog or animal cannot
escape.
      3.   The dog or animal shall be maintained in a covered chain-link run
with cement flooring and locked gate from which the dog or animal cannot escape
and into which children cannot trespass.
      4.   The dog or animal cannot be off the owner's premises unless it is
restrained by a substantial leash and muzzled (if appropriate) under the
control of a responsible adult.
      5.   If the dog or animal dies or is sold, transferred or permanently
removed from the City of Adelanto where the owner resides, the owner shall
notify the City of Adelanto of the changed condition and new location of the
dog or animal within two (2) days in writing.
      6.   The dog or animal shall be destroyed.
      7.   The dog or animal owner shall pay all costs incurred by the City of
Adelanto for housing, maintenance, feeding and veterinary care during such time
the dog or animal is in the custody of the City of Adelanto.
      8.   The dog or animal shall be required to be sterilized.
      9.   For purposes of future identification, photo identification or
permanent marking of the animal.
      10.   If the person owning or possessing the animal is a tenant or
occupant of property owned by another person, requiring that the person owning
or possessing the animal obtain written permission from the landlord/property
owner to keep the animal on certain specified premises.
      11.   Any person keeping or harboring any dog or animal deemed vicious
within the City of Adelanto must provide proof of ability to respond in damages
up to one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) by obtaining a policy of
insurance coverage in said amount for bodily injury to, or death of, any person
or persons or for damage to property owned by any other person or persons or
for damage to property owned by any other person which may result from the
ownership, keeping or maintenance of such dog or animal.
      12.   Animal Control has the right to inspect the property at any time
for violations of the findings and orders in the hearing. In the event the
owner fails to meet the required conditions from the findings and orders in the
hearing, Animal Control may impound the dog or animal and take it to the
Shelter or otherwise disposed of such dog or animal, so that it may not become
a menace to the public."
      13.   You have five (5) days from the date you receive the written notice
of the findings and orders in the hearing to comply with required corrections
and pay all fees and/or fines associated with this hearing. On day six (6), the
dog or animal will become property of the Animal Control and be disposed of.
[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.06.040 Administrative Hearing.
   A.   At the time stated in the Notice of Administrative Hearing, the City
Manager or his/her designee, hereafter referred to as Hearing Officer, shall
hear and consider all relevant evidence, objections or portents and shall
receive testimony under oath relative to the alleged potentially dangerous,
dangerous or vicious dog or animal. The Hearing Officer may admit into evidence
all relevant evidence, including incident reports and affidavits of witnesses.
The Hearing Officer may find, upon a preponderance of evidence, that the dog or
animal in question is potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious and may make
orders authorized by Section
7.06.030 of this Chapter. Said hearing may be continued from time to time.
   B.   The Hearing Officer shall consider at least the following factors in
determining whether an animal is potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious:
      1.   Whether any injury or damage to a person by the animal was caused or
contributed to by the actions of that person, including by way of acts of
physical abuse, tormenting, teasing, or assaulting the animal.
      2.   Whether a person injured by the animal was committing a trespass or
other tort upon premises occupied by the owner or keeper of an animal, or was
committing or attempting to commit a crime.
      3.   Whether any injury to a domestic animal was caused or contributed to
by the actions of the domestic animal, including acts of teasing, tormenting,
abusing, or attacking the animal that allegedly caused the injury.
      4.   Whether a person injured by the animal had gained uninvited and
unauthorized entry onto fenced or indoor property of the animal’s owner or
keeper. As used in this section, “unauthorized entry” does not include entry
into a fenced residential front yard unless the yard is locked or posted to
prohibit entry.
      5.   Whether any injury to a person by the animal was caused while the
animal was protecting or defending a person within the immediate vicinity of
the animal from an unjustified attack or assault.
   C.   If the Hearing Officer finds by a preponderance of the evidence that
the dog or animal, which is the subject of the hearing, is potentially
dangerous, dangerous or vicious, the Hearing Officer shall prepare findings and
make specific orders with respect to the dog or animal as authorized by this
Chapter. A copy of the findings and orders shall be served on the owner or
keeper of the dog or animal in accordance with the provisions of Section
7.06.030.
[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.06.050 Determination and Orders; Notice; Compliance; Decision Final.
After an administrative hearing is conducted pursuant to this Chapter, the
owner or keeper of the dog or animal shall be notified in writing of the
determination and orders issued, either personally or by first class mail,
postage prepaid. If a determination is made that the dog or animal is
potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious, the owner or keeper shall comply
with those orders made by the Hearing Officer in accordance with any time
schedule established by the Animal Control Supervisor, but in no case more than
thirty (30) days after the date of the determination or thirty-five (35) days
if the notice of determination is mailed to the owner or keeper of the dog or
animal. The findings and orders by the Hearing Officer are final, without the
right of further hearing or appeal.
[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.06.060 Licensing and Vaccinating Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous or Vicious
Dog or Animal.
All potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious dogs or animals shall be
properly licensed and vaccinated (when appropriate). The licensing authority
shall include the potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious designation in
the registration records of the dog or animal, either after the owner or the
keeper of the dog or animal has agreed to the designation or the Hearing
Officer has determined the designation applies to the dog or animal. The City
may charge a potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious dog fee in addition to
the regular licensing fee to provide for the increase costs of maintaining the
records of the dog or animal.
[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.06.070 Seizure and Impoundment of Dog or Animal.
   A.   If upon investigation it is determined by the Animal Control Officer
that probable cause exists to believe that the dog or animal in question poses
an immediate threat to public safety, the Animal Control Officer may seize and
impound the dog or animal pending the administrative hearing to be held
pursuant to this Chapter. The owner or keeper of the dog or animal shall be
liable to the City for all costs and expenses of keeping the dog or animal if
the dog or animal is later adjudicated of being potentially dangerous,
dangerous or vicious. It shall be a misdemeanor to obstruct or otherwise impede
an Animal Control Officer during the attempted seizure and/or impoundment of
the dog or animal.
   B.   When a dog or animal has been impounded pursuant to Subsection A.
hereinabove and it is not contrary to public safety, the Animal Control Officer
may permit the animal to be confined at the owner's expense in a City-approved
kennel or veterinary facility.
[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10; Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.06.080 Cost Assessment When Dog or Animal is Seized.
   A.   If it is determined at the administrative hearing as provided in this
Chapter that the dog or animal in question is potentially dangerous, dangerous
or vicious, the Hearing Officer may assess the owner or keeper of the dog or
animal for any costs of administration incurred by the City, including but not
limited to costs incurred in housing the dog or animal maintaining and feeding
the dog or animal or for any medical attention required for the dog or animal.
   B.   Costs assessed shall be charged to the owner or keeper, and if unpaid,
a lien shall be placed upon the owner's real property where the animal was
maintained. The City Council shall affirm such assessment and cause same to be
recorded on the assessment roll. Such assessment shall constitute a special
assessment against and a lien upon the property. Said assessment shall be
levied and collected in accordance with Government Code Section 38773.5 and the
procedure established for levy and collection of nuisance abatement assessments
set forth in applicable provisions of the Municipal Code.
[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.06.090 Sterilization Requirement for a Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous or
Vicious Dog or Animal.
The owner or keeper of any dog or animal determined to be potentially
dangerous, dangerous or vicious pursuant to this Chapter shall have said dog or
animal sterilized at the dog or animal owner's or keeper's expense.
[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.06.100 Destruction of Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous or Vicious Dog or
Animal.
   A.   A dog or animal determined to be potentially dangerous, dangerous or
vicious may be destroyed by the Animal Control Department when it is found,
after an administrative hearing pursuant to this Chapter, that the release of
the dog or animal would create a significant threat to the public health,
safety and welfare.
   B.   If it is determined that a dog or animal is potentially dangerous,
dangerous or vicious and shall not be destroyed, the Hearing Officer shall
impose conditions upon the owner or keeper of the dog or animal that protects
the public health, safety and welfare.
[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.06.110 Restraint or Enclosure of Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous or Vicious
Dog or Animal.
   A.   A dog or animal determined to be potentially dangerous, dangerous or
vicious pursuant to this Chapter shall at all times while not securely confined
indoors:
      1.   Be confined in an area which is securely fenced and locked so as to
prevent trespass by children and from which the dog or animal cannot escape.
      2.   When off the property of its owner or keeper, humanely muzzled (if
appropriate) and leashed with a substantial leash not to exceed six (6) feet in
length and under the control of a responsible adult.
      3.   Humanely confined in a vehicle so that it can neither escape nor
inflict injury on passers by.
      4.   Be confined in an outdoor fenced enclosure on the property where the
dog or animal is kept or maintained so it cannot bite, attack or cause injury
to any person or domestic animal. The enclosure must be anchored solidly to the
ground and must be of sufficient structural strength and height to ensure the
strict confinement of the dog or animal and to prevent unauthorized access. If
necessary to accomplish the intent of containment, a cover over the enclosure
and a cement or solid bottom shall be installed. In addition, any and all gates
must be kept locked by a substantial lock.
      5.   A vicious dog or animal may be off the property of the owner or
keeper for the purpose of obtaining veterinary care, sold or given away,
complying with the provisions of this Chapter.
      6.   When off the property of its owner or keeper or in the care of a
veterinarian, the dog or animal shall be securely and humanely muzzled (if
appropriate) and restrained with a harness, collar, choke chain and nylon or
leather leash sufficient to restrain the dog or animal not exceeding four (4)
feet in length and shall be under the direct charge and control of its owner or
adult keeper.
   B.   When circumstances warrant, the officer in charge of the Animal Control
Department may modify conditions of restraint to accommodate the special needs
of dogs or animals.
[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.06.120 Notice of Disposal or Escape of Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous or
Vicious Dog or Animal.
   A.   The owner or keeper of any dog or animal found to be potentially
dangerous, dangerous or vicious, pursuant to this Chapter, shall notify the
Animal Control Department immediately if the dog or animal has escaped, is
unconfined, has attacked another dog or animal, has bitten a human being or has
died.
   B.   The said owner or keeper shall notify the Animal Control Department
within forty-eight (48) hours if the dog or animal is sold, transferred or
permanently removed from the place where the owner or keeper resides or kept
the dog or animal at the time the dog or animal was determined to be
potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious. The owner or keeper shall also
inform the Animal Control Department of any new name, address and phone number
of any new owner or keeper of said dog or animal.
[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13]
7.06.130 Owners of Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous or Vicious Dog or Animal to
Permit Compliance Inspection.
The owner or keeper of the potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious dog or
animal determined to be potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious pursuant to
this Chapter shall allow inspection of the animal, its enclosure and of the
property where the dog or animal is kept by the Animal Control Department or
any other law enforcement agency without warrant, and to produce upon demand,
proof of full compliance with the requirements fo this Chapter and/or
requirements of the orders issued by the Hearing Officer.
[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.06.140 Removal of Designation.
If there are no additional instances of the behavior described in Section
7.06.020.B. within a forty-eight (48) month period from the date of designation
as a potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious dog or animal, the dog or
animal may be removed from the list of potentially dangerous, dangerous or
vicious dogs or animals. The dog or animal may, but is not required to be,
removed from the list of potentially dangerous or vicious dogs or animals prior
to the expiration of the forty-eight (48) month period if the owner or keeper
of the dog or animal demonstrates to the Animal Control Department that changes
in circumstances or measures taken by the owner or keeper, such as training of
the dog or animal, has mitigated the risk to the public safety.
[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.06.150 Keeping of Potentially Dangerous, Dangerous, Potentially Vicious or
Vicious Dog or Animal.
It is unlawful to own, harbor or keep any dog or animal found by another
jurisdiction to be potentially dangerous, dangerous, potentially vicious or
vicious. Any dog or animal that has previously been determined to be
potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious after an administrative hearing or
court order by another jurisdiction will not be allowed to be kept, owned or
harbored within the City of Adelanto.
[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.06.160 Penalty Provisions.
   A.   The provisions of this Chapter pertaining to potentially dangerous,
dangerous and vicious dogs are adopted in accordance with and shall not be
construed to conflict with the provisions of Chapter 9 of Division 14 of the
California Food and Agriculture Code. Should any inconsistency or conflict
exist between the provisions of this Chapter and the terms of Chapter 9 of
Division 14 of the Food and Agriculture Code, the terms of State law shall
control.
   B.   Any violation of this Chapter involving a potentially dangerous dog
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). Any
violation of this Chapter involving a dangerous or vicious dog shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   C.   Except as set forth hereinabove, the penalty provisions set forth in
Chapter 7.04, commencing at Section 7.04.130, are incorporated herein in full,
and shall apply to any violation of this Chapter and any public nuisance
declared pursuant to this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
7.06.170 Fees.
All fines, fees or penalties paid pursuant to this Chapter shall be paid to the
City of Adelanto where the violation occurred, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of the implementation of this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 521, 10/23/13.]
TITLE 8
HEALTH AND SANITATION
Chapters:
   
8.01   Collection of Solid Waste
   
8.02   Recycling Requirements for Large Events and Large Venues
   
8.05   Recycling and Diversion of Construction and Demolition (C&D) Waste
   
8.10   Hazardous Materials
   
8.15   Vehicle Abatement and Removal
   
8.20   Water Conservation Plan
   
8.25   Public Nuisances
   
8.30   Weed and Litter Abatement
   
8.35   Cost Recovery on Special Inspections
   
8.40   Residential Rental Dwelling Unit Inspection and Maintenance Program
   
8.50   [Repealed]
   
8.60   Personal Cultivation and Use of Cannabis
   
8.70   Mandatory Organic Waste Disposal Reduction
CHAPTER 8.01
COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE
Sections:
   
8.01.010   Definitions
   
8.01.020   Authority to Grant Franchises
   
8.01.030   Subscription to Collection Service or Self-Hauling
   
8.01.040   Public Nuisance
   
8.01.050   Containers
   
8.01.060   Frequency of Collection
   
8.01.070   Unlawful and Prohibited Acts
   
8.01.080   Use of Containers for Solid Waste Generated During Construction and
Demolition
   
8.01.090   Self Haulers
   
8.01.100   Placement of Rates on Tax Rolls
   
8.01.101   Mandatory Commercial Recycling Program
   
8.01.110   Violations
   
8.01.120   Mandatory Commercial Organics Recycling Program
8.01.010 Definitions.
The words and phrases contained in this chapter shall have the meaning commonly
associated with them unless special meaning is ascribed to them by the
California Public Resources Code or the California Code of Regulations (as
either may be amended from time to time) in which case such meaning shall
apply; except that the following words shall, for the purpose of this chapter,
be defined as follows:
   A.   "AB 939" shall mean that State legislation commonly known as the
California Integrated Waste Management Act (Stats. 1989, Chapter 1095, as
amended) as codified in Public Resources Code Section 49000, et seq.
   B.   "Bins" shall mean a metal container, commonly referred to as dumpsters,
including compactors and any similar such devices, with a capacity of under ten
(10) cubic yards.
   C.   "Cart" means a plastic container provided by a franchisee for
collection, with a hinged lid and wheels serviced by an automated process, as
opposed to a manual process of lifting and dumping.
   D.   "City" means the City of Adelanto.
   E.   "City Manager" means the City Manager of the City or his duly-
authorized representative or designee.
   F.   "Collect" or "Collection" or "Collecting" shall mean to take physical
possession of, transport, and remove solid waste from a premises.
   G.   "Commercial Premises" means premises upon which business activity is
conducted, including but not limited to retail sales, services, wholesale
operations, manufacturing and industrial operations, but excluding residential
premises upon which business activities are conducted when such activities are
permitted under applicable zoning regulations and are not the primary use of
the property. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary herein, for
purposes of this chapter, premises upon which hotels and motels are operated
shall be deemed to be commercial premises.
   H.   "Container" means any and all types of solid waste receptacles,
including carts, bins, and rolloff boxes.
   I.   "Franchisee" means a person, persons, firm or corporation that has been
issued a franchise by the City to provide solid waste handling services within
the City.
   J.   "Hazardous Waste" means all substances defined as hazardous waste,
acutely hazardous waste, or extremely hazardous waste by the State of
California in Health and Safety Code Sections 25110.02, 25115 and 25117, or in
the future amendments to or re-codifications of such statutes, or identified
and listed as hazardous waste by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
pursuant to the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. §
6901, et seq.), all future amendments thereto, and all rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   K.   "Multi-Family Dwelling" means either (i) any building or lot containing
four (4) or more dwelling units; or (ii) any building or lot containing two (2)
or more dwelling units which franchisee determines (and City agrees) must
receive solid waste handling services through the use of shared bins, since
they are not reasonably able to receive individualized solid waste handling
services through the use of carts or customer-provided containers. Any
ambiguity as to whether a customer's premises qualifies as a single-family
dwelling or multi-family dwelling shall be resolved by the City Manager whose
decision shall be final.
   L.   "Premises" shall mean any land, building and/or structure within the
City limits where solid waste is generated or accumulated.
   M.   "Person" means any individual, firm, corporation, association, group or
other entity.
   N.   "Recycle" or "Recycling" means the process of collecting, sorting,
cleaning, treating and reconstituting materials that would otherwise become
solid waste and returning these materials to the economic mainstream in the
form of raw materials for new, reused or reconstituted products which meet the
quality standards used in the marketplace.
   O.   "Recyclable Material" means that solid waste capable of being recycled,
including but not limited to glass, newsprint, newspaper, aluminum, cardboard,
certain plastics or metal.
   P.   "Residential Premises" shall mean all premises upon which dwelling
units exist. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary herein, for purposes
of this chapter, premises upon which hotels and motels are operated shall be
deemed to be commercial premises.
   Q.   "Rolloff Box" means containers of ten (10) cubic yards or larger,
including compactors.
   R.   "Self Hauler" means any person or entity that, pursuant to Section
8.01.090 of this chapter, provides for the collection, transportation and
disposal of solid waste generated by his/her/its own premises.
   S.   "Single-Family Dwelling" means a building or lot containing one (1)
dwelling unit, and for purposes of this agreement includes buildings and lots
with more than one (1) dwelling unit where such dwelling units are determined
by the City to be reasonably able to receive individualized solid waste
handling service by the automated process utilizing carts. Any ambiguity as to
whether a premises qualifies as a single-family dwelling or multi-family
dwelling shall be resolved by the City Manager.
   T.   "Solid Waste" shall mean and include all discarded putrescible and non-
putrescible solid, semisolid and liquid wastes, including garbage, trash,
refuse, rubbish, construction waste, industrial waste, commercial solid waste,
and any other discarded solid, semisolid and liquid waste permitted to be
disposed of at a Class III landfill and which are included within the
definition of "Nonhazardous Solid Waste" set forth in the California Code of
Regulations, as it may be amended from time to time. “Solid Waste” does not
include hazardous waste (Class I), low-level radioactive waste, untreated
medical waste, or special wastes as defined herein.
   U.   "Special Wastes" shall mean wastes other than solid waste, including
sewage, sludge, industrial sludge, asbestos, auto bodies, tires, used motor
oil, hazardous waste, animal body parts, explosive substances, radioactive
materials, acids, solvents and other materials which may not be disposed of at
a Class III landfill or which require special handling.
   V.   "Yard Waste" means all leaves, grass cuttings and shrubs that accompany
routine household or property maintenance functions.
[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]
8.01.020 Authority to Grant Franchises.
The City Council may by resolution or ordinance grant one (1) or more
franchises for solid waste handling services related to solid waste generated
within the City.
[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]
8.01.030 Subscription to Collection Service or Self-Hauling.
   A.   Arrangements for Removal of Solid Waste Mandatory. Except as otherwise
provided in this chapter, the owner, property manager, tenant and/or person in
charge or control of each residential premises and each commercial premises in
the City shall either (i) subscribe to solid waste handling services with a
franchisee for said premises; or (ii) obtain and maintain registration as a
self-hauler as set forth in this chapter in connection with said premises.
   B.   Exception; Vacant Premises. The above requirement to provide for solid
waste handling services shall not apply in connection with any residential
premises at which all dwelling units are vacant, or commercial premises that
are vacant, for a period of one hundred twenty (120) days or more, provided
this exception shall only apply during the period of vacancy. Any person
seeking to avail himself/herself of the exception provided herein shall bear
the burden of providing reasonable evidence to City, pursuant to such
regulations or guidelines as the City Manager is hereby authorized to develop,
demonstrating the premises was vacant for the period in question.
[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]
8.01.040 Public Nuisance.
   A.   It is unlawful, and a public nuisance, for any person to occupy or
inhabit any property within the City for which arrangements have not been made
and kept in full force and effect for solid waste handling services in a manner
consistent with the provisions hereof.
   B.   The keeping of solid waste in containers other than those prescribed by
this chapter, or the keeping upon premises of solid waste which is offensive,
obnoxious or unsanitary, is unlawful, constitutes a public nuisance, and may be
abated in the manner provided by law for the abatement of nuisances.
[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]
8.01.050 Containers.
   A.   Every owner, occupant or person in possession, charge or control of any
premises within the City shall deposit or cause to be deposited all solid waste
generated or accumulated on such premises, and intended for collection and
disposal, in sealed, watertight bins, carts, rolloff boxes or other containers
that are either (i) provided by, or acceptable to, a franchisee; or (ii)
approved by the City Manager for self-hauling purposes pursuant to this
chapter. No owner, occupant or person in possession, charge or control of any
premises shall utilize a bin, cart, rolloff box or other container not in
conformance with the requirements hereof for the collection, accumulation or
storage of solid waste.
   B.   No bin, cart, rolloff box or other container shall be placed adjacent
to or in a street or public right-of-way for collection service more than
twenty-four (24) hours prior to the normal collection time, and all containers
so placed shall be removed from the street or right-of-way within twelve (12)
hours after collection.
   C.   Container lids shall remain closed at all times that the container is
unattended. If the solid waste contained within a bin, cart, rolloff box or
other container exceeds the actual capacity of the container, then a larger
container or multiple containers must be utilized. Any solid waste that does
not reasonably fit within a container (such as furniture or other large bulky
items) must be covered and protected, as by a tarp, netting or other secured
material, in order to prevent the scattering of debris by natural forces such
as wind or animals. The owner, tenant, occupant and/or person or entity in
control of a premises shall be responsible for the clean-up of any solid waste
spilled, dumped or scattered as a result of a container overflow.
   D.   It is unlawful for any person to share, place solid waste in, or to
otherwise use the bin, cart, rolloff box or other container of another person
or business. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the
sharing of containers shall be permitted under the following conditions:
      1.   The owner, property manager or person in charge or control of a
premises upon which a multi-family dwelling exists may arrange for containers
for shared use by the occupants, tenants or persons in possession of the
dwelling units on such premises.
      2.   The occupants of a single commercial building or contiguous and
adjacent commercial buildings may share a container for solid waste handling
services at a common location, subject to approval of the City Manager, which
approval may be delegated to a franchisee. Approval by the City Manager shall
be based upon (i) the type of solid waste generated by each commercial
premises; and (ii) the number of containers and frequency of solid waste
collection needed to protect the public health, welfare and safety.
   E.   It is unlawful to use any bin, cart, rolloff box or other container
furnished by a franchisee for any purpose other than the collection,
accumulation and storage of solid waste; or to convert or alter such containers
for other uses; or to intentionally damage such containers.
   F.   All containers used for the collection of solid waste at single-family
dwellings shall be stored out of public view in a side or rear yard or an
enclosed garage except on collection day. If the physical design of the
dwelling does not allow for obscuring containers from public view because of
the type of fencing or lack thereof, containers shall be stored in an area
adjacent to the dwelling at the point furthest from the closest street or
roadway or in an enclosure adjacent to the dwelling designed to conform with
the exterior design of the dwelling.
[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]
8.01.060 Frequency of Collection.
   A.   Residential Premises. With the exception of vacant premises meeting the
provisions of Section 0
8.01.030B., not less than once per week, every owner, occupant or person in
possession, charge or control of any residential premises within the City shall
remove by self-hauling (as provided herein) or cause to be removed by
subscription to services provided by a franchisee all solid waste stored,
generated, collected or accumulated on such premises.
   B.   Commercial Premises. With the exception of vacant premises meeting the
provisions of Section 0
8.01.030B., not less than once per week, every owner, occupant or person in
possession, charge or control of any commercial premises within the City shall
remove by self-hauling (as provided herein), or cause to be removed by
subscription to services provided by a franchisee, all solid waste stored,
generated, collected or accumulated on such premises.
   C.   Modifications to Collection Frequency. The City Manager may provide
written notice to the owner of any premises that the above minimum removal
requirements are not sufficient to avoid the creation of a public nuisance due
to unique circumstances at such premises. City may direct that solid waste
shall be removed by the owner of any premises so notified on a more frequent
schedule (as determined by City) and/or that additional or larger containers
shall be utilized (as determined by City).
[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]
8.01.070 Unlawful and Prohibited Acts.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person other than a franchisee (or its agents
and employees) to collect any discarded solid waste including recyclable
material, or otherwise provide solid waste handling services within the City.
This prohibition shall not, however, apply to:
      1.   Registered self-haulers as defined in this chapter;
      2.   The owner, tenant or occupant of residential or commercial premises
who has subscribed for and is receiving solid waste handling services with a
franchisee, when such owner, tenant or occupant is hauling materials generated
at his/her own premises to a lawful disposal or recycling facility. This
exemption does not permit the hiring of any person or entity, other than a
franchisee, to haul solid waste from one's own premises;
      3.   The collection, transportation and disposal of construction and
demolition debris by a contractor, handyman, repairman or other similar service
provider as an incidental part of the services provided to its customers rather
than as a hauling service, provided that such solid waste is not collected or
transported by a third party hired for the primary purpose of collecting and
transporting said materials, and further provided that such services comply
with any ordinances, policies and regulations of the City relating to the
collection of such materials;
      4.   The collection, transportation and disposal of yard waste, green
waste and related solid waste by a gardener or landscaper as an incidental part
of the gardening or landscaping services provided to its customers, rather than
as a hauling service, provided that such solid waste is not collected or
transported by a third party hired for the primary purpose of collecting and
transporting said materials;
      5.   Any person or entity collecting recyclable material sold or donated
to it by the person or entity that generated such recyclable material (the
"generator") provided, however, to the extent permitted by law, if the
generator is required to pay monetary or non-monetary consideration for the
collection, transportation, transfer or processing of recyclable material, the
fact that the generator receives a reduction or discount in price therefor (or
in other terms of the consideration the generator is required to pay) shall not
be considered a sale or donation.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person, other than the owner, occupant or person
in possession, charge or control of any residential or commercial premises, or
a person authorized by law (such as a franchisee), to remove any bin, cart,
rolloff box or other container from any such premises or from any location
where it was lawfully placed for collection, without the prior written approval
of the owner, occupant or person in possession, charge or control of such
premises.
   C.   No person shall place solid waste adjacent to a street or public right-
of-way for collection by a franchisee without having first subscribed for solid
waste handling services with such franchisee.
   D.   No person shall burn any solid waste within the City, except in an
approved incinerator or other device for which a permit has been issued by the
building official and fire marshal, and which complies with all applicable
local, state and/or federal permit requirements, laws, rules and regulations.
   E.   It is unlawful for any person, other than a franchisee, to take, remove
or appropriate for his/her own use any solid waste, including recyclable
materials, which has been placed in any street or alley for collection or
removal by a franchisee, regardless of whether the solid waste is placed in a
bin, cart, rolloff box or other container.
[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]
8.01.080 Use of Containers for Solid Waste Generated During Construction and
Demolition.
Any person who generates solid waste in connection with the construction of a
new building, a building addition, remodel, or the demolition of any structure
for which a building permit is required, shall either make arrangements for
solid waste handling service with the use of containers from a franchisee, be
registered to self haul such solid waste in the manner set forth herein, or
make arrangements pursuant to Section 0
8.01.070A.3. In addition to constituting a violation of this chapter, failure
to produce evidence of compliance with this Section upon the request of a City
building inspector, code enforcement officer or other City officer shall result
in the red-tagging of the project by the City and a requirement that all work
cease until compliance with this Section.
[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]
8.01.090 Self Haulers.
   A.   Self haulers registered and operating in accordance with this chapter
are only permitted to collect, transport and dispose of solid waste generated
by and upon the self hauler's own premises. Under no circumstances may a self
hauler collect, transport or dispose of solid wastes generated upon premises
that are not owned, operated or controlled by the self hauler. Notwithstanding
any other provision of this chapter, registered self haulers shall not be
permitted to share, place solid waste in, or to otherwise use the bin, cart,
rolloff box, or other container of another person or business.
   B.   Registration. All self haulers shall subscribe to the following
registration requirements:
      1.   Each self hauler shall obtain registration from the City Manager.
Self haulers must renew their registrations the commencement of each fiscal
year. Initial applications following the adoption of these regulations, for the
2010-2011 fiscal year, must be submitted to the City Manager on or before
January 1, 2010.
      2.   The application to register for self-hauling, whether upon initial
application or renewal, shall include the following: (i) a list of all bins,
carts, rolloff boxes and other containers to be used by the self hauler; (ii) a
list of all transport and disposal equipment to be used by the self hauler;
(iii) a written explanation of where all solid waste will be delivered for
disposal and diversion; (v) a written plan explaining to the reasonable
satisfaction of the City Manager how not less than fifty percent (50%) of solid
waste collected will be diverted from disposal in compliance with AB 939; and
(vi) any other information deemed necessary by the City Manager to ensure
protection of public health, safety and sanitary needs.
      3.   Renewal applications shall additionally include: (i) receipts from
self-hauling activities undertaken in the prior year demonstrating that the
applicant has effectively diverted at least fifty percent (50%) of all solid
waste generated at its premises from landfills in a manner that complies with
the requirements of AB 939; and (ii) receipts from self-hauling activities
undertaken in the prior year demonstrating that the applicant has delivered
solid waste generated at its premises to appropriate disposal or recycling
facilities at least as frequently as collection is required for such self
hauler by the City Manager.
      4.   The City Manager shall approve the application if it meets the
requirements of this Section, and if the equipment, containers, diversion plan
and disposal plan meet with his reasonable satisfaction, and if evidence of
past diversion and disposal requirements demonstrate the applicant has complied
with the fifty percent (50%) diversion requirement and otherwise complied with
all laws related to disposal of solid waste.
   C.   Containers. Each self hauler shall provide its own bins, carts, rolloff
boxes or other containers. Bins, carts, rolloff boxes or other containers
utilized by a self hauler must conform to industry standards for solid waste
disposal and must be approved by the City Manager in writing prior to issuance
of a self-hauler registration. In addition, any containers utilized by a self
hauler shall comply with the following requirements:
      1.   All containers shall be maintained in good repair, and any question
as to the meaning of this standard shall be resolved by the City Manager.
      2.   All containers shall be maintained in a sealed, watertight
condition.
      3.   Self haulers shall remove any graffiti that appears on containers
within twenty-four (24) hours after becoming aware of it.
   D.   Collection and Transport Equipment. Collection and transport equipment,
including but not limited to transport trucks and vehicles, utilized by a self
hauler must be approved by the City Manager in writing prior to issuance of a
self-hauler registration.
   E.   Non-Commercial Venture. It is the intent of this chapter to prevent and
proscribe self-hauling activities undertaken as a commercial enterprise. Self
haulers must obtain all equipment, including containers and collection and
transportation equipment, at a fair market value that does not include any
hauling services, "free" or otherwise. A self hauler may utilize its own
employees to undertake self-hauling activities, but under no circumstance may a
self hauler utilize an independent contractor or any other person or entity for
solid waste handling services other than a franchisee.
   F.   Other Recycling Obligations. Self haulers shall recycle all recyclable
materials not otherwise addressed by this Section to a degree and in a manner
consistent with standards generally applicable to the solid waste industry and
as required by State law.
   G.   Collection Frequency. Unless otherwise specifically provided in this
chapter, self haulers shall remove solid waste from their premises at least
once per week. However, upon application to the City for a self-hauler permit,
the City Manager may determine a different frequency for solid waste
collection, transport and disposal from the self hauler's premises. This
determination shall be based upon the nature of the premises, the type of solid
waste generated by the premises, and the collection capacity of the self hauler
as demonstrated by information in the application.
   H.   Hazardous and Special Wastes. Unless lawfully and currently licensed
under state, federal and local laws, no self hauler shall engage in the
collection, transport or disposal of hazardous waste or special wastes.
   I.   Revocation. The City Manager may revoke a self-hauler permit if the
permittee either (i) fails to divert at least fifty percent (50%) of all solid
waste generated at its premises from landfills in a manner that complies with
the requirements of AB 939; or (ii) fails to deliver solid waste generated at
its premises to appropriate disposal or recycling facilities at least as
frequently as collection is required for such self hauler by the City Manager.
[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]
8.01.100 Placement of Rates on Tax Rolls.
In order to ensure the uniform collection of rates charged by franchisees for
solid waste handling service, the City Council may, by resolution, request that
collection of such rates be placed on the County of San Bernardino Tax
Assessor's Tax Rolls.
[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]
8.01.101 Mandatory Commercial Recycling Program.
   A.   Definitions. For purposes of this Section, the following definitions
shall apply, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
      1.   “Business” means any commercial or public entity that generates four
cubic yards or more of Commercial Solid Waste per week. Business includes, but
is not limited to: a firm, partnership, proprietorship, joint-stock company,
corporation, or association that is organized as a for-profit or nonprofit
entity, strip mall, industrial facility, school, school district, special
district, or a federal, State, local, or regional agency or facility. Business
also includes any Multi-Family Residential Dwelling.
      2.   “Commercial Solid Waste” means and includes all types of solid
waste, including recyclable materials that are discarded from Businesses, but
does not include waste from single family residences or multi-family
residential dwellings of less than five units.
      3.   “Multi-Family Residential Dwelling” means any residential dwelling
property with five or more units in the City, regardless of the amount of
Commercial Solid Waste it generates.
      4.   “Source Separate” means the process of removing recyclable materials
from solid waste at the place of generation, prior to collection, and placing
them into separate containers that are separately designated for recyclables.
   B.   Requirements. Every Business within the City shall reuse, recycle,
compost, or otherwise divert its Commercial Solid Waste from disposal by taking
one, or any combination, of the following actions:
      1.   Source Separate recyclable materials from solid waste being
discarded, and subscribe with the City's franchise hauler for pickup of
recyclable materials separately from solid waste.
      2.   Source Separate recyclable materials from solid waste being
discarded, and self-haul recyclable materials to a certified Materials Recovery
Facility (“MRF”) or other mixed waste processing facility.
   C.   Multi-Family Residential Dwellings. To comply with the requirements of
this Section, property owners of Multi-Family Residential Dwellings may require
tenants to Source Separate their recyclable materials. Tenants of Multi-Family
Residential Dwellings shall be required to Source Separate their recyclable
materials, upon reasonable request by the property owner.
   D.   Enforcement.
      1.   Any Business that violates this Section shall be subject to the
penalties provided by AMC section
8.01.110, subdivisions (B) through (D).
      2.   Each Business shall be responsible for ensuring and demonstrating
its compliance with the requirements of this Section.
      3.   Each Business shall provide satisfactory proof of acceptable levels
of waste diversion to the City, upon reasonable request by the City Manager or
the City Manager's designee.
      4.   Nothing in this Section shall prevent or limit the existing right of
any Business to donate, sell, or otherwise dispose of its recyclable materials
pursuant to Public Resources Code section 41952.
[APUA Ord. No. 5, Section 2, 6/28/17]
8.01.110 Violations.
   A.   Unauthorized Containers. In addition to any other penalties and/or
remedies as set forth in this chapter or provided for by law, any container
placed within the City for the collection of solid waste in violation of
Section 0
8.01.070 (hereinafter "Unauthorized Container(s)") may be impounded as set
forth herein.
      1.   The City Manager may cause a notice to be placed in a conspicuous
place on any unauthorized container directing that it be removed. The notice
shall specify the nature of the violation and shall state that the bin, drop-
off box, trailer or waste receptacle must be removed within twenty-four (24)
hours or it may be removed and stored by the City, and the contents disposed
of, at the expense of the owner thereof. The notice shall indicate the time
that it was posted and shall include the name and phone number of a person
designated by the City to hear any appeal or challenge to the requirement that
the container be removed; and, further, shall indicate that any appeal of the
order for removal must occur within twenty-four (24) hours of the posting of
the notice. The posting of a notice to remove shall constitute constructive
notice to the owner and user of the requirement to remove the unauthorized
container, and a copy of the notice shall be provided to owner of the
unauthorized container once said owners identity is ascertained by City, and if
not provided sooner, a copy of the notice shall be provided at such time as the
owner of the unauthorized container seeks to retrieve any such container
removed hereunder.
      2.   If within twenty-four (24) hours after a notice to remove is posted
on an unauthorized container a request for an appeal has not been received and
the bin, drop-off box, trailer or waste receptacle is not removed, the City
Manager may direct the removal and storage of the unauthorized container. In
addition, if the contents of the container is either comprised of a substantial
amount of petrusible solid waste, or determined by the City Manager to create a
threat to health and safety if not disposed of immediately, the City Manager
may direct that the contents of the container be disposed of. The owner of the
unauthorized container shall be responsible to reimburse the City for the
actual cost of removal, storage and disposal. All amounts due to the City for
the cost of removal, storage and disposal must be paid before the unauthorized
container may be returned to the owner. Such amounts shall constitute a debt
owed by the owner to the City, and the owner shall be liable to the City in an
action brought by the City for the recovery of such amounts.
      3.   Between the date following the date upon which any unauthorized
container is removed by the City, and the date which is five (5) business days
following its retrieval from City, the owner of the unauthorized container may
request a hearing to appeal the City's determination that the container is an
unauthorized container subject to removal by City as set forth herein. The City
Manager shall establish a procedure for such a hearing and the method for
requesting such a hearing shall be included on the notice to remove. If the
appeal is granted, any payments due to City shall be forgiven and any amounts
paid reimbursed.
      4.   If the identity of the owner of an unauthorized container that has
been removed by the City is known to the City Manager, the City Manager shall
promptly cause a copy of the notice to remove to be mailed to the owner along
with a request that the owner to claim the stored property. If the unauthorized
container is not claimed within ninety-five (95) days after mailing of the
notice to the owner, or ninety (90) days after removal if the identity of the
owner is unknown to the City Manager, the unauthorized container and its
contents shall be deemed abandoned property and may be disposed of accordingly.
The notice to be posted on unauthorized containers shall specify that the
forgoing procedure related to abandonment will apply.
   B.   Penalty. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a separate offense for each and every day, or any portion thereof, of
which any violation of any provision of this chapter is committed, continued,
or permitted by such person, and shall be punishable as misdemeanor or an
infraction, at the discretion of the City Manager.
      1.   Penalty for Misdemeanor Violation. Any person convicted of a
misdemeanor under any provision of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by imprisonment in the
City or County Jail for a period not exceeding six (6) months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment.
      2.   Penalty for Infraction Violation. Any person convicted of an
infraction under any provision of this chapter shall be punished by:
         a.   A fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first
violation;
         b.   A fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second
violation of the same provision within one (1) year; and
         c.   A fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a third
and for any additional violation of the same provision within one (1) year.
   C.   Violations Deemed to be a Public Nuisance. In addition to any penalties
otherwise imposed, any violation of the provisions of this chapter is deemed to
be a public nuisance which may be abated in the manner provided by law for the
abatement of nuisances.
   D.   Attorney Fees. In addition to any civil and criminal penalties as
provided by the provisions of this chapter or otherwise, the City may recover
reasonable attorneys' fees and court costs other such expenses of litigation
and/or prosecution as it may occur by appropriate suit at law against the
person found to have violated any provisions of this chapter.
[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]
8.01.120 Mandatory Commercial Organics Recycling Program.
   A.   Definitions. For purposes of this Section, the following definitions
shall apply, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
      1.   "Business" means any commercial or public entity that generates two
(2) cubic yards or more of Commercial Solid Waste per week. Business includes,
but is not limited to: a firm, partnership, proprietorship, joint-stock
company, corporation, or association that is organized as a for-profit or
nonprofit entity, strip mall, industrial facility, school, school district,
special district, or a federal, State, local, or regional agency or facility.
Business also includes any Multi-Family Residential Dwelling.
      2.   ''Commercial Solid Waste" means and includes all types of solid
waste, including organics and recyclable materials that are discarded from
Businesses, but does not include waste from single family residences or Multi-
Family Residential Dwellings of less than five (5) units.
      3.   "Multi-Family Residential Dwelling" means any residential dwelling
property with five (5) or more units in the City that generates two (2) cubic
yards or more of Commercial Solid Waste per week.
      4.   "Organic Waste" means food waste, green waste, landscape and pruning
waste, nonhazardous wood waste, and food-soiled paper waste that is mixed in
with food waste.
      5.   "Source Separate" means the process of removing organics recyclable
materials from solid waste at the place of generation, prior to collection, and
placing them into separate containers that are separately designated for
organics recyclables.
   B.   Requirements. On or before February 1, 2021, every Business within the
City shall reuse, recycle, compost, or otherwise divert its Commercial Solid
Waste from disposal by taking one, or any combination, of the following
actions:
      1.   Source Separate organics recyclable materials from solid waste being
discarded, and subscribe with the City's franchise hauler for pickup of
organics recyclable materials separately from solid waste.
      2.   Source Separate organics recyclable materials from solid waste being
discarded, and self-haul organics recyclable materials to a certified Materials
Recovery Facility ("MRF") or other mixed waste processing facility.
   C.   Multi-Family Residential Dwellings. To comply with the requirements of
this Section, property owners of Multi-Family Residential Dwellings may require
tenants to Source Separate their organics recyclable materials. On or before
February 1, 2021, tenants of Multi-Family Residential Dwellings shall be
required to Source Separate their organics recyclable materials, upon
reasonable request by the property owner. Multi-Family Residential Dwellings
are not required to have a food waste diversion program.
   D.   Enforcement.
      1.   Any Business that violates this Section shall be subject to the
penalties provided by AMC Section
8.01.110, subdivisions (B) through (D).
      2.   Each Business shall be responsible for ensuring and demonstrating
its compliance with the requirements of this Section.
      3.   Each Business shall provide satisfactory proof of acceptable levels
of waste diversion to the City, upon reasonable request by the City Manager or
the City Manager's designee.
      4.   Nothing in this Section shall prevent or limit the existing right of
any Business to donate, sell, or otherwise dispose of its organics recyclable
materials pursuant to Public Resources Code Section 41952.
[Ord. No. 620-A, 1/13/21.
CHAPTER 8.02
RECYCLING REQUIREMENTS FOR LARGE EVENTS AND LARGE VENUES
Sections:
   
8.02.010   Definitions
   
8.02.020   Purpose
   
8.02.030   Application of Chapter to Large Events and Large Venues
   
8.02.040   Waste Management Plan Requirements
   
8.02.050   Review of Waste Management Plan
   
8.02.060   Waste Management Compliance Reporting
   
8.02.070   Actions by the City
   
8.02.080   Penalty
8.02.010 Definitions.
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this Section:
   A.   "Administrative Authority" shall mean the City Manager or his
authorized representative.
   B.   "Applicant" means any individual, firm, limited liability company,
association, partnership, political subdivision, government agency,
municipality, industry, public or private corporation, or any other entity
whatsoever who applies to the City for a permit, as defined in this chapter,
and who is, therefore, responsible for meeting the requirements of this
chapter.
   C.   "Large Event" means any large event that charges an admission price or
for which an applicant seeks temporary or periodic use or occupancy in or on a
public street, publicly owned site or facility or public park within the City
for a civic, commercial, recreational or social event attended by more than two
thousand (2,000) persons, including workers, per day of operation.
   D.   "Large Venue" means a facility that annually seats or serves an average
of more than two thousand (2,000) individuals per day of operation, including
workers, such as, but not limited to, convention centers, community centers,
golf clubs, amusement parks, recreational parks, theaters and concert halls
located within the City and any other facility or place that is a "venue
facility" for purposes of Public Resources Code Section 42648. For purposes of
this chapter, a site under common ownership or control that includes more than
one (1) large venue that is contiguous with other large venues in the site, is
a single large venue.
   E.   "Recycling" means the process of collecting, sorting, cleansing,
treating and reconstituting items that would otherwise be disposed of in a
landfill.
   F.   "Waste Management Plan" means a plan for reducing and managing waste,
submitted to the Administrative Authority for review in compliance with this
chapter.
[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]
8.02.020 Purpose.
The City Council declares that the purpose of this chapter is to reduce waste
from large events and large venues by requiring those who operate large events
and large venues to develop and implement waste management plans to reduce
waste placed in landfills and to report diversion and recycling to the City.
The following large events and large venues are subject to the requirements of
this chapter:
   A.   All events charging an admission price or for which an applicant seeks
temporary or periodic use or occupancy of a public street, publicly owned site
or facility or public park within the City for a civic, commercial,
recreational or social event attended by or anticipated to be attended by an
average of more than two thousand (2,000) individuals per day of operation.
   B.   All venues that annually seat or serve an average of more than two
thousand (2,000) individuals per day of operation, including but not limited to
convention centers, community centers, golf clubs, amusement parks,
recreational parks, theaters and concert halls located with the City.
[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]
8.02.030 Application of Chapter to Large Events and Large Venues.
Large events and large venues shall meet the requirements of and shall comply
with all provisions of this chapter.
[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]
8.02.040 Waste Management Plan Requirements.
   A.   All large event applicants shall develop and submit to the City a waste
management plan for reducing and recycling waste as part of the application for
a permit. The waste management plan shall include the following information:
      1.   An estimate of the anticipated amount and type of waste generated
and material disposed and diverted from the event.
      2.   Proposed actions to reduce, reuse and recycle the amount of waste
generated from the event.
      3.   Arrangements for separation, collection and diversion from landfills
of reusable and recyclable materials.
   B.   All large venues shall develop and submit to the City a waste
management plan on an annual basis on or before January 1 of each year. The
waste management plan shall include the following:
      1.   An estimate of the amount and type of waste generated and material
disposed and diverted from the venue.
      2.   The existing solid waste reduction, reuse and recycling programs
that the operator of the large venue utilizes.
   C.   All large event applicants and large venue operators shall, on or
before July 1, 2008, and on or before July 1, biennially thereafter, meet with
recyclers and waste service providers of the large event or large venue to
determine the appropriate waste reduction programs to meet the requirements of
this chapter.
[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]
8.02.050 Review of Waste Management Plan.
   A.   Time for Review. A waste management plan shall be approved or rejected
no later than twenty (20) business days after a complete application is made
for a large event and or a waste management plan is submitted for a large
venue.
   B.   Approval. The Community Development Director or designee may approve
the plan subject to conditions reasonably necessary to meet the standards of
this chapter and may consult with the City's solid waste hauler concerning the
viability of the Waste Management Plan and compliance by large events and large
venues with diversion requirements.
   C.   Rejection. If the Administrative Authority rejects the waste management
plan, the grounds for rejection shall be clearly stated in writing.
[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]
8.02.060 Waste Management Compliance Reporting.
Within thirty (30) days of receiving a written request for information from the
City, the large event or large venue operator shall provide a written report to
the administrative authority containing the following documentation:
   A.   A listing of waste reduction, reuse, recycling and diversion programs
implemented for the event or venue.
   B.   The type and weight of materials diverted and disposed at the event or
venue.
[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]
8.02.070 Actions by the City.
   A.   When issuing a permit to an operator of a large event or large venue,
the City shall provide information to the operator that can be implemented to
reduce, reuse and recycle solid waste materials generated at the event or venue
and provide contact information about where solid waste materials may be
donated, recycled or composted. This information may include, but is not
limited to, providing information directing the operator of the large event or
large venue to the California Integrated Waste Management Board, or any
successor agency ("CIWMB") Web site or any other appropriate Web site.
   B.   As part of the City's annual report submitted pursuant to Section 41821
of the California Public Resources Code to the CIWMB City shall include an
estimate and description of the top ten percent (10%) of its large events and
large venues based upon the amount of solid waste generated at such events and
venues as submitted by operators of large events and large venues. To the
extent that the information is readily available to the City, the information
shall include the name, location and a brief description of the event or venue,
a brief description of the types of wastes generated, types and estimated
amount of materials disposed and diverted by weight, and existing solid waste
reduction, reuse and recycling programs that the operator of the large event or
large venue utilizes to reduce, reuse and recycle the solid waste.
   C.   The City may charge and collect a fee from an operator of a large event
or large venue in an amount to be established by resolution of the City Council
to recover the City's estimated costs incurred in complying with this chapter.
[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]
8.02.080 Penalty.
In addition to any other available penalties and/or remedies, any event or
venue identified under this chapter as a large event or large venue not
complying with the waste management plan approved by the administrative
authority may be subject to waste audits by the City or its designated
representatives or contractors at the expense of the operator of the large
event or large venue. Based on such audits, the City may require additional
processing of solid waste generated by the event or venue at an additional cost
to the operator to meet the diversion goals of the City.
[Ord. No. 499, 5/26/10.]
CHAPTER 8.05
RECYCLING AND DIVERSION OF CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION (C&D) WASTE
Sections:
   
8.05.010   Findings, Purpose and Intent
   
8.05.020   Definitions
   
8.05.030   Diversion Requirement
   
8.05.040   Diversion Requirement Exemption
   
8.05.050   Thresholds for Covered Projects
   
8.05.060   Waste Management Plan (WMP)
   
8.05.070   Deposit Required
   
8.05.080   On-Site Practices
   
8.05.090   Reporting
   
8.05.100   Penalties; Fines
   
8.05.110   Appeals
   
8.05.120   Option to Revise
   
8.05.130   Fees
8.05.010 Findings, Purpose and Intent.
   A.   The City Council is committed to protecting the public health, safety,
welfare of the public, and the environment; and
   B.   In order to meet these goals, it is necessary that the City promote the
reduction of solid waste and reduce the stream of solid waste going to
landfills; and
   C.   Under California law, as embodied in the California Waste Management
Act of 1989 (California Public Resources Code Sections 40000 et seq.), the City
is required to prepare, adopt and implement source reduction and recycling
plans to reach landfill diversion goals, and is required to make substantial
reductions in the volume of waste materials going to landfills, or face fines
up to ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) per day; and
   D.   Waste from construction, demolition, and renovation of buildings
represents a significant portion of the volume of waste presently coming from
the City, and much of this waste is particularly suitable for recycling and
reuse; and
   E.   The City’s commitment to the reduction of waste requires the
establishment of programs for recycling and salvaging of construction and
demolition (“C&D”) waste; and
   F.   The purpose of this Chapter is to reduce landfill waste by requiring an
Applicant for every “Covered Project” to divert construction and demolition
debris resulting from that project in compliance with State and local statutory
goals and policies and to create a mechanism to secure compliance with the
stated diversion requirements.
8.05.020 Definitions.
For the purposes of this Chapter the following definitions apply:
   A.   “Applicant” means any individual, firm, limited liability company,
association, partnership, political subdivision, government agency,
municipality, industry, public or private corporation, or any other entity
whatsoever who applies to the City for the applicable permits to undertake any
construction, demolition, or renovation project within the City.
   B.   “City-Sponsored Project” means a project constructed by the City or a
project receiving fifty percent (50%) or more of its financing from the City.
   C.   “Contractor” means any person or entity holding, or required to hold, a
contractor’s license of any type under the laws of the State of California, or
who performs (whether as contractor, subcontractor or owner-builder) any
construction, demolition, remodeling, or landscaping service relating to
buildings or accessory structures in the City.
   D.   “Construction” means the building of any facility or structure or any
portion thereof including any tenant improvements to an existing facility or
structure.
   E.   “Construction and Demolition Material” (C&D Material) means building
materials and solid waste resulting from construction, remodeling, repair,
cleanup, or demolition operations that are not hazardous as defined in
California Code of Regulations, Title 22, Sections 66261.3 et seq. This term
includes, but is not limited to, asphalt, concrete, Portland cement, brick,
lumber, gypsum, wallboard, cardboard, and other associated packaging, roofing
material, ceramic tile, carpeting, plastic pipe and steel. The material may be
commingled with rock, soil, tree stumps, and other vegetative matter resulting
from land clearing and landscaping for construction or land development
projects.
   F.   “Conversion Rate” means the rate set forth in the standardized
Conversion Rate Table approved by the City pursuant to this Chapter for use in
estimating the volume or weight of materials identified in the Waste Management
Plan.
   G.   “Covered Project” shall have the meaning set forth in Section
8.05.050.
   H.   “Deconstruction” means the careful dismantling of buildings and
structures in order to salvage as much material as possible.
   I.   “Demolition” means the decimating, razing, ruining, tearing down or
wrecking of any facility, structure, pavement or building, whether in whole or
in part, whether interior or exterior.
   J.   “Deposit” means any performance bond, surety bond, money order, letter
of credit, certificate of deposit, or restricted bank account, provided to the
City in accordance with City requirements and/or State law.
   K.   “Disposal” means the final deposition of construction and demolition or
inert material, including but not limited to:
      1.   Stockpiling onto land of construction and demolition material that
has not been sorted for further processing or resale, if such stockpiling is
for a period of time greater than thirty (30) days, or
      2.   Stockpiling onto land of construction and demolition material that
has been sorted for further processing or resale, if such stockpiling is for a
period of time greater than one (1) year, or
      3.   Stockpiling onto land of inert material that is for a period of time
greater than one (1) year, or
      4.   Disposal of construction and demolition or inert material to a
landfill.
   L.   “Divert” means to use material for any purpose other than disposal in a
landfill or transformation facility.
   M.   “Diversion Requirement” means the diversion of at least fifty percent 
(50%) of the total C&D Material generated by a Project via reuse or recycling,
unless the Applicant has been granted an Exemption pursuant to Section
8.05.040, in which case the Diversion Requirement shall be the maximum feasible
diversion rate established by the Waste Management Plan Compliance Official in
relation to the project.
   N.   “Inert Disposal Facility/Inert Waste Landfill” means a disposal
facility that accepts only inert waste such as soil and rock, fully cured
asphalt paving, uncontaminated concrete (including fiberglass or steel
reinforcing rods embedded in the concrete), brick, glass, and ceramics, for
land disposal.
   O.   “Inert Solids/Inert Waste” means non-liquid solid resources including,
but not limited to, soil and concrete, that do not contain hazardous waste or
soluble pollutants at concentrations in excess of water quality objectives
established by a regional Water Board pursuant to Division 7 (Sections 13000 et
seq.) of the California Water Code and does not contain significant quantities
of decomposable solid resources.
   P.   “Mixed Material” means loads that include commingled recyclables and
non-recyclable materials generated at the project site.
   Q.   “Mixed Material Recycling Facility” means a processing facility that
accepts loads of mixed construction and demolition debris for the purpose of
recovering reusable and recyclable materials and disposing the non-recyclable
residual materials.
   R.   “Project” means any activity, which requires an application for a
building or demolition permit, or any similar permit from the City.
   S.   “Recycling” means the process of collecting, sorting, cleansing,
treating, and reconstituting materials for the purpose of using the altered
form in the manufacture of a new product. Recycling does not include burning,
incinerating, or thermally destroying solid waste.
   T.   “Renovation” means any change, addition or modification in an existing
structure.
   U.   “Reuse” means the use, in the same or similar form as it was produced,
of a material which might otherwise be discarded.
   V.   “Salvage” means the controlled removal of C&D Material from a permitted
building or construction site for the purposes of recycling, reuse, or storage
for later recycling or reuse.
   W.   “Separated for Reuse” means materials, including commingled
recyclables, that have been separated or kept separate from the solid waste
stream for the purpose of additional sorting or processing those materials for
reuse or recycling in order to return them to the economic mainstream in the
form of raw material for new, reused, or reconstituted products which meet the
quality standards necessary to be used in the marketplace, and includes Source
Separated Materials.
   X.   “Source Separated Materials” means materials that are sorted at the
site of generation by individual material type including commingled recyclable
materials for the purpose of recycling i.e., loads of concrete that are source
separated for delivery to a recycling facility.
   Y.   “Waste Hauler” means a company that possess a valid permit from the
City to collect and transport solid wastes from individuals or businesses for
the purpose of recycling or disposal under the City’s name.
   Z.   “Waste Management Plan” (“WMP”) means a completed Waste Management Plan
form, approved by the City for the purpose of compliance with this Chapter,
submitted by the Applicant for any Covered or Non-covered Project.
   AA.   “Waste Management Plan Compliance Officer” (“WMP Compliance Officer”)
means the Public Works Director or his/her designee.
8.05.030 Diversion Requirement.
It is required that at least fifty percent (50%) of waste tonnage from
construction, demolition, and renovation waste shall be diverted from disposal.
8.05.040 Diversion Requirement Exemption.
   A.   Application. If an Applicant for a Covered Project experiences
circumstances that the Applicant believes make it infeasible to comply with the
Diversion Requirement, the Applicant may apply for a Diversion Requirement
exemption at the time that he/she submits the WMP required under Section
8.05.060 of this Chapter.
   B.   Meeting with Compliance Official. The WMP Compliance Official shall
review the information supplied by the Applicant and may meet with the
Applicant to discuss feasible ways of meeting the Diversion Requirement. Based
on the information supplied by the Applicant, the WMP Compliance Official shall
determine whether it is feasible for the Applicant to meet the Diversion
Requirement.
   C.   Granting of Exemption. If the WMP Compliance Official determines that
it is infeasible for the Applicant to meet the Diversion Requirements, he/she
shall determine the maximum feasible diversion rate for waste generated by the
project and shall indicate the new Diversion Requirement the Applicant shall be
required to meet, and will inform the Applicant in writing of the new
requirement. The Applicant shall resubmit another WMP, which is in compliance
with the new Diversion Requirement. If the Applicant fails to resubmit, or if
the resubmitted WMP does not comply with Section 
8.05.060 herein, the WMP Compliance Official shall disapprove the WMP in
accordance with Section
8.05.060.
8.05.050 Thresholds for Covered Projects.
   A.   Covered Projects (Construction and Renovation). All construction and
renovation projects within the City that are one thousand (1,000) square feet
or greater shall comply with this Chapter, shall submit a WMP prior to
commencing any construction or demolition activities, and shall be subject to
the provisions of this Chapter. Failure to comply with any of the terms of this
Chapter shall subject the Project Applicant to the full range of enforcement
mechanisms set forth in Section
8.05.100.
   B.   Covered Projects (Demolition). All demolition projects within the City
that are one thousand (1,000) square feet or greater shall comply with this
Chapter, shall submit a WMP prior to commencing any demolition activities, and
shall be subject to the provisions of this Chapter. Failure to comply with any
of the terms of this Chapter shall subject the project applicant to the full
range of enforcement mechanisms set forth in Section
8.05.100.
   C.   Non-Covered Projects (Construction and Renovation). Applicants for
construction and renovation projects within the City whose projects are less
than one thousand (1,000) square feet are not required, but shall be
encouraged, to divert at least twenty-five percent (25%) of all project-related
construction and demolition waste.
   D.   Non-Covered Projects (Demolition). Applicants for demolition projects
within the City whose projects are less than one thousand (1,000) square feet
are not required, but shall be encouraged, to divert at least twenty-five
percent (25%) of all project-related demolition waste.
   E.   City-Sponsored Projects (Construction and Renovation). All City-
sponsored construction and renovation projects that are one thousand (1,000)
square feet or greater, shall be considered “Covered Projects” for the purposes
of this Chapter, shall submit a WMP prior to beginning any construction or
demolition activities, and shall be subjected to the provisions of this
Chapter. City sponsored construction and renovation projects that are less than
one thousand (1,000) square feet shall be considered Non-covered Projects and
are not required, but shall be encouraged, to divert at least twenty-five
percent (25%) of all project-related construction and demolition waste.
   F.   City-Sponsored Projects (Demolition). All City-sponsored demolition
projects that are one thousand (1,000) square feet or greater, shall be
considered “Covered Projects” for the purposes of this Chapter, shall submit a
WMP prior to beginning any demolition activities, and shall be subjected to the
provisions of this Chapter. City sponsored demolition projects that are less
than one thousand (1,000) square feet shall be considered Non-covered Projects
and are not required, but shall be encouraged, to divert at least twenty-five
percent (25%) of all project-related construction and demolition waste.
   G.   Deconstruction/Recovery Interval for Covered Demolition Projects. Every
Covered demolition project shall be made available for deconstruction, salvage,
and recovery prior to demolition. It shall be the responsibility of the
Applicant to recover the maximum feasible amount of designated recyclable and
reusable materials prior to demolition. In order to provide sufficient time for
deconstruction, salvage, and recovery, no demolition may take place until a
period of fifteen (15) working days has elapsed from the date of issuance of
the demolition permit. Recovered and salvaged designated recyclable and
reusable material from every project shall qualify to be counted in meeting
Diversion Requirements of Section
8.05.030. Recovered or salvaged designated recyclables and reusable materials
may be given away or sold on the premises, or may be removed to reuse
facilities for storage or sale.
   H.   Compliance with this Chapter shall be listed as a condition of approval
on any building or demolition permit issued for a Covered Project.
   I.   Exemptions. A diversion deposit and a WMP shall not be required for the
following projects:
      1.   Work for which a building or demolition permit is not required.
      2.   Roofing projects that do not include tear-off of existing roof.
      3.   Work for which only a plumbing, only an electrical, or only a
mechanical permit is required.
      4.   Seismic tie-down projects.
      5.   Projects where no structural building modifications are required.
      6.   Emergency demolition required to protect public health and safety.
NOTE : While not required, it shall be encouraged, that at least twenty-five
percent (25%) of all otherwise exempt project-related construction and
demolition waste from Exempt projects be diverted.
8.05.060 Waste Management Plan (WMP).
   A.   Prior to starting a covered project, every Applicant shall submit a
properly completed WMP to the WMP Compliance Official, in a form as prescribed
by that Official, as a portion of the building or demolition permit process.
The completed WMP shall contain the following:
      1.   The estimated volume or weight of project waste to be generated by
material type;
      2.   The maximum volume or weight of such materials that can be feasibly
be diverted via Reuse or Recycling by material type;
      3.   The vendor(s) that the Applicant proposes to use to haul Source
Separated Recyclables and the method of hauling C&D Waste, either the City’s
licensed franchised solid waste collector or the Applicant’s in house staff and
equipment as noted below.
      4.   Facility(ies) the materials will be hauled to and their expected
diversion rates by material type;
      5.   Estimated volume or weight of construction and demolition waste that
will be disposed.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person other than the City’s licensed franchised
solid waste collector to collect or haul any C&D Waste within the City except:
      1.   Source Separated Recyclables (e.g., wood, scrap metals, new drywall
scrap), which consist of materials that have been separated from general C&D
Waste for the express purpose of recycling. Loads consisting of recyclable
materials that contain more than ten percent (10%) of residual (non-recyclable)
materials shall not be considered source separated recyclable; or,
      2.   Construction and Demolition Waste that is:
         a.   Removed from a premises by a licensed contractor as an incidental
part of a total construction, remodeling or demolition service offered by that
contractor, and
         b.   Directly loaded onto a fixed body vehicle and hauled directly to
a transfer station or disposal facility.
   C.   Because actual material weights are not available in this stage,
estimates are used. In estimating the volume or weight of materials as
identified in the WMP, the Applicant shall use the standardized conversion
rates approved by the City for this purpose. Approval of the WMP as complete
and accurate shall be a condition precedent to the issuance of any building or
demolition permit. If the Applicant calculates the projected feasible diversion
rate as described above, and finds the rate does not meet the diversion goal,
the Applicant must then submit information supporting the lower diversion rate.
If this documentation is not included, the WMP shall be deemed incomplete.
      1.   Approval. No building or demolition permit shall be issued for any
Covered Project unless and until the WMP Compliance Official has approved the
WMP. Approval shall not be required, however, where emergency demolition is
required to protect public health or safety. The WMP Compliance Official shall
only approve a WMP if he/she determines that all of the following conditions
have been met:
         a.   The WMP provides all of the information set forth in this
Section.
         b.   The WMP indicates that fifty percent (50%) of all C&D Waste
generated by the project shall be diverted (or new diversion goal set in
accordance with the Applicant’s approved Diversion Exemption request); and
         c.   The Applicant has submitted an appropriate Deposit for the
project (if a deposit is required by this Chapter).
      2.   Non-Approval. If the WMP Compliance Official determines that the WMP
is incomplete or fails to indicate that at least fifty percent (50%) (or new
diversion goal set in accordance with the Applicant’s approved Diversion
Exemption request) of all C&D Waste generated by the project will be diverted,
he/she shall either:
         a.   Return the WMP to the Applicant marked “Disapproved,” including a
statement of reasons, and will notify the building department, which shall then
immediately stop processing the building or demolition permit application; or
         b.   Return the WMP to the Applicant marked “Further Explanation
Required.”
8.05.070 Deposit Required.
As a condition precedent to the issuance of any permit for construction or
demolition for a Covered Project, the Applicant shall post a deposit (cash,
letter of credit, performance or surety bond, money order) in the amount of
fifty dollars ($50.00) for each estimated one hundred (100) square feet of
project size or any part thereof, but not less than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or more than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00). The
deposit shall be returned, without interest, in total or prorated, upon proof
of satisfaction by the WMP Compliance Official that no less than the required
percentage of construction and demolition waste tonnage generated by the
Covered Project has been diverted from disposal and has been recycled or reused
or stored for later reuse or recycling. If a lesser percentage of construction
and demolition waste tonnage than required is diverted, a proportionate share
of the deposit shall be returned. The deposit shall be forfeited entirely or to
the prorated extent that there is a failure to comply with the requirements of
this Chapter. The City may, by formal resolution, modify the amount of the
required deposit.
8.05.080 On-Site Practices.
During the term of the Covered Project, the Applicant shall recycle and reuse
the required percentage of waste, and keep records of the tonnage or other
measurements approved by the City that can be converted to tonnage amounts. The
WMP Compliance Official will evaluate and may monitor each Covered Project to
determine the percentage of waste salvaged and recycled or reused from the
covered project. For Covered Projects including both construction and
demolition, diversion of materials shall be tracked and measured separately. To
the maximum extent feasible, project waste shall be separated on-site if this
practice increases diversion. For construction and/or demolition projects, on-
site separation shall include salvageable materials (e.g., appliances,
fixtures, plumbing, metals, etc.) and dimensional lumber, wallboard, concrete
and corrugated cardboard.
8.05.090 Reporting.
   A.   Within fifteen (15) working days following the completion of the
demolition phase of a Covered Project, and again within fifteen (15) days
following the completion of the construction phase of a Covered Project, the
Applicant shall, as a condition precedent to final inspection and to issuance
of any certificate of occupancy or final approval of project, submit
documentation to the WMP Compliance Official that proves compliance with the
requirements of Sections
8.05.060 and
8.05.030. The documentation shall consist of a final completed WMP showing
actual waste tonnage data, supported by original or certified photocopies of
receipts and weight tags or other records of measurement from recycling
companies, deconstruction contractors, and/or landfill and disposal companies.
Receipts and weight tags will be used to verify whether waste generated from
the Covered Project has been or is to be recycled, reused, salvaged or
disposed. The Applicant shall make reasonable efforts to ensure that all
designated recyclable and reuse waste salvaged or disposed is measured and
recorded using the most accurate method of measurement available.
   B.   To the extent practical, all construction and demolition waste shall be
weighed in compliance with all regulatory requirements for accuracy and
maintenance. For construction and demolition waste for which weighing is not
practical due to small size or other considerations, a volumetric measurement
shall be used. For conversion of volumetric measurements to weight, the
Applicant shall use the standardized conversion rates approved by the City for
this purpose. If a Covered Project involves both demolition and construction,
the report and documentation for the demolition project must be submitted and
approved by the WMP Compliance Official before issuance of a building permit
for the construction phase of a Covered Project. Alternatively, the Applicant
may submit a letter stating that no waste or recyclable materials were
generated from the Covered Project, in which case this statement shall be
subject to verification by the WMP Compliance Official. Any deposit posted
pursuant to Section 
8.05.070 shall be forfeited if the Applicant does not meet the timely reporting
requirements of this Section.
8.05.100 Penalties; Fines.
   A.   Each person, firm or corporation who fails to comply with any of the
requirements of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of
Title 1 of this Code and State law.
   B.   Each person, firm or corporation shall be guilty of a separate offense
for each and every day during any portion of which any violation of any
provision of this Chapter is committed, continued or permitted by such person
and shall be punishable accordingly.
   C.   Each violation of the provisions of this Chapter shall constitute a
public nuisance and be subject to abatement as such, pursuant to the provisions
of this Title. The costs of abatement of any such nuisance shall be a lien upon
the property involved.
8.05.110 Appeals.
The Applicant or any interested person may appeal a decision of the WMP
Compliance Official made pursuant to this Chapter to the City Council by filing
a written appeal with the City Clerk, within ten (10) business days from the
date of the ruling of the WMP Compliance Official. Determinations subject to
appeal would include, but not necessarily be limited to: (1) the granting or
denial of an exemption; (2) whether the Applicant has acted in good faith; and
(3) the amount of deposit to be released. The City Council shall render its
decision after the close of the appeal hearing and its decision shall be final,
subject to review pursuant to Sections 1094.6 et seq. of the Code of Civil
Procedure.
8.05.120 Option to Revise.
Beginning one (1) year from the effective date of this Chapter, the City will
evaluate the effectiveness of this Chapter in reducing the amount of C&D Waste
disposed. In this determination, the City will consider issues such as the
amount of C&D Waste disposed, volume of C&D activity, markets for C&D waste,
and other barriers encountered by Applicants. If the City determines the C&D
disposed had the potential for diversion, then the City Council may amend these
provisions and implement the necessary measures to divert more C&D Waste.
8.05.130 Fees.
As a condition precedent to issuance of any permit for a building or a
demolition permit that involves the production of solid waste destined to be
delivered to a landfill, the Applicant shall pay to the City a cash fee
sufficient to compensate the City for all expenses incurred in administering
the permit. The amount of this fee shall be determined in accordance with the
then current resolution of the City Council determining the same.
[Ord. No. 420, adopted 8/25/04.]
CHAPTER 8.10
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Sections:
   
8.10.010   Hazardous Waste Management Siting Requirements
   
8.10.020   Hazardous Materials Release Response Plans and Inventory
   
8.10.030   Underground Storage of Hazardous Substances
8.10.010 Hazardous Waste Management Siting Requirements.
   A.   All land use decisions, whether determined by City staff, City
consultants, the various boards and commissions of the City, or the City
Council shall, in all applicable respects, conform to the County of San
Bernardino Hazardous Waste Management Plan as approved by the State of
California Department of Health Services.
   B.   The City retains the authority to attach appropriate conditions to the
issuance of any land use permit for a hazardous waste facility in order to
protect the public health, safety and welfare; and further, the City retains
the authority to establish more stringent planning requirements or siting
criteria than those specified in the County of San Bernardino Hazardous Waste
Management Plan.
   C.   Severability. The City Council declares that, should any provision,
section, paragraph, sentence or word of the San Bernardino County Hazardous
Waste Management Plan adopted be rendered or declared invalid by any court of
competent jurisdiction or by reason of any preemptive legislation, the
remaining provisions, sections, paragraphs, sentences or words of the San
Bernardino County Hazardous Waste Management Plan adopted shall remain in full
force and effect.
8.10.020 Hazardous Materials Release Response Plans and Inventory.
   A.   The City does assume responsibility for the implementation of the
provisions of Cal. Health and Safety Code, Div. 20, Ch. 6.95, being §§ 25500
through 25546.5, and designates the Adelanto Fire Department as the
administering agency responsible for administering and enforcing such
provisions of said Chapter 6.95 within the boundaries of the City.
   B.   The schedule of fines and imprisonment set forth in California Health
and Safety Code Section 25515 shall continue to be specifically applicable to
persons and businesses within the boundaries of the City.
   C.   The definitions, standards, procedures and requirements as set forth in
Chapter 6.95 of the California Health and Safety Code, and the specific
guidelines adopted thereunder, are adopted as those regulations governing
hazardous materials release response plans and inventory for the City.
   D.   The City Council shall establish by resolution a schedule of fees to be
paid by persons using or handling hazardous materials which are sufficient to
cover the costs to the City of administering the provisions of this Section.
   E.   If any subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Section is for
any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of any court of
competent jurisdiction or preempted by state legislation, such decision or
legislation shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
Section. The City Council declares that it would have passed this Section and
each and every subsection, sentence, clause or phrase not declared invalid or
unconstitutional without regard to any such decision or preemptive legislation.
8.10.030 Underground Storage of Hazardous Substances.
   A.   The City does assume responsibility for the implementation of the
provisions of Cal. Health and Safety Code, Div. 20, Ch. 6.7, being §§ 25280 -
25299.8, and designates the Adelanto Fire Department as the administering
agency responsible for administering and enforcing such provisions of said
Chapter 6.7 within the boundaries of the City.
   B.   The definitions, standards, procedures and requirements as set forth in
Cal. Health and Safety Code, Div. 20, Ch. 6.7, being §§ 25280 - 25299.8, and
the specific guidelines adopted thereunder, are adopted as those regulations
governing the underground storage of hazardous substances within the City.
   C.   The City Council shall establish by resolution a schedule of fees to be
paid by persons using or handling hazardous substances in underground storage
containers which are sufficient to cover the costs to the City of administering
the provisions of this Section.
   D.   If any Subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Section is for
any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of any court of
competent jurisdiction or preempted by state legislation, such decision or
legislation shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
Section. The City Council declares that it would have passed this Section and
each and every Subsection, sentence, clause or phrase not declared invalid or
unconstitutional without regard to any such decision or preemptive legislation.
CHAPTER 8.15
VEHICLE ABATEMENT AND REMOVAL
Sections:
   
8.15.010   Authority
   
8.15.020   Definitions
   
8.15.030   Public Nuisances
   
8.15.040   Exceptions
   
8.15.050   Chapter Supplement to Existing Law
   
8.15.060   Prohibited Uses
   
8.15.070   Duty to Abate
   
8.15.080   Emergency Abatement and Other Services
   
8.15.090   Abatement Procedures for Vehicles which are a Public Nuisance
   
8.15.120   Payment for Abatement of Abandoned Vehicles
   
8.15.130   Disposal of Vehicles which are a Public Nuisance
   
8.15.140   Abatement Procedures for Vehicles which are Abandoned
   
8.15.150   Abatement Procedures for Abandoned Vehicles which are Valued at
Greater than Three Hundred Dollars ($300.00)
   
8.15.160   Procedure for Redemption of Vehicles
   
8.15.170   Authorization to Enforce Vehicle Code Provisions
   
8.15.180   Determination of Estimated Value of Vehicles
8.15.010 Authority.
   A.   Pursuant to the authority cited in this Code, California Vehicle Code
Sections 22660 and 22669, California Government Code Section 25845, and the
authority granted by the State and California Constitution art. XI, Section 7,
the City Council authorizes the City Manager and his/her designated employees
to enforce the provisions of this Chapter relating to abatement and removal of
vehicles. This authority includes the right to enter private or public property
for the purposes specified in this Chapter, to examine a vehicle or parts
thereof, to obtain information as to the identity of a vehicle and remove or
cause the removal of a vehicle or part thereof declared to be a nuisance.
   B.   Any person interfering with or refusing entry to property to any City
or contracted service employee performing duties under this Chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon arrest and conviction, shall be punished by a
fine not in excess of five hundred dollars ($500.00), and imprisonment of not
more than ninety (90) days, or both. This includes all attempts to retrieve,
remove or relocate vehicles at the onset of or during the abatement and removal
process by the County and/or its contractors.
8.15.020 Definitions.
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words and phrases are defined
and shall be construed as hereinafter set forth, unless it is apparent from the
context that a different meaning was intended. Any gender reference to “his”
shall include “her.”
   A.   “Attractive Nuisance” means any condition which may prove detrimental
to a person under eighteen (18) of age that could result in bodily harm or
involuntary confinement to said person, whether in a building, on the premises
of a building, or on an unoccupied lot. This may include but not be limited to
any abandoned wells, shafts, basements, excavations, abandoned refrigerators
and motor vehicles; or any structurally unsound fences or structures; or any
lumber, trash, fences, debris or vegetation which may prove a hazard for
inquisitive minors.
   B.   “Building Code” is the Uniform Building Code promulgated by the
International Conference of Building Officials, as adopted by this
jurisdiction.
   C.   “Code Enforcement Action” means any action undertaken for the
enforcement of this Chapter. A code enforcement action or proceeding for the
abatement of a public nuisance is commenced when a notice of public nuisance is
issued.
   D.   “Code Enforcement Officer” means the Building Official for the City or
his/her designee in the enforcement of any provision of this Chapter.
   E.   “Code Violation” means violation of this Chapter.
   F.   “Congregate Residences” is any building or portion thereof which
contains facilities for living, sleeping and sanitation, as required by this
Code, and may include facilities for eating and cooking, for occupancy by other
than a family. A congregate residence may be a shelter, convert, monastery,
dormitory, fraternity or sorority house but does not include jails, hospitals,
nursing homes, hotels or lodging houses.
   G.   “Efficiency Dwelling Unit” is a dwelling unit containing only one (1)
habitable room.
   H.   “Electrical Code” is the National Electrical Code promulgated by the
National Fire Protection Association, as adopted by this jurisdiction.
   I.   “Hot Water” is hot water supplied to plumbing fixtures at a temperature
of not less than one hundred ten (110) degrees Fahrenheit (F).
   J.   “Inoperative Vehicle” is any vehicle that is missing any part,
component, or equipment that would prevent the vehicle from being driving under
its own power or prevent said vehicle from being operated legally and safely on
a highway, roadway, or public street, or any vehicle not currently licensed,
smog certified, and/or registered. A non-operational vehicle is an inoperable
vehicle and shall be stored in an enclosed garage.
   K.   “Lodging House” is any building or portion thereof containing not more
than five (5) guest rooms where rent is paid in money, goods, labor or
otherwise.
   L.   “Mechanical Code” is the Uniform Mechanical Code promulgated by the
International Conference of Building Officials, as adopted by this
jurisdiction.
   M.   “Owner” means the person in whom is vested the ownership or title of
real property as evidenced by official records of the San Bernardino County
Assessor’s or Recorder’s office, or the City of Adelanto.
   N.   “Person” means any individual, receiver, trustee, principal, agent,
firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or organization of any
kind, or any combination thereof.
   O.   “Personal Property” means everything that is the subject of ownership,
not coming under the definition of real property,
   P.   “Plumbing Code” is the Uniform Plumbing Code, as adopted by this
jurisdiction.
   Q.   “Public Nuisance” means, unless otherwise indicated, any unlawful
condition, use or activity as set forth in the Codes and ordinances of the City
of Adelanto.
   R.   “Responsible Person” means the person, who a code enforcement official
believes, is causing, performing, permitting to exist or otherwise maintaining,
a public nuisance and includes the owner of the real property involved and
tenant, occupant or user thereof, or any other person in real or appearance
charge or control of said real property.
   S.   “Tenant” means a person who, pursuant to a lease, rental agreement or
other contractual right, has possession or use, or the right to possession or
use, of real property or structures thereon.
   T.   “Vehicle” is any device by which any person or property may be
propelled, moved or drawn, excepting a device moved by human power or used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
8.15.030 Public Nuisances.
Pursuant to the determination made, and the authority granted by the State
under California Vehicle Code Section 22660 to abate and remove abandoned,
dismantled, inoperative, junked, and wrecked vehicles, and or parts thereof as
public nuisances, and in accordance with the City’s constitutional police power
authority, the City Council makes the following findings and declaration:
The accumulation and storage of dismantled, wrecked, inoperative, junked,
abandoned vehicles or parts thereof, on private or public property (other than
streets and highways which are regulated by the Vehicle Code) is found to
create a condition tending to reduce the value of private and public property,
to promote blight and deterioration, to invite plundering, to create fire
hazards, to constitute an attractive nuisance creating a hazard to the health
and safety of minors, to create a harborage for rodents and insects and to be
injurious to the health, safety and general welfare of the public. Therefore,
the presence of abandoned, dismantled, inoperative, junked or wrecked vehicles
or parts thereof on private or public property (other than on streets, public
roadways, alleys, rights-of-way and highways) in the City limits of Adelanto
except as expressly permitted in this Chapter, is declared to constitute a
public nuisance which may be abated as such in accordance with the provisions
of this Chapter.
8.15.040 Exceptions.
This Chapter shall not apply to any vehicle or parts thereof which is
completely enclosed within a building consisting of four (4) walls and roof in
a lawful manner, where such vehicle is not visible from the street or other
public or private property or a vehicle or parts thereof which is stored or
parked in a lawful manner on property used in connection with the business of a
licensed dismantler, garage, vehicle dealer or junkyard. This exception shall
not authorize the maintenance of a public or private nuisance as defined under
the provisions of law other than this Chapter.
8.15.050 Chapter Supplement to Existing Law.
This Chapter is not the exclusive regulation of abandoned, dismantled,
inoperative, junked or wrecked vehicles or parts thereof, or public nuisances
within the City. It shall supplement and be in addition to the other regulatory
codes, statutes and ordinances heretofore or hereafter enacted by the City, the
State, or any other legal entity or agency having jurisdiction.
8.15.060 Prohibited Uses.
Any abandoned, dismantled, inoperative, junked or wrecked vehicles or parts
thereof, or fully or partially disassembled vehicles (including vehicles
without hoods, fenders, engines, body panels, headlights, trunk lids, wheels,
windows or windshields) when placed or kept for more than seventy-two (72)
hours in residential, commercial or industrial sites (except licensed vehicle
impound storage yards, garages, vehicle dealers, junkyards and/or dismantling
yards), and visible from outside the parcel of land upon which such is or are
kept, is prohibited and constitutes a violation of this Chapter.
8.15.070 Duty to Abate.
No person shall cause, permit, maintain, conduct or otherwise allow an
abandoned, dismantled, inoperative, junked or wrecked vehicle or parts thereof
to be openly stored, within the City. It shall be the duty of every owner and/
or occupant, in control of any land located within the City to remove, abate,
and prevent the recurrence of open storage of such a vehicle. Any recurrence of
such condition of a specific vehicle on the same property may be deemed a
continuation of the original condition and additional notification requirements
under Sections
8.15.090 and
8.15.170 shall not be required.
8.15.080 Emergency Abatement and Other Services.
   A.   Emergency Abatement. When a vehicle defined by this Chapter as a public
nuisance constitutes an immediate hazard or threat of harm and the situation
calls for abatement sooner than the abatement procedures herein allow, code
enforcement or the Police Department may take or cause emergency removal of
such nuisance with such notice to parties concerned, or without notice, as the
particular circumstances reasonably allow. Required notification procedures
prior to disposal of such vehicle(s) shall be followed.
   B.   Request for Service. If any member of the public, except self storage
operators, requests code enforcement in writing to remove abandoned,
dismantled, inoperative, junked or wrecked vehicles or parts thereof, code
enforcement is authorized to provide processing and removal for a fee which
covers all code enforcement costs. The removed abandoned, dismantled,
inoperative, junked or wrecked vehicles or parts thereof, through transfer of
title or lien sale process shall become the property of the City and such will
be the responsibility of the City to dispose of according to law.
   C.   Complaints. Code enforcement will investigate anonymous complaints
associated with abandoned, dismantled, inoperative, junked or wrecked vehicles
or parts thereof. The complaint may be by telephone or in writing and must have
situs address and/or assessor parcel number with a description of the
violation. The process referring to “notice of intent to abate and remove” will
be utilized for abatement if such is determined to be appropriate.
8.15.090 Abatement Procedures for Vehicles Which are a Public Nuisance.
   A.   A ten (10) day “notice of intent to abate and remove” shall be given to
the property owner to remove the vehicle or parts thereof, as a public
nuisance, unless the property owner and the owner of the vehicle have signed
releases authorizing removal and waiving further interest in the vehicle or
part thereof. Notification shall be given either by personal delivery or
posting the property, and shall be mailed by registered or certified mail
addressed to the property owner at his/her last known business or residence
address as the same appears in the public records of the last equalized
assessment roll, and to the last registered and/or legal owner of the vehicle
by registered or certified mail to the last address listed with the Department
of Motor Vehicles. If such a vehicle is in such condition that identification
numbers are not available to determine ownership, notice need not be given to
the last registered and/or legal owner of the vehicle.
   B.   The notice shall be substantially as follows:
      “You are hereby notified to abate this public nuisance by removal of the
vehicle(s) or parts thereof within ten (10) days from the date of mailing of
this notice. If you fail to do so, the public nuisance and such dismantled,
wrecked, junked, inoperative, abandoned vehicles or parts thereof, will be
abated and removed by the City’s Code Enforcement Department and/or contract
services and all the costs for abatement and removal, together with
administrative costs, may be assessed to the legal owner of the land on which
the public nuisance and such dismantled, junked, abandoned, inoperative vehicle
or parts thereof are located.”
   C.   The notice shall also set forth the procedures and time period for
filing an appeal. The notice shall contain a statement of the hearing rights of
the owner of the property on which the vehicle is located and of the owner of
the vehicle. The statement shall include notice to the property owner that he/
she may appear in person at a hearing or may submit a sworn statement denying
responsibility for the presence of the vehicle on the land, with his/her
reasons for such denial, in lieu of appearing.
   D.   If the nuisance is not abated and a request for hearing has not been
received within the time period given in the notice, code enforcement is
authorized to abate the nuisance.
   E.   A “notice of intent to abate and remove” shall not be required for
removal of a vehicle or parts thereof which is inoperable due to the absence of
a motor, transmission or wheels and incapable of being towed; is valued at less
than two hundred dollars ($200.00); and is determined to be a public nuisance
presenting an immediate threat to public health or safety; provided, that the
property owner has signed a release authorizing removal and waiving further
interest in the vehicle or parts thereof. Notice of intent to dispose of the
vehicle or parts thereof shall be provided to the last registered and legal
owners prior to final disposition. If the vehicle or parts thereof are not
claimed and removed within twelve (12) days after the notice is mailed, code
enforcement may authorize disposal of the vehicle and parts thereof. This
Subsection shall only apply to inoperable vehicles located upon a parcel that
is either zoned for agricultural use or is not improved with a residential
structure containing one (1) or more dwelling units.
   F.   Notice shall be given to the Department of Motor Vehicles within five
(5) days after the date of removal of vehicles under this Section, identifying
the vehicle or parts thereof and any evidence of registration available,
including, but not limited to, the registration card, certificates of ownership
or license plates.
   G.   No vehicle which has been abated or removed as a public nuisance shall
thereafter be reconstructed or made operable unless it is a vehicle which
qualifies for either horseless carriage license plates or historical vehicle
license plates.
   H.   Code enforcement and/or contract services shall not be liable for
damage caused to a vehicle or parts thereof by removal pursuant to this
Section.
8.15.120 Payment for Abatement of Abandoned Vehicles.
The abandonment of any vehicle on public or private property shall constitute a
prima facie presumption that the last registered owner of record is responsible
for the abandonment and is thereby liable for the cost of removal and
disposition of the vehicle. The City Manager and his/her designated employees
shall present to the registered owner of the vehicle a demand for payment of
the costs required for removal and disposition of the vehicle, not to exceed
those for towing and seven (7) days of storage. If payment is not made on
behalf of the registered owner of the vehicle within sixty (60) days after
mailing of such bill, the building official may issue an abandoned vehicle
citation and/or notify the Department of Motor Vehicles.
8.15.130 Disposal of Vehicles Which are a Public Nuisance.
If a vehicle and parts thereof are removed from a property as a public
nuisance, the vehicle or parts thereof shall be disposed of by removal to a
scrap yard, licensed automobile dismantler’s yard or any suitable site
determined by code enforcement for processing as scrap.
8.15.140 Abatement Procedures for Vehicles Which are Abandoned.
   A.   If an abandoned vehicle and parts thereof are removed from a property
and the estimated value of the vehicle is three hundred dollars ($300.00) or
less, a notice which states that the vehicle will be removed by code
enforcement shall be securely attached to the vehicle not less than seventy-two
(72) hours before the vehicle is removed. Immediately after removal of the
vehicle, code enforcement and/or contract services shall notify the Stolen
Vehicle System of the Department of Justice in Sacramento of the removal.
   B.   Within forty-eight (48) hours of the removal, excluding weekends and
holidays, a notice shall be sent to the registered and legal owner(s) of the
vehicle by registered or certified mail to the last address listed with the
Department of Motor Vehicles, and to any other person known to have an interest
in the vehicle. This notice shall include the following information:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of code enforcement;
      2.   The location of the place of storage and description of the vehicle
which shall include, if available, make, license plate number, vehicle
identification number and mileage;
      3.   The authority and purpose for removing the vehicle;
      4.   A statement that the vehicle will be disposed of fifteen (15) days
from the date of the notice;
      5.   A statement that the owner(s) and interested person(s), or their
agent(s), have an opportunity for a post-storage hearing if the request is made
in person, in writing, or by telephone within ten (10) days from the date of
the notice;
      6.   Any requested hearings shall be conducted by the City Manager or a
duly authorized designee, who shall act as the hearing officer, on the question
of abatement and removal of the vehicle or parts thereof as an abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle, and/or the assessment of the
administrative costs and the cost of removal of the vehicle or parts thereof
against the property on which it is/was located.
   C.   Failure of either the registered or legal owner(s) or interested person
(s) or their agent(s) to request or to attend a scheduled hearing shall satisfy
due process post-storage hearing requirements.
   D.   If, after fifteen (15) days from the notification date, the vehicle
remains unclaimed and the towing and storage fees have not been paid, and if no
request for a post-storage hearing was made or a post-storage hearing was not
attended, code enforcement may authorize disposal of the vehicle.
   E.   If the names and addresses of the registered and legal owner(s) of the
vehicle are not available from the records of the Department of Motor Vehicles,
code enforcement may authorize disposal of the vehicle at any time after the
removal.
   F.   Disposal of the vehicle may only be to a licensed dismantler or scrap
iron processor. A vehicle disposed of pursuant to this Section shall not be
reconstructed or made operable, unless it is a vehicle which qualifies for
either horseless carriage or historical vehicle license plates.
8.15.150 Abatement Procedures for Abandoned Vehicles Which are Valued at
Greater than Three Hundred Dollars ($300.00).
After the abatement and removal process described in Section
8.15.140 has occurred, and the post-storage notification requirements described
in Section
8.15.140 have been met, a lien sale will be conducted on every removed,
abandoned vehicle with a value of over three hundred dollars ($300.00), and
such sale will be carried out if all fees and costs for the removal, storage
and application for lien sale have not been paid and the vehicle has not been
redeemed by the registered or legal owner of the vehicle. Once legal ownership
has been transferred to the City by lien sale, the vehicle(s) or parts thereof
will be sold on a regular scheduled date by an auction or other authorized,
legal method permitted for the City.
8.15.160 Procedure for Redemption of Vehicles.
   A.   A vehicle which is valued at three hundred dollars ($300.00) or less,
and which has been removed from a property by code enforcement and/or contract
services as an abandoned vehicle, may be redeemed by the registered or legal
owner of the vehicle after payment of reasonable removal and storage costs,
excluding lien sale costs, within fifteen (15) days of the mailing date of
notification of removal.
   B.   A vehicle which is valued at three hundred dollars ($300.00) or less,
and which has been removed from a property by code enforcement and/or contract
services as a public nuisance, may be redeemed by the registered or legal owner
of the vehicle after payment of reasonable removal, storage and lien sale costs
within ten (10) days of the date of removal.
   C.   A vehicle which is valued at greater than three hundred dollars
($300.00), and which has been removed from a property by code enforcement and/
or contract services, may be redeemed by the registered or legal owner of the
vehicle after payment of reasonable removal, storage and lien sale costs,
within fifteen (15) days of the mailing date of notification of removal if
abated as an abandoned vehicle and within thirty (30) days of removal if abated
as a public nuisance.
   D.   In no case shall the costs charged to the legal or registered owner for
removal and disposition of an abandoned vehicle under this Section exceed those
for towing and seven (7) days storage.
8.15.170 Authorization to Enforce Vehicle Code Provisions.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, the City Manager and his
or her designated employees, and the code enforcement officer(s) of the City
are authorized to remove abandoned and unattended vehicles pursuant to the
provisions of Vehicle Code Section 22669. In exercising this authority, they
shall follow all procedural and legal requirements applicable to said
provisions.
8.15.180 Determination of Estimated Value of Vehicles.
For lien sale purposes, the code enforcement officer shall determine the
estimated value of vehicles and maintain proper documentation and give
notifications as required by the California Vehicle Code with respect to
vehicles which are abated and removed under this Chapter. Code enforcement
shall determine whether the estimated value of vehicle that has been ordered
removed, towed or stored is three hundred dollars ($300.00) or less; or over
three hundred dollars ($300.00) but less than or equal to one thousand dollars
($1,000.00); or over one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). All regularly employed
and salaried employees of code enforcement (including contract employees) are
authorized to make appraisals to determine the value of vehicles abated or
removed under this Chapter.
CHAPTER 8.20
WATER CONSERVATION PLAN
Sections:
   
8.20.010   Findings
   
8.20.020   Purpose
   
8.20.030   Water Regulations
   
8.20.040   Exceptions
   
8.20.050   Penalties; Fine
   
8.20.060   Violations of Chapter Declared a Nuisance
8.20.010 Findings.
The City Council finds that by reason of the overdraft of the water table from
which the City takes its domestic water supply, and because of the current
problem existing with respect to the over use of the waste of water in
connection with the irrigation of landscape and other outdoor vegetation, lawns
and other growth, it is necessary to adopt and enforce a water conservation
plan to conserve the water supplies of the City for the greatest public benefit
with particular regard to domestic use, sanitation, and fire protection; and it
is the intent of the City Council to achieve at least an approximately ten
percent (10%) reduction in water use.
8.20.020 Purpose.
The City finds that certain water uses regulated or prohibited in this Chapter
are non-essential and if allowed would constitute waste of water.
8.20.030 Water Regulations.
   A.   No water user within the City shall knowingly make, cause, use, or
permit the use of water for residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural
or any other purpose in the manner contrary to any provision of this Chapter
and the City’s Landscape Water Conservation Ordinance.
   B.   All water users in the City shall abide by the following water
conservation measures:
      1.   The use of water for any purpose shall not result in flooding or
unnecessary runoff in gutters, driveways, streets or adjacent lands.
      2.   Lawns, trees, shrubs, and other landscaping shall not be watered
beyond what they need for growth and to sustain life, and water shall not be
permitted to pool or to run off property onto streets or adjacent land.
      3.   Sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking areas, patios, porches or
verandas or any other like area shall not be washed off with water from hoses
or by any other means. The exception to this shall be the washing of flammable
or other similar dangerous substances that require direct hose flushing using
recognized safety control measures for the benefit of the public health and
safety. Notification to the City of such wash down is required.
      4.   Water, sprinkling, aerial watering or irrigating of any landscaped
or vegetated areas, including lawns, trees, shrubs, grass, ground cover,
plants, vines, gardens, vegetables, flowers, or other landscaping shall not
occur between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. during the months of April
through September; provided, however, that these restrictions shall not apply
to hand-held hose or drip irrigation systems or to establishment of new lawns,
landscaping, or gardens.
      5.   Non-commercial washing of privately owned vehicles, trailers, motor
homes, buses, boats and mobile homes is prohibited except from a bucket, and
except that a hose equipped with an automatic shut-off nozzle may be used for a
quick rinse.
      6.   Water shall not be used to clean, fill, operate or maintain levels
in decorative fountains unless such water is for replenishment of a recycling
system.
      7.   Water lines, faucets, and other facilities shall be maintained so
that they do not leak water. Existing leaks shall be repaired in a timely
manner.
      8.   Restaurants, other food establishments, or other public places where
food is served, shall not routinely provide glasses of drinking water to
customers unless specifically requested by the customer.
      9.   Water for construction purposes including, but not limited to,
debrushing of vacant land, compaction of fills and pads, trench backfill and
other construction uses, shall be used in an efficient manner. The use of
aerial type sprinklers is not recommended but, if used, shall not be operated
between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
      10.   All new residential, commercial and industrial construction shall
be equipped with low-flush toilets and low-flow showers and faucets.
      11.   Water used for cooling systems must be recycled to the extent
possible.
      12.   Evaporation resistant covers are required for all new swimming
pools and hot tubs and are encouraged to be installed for existing pools. The
covers required by this Chapter shall, at the time of purchase, installation
and all subsequent maintenance, meet or exceed current standards and
specifications for swimming pool, spa and hot tub covers adopted by the
American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM).
      13.   Hotels/motels are required to post a notice in substantially the
form provided by the City urging guests to conserve water.
      14.   All current and future water customers are encouraged to install
flow restrictors or pressure reducers and to install toilet tank displacement
devices (dams, bottles or bags), and as appliances or fixtures wear out,
replace them with water-saving models.
      15.   Parks, schools, golf courses, cemeteries, school grounds and all
public use lands shall not irrigate between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00
p.m. during the months of April through September inclusive and are encouraged
to use water conservation irrigation equipment.
      16.   The use of drought tolerant or native plant material is encouraged
for exterior landscaping in all new residential construction, and required for
new commercial and industrial construction.
      17.   The use of low precipitation sprinkler heads, bubblers, drip
irrigation and timing devices are required in the exterior landscaping in all
new residential, commercial and industrial construction.
      18.   At least fifty percent (50%) of all new model homes shall include
as a part of the exterior landscape development low water use, drought-tolerant
or native plants.
      19.   Projects, including Commercial and Planned Unit Developments, which
utilize recycled water from sewage treatment or agricultural operations, may
receive an exemption from Subsections 15. through 18. of this Section by
approval of the City Council.
8.20.040 Exceptions.
The prohibited or restricted uses of water under this Chapter shall not be
applicable in those instances when the City Manager or his/her designee finds:
(1) the use is essential to avoid an undue hardship for a water user; (2)
special circumstances exist for a particular water user, as distinguished from
other water users, which justify allowing an exception; (3) the use is
essential for required government or public utility services, including but not
limited to police protection, fire protection, sanitation, and other critical
or emergency services; or (4) the use is essential to maintain the public
health and safety.
8.20.050 Penalties; Fine.
   A.   Any person who violates any provision or who fails to comply with any
of the requirement of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 1.20 of this Code.
   B.   In addition to, and separate from the criminal sanctions set forth
above, the first violation of provisions regarding storage, placement and
removal of residential solid waste containers and receptacles (Sections
8.01.100.B. and 8.01.310.J.) shall receive a written warning; for subsequent
violations at the same address, a twenty dollar ($20.00) civil fine shall be
imposed and collected through the Water and Sanitation bill.
8.20.060 Violations of Chapter Declared a Nuisance.
All violations of any portion of this Chapter are declared to be a public
nuisance and may be abated as such in the manner provided by law and pursuant
to Chapters
1.20 and
8.25 of this Code.
CHAPTER 8.25
PUBLIC NUISANCES
Sections:
   
8.25.010   Purpose
   
8.25.020   Unlawful Public Nuisances
   
8.25.030   Abatement of Public Nuisance Generally
   
8.25.040   Notification of Public Nuisance
   
8.25.050   Administrative Hearing to Abate Nuisance
   
8.25.060   Notice of Hearing
   
8.25.070   Administrative Hearing by City Manager
   
8.25.080   Abatement Procedure in Absence of Appeal
   
8.25.090   Appeal Procedure - Hearing by City Council
   
8.25.100   Decision by City Council
   
8.25.110   Service of Order to Abate
   
8.25.120   Hearing Procedure Before City Manager and City Council
   
8.25.130   Abatement by City
   
8.25.140   Filing of Judicial Action - Limitation
   
8.25.150   Demolition Authorized When
   
8.25.160   Notice of Intent to Demolish
   
8.25.170   Cost Recovery
   
8.25.180   [Repealed]
   
8.25.190   [Repealed]
   
8.25.200   [Repealed]
   
8.25.210   [Repealed]
   
8.25.220   [Repealed]
   
8.25.230   Emergency Abatement - Authority - Notice
   
8.25.240   Emergency Abatement - Notice to City Council
   
8.25.250   Alternative Actions Available - Violation an Infraction
   
8.25.260   Violation and Penalties - Enforcement Authority
8.25.010 Purpose.
Blight, consisting of fire hazards, polluted air and water, abandoned vehicles
and improperly maintained property, among others, creates an unsightly
appearance, creates a hazard to the public health, safety and welfare, and is a
nuisance. It is hereby declared to be in the public interest to promote the
public health, safety and welfare of the residents of the City by providing a
procedure for the abatement of nuisances which shall be in addition to all
other procedures allowed by this Code or any other manner provided by law.
8.25.020 Unlawful Public Nuisances.
Each and every one of the following conditions or acts is declared to be a
public nuisance:
   A.   Trash and Debris. Accumulated trash and debris shall be declared a
public nuisance and shall not be kept, stored, or maintained by any person
owning, leasing, occupying, or having charge or possession of any real
property. It shall also be considered a public nuisance for any person to dump,
drop, bury, or otherwise dispose of trash and/or debris on public or private
property not under ownership of said person. Trash and debris shall include,
but not be limited to, boxes, containers, broken or discarded furniture,
household goods, appliances, inoperable equipment and/or machine parts,
clothing, cans, bottles, lumber, wood, metals, garbage, rags, discarded
bedding, plastics, tires, refuse, animal wastes not picked up on a weekly
basis, excessive amounts of yard and tree trimmings, and any other material
which interferes with the neighbors’ reasonable enjoyment of their property.
      1.   Exceptions.
         a.   Materials safely stored within a legally permitted structure not
violating any other provisions of this Code;
         b.   Firewood (five [5] cords or less) stored on site for use entirely
by the building occupants on site;
         c.   Material storage permitted by other provisions of this Code;
         d.   Materials which are bundled, boxed, or stored and waiting for the
next available removal by the franchised waste hauler;
         e.   Refuse or containers or receptacles for refuse placed in the
public street or right-of-way in accordance with Section 8.01.300.C.
   B.   Inoperative Vehicles. Inoperative vehicles as described in Section 
8.15.020 are declared a public nuisance and shall not be kept, stored or
maintained by any person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge or
possession of any real property. Inoperative vehicles shall include the
presence of any abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle or parts
thereof on public or private property, not including highways. This Section
shall not preclude any other legal method enacted by the City or State to
remove abandoned vehicles.
      1.   Exceptions.
         a.   Vehicles or parts completely enclosed within buildings permitted
for such use and not visible from the public right-of-way or public or private
property;
         b.   Vehicles or parts thereof, legally stored or parked on private
property in connection with a licensed vehicle dealer, licensed dismantler,
licensed junk dealer, or when such storage or parking is necessary to the
operations of a lawfully established business;
         c.   Not more than two (2) vehicles may be stored in a rear yard area
at least fifteen (15) feet from any residence, if not encroaching within the
building setback areas.
   C.   Health and Safety. The following health and safety concerns are
declared a public nuisance and shall not be kept, stored, maintained or allowed
by any person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge or possession of any
real property. Health and safety nuisances shall include, but not be limited
to, the following:
      1.   Open, unused, or abandoned wells, pools, ponds, pits, shafts, and
other unsafe and/or unsecured situations;
      2.   Manure or rubbish accumulations not disposed of on a weekly basis;
      3.   Animal carcasses for animals not weighing more than one hundred
(100) pounds not buried or destroyed within twenty-four (24) hours of the
animal’s death. Animal carcasses for animals greater than one hundred (100)
pounds must be removed by or delivered to a licensed disposal service within
twenty-four (24) hours of the animal’s death;
      4.   Any hazardous or infectious material including, but not limited to,
explosives, dangerous substances, toxic substances, sewage, human waste, gray
water and infectious wastes, not kept with appropriate permits. Gray water
shall be used in compliance with State law;
      5.   Outdoor water usage causing water to run onto the public right-of-
way;
      6.   Breeding or harborage places for animals known to carry or transmit
disease to humans (e.g., mosquito breeding in stored tires where rainwater can
be trapped);
      7.   Trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
persons from having a clear view of traffic approaching an intersection from
cross streets in sufficient time to bring a motor vehicle driven at a
reasonable speed to a full stop before the intersection is reached;
      8.   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary use by the
public of streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds except under such
conditions as are provided by law;
      9.   Any use of property abutting upon a public street or sidewalk or any
use of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to
gather, obstructing traffic and the free use of the streets and sidewalks;
      10.   Other conditions or things which are likely to cause injuury to the
person or property of anyone, or which may be detrimental to public health and
safety as defined in the California Health and Safety Code;
      11.   Outside storage of operable or inoperable refrigerators, freezers,
washing machines, dishwashers, televisions, clothes dryers or other appliances;
      12.   Any pool, pond or body of water which contains excessive or
unhealthy levels of bacterial or algal growth, remains of animals or insects,
refuse, debris, or any other foreign matter which may cause an unhealthy or
unsafe condition.
   D.   Property Maintenance. Any property upon which any of the following
unpermitted conditions exists shall be deemed to be a public nuisance:
      1.   Any grading or construction, including but not limited to walls and
fences, which increases, concentrates, or redirects storm flows which can or
may cause damage to adjacent or nearby public property;
      2.   Any hole, trench, ditch, or excavation greater than two (2) feet in
depth with sides steeper than two (2) horizontal to one (1) vertical (2:1);
      3.   Any attractive nuisance, where minors may obtain access and be
injured;
      4.   Improper maintenance of landscaping or irrigation systems,
including, but not limited to, any landscaping required as part of a City land
use approval (e.g., grass, rock, xeriscape);
      5.   Encroachment by any structure within required building setbacks;
      6.   Overgrown or unmaintained vegetation that may cause detriment to
neighboring properties or may cause a hazardous condition for motorists or
pedestrians;
      7.   Dead or dying plants or trees which may be dangerous to the public;
      8.   Any vehicle or trailer parked on or near the public right-of-way for
the primary purpose of advertising or directing attention to a place of
business. This shall not apply to the business owner’s vehicle when located at
his/her place of business;
      9.   A clothesline, or clothes, hanging in the front yard or on fences in
other yards;
      10.   Buildings, structures, walls or fences constructed of materials not
approved for exterior use or improperly maintained. Improperly maintained may
include but not be limited to listing from the vertical axis, moveable with a
lateral force of ten (10) pounds or less, dilapidation or similar structural
deficiency.
   E.   Dangerous Building; Substandard Housing. Any building or structure
which has any of the conditions described hereinafter shall be deemed to be a
dangerous building and a public nuisance:
      1.   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists or
is maintained in violation of any specific requirements or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of the City, as specified in the Building Code or Section
8.25.060 or of any law or ordinance of this State or jurisdiction relating to
the condition, location or structure of buildings.
      2.   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the Health Officer to be unsanitary,
unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that is likely to cause
sickness or disease.
      3.   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas connections
or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the Fire Marshal to be a
fire hazard.
      4.   Whenever any building or structure is in such a condition as to
constitute a public nuisance known to the common law or in equity
jurisprudence.
      5.   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six (6) months
so as to continue such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
      6.   Any building or structure used for the purpose of unlawfully
selling, serving, storing, keeping, manufacturing, or giving away any
controlled substance as specified in California Health and Safety Code Section
11570.
      7.   Any building or structure wherein any activity declared illegal or
unlawful by any other applicable federal, State, County or local law or
ordinance is conducted, including but not limited to, gang activity in
California Penal Code Section 186.22(a).
   F.   Other Conditions Declared a Public Nuisance. The following conditions
shall be deemed to be and constitute a public nuisance:
      1.   Limbs of trees which are less than eight (8) feet above the surface
of any public street or sidewalk.
      2.   Loud noises and annoying vibrations.
      3.   Dangerous unguarded machinery in any public place or so situated or
operated on private property as to attract the public.
      4.   Use of stationary loudspeakers in any part of the City in such a
manner as to annoy City residents of businesses.
      5.   The giving of a report of the existence of any emergency to any
police officer, any City employee or to any other person, with the intent or
request that the same be transmitted to a City employee, knowing such report to
be false.
   G.   Any violation of this Code or any other unlawful condition is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance as set forth in
Chapter 1.20 of this Code.
[Ord. No. 568, Section 10, 5/10/17.]
8.25.030 Abatement of Public Nuisances Generally.
Any property found to constitute a public nuisance in violation of Section
8.25.040 shall be abated by rehabilitation, removal, demolition, or repair
pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Chapter. The procedures for
abatement set forth in this Chapter shall not be exclusive and shall not in any
manner limit or restrict the City from enforcing other City ordinances or
abating public nuisances in any other manner provided by law.
8.25.040 Notification of Public Nuisance.
Whenever the City Manager determines that all or any part of any property
within the City is being maintained contrary to one or more of the provisions
of Section
8.25.040, he shall give written notice (notice to abate) to the owner of said
property stating the section(s) being violated. Such notice shall set forth a
reasonable time limit, in no event less than seven calendar days, for
correcting the violation(s) and may also set forth suggested methods of
correcting the same. Such notice shall be served upon the owner in accordance
with provisions of Section
8.25.060 covering service in person or by mail.
8.25.050 Administrative Hearing to Abate Nuisance.
In the event said owner shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with the notice
to abate, the City Manager shall conduct an administrative hearing to ascertain
whether the violation constitutes a public nuisance.
8.25.060 Notice of Hearing.
Notice of said hearing shall be served upon the owner not less than seven
calendar days before the time fixed for hearing. The notice of hearing shall be
served in person, by first class mail, or by certified mail to the owner’s last
known address. Service shall be deemed complete at the time notice is
personally served or deposited in the mail. Failure of any person to receive
notice shall not affect the validity of any proceedings hereunder. Notice shall
be substantially in the format set forth below:
“NOTICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING ON ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE”
This is a notice of hearing before the City Manager (or his/her designees) to
ascertain whether certain property situated in the City of Adelanto, State of
California, known and designated as (street address)
____________________________________ , in said City, and more particularly
described as (assessors parcel number) __________________________ constitutes a
public nuisance subject to abatement by the rehabilitation of such property or
by the repair or demolition of buildings situated thereon. If said property, in
whole or part, is found to constitute a public nuisance as defined in Section
8.25.020 of the City of Adelanto Municipal Code, and if the same is not
promptly abated by the owner, such nuisance may be abated by municipal
authorities, in which case the cost of such rehabilitation, repair, or
demolition will be assessed upon such property and such costs, together with
interest thereon, will constitute a lien and special assessment upon such
property until paid; in addition, you may be cited for violation of the
provisions of the City ordinances and subject to a fine.
Said alleged conditions consist of the following: ____________________
______________________________________________________________________________________________
The method(s) of abatement are: ________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________________________
All persons having an interest in said matters may attend the hearing and their
testimony and evidence will be heard and given due consideration.
Dated this ______ day of ________________________, 20____.
____________________________
City Manager
Time and Date of Hearing: ____________________________________
Location of Hearing: ________________________________________ 
Ord. _______________________
[Ord. No. 568, Section 11, 5/10/17.]
8.25.070 Administrative Hearing by City Manager.
   A.   At the time stated in the notice, the City Manager shall hear and
consider all relevant evidence, objections or protests, and shall receive
testimony under oath relative to such alleged public nuisance and to proposed
rehabilitation, repair, removal or demolition of such property. Said hearing
may be continued from time to time.
   B.   If the City Manager finds that such public nuisance does exist and that
there is a sufficient cause to rehabilitate, demolish, remove or repair the
same, the City Manager shall prepare findings and an order, which shall specify
the nature of the nuisance, the method(s) of abatement and the time within
which the work shall be commenced and completed. The order shall include
reference to the right to appeal set forth in Section
8.25.090. A copy of the findings and order shall be served on all owners of the
subject property in accordance with the provisions of Sections
8.25.040 and
8.25.060. In addition, a copy of the findings and order shall be forthwith
conspicuously posted on or near the property.
8.25.080 Abatement Procedure in Absence of Appeal.
In the absence of any appeal, the property shall be rehabilitated, repaired,
removed or demolished in the manner and means specifically set forth in said
findings and order. In the event the owner fails to abate the nuisance as
ordered, the City Manager shall cause the same to be abated by City employees
or private contract. The costs shall be billed to the owner, as specified in
Section
8.25.130. The City Manager or representative is expressly authorized to enter
upon said property for such purposes.
8.25.090 Appeal Procedure - Hearing by City Council.
   A.   The owner may appeal the City Manager’s findings and order to the City
Council by filing an appeal with the City Clerk within seven (7) calendar days
of the date of service of the City Manager’s decision. The appeal shall
contain:
      1.   A specific identification of the subject property;
      2.   The names and addresses of all appellants;
      3.   A statement of appellant’s legal interest in the subject property;
      4.   A statement in ordinary and concise language of the specific order
or action protested and the grounds for appeal, together with all material
facts in support thereof;
      5.   The date and signatures of all appellants; and
      6.   The verification of at least one appellant as to the truth of the
matters stated in the appeal.
   B.   As soon as practicable after receiving the appeal, the City Clerk shall
set a date for the Council to hear the appeal which date shall be not less than
seven (7) calendar days nor more than thirty (30) calendar days from the date
the appeal was filed. The City Clerk shall give each appellant written notice
of the time and the place of the hearing at least five (5) calendar days prior
to the date of the hearing, either by causing a copy of such notice to be
delivered to the appellant personally or by mailing a copy thereof, postage
prepaid, addressed to the appellant at his address shown on the appeal.
Continuances of the hearing may be granted by the City Council on request of
the owner for good cause shown, or on the City Council’s own motion.
8.25.100 Decision by City Council.
Upon the conclusion of the hearing, the City Council shall determine whether
the property or any part thereof, as maintained, constitutes a public nuisance.
If the City Council so finds, it shall adopt a resolution declaring such
property to be a public nuisance, setting forth its findings and ordering the
abatement of the same by having such property rehabilitated, repaired, removed
or demolished in the manner and means specifically set forth in said
resolution. The resolution shall set forth the time within which such work
shall be completed by the owner, in no event less than thirty (30) days. The
decision and order of the City Council shall be final.
8.25.110 Service of Order to Abate.
A copy of the resolution of the Council ordering the abatement of the nuisance
shall be served upon the owner(s) of the property in accordance with the
provisions of Section 
8.25.060. Upon abatement in full by the owner, the proceedings hereunder shall
terminate.
8.25.120 Hearing Procedure Before City Manager and City Council.
   A.   All hearings shall be tape recorded.
   B.   Hearings need not be conducted according to the technical rules of
evidence.
   C.   Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of supplementing or
explaining any direct evidence, but shall not be sufficient in itself to
support a finding unless it would be admissible over objection in civil actions
in courts of competent jurisdiction in this State. Any relevant evidence shall
be admitted if it is the type of evidence on which reasonable persons are
accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious affairs, regardless of the
existence of any common law or statutory rule which might make improper the
admission of such evidence over objection in civil actions in courts of
competent jurisdiction in this State.
   D.   Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath or affirmation.
   E.   Irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded.
8.25.130 Abatement by City.
   A.   If such nuisance is not abated as ordered within said abatement period,
the City Manager shall cause the same to be abated by City employees or private
contract. The City Manager or representative is expressly authorized to enter
upon said property for such purposes. The cost, including incidental expenses,
of abating the nuisance shall be billed to the owner and shall become due and
payable thirty days thereafter. The term “incidental expenses” shall include,
but not be limited to, personnel costs incurred in documenting the nuisance;
the actual expenses and costs of the City in the preparation of notices,
specifications and contracts, and in inspecting the work; and the costs of
printing and mailing required hereunder.
   B.   A person shall not obstruct, impede or interfere with the City Manager,
or his/her representative, or with any person who owns, or holds any interest
or estate in, any property in the performance of any necessary act, preliminary
to or incidental to, carrying out an abatement order issued pursuant to
Sections
8.25.070 and
8.25.100.
8.25.140 Filing of Judicial Action - Limitation.
Any action appealing the City Council’s decision and order shall be commenced
within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of service of the decision.
8.25.150 Demolition Authorized When.
No property shall be found to be a public nuisance under Section
8.25.020 and ordered demolished unless the order is based on competent sworn
testimony and it is found that in fairness and in justice there is no way other
than demolition reasonably to correct such nuisance.
8.25.160 Notice of Intent to Demolish.
A copy of any order or resolution requiring abatement by demolition under
Section 
8.25.070 or
8.25.110 shall be forthwith recorded with the San Bernardino County Recorder.
8.25.170 Cost Recovery.
Pursuant to the procedures set forth in
Chapter 1.22 of this Code, the City is entitled to seek recovery of all
nuisance abatement costs incurred in connection with any action taken to abate
any violation or public nuisance under this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 568, Section 12, 5/10/17.]
8.25.180 [Repealed].
8.25.190 [Repealed].
8.25.200 [Repealed].
8.25.210 [Repealed].
8.25.220 [Repealed].
8.25.230 Emergency Abatement - Authority - Notice.
Whenever any nuisance as defined herein constitutes an immediate hazard to
life, health or property and, in the opinion of the City Manager or his/her
designee, abatement must be undertaken immediately, the City Manager may abate
or cause to be abated all or any portion of the nuisance as may be necessary to
protect life, health or property after giving such notice to the parties
concerned as the circumstances will permit or without any notice whatever when,
in the opinion of the City Manager or designee, immediate action is necessary.
8.25.240 Emergency Abatement - Notice to City Council.
Whenever an emergency abatement action is taken pursuant to Section
8.25.230, the City Manager or his/her designee shall submit to the City Council
a written report indicating the location of the nuisance and the reasons
requiring emergency abatement thereof. A copy of this report shall be attached
to or included as a part of notice to the owner of record when notice is given
as previously provided in this Chapter.
8.25.250 Alternative Actions Available - Violation an Infraction.
Nothing in this Chapter shall be deemed to prevent the City Council from
ordering the commencement of a civil proceeding to abate a public nuisance
pursuant to applicable law or from pursuing any other remedy available under
applicable law. Violation of the provisions of this Chapter may be enforced
pursuant to provisions of
Chapter 1.20 of this Code.
8.25.260 Violation and Penalties - Enforcement Authority.
   A.   Each person, firm or corporation shall be guilty of a separate offense
for each and every day during any portion of which any violation of any
provision of this Chapter is committed, continued or permitted by such person
and shall be punishable accordingly.
   B.   The City Manager shall have the power to designate by written order
that particular officers or employees shall be authorized to enforce particular
provisions of this Chapter. Officers or employees so designated shall have the
authority to arrest persons who violate any of said provisions.
CHAPTER 8.30
WEED AND LITTER ABATEMENT
Sections:
   
8.30.010   Definitions
   
8.30.020   Litter on Occupied Private Property
   
8.30.030   Owner to Maintain Premises Free of Litter
   
8.30.040   Litter on Vacant Lots
   
8.30.050   Clearing of Dangerous Litter from Open Private Property; Summary
Proceeding
   
8.30.060   Sidewalk and Parkway
   
8.30.070   Noxious Growth
   
8.30.080   Notice Requiring Removal of Noxious Growth or Litter, or Fencing of
Property
   
8.30.090   Notice Form
   
8.30.100   Hearing
   
8.30.110   Abatement Order
   
8.30.120   Service of Order
   
8.30.130   Abatement by City
   
8.30.140   Cost Recovery
   
8.30.150   [Repealed]
   
8.30.160   [Repealed]
   
8.30.170   [Repealed]
   
8.30.180   Violation a Public Nuisance
8.30.010 Definitions.
   A.   “City Officer” shall mean the City Manager or a designated
representative with respect to all public places and the Code Enforcement
Officer with respect to all private property.
   B.   “Litter” shall mean garbage, refuse, and rubbish as defined herein and
all other waste material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited,
tends to create a danger to public health, safety and welfare.
   C.   “Private Premises” shall mean any dwelling, house, building, or other
structure, designed or used either wholly or in part for private residential
purposes, whether inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or
vacant, and shall include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps,
vestibule or mailbox belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house,
building, or other structure.
   D.   “Rubbish” shall mean non-putrescible solid wastes consisting of both
combustible and non-combustible wastes such a paper, wrappings, cigarettes,
cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, leaves, metal, wood, glass, bedding,
crockery and similar materials.
   E.   “Street Lines” shall mean the boundary line between a public street
right-of-way and an abutting lot or parcel of land, or between a private street
open to public use and an abutting lot or parcel of land.
8.30.020 Litter on Occupied Private Property.
No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private property within
the City, whether owned by such person or not, except that the owner or person
in control of private property may maintain authorized private receptacles for
collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon any private property. Such receptacles shall be maintained in compliance
with Section 8.01.090 of this Title.
8.30.030 Owner to Maintain Premises Free of Litter.
The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all times
maintain the premises free of litter, provided, however, that this Section
shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for
collection, or within any building when not in violation of any health, fire,
building, or other regulation, order, ordinance, statute, or Code.
8.30.040 Litter on Vacant Lots.
No personal shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property whether owned by such person or not.
8.30.050 Clearing of Dangerous Litter from Open Private Property by the City;
Summary Proceeding.
   A.   Notice to Remove. The City Officer is hereby authorized and empowered
to notify the owner, or person shown as the owner upon the last equalized tax
assessment roll, of any open or vacant private property, or the agent of such
owner, to properly dispose of litter located on such owner’s property which is
dangerous to public health, safety or welfare. Such notice shall be by
registered or certified mail, addressed to said owner at his last known address
or at the address shown upon the last equalized tax assessment roll. A copy of
said notice shall be posted on the premises or in front thereof.
   B.   Action Upon Non-Compliance. Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any
owner, person or agent so notified to properly dispose of such litter dangerous
to the public health, safety or welfare within ten (10) days after receipt of
the written notice provided for in Subsection A., or within twenty (20) days
after the date of such notice in the event the same is returned to the City
because of its inability to make delivery thereof, provided the same was
properly addressed as herein specified, the City Officer is hereby authorized
and empowered to pay for the disposing of such littler or to order its disposal
by the City. Thereafter, proceedings for the collection of the cost thereof
shall be in accordance with Section
8.30.140 et. seq.
8.30.060 Sidewalk and Parkway.
No person, owing or having charge or control or occupancy of any lot or private
premises shall allow grass or weeds to accumulate or grow upon any abutting
paved sidewalk area above its established grade or upon any part of said
sidewalk area from curb to street line, provided, however, that nothing herein
contained shall be construed to require the removal from the borders of any
sidewalk of any ornamental plant, lawn, shrub, or trees of reasonable growth,
provided that the same area not, in the opinion of the City Officer,
obstructions to the free use of such sidewalk by pedestrians.
8.30.070 Noxious Growth.
No person, owning or having control or charge or occupancy of any lot or
private premises, shall allow weeds, vines, shrubs or brush which bear seeds of
wingy or downy nature, which attain such a large growth as to become afire
menace when dry, or which contain poisonous oils, or which are otherwise
noxious or dangerous to the life, health, comfort or convenience of the
community, to grow or remain upon such lot or private premises.
No person shall sow or disseminate, or allow or permit to mature; or sell in
any manner, transfer, transport or convey, any noxious weed or any seed
thereof.
No person owning, managing, or having charge or control of or occupancy of any
lot or private premises shall suffer or permit any weeds, grass, rank growth or
brush to grow or exist in excess of twelve (12) inches above the grade in the
area of growth. It is the duty of every such person to prevent such growth or
existence. In any prosecution for violation of this Subsection, it shall not be
necessary to establish any facts excepting that the person accused owned,
managed or had charge, control or occupancy of a lot or private premises
whereon such condition existed, to establish the guilt of such person.
8.30.080 Notice Requiring Removal of Noxious Growth or Litter, or Fencing of
Property.
   A.   If and when it shall appear that weeds, vines, shrubs or brush, grass,
dry or dead tree cuttings or litter have been placed upon or are upon or in
front of private property, in violation of any of the provisions of this
Chapter, the City Officer may, by appropriate written order, direct the
abatement of such nuisance by removal thereof and shall cause nuisance by
removal thereof and shall cause notices to be posted upon or in front of such
property to the effect that such weeds, vines, shrubs, brush, tree trimmings,
rubbish, grass or litter shall be removed within seven (7) days from and after
the date of such posting.
   B.   In the case of vacant property only, in the event that any such
property is cited five (5) or more times within a period of five (5) years or
less for violations of this Chapter relating to litter placed upon or being
upon such property, the property shall be deemed to be a chronic nuisance.
Thereupon the City Officer may, by appropriate written order, direct the owner
of such property to abate such nuisance by erecting a fence to secure the
property against public access, in order to prevent further such depositing of
litter, and shall cause notices to be posted upon or in front of such property
to the effect that such fence must be erected within seven (7) days from and
after the date of such posting. Such fence shall consist of, or be
substantially similar to, aluminum chain-link fence, six (6) feet in height,
with wood or aluminum vertical posts of at least the same height at intervals
of not more than ten (10) feet.
   C.   Such notice shall be conspicuously posted on or in front of the
property, as follows:
      1.   Two (2) notices are required to be posted for any parcel having a
frontage up to one hundred (100) feet;
      2.   If the frontage of such parcel is greater than one hundred (100)
feet, two (2) notices shall be posted, with one (1) additional notice for each
added fifty (50) feet of frontage.
         The City Officer shall also send a similar notice to the owner of the
property, as shown upon any City record or upon the last equalized tax roll,
whichever he shall determine to be the best means for notifying the actual
owner, through the United States mail. The failure of the owner to receive such
notice shall not affect the power of the City or its officers or employees to
proceed as provided in this part. Such notice shall be mailed not less than ten
(10) days prior to the date set for hearing upon objection as provided in
Section
8.30.100.
8.30.090 Notice Form.
   A.   The notice required to be given pursuant to Subsection A. of Section 
8.30.080 shall be substantially as follows:
NOTICE TO DESTROY WEEDS AND RANK GROWTH AND TO REMOVE OVERSIZE GROWTH OR LITTER
Notice is hereby given, pursuant to Section
8.30.080 of
Chapter 8.30 of Title 8 of the Adelanto Municipal Code providing for the
elimination of weeds, vines, brush, shrub, grass, tree trimmings, rubbish, or
litter growing upon or accumulated upon or in front of this property, and
obstructing the use of sidewalks, parking or streets, or dangerous or injurious
to neighboring property or the health and welfare of residents of the vicinity,
that the following conditions exist upon this property in violation of law:
(Description of area and conditions)
The Property to which this Notice applies is the following:
(Description of property, by tax description, street address, lot number,
parcel number of other reference sufficient to identify the premises)
Said conditions subject the owners, managers or persons having charge, control
or occupancy thereof to fine and imprisonment. In addition, such conditions
constitute a public nuisance which must be abated by the removal thereof.
Otherwise, such conditions will be corrected and the nuisance abated by the
City. In such case, the cost of removal will be assessed upon the land from or
in front of which the same are removed and will constitute a lien upon such
land until paid. Reference is hereby made to
Chapter 8.30 of Title 8 of the Adelanto Municipal Code for further particulars.
All property owners having any objections to the proposed removal of said
weeds, rubbish, refuse, dirt, rank growths or other material dangerous or
injurious to neighboring property as aforesaid, are hereby notified to file a
written statement of such objections, specifying the address or description of
the property concerned, the reasons for the objections, and the name, address,
phone number (if any) and status (owner, manager, lessee, tenant or other) of
the objector, which statement shall be filed with the City Clerk not later than
the ________ day of __________________, 20_______.
Upon receipt of such written statement, the City Clerk will set such matter
upon the agenda of the City Council and objectors will be notified by mail of
the time and place of the meeting at which the City Council will hear and
consider such objections. Such meeting shall be not sooner than seven (7) days
after mailing of such notices.
 
   B.   The notice required to be given pursuant to Subsection B. of Section 
8.30.080 shall be substantially as follows:
NOTICE TO ERECT FENCE
Notice is hereby given, pursuant to Section
8.30.080 of
Chapter 8.30 of Title 8 of the Adelanto Municipal Code providing for the
elimination of litter accumulated upon this property, and dangerous or
injurious to neighboring property or the health and welfare of residents of the
vicinity, that the following record of citations exists with regard to this
property:
(Description of record of violations and citations)
The property to which this notice applies is the following:
(Description of property tax description, street address, lot number, parcel
number or the reference sufficient to identify the premises)
Such conditions subject the owners, managers or persons having charge, control
or occupancy thereof to fine or imprisonment. In addition, such conditions
constitute a public nuisance which must be abated by the erection of a fence
conforming to the requirements of Section
8.30.080 of
Chapter 8.30 of Title 8 of the Adelanto Municipal Code. Otherwise, such fence
will be erected by the City, and the cost will be assessed upon the land upon
which the fence is erected and will constitute a lien upon such land until
paid. Reference is hereby made to
Chapter 8.30 of Title 8 of the Adelanto Municipal Code.
All property owners having any objection to the proposed erection of a fence
are hereby notified to file a written statement of such objections, specifying
the address or description of the property concerned, the reasons for the
objections, and the name, address, phone number (if any) and status (owner,
manager, lessee, tenant or other) of the objector, which statement shall be
filed with the City Clerk not later than the ________ day of ______________,
20_____.
Upon receipt of such written statement, the City Clerk will set such matter
upon the agenda of the City Council and objectors will be notified by mail of
the time and place of the meeting at which the City Council will hear and
consider such objections. Such meeting shall be not sooner than seven (7) days
after the mailing of such notices.
 
8.30.100 Hearing.
At the time and place stated in the notices mailed by the City Clerk, the City
Council shall hear and consider all objections to the proposed removal or
correction of said public nuisance or conditions. It may continue the hearing
from time to time. By motion or resolution at the conclusion of the hearing,
the City Council shall allow or overrule any objections. The decision of the
City Council shall be final and conclusive and need not depend upon any
particular evidence, showing or findings.
8.30.110 Abatement Order.
At the conclusion of the hearing, the City Council may order the City Officer
to abate the nuisance by entering upon private property to abate and remove the
same.
8.30.120 Service of Order.
The City Officer shall serve by registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested, postage prepaid, a copy of said abatement order forthwith upon those
persons who have filed written statements of objections. The abatement order
shall specify that unless the nuisance is removed and abated within seven (7)
days from the date of the mailing, said officer will abate the same and will,
if necessary, enter upon or into the private property of said person without
further notice or liability therefor in order to abate said nuisance.
8.30.130 Abatement by City.
The City Officer may enter upon any private property and abate any nuisance
found thereon, or in front thereof, more than seven (7) days after Notice to
Abate such nuisance has been posted as required by this Chapter, if no person
has filed a written statement of objections as herein provided within five (5)
days thereafter. In the event objections have been duly filed, and overruled by
the City Council, such officer may enter upon any private property and abate
any nuisance found thereon, or in front thereof, in accordance with the order
of the City.
8.30.140 Cost Recovery.
Pursuant to the procedures set forth in
Chapter 1.22 of this Code, the city is entitled to seek recovery of all
nuisance abatement costs incurred in connection with any action taken to abate
any violation or public nuisance under this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 568, Section 14, 5/10/17.]
8.30.150 [Repealed].
8.30.160 [Repealed].
8.30.170 [Repealed].
8.30.180 Violation a Public Nuisance.
Violation of this Chapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance which may
be abated as provided in Part 3 of Division 4 of the Civil Code of the State
and in Chapter 2 of Part 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the State, which
remedy shall be in addition to any other remedy provided in this Chapter or by
State law, including Section 372 of the Penal Code of the State.
[Ord No. 245, adopted 7/14/92.]
CHAPTER 8.35
COST RECOVERY ON SPECIAL INSPECTIONS
Sections:
   
8.35.010   Findings
   
8.35.020   Department Involvement
   
8.35.030   Establishing Charges
   
8.35.040   Cost Recovery
8.35.010 Findings.
   A.   The City Council has determined that it is necessary to recover costs
of City employees’ time when used by the City’s Building Official in such a
manner as necessary to carry out the functions of the Code Enforcement Agency.
   B.   When it is necessary that such inspections be carried out in order to
preserve the health and safety of those residents residing within the community
that may be impacted.
   C.   That following an initial inspection and reinspection for compliance,
all further inspection costs shall be recovered on behalf of the City.
   D.   The City Council determines that these added costs should not be the
responsibility of the resident taxpayers of the City of Adelanto.
   E.   No charge or fee established by this Chapter exceeds the estimated
amount required to provide the service for which the fee or service charge is
levied.
8.35.020 Department Involvement.
The Building Official shall be given unilateral discretion to deputize such
employees as may be necessary to carry out the functions of Code Enforcement
for the City of Adelanto. The departments shall include but not be limited to
the Fire Department, Police Department and Street Department.
8.35.030 Establishing Charges.
   A.   Charges are hereby established on the hourly cost to the jurisdiction.
This cost may include the hourly wage and fringe benefits of the employees
involved.
   B.   The pay schedule to be used to compute the hourly wage shall be that
which is adopted annually by the City Council with each fiscal year’s budget
and identified as Wage Rate Schedule.
8.35.040 Cost Recovery.
Pursuant to the procedures set forth in
Chapter 1.22 of this Code, the City is entitled to seek recovery of all
nuisance abatement costs incurred in connection with any action taken to abate
any violation or public nuisance under this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 289, adopted 10/25/94; Ord. No. 568, Section 16, 5/10/17.]
CHAPTER 8.40
RESIDENTIAL RENTAL DWELLING UNIT INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
Sections:
   
8.40.010   Purpose and Findings
   
8.40.020   Definitions
   
8.40.030   Scope
   
8.40.040   Residential Rental Dwelling Unit Inspection Program Registration
   
8.40.050   Residential Rental Dwelling Unit Inspection Program Initial Phase
   
8.40.060   Residential Rental Dwelling Unit Inspection Program Fees and
Penalties
   
8.40.070   Inspections
   
8.40.080   Local Contact Representative
   
8.40.090   Self-Certification Program
   
8.40.100   Refusal to Permit Inspection
   
8.40.110   Retaliatory Eviction
   
8.40.120   Change of Ownership
   
8.40.130   Regulations Nonexclusive
   
8.40.140   Appeals
   
8.40.150   Conflicts
8.40.010   Purpose and Findings.
   A.   The City Council of the City of Adelanto recognizes that the
preservation of existing rental housing stock is of tremendous importance as is
ensuring future rental housing stock. Rental housing provides needed,
affordable housing for many and is a valuable asset that must be preserved and
maintained. The City has a significant interest in ensuring that rental housing
remains a desirable housing option for its citizens.
   B.   Over time rental housing often deteriorates because of intentional and
unintentional neglect by property owners, managers and tenants. This
deterioration often results in substandard conditions that adversely affect the
economic values of neighboring structures, and that are hazardous to the public
health and safety. In many cases, property owners choose not to make the
necessary repairs because of cost, and tenants do not report the deficiencies
out of lack of knowledge or because they fear being evicted for doing so.
   C.   The public interest demands that all rental housing properties comply
with the minimum standards regarding the health and safety of the public. The
most effective way to seek universal compliance with the minimum standards is
through routine periodic inspections of all rental housing properties.
Accordingly, it is the intent of the Adelanto City Council to enact the
provisions of this chapter as the basis for establishing a rental housing
inspection program aimed at securing City-wide compliance of rental housing
properties with minimum standards. City-wide compliance will prevent blight and
ensure that all persons who live in rental housing units are provided decent,
safe and sanitary housing.
[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15.]
8.40.020   Definitions.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms and phrases are defined as
follows:
   A.   "Building, housing and sanitation codes or ordinances" shall refer to:
the current adopted codes specified in Title 14 of the Adelanto Municipal Code,
the California Fire Code and International Fire Code, all as modified, adopted
and codified in the Adelanto Municipal Code. The phrase "building, housing and
sanitation codes or ordinances" shall also refer to the City of Adelanto Zoning
Ordinances as codified at Title 17 of the Adelanto Municipal Code, the City of
Adelanto Subdivision Ordinances as codified at Title 16 of the Adelanto
Municipal Code, and all provisions of California statutory law and the Adelanto
Municipal Code pertaining to property-related sanitation, health, safety and
nuisance, as well as state regulations promulgated pursuant to California
statutory law, for which the City has enforcement authority.
   B.   "Director" shall refer to the City's City Manager or his/her designee.
   C.   "Owner" shall mean any person who owns one (1) or more residential
rental dwelling units.
   D.   "Person" means and includes any individual, partnership of any kind,
corporation, limited liability company, association, joint venture or other
organization or entity, however formed, as well as trustees, heirs, executors,
administrators, or assigns, or any combination of such persons. The terms
"person," "owner," "operator," and "landlord" may herein be used
interchangeably.
   E.   "Residential rental dwelling unit" shall mean a building or portion of
a building that is rented or leased to tenants for residential purposes on a
non-transient basis (when one (1) or more tenants reside on the property or
rent or lease the property for thirty (30) consecutive days or longer) and
which is owned in whole or in part by a landlord. This shall include but not be
limited to single-family residences, duplexes, triplexes, apartment houses,
townhouse dwellings, condominiums, boarding houses, lodging houses, rooming
houses, single room occupancy units, small ownership units, hotel and motel
units, sober living facilities, and dormitories in the City of Adelanto.
[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15.]
8.40.030   Scope.
   A.   The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to all owners of one (1) or
more residential rental dwelling units located within the City of Adelanto.
   B.   The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to: legal accessory
dwelling units, rooms rented to single individuals in an owner-occupier single
family residence, or hotel or motel units subject to the transient occupancy
tax ordinance codified at
Chapter 3.40 of the Adelanto Municipal Code.
[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15; Am. Ord. 543,
Section 2, 2/24/16.]
8.40.040   Residential Rental Dwelling Unit Inspection Program Registration.
   A.   Each owner or operator, on behalf of the owner, shall initially
register for the residential rental dwelling unit inspection program on a form
provided by the City's Code Compliance Department. Initial registration of
residential rental dwelling units which are subject to this Chapter shall be
due within sixty (60) days of the effective date of this Ordinance.
Registration of residential rental dwelling units which become subject to this
Chapter after the effective date of this Chapter shall be due within sixty (60)
days of the date that the residential rental dwelling unit was acquired or
converted into a residential rental dwelling unit.
   B.   All registrations shall be subject to verification by the Director. All
information on said registrations shall be submitted under penalty of perjury.
Any person who makes a false statement in the registration or submits false
information in connection with a registration shall be guilty of an infraction.
   C.   Each owner or operator, on behalf of the owner, may apply for the
Residential Rental Dwelling Unit Inspection and Maintenance Self-Certification
Program ("Self-Certification Program") after completing an initial inspection
on a form provided by the City's Code Compliance Department.
   D.   Each owner shall obtain a City Business License and pay the required
fee required of Hotels, Motels, and Other Rental Units pursuant to Adelanto
Municipal Code
Chapter 5.04.
[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15.]
8.40.050   Residential Rental Dwelling Unit Inspection Program Initial Phase.
   During the initial phase of the Residential Rental Dwelling Unit Inspection
Program, every residential dwelling unit shall be inspected by City inspectors
("Program Initial Phase"). The City will endeavor to inspect every residential
dwelling unit within the first year after this Chapter goes into effect or as
soon as possible thereafter. During the Program Initial Phase all other
provisions of this Chapter, including but not limited to registration
requirements and Program fees will be in effect. The Self-Certification Program
will only be available for residential dwelling units that successfully
complete an initial inspection.
[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15.]
8.40.060   Residential Rental Dwelling Unit Inspection Program Fees and
Penalties.
   A.   Each annual registration for the residential rental dwelling unit
inspection program shall be accompanied by a non-refundable fee in the amount
established by Resolution of the City Council. The fee shall be used to defray
the costs of the administration and enforcement of this Chapter.
   B.   If a residential rental dwelling unit is approved in the Self-
Certification Program an annual self-certification fee in the amount
established by Resolution of the City Council will be required. The fee shall
be used to defray the costs of the administration and enforcement of the
Program. If a residential rental dwelling unit is not approved in the Self-
Certification Program an annual inspection fee for an annual inspection in the
amount established by resolution of the City Council will be required. The
annual inspection fee includes the cost of the annual inspection and one
compliance re-inspection, if necessary. If the owner fails to correct any found
violations by the first compliance re-inspection, the owner shall pay a re-
inspection fee for the second and subsequent compliance re-inspections in the
amount established by Resolution of the City Council. All fees are non-
refundable.
   C.   The annual residential rental dwelling unit program fee shall be levied
for the calendar year and each applicant must pay the full fee for the calendar
year upon submission of the application for that year's residential rental
dwelling unit registration. For residential rental dwelling units which become
subject to this Chapter after July 1 of the calendar year, program fees shall
be reduced by one-half.
   D.    The residential rental dwelling unit program fee required by this
Chapter is in addition to and not in lieu of any general business license fee
or tax that might be required by
Chapter 5.04 of this Code.
   E.   Penalties.
      1.   Failure to Pay Annual Fee. In addition to any remedies the City may
elect to pursue pursuant to the provisions of this Code for failure to pay the
annual residential rental dwelling unit program fee when due, the Director
shall add a penalty of twenty (20) percent of the permit fee on the first day
of the month following the due date and ten (10) percent for each month
thereafter while the fee remains unpaid, provided that the amount of the
penalty shall not exceed fifty (50) percent of the amount of the fee due.
      2.   Failure to Register. If an owner fails to register for the
residential rental dwelling unit inspection program as required by this Chapter
the fee due shall be that amount due and payable from the first date when the
person engaged in the residential rental business in the City after the
effective date of this Chapter, together with the penalty prescribed in
subsection E.1. Additionally, the Director may choose to refuse to establish
water service for residential rental dwelling units that fail to register under
this Chapter. For residential rental dwelling units that fail to register and
already have water service, the Director may choose to terminate water service
in accordance with applicable law.
[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15.]
8.40.070   Inspections.
   A.   In accordance with the requirements of this Section the City shall be
authorized to periodically conduct an inspection of residential rental dwelling
units to assure compliance with all applicable building, housing and sanitation
codes and ordinances. Owners shall provide access to all required areas of a
residential rental property for inspection within twenty-one (21) calendar days
of an inspection request from the City's Planning and Community Development
Department. This time period may be extended upon the approval of the Director
or his or her designee. If the residential rental dwelling unit is legally
occupied by a tenant or other occupant, the owner shall notify the tenant or
occupant and request that the tenant or occupant allow the inspection. The
owner shall not be in violation of this Section if the tenant or occupant
refuses to allow the inspection. In the event that the tenant or occupant
refuse to allow access for inspection, the City may exercise any legitimate
authority to obtain access including, but not limited to, a court order or
search warrant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the designated public safety
officials of the City, may enter the subject property if exigent circumstances
exist, as detemined by the public safety officials, without a court order or
search warrant.
   B.   Frequency of Inspections.
      1.   Initial Inspections and Subsequent Inspections.
         a.   It is the intent of the City that all residential rental dwelling
units subject to this Chapter as of the effective date of this Chapter will
receive an initial inspection and subsequently an annual inspection, subject to
the twenty-one (21) day notice required by subsection A., provided that
residential dwelling units who register for the Self-Certification Program
after completing the initial inspection will not require annual inspections.
         b.   Well-maintained properties eligible to participate in the Self-
Certification Program will have reduced inspections as outlined in Section
8.40.090 for a period of five (5) years as long as the residential rental
dwelling units' condition do not deteriorate during that time to the extent
that the property would no longer meet the Self-Certification eligibility
standards.
         c.   Any residential rental dwelling unit which becomes subject to
this Chapter after the first year of the program shall receive an inspection
within ninety (90) days of the date of registration. After successfully
completing this initial inspection, the residential rental dwelling unit shall
become eligible for Self-Certification Program.
      2.   Subsequent Inspections.
         a.   If during the inspection or any subsequent inspection there are
building, housing or sanitation code or ordinance violations, or permit
violations, on the property which prevent the City inspector from issuing a
rental housing inspection certification one or more re-inspections of the
property may be required before a rental housing inspection certification is
issued.
   C.   Code Enforcement. When during an inspection, a building, housing or
sanitation code or ordinance violation is noted, as a courtesy prior to
undertaking formal code enforcement action, the City inspector shall document
the violation, advise the owner or operator of the violation and of the action
which must be undertaken and completed in order to remedy the violation and
schedule a re-inspection to verify correction of the violation. If upon re-
inspection the violation has not been corrected, the City inspector may report
the violation for code enforcement pursuant to the provisions of this Code. If
upon receipt of the courtesy notice from the City inspector, the owner or
operator advises that he or she will not proceed to correct the violation, the
violation shall then be immediately reported for code enforcement.
   D.   Rental Housing Inspection Certification. Upon the successful completion
of an inspection, subsequent inspection or re-inspection of the residential
rental dwelling unit establishing that the property and its occupancy are in
compliance with all applicable building, housing and sanitation code or
ordinance requirements, the City shall issue to the owner or operator a rental
housing inspection certification verifying code/ordinance compliance and
specifying a one (1) or, for properties which qualify for the Self-
Certification Program, a five (5) year time period during which the
certification will remain valid and during which the residential rental
dwelling unit shall not be subject to a subsequent inspection. Notwithstanding
the foregoing a rental housing inspection certification shall not preclude code
enforcement or investigation on the property if during the rental housing
inspection certification period a code violation on the property is reported to
the City or otherwise observed by the City on the property.
[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15; Am. Ord. 543,
Section 2, 2/24/16.]
8.40.080   Local Contact Representative.
   A.   All owners of a residential rental dwelling unit shall designate a
local contact representative with full authority to act on behalf of the owner
for all purposes under this chapter, including the communication and acceptance
of service of all notices from the City, the scheduling of inspections, and
point of contact to remedy any violations. The owner of the residential rental
dwelling unit may act as the local contact representative.
   B.   A local contact representative must establish and maintain a residence
or business address within one hundred (100) miles of the residential rental
dwelling unit. This requirement applies to all owners, including but not
limited to individuals, corporations, and financial institutions.
[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15.]
8.40.090   Self-Certification Program.
   A.   Well-maintained properties with no existing violations of building,
housing and sanitation codes or ordinances or no past violations of building,
housing and sanitation codes or ordinances within the past three (3) year
period and that successfully complete an initial inspection by City inspectors
may qualify to participate in the Residential Rental Dwelling Unit Inspection
and Maintenance Self-Certification Program ("Self- Certification Program").
   B.   For qualifying participants, the number of inspections will be limited
to twenty (20) percent of the total units on each property or limited to an
inspection of one-unit total in residential rental dwelling units consisting of
three (3) units, including multiple single family dwellings at separate
locations, not more often than once every five (5) years, provided the
residential rental dwelling units' conditions do not deteriorate during that
time to the extent that the property would no longer meet the property
eligibility standards. If violations are found, more or all of the owner's
units may be inspected. The owner shall be required to pay an annual non-
refundable Self- Certification Fee and conduct an annual self-inspection of
each residential rental dwelling unit as discussed below.
   C.   Upon receipt of the request to participate in the Self-Certification
Program, the Director shall determine if the residential rental dwelling units
have not had any code violations over the past three (3) years. If the
application qualifies the owner or operator, on behalf of the owner, shall pay
the Self-Certification Program annual non-refundable fee and the Director shall
schedule the reduced inspections as outlined in B. above for the next five (5)
years.
   D.   In order to maintain eligibility in the Self-Certification Program, the
owner or operator, on behalf of the owner, shall conduct an annual self-
inspection of all the residential rental dwelling units, including exterior
conditions and site conditions, and certify under penalty of perjury that the
conditions at the property achieve the minimum standards listed on the Self-
Certification Program Checklist. All information on said Self-Certification
Checklist shall be submitted under penalty of perjury. Any person who makes a
false statement in the Self-Certification Checklist or submits false
information in connection with a Self-Certification Checklist shall be guilty
of an infraction. The owner shall not be in violation of this section if the
tenant or occupant refuses to allow the Self-Certification inspection by the
owner. The owner shall provide the City a signed statement from the tenant/
occupant that the inspection was refused. If the tenant refuses to sign the
statement, the owner shall provide proof, under penalty of perjury, that a
request to inspect was served and it was not permitted by the tenant.
   E.   If the Director determines that a residential rental dwelling unit is
not eligible to participate in the Self-Certification Program, then all the
residential rental dwelling units on a same property shall be inspected and the
owner shall be assessed the full annual inspection fee established by
resolution of the City Council.
   F.   Each owner or operator, on behalf of the owner, shall be required to
maintain a copy of the annual signed and dated Self-Certification Program
Checklist for each unit for the five (5) year period and provide said list
within seventy-two (72) hours upon request of the Director or his/her designee.
Failure to maintain complete signed checklists may result in disqualification
from the Self-Certification Program for all rental properties of that owner for
a period of up to three (3) years. A copy of the annual signed and dated Self-
Certification Program Checklist shall be provided to the tenant(s) of each
residential rental dwelling unit inspected within five (5) working days upon
request of the tenant(s).
   G.   Nothing in the Self-Certification Program shall be construed or
interpreted as limiting the City's authority to investigate and compel the
abatement of any building, housing and sanitation codes or ordinance
violations.
   H.   Any property that participates in the Self-Certification Program may be
removed from the program for three (3) years, at any time if that property
fails to meet all of the interior and exterior standards designated on the
Self-Certification Program Checklist or fails to meet building, housing and
sanitation codes or ordinances as defined in this Chapter. Each owner or
operator, on behalf of the owner, will be given reasonable time by the Director
to correct the violations and remain in the Self-Certification Program. This
time period could be thirty (30) to ninety (90) days, however for immediate
life safety violations the time lines will be less to address the urgency of
the situation. Upon removal from the program, the difference between the Self-
Certification Program fee and full annual program fee shall be due and payable.
[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15.]
8.40.100   Refusal to Permit Inspection.
   A.   If an inspection is scheduled and entry is thereafter refused or cannot
be obtained, the inspector shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law
to secure lawful entry and inspect the premises, including but not limited to
securing an inspection warrant pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure
Sections 1822.50 through 1822.57. The inspector shall provide notice that a
warrant has been issued to both the owner/operator and the tenant or occupant
at least twenty-four (24) hours before the warrant is executed, unless the
judge finds that immediate execution is reasonably necessary under the
circumstances shown.
   B.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the inspector has reasonable cause to
believe that the residential rental dwelling unit is so hazardous, unsafe or
dangerous as to require immediate inspection to safeguard the public health or
safety, the inspector shall have the right to immediately enter and inspect the
premises and may use any reasonable means required to effect the entry and make
an inspection.
[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15.]
8.40.110   Retaliatory Eviction.
   It shall be unlawful for a landlord to recover possession of a residential
rental dwelling unit in retaliation against a tenant for exercising his or her
right to file a complaint with the City advising that a building, housing or
sanitation code or ordinance violation or permit violation may exist on the
property.
[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15.]
8.40.120   Change of Ownership.
   When ownership of a residential rental dwelling unit changes, either the
prior owner shall notify the Director of this event prior to the consummation
of the sale or recordation of an instrument of conveyance with the San
Bernardino County Recorder's office or the new owner within sixty (60) days
after consummation of the sale or recordation of an instrument of conveyance
with the San Bernardino County Recorder's office. If the Director is not so
notified, the existing rental housing inspection certification for the
residential rental dwelling unit shall automatically terminate and be null and
void. The new owner will not have to pay the program fees until the following
calendar year provided all fees were paid by for the residential rental
dwelling unit.
[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15.]
8.40.130   Regulations Nonexclusive.
   The provisions of this Chapter regulating residential rental dwelling unit
are not intended to be exclusive and compliance with this Chapter shall not
excuse noncompliance with any other applicable provision, requirement, or
regulation of this Code or any applicable state and federal law. Nothing in
this Chapter shall limit or preclude inspection conducted by the Fire
Department inspectors for compliance with Fire Codes.
[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15.]
8.40.140   Appeals.
   A.   Any appeal of a decision by a City inspector or other City official
that a residential rental dwelling unit is in violation of a building, housing
or sanitation codes or ordinances is appealable pursuant to the procedures set
forth in this subsection. The appeal must be in writing and filed within ten
(10) calendar days from the date of the decision with the appeal fee
established by resolution of the City Council. The appeal shall specifically
identify the decision which is the subject of that appeal and the reasons why,
in the appellant's opinion, the decision is clearly erroneous. Failure of the
Director to receive a timely notice of appeal constitutes a waiver of the right
to contest any such decision. In this event, the decision is final and binding.
Appeals under this subsection shall be heard as follows:
      1.   The City shall set the date and time for the administrative hearing
not less than seven (7) calendar days and not more than ninety (90) calendar
days from the date the notice of appeal is filed and in the event a fine is
being appealed, the fine is deposited with the City, provided, however, that no
hearing to contest an administrative fine shall be held unless the full penalty
amount has been deposited in advance. The administrative hearing will be
conducted by the City Manager or his/her designee. If the responsible party
fails to attend the scheduled hearing, the hearing will proceed without the
responsible party; and he or she will be deemed to have waived his or her right
to an administrative hearing.
      2.   Upon the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall, on
the basis of the evidence presented at the hearing, determine whether the
decision should be upheld, or whether the decision was clearly erroneous and
therefore should be modified or reversed. The determination of the Hearing
Officer shall be final.
      3.   A copy of the Hearing Officer's decision shall be served upon the
owner or operator of the residential rental dwelling unit by United States mail
or by personal delivery within ten (10) days.
[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15.]
8.40.150   Conflicts.
   If the provisions, requirements, or regulations of this Chapter conflict
with or contravene any other provision, requirement, or regulation of this
Code, the provisions, requirements, or regulations of this Chapter shall
prevail as to all matters and questions arising out of the subject matter of
this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 534, 5/13/15; Am. Ord. 536, Section 1, 10/28/15.]
CHAPTER 8.50
[Repealed]
Chapter 8.60
PERSONAL CULTIVATION AND USE OF CANNABIS
Sections:
   
8.60.010   Purpose
   
8.60.020   Definitions
   
8.60.030   Commercial Non-Medical Cannabis Activities Prohibited
   
8.60.040   Personal Cultivation and Personal Use Generally Prohibited
   
8.60.050   Personal Cultivation Restrictions
   
8.60.060   Personal Cultivation Permit Applications
   
8.60.070   Personal Cultivation Permits
   
8.60.080   Personal Use Restrictions
   
8.60.090   Enforcement
8.60.010 Purpose.
   The purpose and intent of this Chapter is to regulate the personal
cultivation and use of cannabis in the City in order to promote the health,
safety, morals, and general welfare of the residents and businesses within the
City. The City does not intend to infringe upon any right given to individuals
by the State, but rather wishes to regulate these activities to protect the
health and safety of the community due to the significant dangers posed by
unregulated cultivation and use of cannabis in the City. The City is authorized
to regulate these activities pursuant to the AUMA and Health and Safety Code
Section 11362.2.
[Ord. No. 555, 10/26/16.]
8.60.020 Definitions.
   For purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply, unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A.   "Accessory Structure" means any fully enclosed and secure structure on
the same parcel as a primary residence, such as a greenhouse or a shed.
   B.   "AUMA" means the Control, Regulate and Tax Adult Use of Marijuana Act
approved by California voters as Proposition 64 on November 8, 2016,
   C.   "Cannabis" also means "marijuana" and shall be defined in accordance
with the AUMA, Health and Safety Code Section 11018, and other applicable State
laws.
   D.   "Cannabis products" also means "marijuana products" and shall be
defined in accordance with the AUMA and other applicable State laws.
   E.   "Commercial non-medical cannabis activities" includes any non-medical
cannabis activities (such as the cultivation, manufacturing, distribution,
transportation, testing, dispensing, delivery, sale, use, storage, marketing,
processing, or packaging of non-medical cannabis and non-medical cannabis
products) except for personal cultivation and personal use only as permitted by
both, the AUMA and this Code.
   F.   "Cultivation" shall be defined in accordance with the AUMA, the. MCRSA,
Business and Professions Code Section 19300.5, and other applicable State laws.
   G.   "Cultivation Area" means a fully enclosed and secure area used for
personal cultivation within a building, greenhouse, or other structure that has
a complete roof enclosure supported by connecting walls extending from the
ground to the roof, which is secure against unauthorized entry, is not
accessible by minors, provides complete visual screening, and is accessible
only through one or more Iockable points of entry. Cultivation areas may only
exist inside of private residences and accessory structures.
   H.   "Indoors" means within a fully enclosed and secure structure.
   I.   "MCRSA" means the California Medical Cannabis Regulation and Safety
Act.
   J.   "Medical cannabis" also means "medical marijuana" and shall be defined
in accordance with the MCRSA, Business and Professions Code Section 19300.5,
Health and Safety Code Section 11018, and other applicable State laws.
   K.    "Minors" means anyone under the age of twenty-one (21) or otherwise
prohibited from possessing or using cannabis pursuant to the laws of the City
or the State.
   L.   "MMRSA" means the California Medical Marijuana Regulation and Safety
Act.
   M.   "Outdoors" means any location within the City that is not within a
fully enclosed and secure structure.
   N.   "Personal Cultivation" means the personal non-commercial cultivation of
cannabis by an individual twenty-one (21) years of age or older for personal
use in a proper cultivation area. Personal cultivation shall include the non-
commercial actions of planting, growing, harvesting, drying, and processing
cannabis for personal use. All personal cultivation shall be subject to the
regulations imposed by the AUMA and this Code.
   O.   "Personal Cultivation Permit" means a City permit to cultivate cannabis
for personal use pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Chapter and the
conditions of approval for the permit.
   P.   "Personal Cultivation Permitee" means an applicant who has applied for
and has been issued a personal cultivation permit by the City pursuant to the
terms and conditions of this Chapter.
   Q.   "Personal Use" means the smoking, consumption, or ingestion of cannabis
or cannabis products by an individual twenty-one (21) years of age or older.
Personal use includes cannabis consumption by means of vaporizers and
electronic cigarettes.
   R.   "Private Residence" means a house, apartment unit, condominium, mobile
home, or other similar dwelling.
   S.   "Smoke" and "Smoking" mean to inhale, exhale, burn, or carry a lighted
or heated device or pipe, pr any other lighted or heated cannabis or cannabis
product intended for inhalation, Smoking includes the use of an electronic
device that creates an aerosol or vapor.
[Ord. No. 555, 10/26/16.]
8.60.030 Commercial Non-Medical Cannabis Activities Prohibited.
All commercial non-medical cannabis activities within the City are prohibited
except in full compliance with all applicable requirements of Chapter 17.80 of
this Code.
[Ord. No. 555, 10/26/16; Ord. No. 650, Section 7, 5/8/24.]
8.60.040 Personal Cultivation and Personal Use Generally Prohibited.
   All personal cultivation and personal use of cannabis within the City is
prohibited except as expressly permitted by this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 555, 10/26/16.]
8.60.050 Personal Cultivation Restrictions.
   Personal cultivation of cannabis is conditionally permitted in the City only
as expressly specified in this Chapter.
   A.   Personal cultivation requires a personal cultivation permit.
   B.   Personal cultivation may only occur indoors within private residences
and accessory structures. No personal cultivation of cannabis shall occur
outdoors. There shall be no visible exterior evidence of any personal
cultivation activity from any publicly accessible area or right-of-way.
   C.   Personal cultivation is only allowed within a fully enclosed and secure
area that is inaccessible to minors, regardless of whether the location is
frequented of occupied by minors. Entrance to the cultivation area, and all
cannabis storage areas, shall be locked at all times, and under the control of
the personal cultivation permitee.
   D.   All cannabis produced by personal cultivation, or available for
personal use, shall be kept in a secured manner that is inaccessible to minors.
   E.   All cannabis products and paraphernalia shall be kept in a secured
manner that is inaccessible to minors.
   F.    Personal cultivation shall only include the non-commercial actions of
planting, growing, harvesting, and dry-processing cannabis.
   G.   Personal cultivation shall not include mamifacturing, extractions, use
of chemicals, or volatile processing.
   H.   All personal cultivation must occur in a single contiguous cultivation
area per parcel of real property.
   I.   Any parcel of real property upon which personal cultivation occurs
shall not contain more than six (6) cannabis plants at any time, regardless of
the maturity of the plants and the number of occupants, private residences, or
accessory structures present on the parcel.
   J.   Cannabis plants inside of private residences shall not exceed five (5)
feet in height when measured from the floor to the top of the plant.
   K.   Cannabis plants inside of accessory structures shall not exceed seven
(7) feet in height when measured from the floor to the top of the plant.
   L.   Cannabis plants inside of private residences shall not occupy more than
twelve (12) square feet of contiguous floor space.
   M.   Cannabis plants inside of accessory structures shall not occupy more
than twenty-four (24) square feet of contiguous floor space.
   N.   All cultivation areas shall contain a readily accessible and
operational fire extinguisher in the immediate area where the personal
cultivation activities occur.
   O.   Personal cultivation shall not occur in violation of any building code
standards pursuant to State law, the Health and Safety Code, the California
Building Standards Code, the California Code of Regulations, the Adelanto
Municipal Code, or any other applicable codes.
   P.   Generators shall not be used to support any personal cultivation
activities.
   Q.   Personal cultivation shall not adversely affect the health or safety of
the community or nearby residents by creating dust, glare, heat, noise, smoke,
traffic, vibration, or other nuisances, and shall not be hazardous due to use
or storage of materials, processes, products, or wastes.
   R.   Cannabis odor shall not be detectable outside of the cultivation area.
   S.   Personal cultivation shall not involve the increase of natural
environmental humidity to support plant growth unless done in sealed container
so as to prevent mold growth.
   T.   Personal cultivation shall not occur on City property or any other
public lands. Personal cultivation may only be conducted with the express
written notarized permission of the owner of the land and the structure being
used for personal cultivation.
   U.   Cannabis produced by personal cultivation may only be used or given
away to persons twenty-one (21) years of age or older, who are otherwise
permitted by law to possess and use cannabis.
   V.    Cannabis produced by personal cultivation may only be given away to an
individual in an amount of up to 28.5 grams of non-concentrated cannabis, or
eight (8) grams of concentrated cannabis, once per month.
   W.   Cannabis produced by personal cultivation may not be sold or given away
for any compensation whatsoever.
   X.   All cannabis related waste shall be destroyed or disposed of in a
secure manner in compliance with all State and local laws so as to prevent
access by minors.
   Y.   The City Manager, the City Manager's designee, the City's Code
Enforcement Manager, the City's Building Official, the Fire Department, and law
enforcement have the legal authority and right to enter and inspect the
cultivation area upon reasonable demand to protect the health and safety of any
occupants, neighbors, and the public. Authorized purposes for inspection of the
cultivation area under this Chapter include, but are not limited to, observing
and enforcing compliance with this Chapter, the Health and Safety Code, the
California Building Standards Code, and all other applicable laws of the City
and the State. Refusing consent to an inspection under this Chapter shall
constitute grounds for obtaining an inspection warrant and for revocation of
any related personal cultivation permit.
[Ord. No. 555, 10/26/16; Ord. No. 561, Section 2, 4/12/17.]
8.60.060 Personal Cultivation Permit Applications.
   All applicants wishing to obtain a personal cultivation permit from the City
must file an application to the City upon a form provided by the City. An
application for a personal cultivation permit shall include at least the
following information:
   A.   The address of the location for which the personal cultivation permit
is sought. Only one (1) personal cultivation permit will be issued per
location.
   B.   The names, ages, and addresses of all owners, lessors, and occupants of
the parcel of real property for the proposed personal cultivation site.
   C.   Proof that the applicant is a lawful occupant of the parcel of real
property for the proposed personal cultivation site.
   D.   The application must be accompanied by a certified grant deed to the
parcel for the proposed personal cultivation site showing the name of the legal
owner.
   E.   If the applicant is not the legal owner of the parcel for the proposed
personal cultivation site, the application must also be accompanied by a
notarized acknowledgment from the legal owner authorizing personal cultivation
to occur on the parcel.
   F.   Evidence that the cultivation area will be located in a legal structure
that is compliant with all applicable State and local laws.
   G.   Authorization for the City Manager, the City Manager's designee, the
City's Code Enforcement Manager, the City's Building Official, the Fire
Department, and law enforcement to enter and inspect the cultivation area at
any time upon twenty-four (24) hours advance notice for the purpose of making
reasonable inspections to observe and enforce compliance with this Chapter, the
Health and Safety Code, the California Building Standards Code, and all other
applicable laws of the City and the State.
   H.   Any such additional and further information as is deemed necessary by
the City Manager's designee to administer this Chapter.
   I.   Authorization for the City Manager's designee to seek verification of
the information contained in the application.
   J.   A statement in writing by the applicant that the applicant certifies
under penalty of perjury that all the information contained in the application
is true and correct.
[Ord. No. 555, 10/26/16.]
8.60.070 Personal Cultivation Permits.
   The following conditions apply to each personal cultivation permit:
   A.   Except for individuals who qualify for an indigent waiver, each
personal cultivation permitee must pay a personal cultivation permit fee in an
amount to be established by resolution of the City Council to offset the cost
to the City of administering this Chapter as a prerequisite to obtaining the
personal cultivation permit.
   B.   The City Manager's designee shall establish qualifications for an
indigent waiver of the personal cultivation permit fee ("indigent waiver").
Qualifying individuals shall obtain the indigent waiver from the City Clerk. An
indigent waiver shall entitle a qualifying individual for either a reduction or
a complete waiver of the personal cultivation permit fee according to the
criteria established by the City Manager's designee.
   C.   A personal cultivation permit will not be awarded or renewed if:
      1.   The applicant made one (1) or more false or misleading statements or
omissions in the application or during the application process.
      2.   The proposed personal cultivation activity would violate State or
local law.
      3.   The applicant does not have legal authority to engage in personal
cultivation at the proposed personal cultivation site.
      4.   The applicant has not satisfied each and every requirement of this
Chapter.
      5.   The applicant has had a previous personal cultivation permit
revoked.
      6.   The applicant has not maintained compliance with each and every
requirement of this Chapter prior to renewal.
   D.   Only one (1) personal cultivation permit may be possessed or used by
the same person.
   E.   Personal cultivation permits may only be issued for private residences
and accessory structures, and only one (1) personal cultivation permit may be
issued per parcel.
   F.   Personal cultivation permits are subject to any additional conditions
that may be applied by the City at the time of issuance or renewal as necessary
to properly regulate the activity and protect the public.
   G.   Within ninety (90) days of obtaining a personal cultivation permit, the
cultivation area must be inspected and approved by the Building Official, the
Fire Department, Code Enforcement, and law enforcement.
   H.   Personal cultivation permitees shall keep the City and law enforcement
updated with the names, ages, and addresses of all occupants, lessors, and
owners of the personal cultivation site.
   I.   Personal cultivation permits shall expire and become null and void
twelve (12) months after issuance unless properly renewed, Prior to renewal,
all applicable personal cultivation permit fees must be paid, and the
cultivation area must be inspected and approved by the Building Official, the
Fire Department, Code Enforcement, and law enforcement.
   J.   Personal cultivation permits issued pursuant to this Chapter are not
transferable to any third parties under, any circumstances.
[Ord. No. 555, 10/26/16.]
8.60.080 Personal Use Restrictions.
   Personal use of cannabis is conditionally permitted in the City only as
expressly specified in this Chapter.
   A.   Only individuals who are twenty-one (21) years of age or older shall be
permitted to possess, use, smoke, inhale, ingest, or consume cannabis or
cannabis products. No individual under twenty-one (21) years of age shall
possess, use, smoke, inhale, ingest, or otherwise consume cannabis or cannabis
products.
   B.   Only individuals who are twenty-one (21) years of age or older shall be
permitted to possess or use cannabis accessories and paraphernalia.
   C.   All cannabis, cannabis products, cannabis paraphernalia, and cannabis
accessories must be stored in a secure location that is inaccessible to minors
except during lawful personal use.
   D.   No person shall attempt to sell, offer to sell, sell, furnish,
administer, distribute, dispense, or give away any cannabis or cannabis
products for any compensation whatsoever unless done so pursuant to a valid
commercial seller's permit issued by the City.
   E.   No person shall attempt to sell, offer to sell, sell, furnish,
administer, distribute, dispense, or give away any cannabis or cannabis
products to any person under twenty-one (21) years of age under any
circumstances.
   F.   Personal use of cannabis shall only be permitted inside of private
residences or in dedicated well-ventilated cannabis smoking lounges as approved
by the City. Cannabis and cannabis products shall not be smoked, inhaled,
ingested, consumed, or otherwise used in the presence of minors, outdoors, in
any public place, at any place of business except dedicated well-ventilated
cannabis smoking lounges as approved by the City, while trespassing on private
lands, or in any location where smoking tobacco is prohibited.
   G.   Personal use of cannabis shall not adversely affect the health or
safety of the community or nearby residents by creating dust, glare, heat,
noise, smoke, traffic, vibration, or other nuisances, and shall not be
hazardous due to use or storage of materials, processes, products, or wastes.
   H.   No cannabis odor shall be detectable outside of permissible personal
use areas.
   I.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, boat, vessel, aircraft, or
other vehicle used for transportation while using or under the influence of
cannabis.
   J.   No person shall possess an open container or open package of cannabis
or cannabis products while driving, operating, or riding in a motor vehicle,
boat, vessel, aircraft, or other vehicle used for transportation.
   K.   No person shall possess more than 28.5 grams of non-concentrated
cannabis, or eight (8) grams of concentrated cannabis, on their person at any
time unless done so pursuant to a valid permit issued by the City.
   L.   All cannabis, cannabis products, cannabis byproducts, and related waste
shall be disposed of in a secure manner as to prevent access to minors in
compliance with all State and local laws.
[Ord. No. 555, 10/26/16.]
8.60.090 Enforcement.
   A.   The City does not assume any liability, and expressly does not waive
sovereign immunity, with respect to any personal cultivation or personal use
activities.
   B.   Any cultivation or use of cannabis within the City in violation of this
Chapter is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance.
   C.   Any party who engages in a violation of this Chapter, or who owns,
possesses, controls, or has charge of any parcel of real property in the City
upon which a violation of the Chapter is maintained, shall be subject to the
penalties and remedies provided by this Chapter.
   D.   Any violation of this Chapter shall constitute a separate offense for
each and every day the violation occurs or persists.
   E.   Any person in violation of any provision of this Chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of up to $1,000 and
up to six (6) months imprisonment per offense per day.
   F.   Any person in violation of any provision of this Chapter shall be
punishable by an administrative fine of up to $1,000 per offense per day.
   G.   Each parent or legal guardian of any minor acting in violation of this
Chapter shall be jointly and severally liable for said violation.
   H.   The City may levy a special assessment against any parcel of real
property in violation of this Chapter to recover administrative fines and all
related City costs including, but not limited to, staff costs, inspections
costs, enforcement costs, administrative overhead, administrative hearing
costs, attorneys' fees, prosecution costs, court costs, legal fees, and any
other related costs. The special assessment may also be recorded against the
nuisance property. If a tenant, as opposed to a property owner or landlord, is
acting in violation of this Chapter, the owner or landlord shall be given
notice of the violation and shall have a period of seven (7) days to initiate
eviction proceedings against the tenant. If the owner or landlord fails to
initiate eviction proceedings within seven (7) days, or fails to diligently
prosecute the tenant's eviction, the owner or landlord shall become
collaterally liable for any administrative fines, which may then be collected
as a special assessment against the parcel of real property.
   I.   At the discretion of the City Manager's designee, any person issued an
administrative fine for any violation of this Chapter may elect to participate
in a voluntary community service diversion program ("community service
program") as an alternative to paying any administrative fines incurred. The
community service program shall be administered by the City Manager's designee.
Any individual wishing to. participate in the community service program must
first obtain the approval of the City Manager's designee before commencing
participation. A participant in the community service program shall be granted
a credit of $25 per hour worked (as verified by the City Manager's designee)
toward the balance of their administrative fines owed to the City.
      1.   At the discretion of the City Manager's designee, a parent or legal
guardian that has been issued an administrative fine based upon joint and
several liability for any violation of this Chapter caused by their minor child
may elect to require the minor to participate in the community service program.
In such circumstance, the parent or legal guardian shall participate in the
community service program along with the minor. Each parent or legal guardian
shall be responsible for the safety of the minor while participating in the
community service program. The parent or legal guardian and the minor shall
each be granted a credit of $25 per hour worked (as verified by the City
Manager's designee) toward the balance of the administrative fines owed to the
City.
   J.   Any violation of this Chapter, or any other City or State cannabis law,
by a personal cultivation permitee is grounds for revoking the personal
cultivation permitee's personal cultivation permit.
      1.   Any decision regarding the revocation of a personal cultivation
permit may be appealed to an independent neutral third party administrative
hearing officer appointed by the City Manager's designee ("hearing officer").
Said appeal shall be made by a written notice of appeal from the person
appealing within ten (10) days from the date of the personal cultivation permit
revocation order. The appeal shall be accompanied by a written verified
declaration setting forth the basis for the claim that the personal cultivation
permit was improperly revoked.
      2.   Upon receipt of the appeal, the City shall schedule an
administrative hearing to occur within ninety (90) days. The City shall provide
ten (10) days advance notice of the date, time, and location of the
administrative hearing to the appellant. The hearing officer's decision shall
be final and binding upon the City and the appellant.
      3.   The costs of the administrative hearing shall be borne by the non-
prevailing party.
      4.   Failure to properly appeal the personal cultivation permit
revocation as required herein, or to appear at the properly noticed
administrative hearing, shall constitute a waiver of the right to contest the
permit revocation, a failure to exhaust the available administrative remedies,
and a bar to any further appeals of the permit revocation.
   K.   These penalties and remedies are cumulative, and in addition to any
other penalties and remedies available to the City.
[Ord. No. 555, 10/26/16.]
Chapter 8.70
MANDATORY ORGANIC WASTE DISPOSAL REDUCTION
Sections:
   
8.70.010   Definitions
   
8.70.020   Requirements for Single Family Generators
   
8.70.030   Requirements for Commercial Business Generators
   
8.70.040   Waivers for Commercial Generators
   
8.70.050   Requirements for Commercial Edible Food Generators
   
8.70.060   Requirements for Food Recovery Organizations and Services
   
8.70.070   Requirements for Haulers and Facility Operators
   
8.70.080   Self-Hauler Requirements for Organic Waste
   
8.70.090   Compliance with CALGreen Recycling Requirements
   
8.70.100   Model Water Landscaping Ordinance Requirements
   
8.70.110   Procurement Requirements for City Departments, Direct Service
Providers, and Vendors
   
8.70.120   Inspections and Investigations
   
8.70.130   Enforcement
8.70.010 Definitions.
For purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply, unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A.   “CalRecycle” means California's Department of Resources Recycling and
Recovery, which is the department designated with responsibility for
developing, implementing, and enforcing SB 1383 Regulations on City of Adelanto
(and others).
   B.   “California Code of Regulations” or “CCR” means the State of California
Code of Regulations. CCR references in this article are preceded with a number
that refers to the relevant Title of the CCR (e.g., “14 CCR” refers to Title 14
of CCR).
   C.   “City Enforcement Official” means the city manager, or other executive
in charge or their authorized designee(s) who is/are partially or wholly
responsible for enforcing this article.
   D.   “Commercial Business” or “Commercial Subscriber” means a firm,
partnership, proprietorship, joint-stock company, corporation, or association,
whether for-profit or nonprofit, strip mall, industrial facility, or a
multifamily residential dwelling with five (5) or more units.
   E.   “Community Composting” means any approved city activity that composts
green material, agricultural material, food material, and vegetative food
material, alone or in combination, and the total amount of feedstock and
compost on-site at any one time does not exceed one hundred (100) cubic yards
and seven hundred fifty (750) square feet, (14 CCR Section 17855(a)(4); or,
18982(a)(8)).
   F.   “Commercial Edible Food Generator” includes a tier one or a tier two
commercial edible food generator as defined in subsection (TT) and (UU) of this
Section or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(73) and (a)(74). For
the purposes of this definition, food recovery organizations and food recovery
services are not commercial edible food generators pursuant to 14 CCR Section
18982(a)(7).
   G.   “Compliance Review” means a review of records by a City of Adelanto to
determine compliance with this article.
   H.   “Compost” means the product resulting from the controlled biological
decomposition of organic solid wastes that are source separated from the
municipal solid waste stream, or which are separated at a centralized facility.
(14 CCR Section 17896.2(a)(4)).
   I.   “Compostable Plastics” or “Compostable Plastic” means plastic materials
that meet the ASTM D6400 standard for compostability, or as otherwise described
in 14 CCR Section 18984.1(a)(1)(A) or 18984.2(a)(1)(C).
   J.   “Container Contamination” or “Contaminated Container” means a
container, regardless of color, that contains prohibited container contaminants
(14 CCR Section 18982(a)(55)).
   K.   “C&D” means construction and demolition debris.
   L.   “Designee” means a government entity, a hauler, a private entity, or a
combination of those entities.
   M.   “Edible Food” means food intended for human consumption (14 CCR Section
18982(a)(18)). Nothing in this chapter or in 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12
requires or authorizes the recovery of edible food that does not meet the food
safety requirements of the California Retail Food Code.
   N.   “Enforcement Action" means an action of the City to address non-
compliance with this chapter including, but not limited to, issuing
administrative citations, fines, penalties, or using other remedies.
   O.   “Excluded Waste” means hazardous substance, hazardous waste, infectious
waste, designated waste, volatile, corrosive, medical waste, infectious,
regulated radioactive waste, and toxic substances or material that upon
collection, transfer, processing, or disposal, be a violation of local, State,
or Federal law, regulation, or ordinance.
   P.   “Food Distributor” means a company that distributes food to entities
including, but not limited to, supermarkets and grocery stores.
   Q.   “Food Facility” means an operation that stores, prepares, packages,
serves, vends, or otherwise provides food for human consumption at the retail
level. (Section 113789 of the Health and Safety Code).
   R.   “Food Recovery” means actions to collect and distribute food for human
consumption that otherwise would be disposed.
   S.   “Food Recovery Organization” means an entity that engages in the
collection or receipt of edible food and distributes that edible food to the
public either directly or through other entities for the purposes of reducing
hunger and supplying nutritional needs. (CA Health & Safety Code § 113783,
113841, 113842).
   T.   “Food Recovery Service” means a person or entity that collects and
transports edible food from a generator to a food recovery organization.
   U.   “Food Service Provider” means an entity primarily engaged in providing
food services to institutional, governmental, commercial, or industrial
locations.
   V.   “Food-Soiled Paper” is paper material that has come in contact with
food or liquid, such as, but not limited to, paper plates and napkins.
   W.   “Food Waste” means all food and food scraps such as, but not limited
to, fruits, vegetables, meat, poultry, seafood, shellfish, bones, rice, beans,
pasta, bread, cheese, and eggshells. Food waste excludes fats, oils, liquids,
and grease when such materials are source separated.
   X.   “Grocery Store” means a store primarily engaged in the retail sale of
canned food; dry goods; fresh fruits and vegetables; fresh meats, fish, and
poultry; and any area that is not separately owned within the store where the
food is prepared and served, including a bakery, deli, and meat and seafood
departments.
   Y.   “Inspection” means a site visit where a City or City designee reviews
records, containers, and an entity’s handling of organic waste or edible food
to determine if the entity is in compliance.
   Z.   “Large Event” means an event, including, but not limited to, a sporting
event or a flea market, that charges an admission price, or is operated by a
local agency, and serves an average of more than two thousand (2,000)
individuals per day of operation of the event, at a location that includes, but
is not limited to, a public, nonprofit, or privately owned park, parking lot,
golf course, street system, or other open space when being used for an event.
   AA.   “Large Venue” means a permanent venue facility that annually seats or
serves an average of more than two thousand (2,000) individuals within the
grounds of the facility per day of operation of the venue facility including,
but is not limited to, a public, nonprofit, or privately owned or operated
stadium, amphitheater, arena, hall, amusement park, conference or civic center,
zoo, aquarium, airport, racetrack, horse track, performing arts center,
fairground, museum, theater, or other public attraction facility.
   BB.   “Local Education Agency” means a school district, charter school, or
county office of education that is not subject to the control of city
regulations related to solid waste.
   CC.   “Multi-Family Residential Dwelling” or “Multi-Family” means of, from,
or pertaining to residential premises with five (5) or more dwelling units.
Multi-Family premises do not include hotels, motels, or other transient
occupancy facilities, which are considered commercial businesses.
   DD.   “MWELO” refers to the Model Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance
(MWELO), 23 CCR, Division 2, Chapter 2.7.
   EE.   “Non-Local Entity” means the following entities that are not subject
to the City’s enforcement authority including but not limited to special
district(s), federal facilities, prison(s), facilities operated by the state
park system, public universities (including community colleges), county
fairgrounds, or other state agencies.
   FF.   “Non-Organic Recyclables” means non-putrescible and non-hazardous
recyclable wastes including but not limited to bottles, cans, metals, plastics
and glass.
   GG.   “Notice of Violation (NOV)” means a notice that a violation has
occurred that includes a compliance date to avoid an action to seek penalties.
   HH.   “Organic Waste” means solid wastes containing material originated from
living organisms and their metabolic waste products, including but not limited
to food, green material, landscape and pruning waste, organic textiles and
carpets, lumber, wood, paper products, printing and writing paper, manure,
biosolids, digestate, and sludges. (14 CCR Section 18982).
   II.   “Organic Waste Generator” means a person or entity that is responsible
for the initial creation of organic waste.
   JJ.   “Prohibited Container Contaminants” means discarded materials placed
in a container that are not identified as being permitted or are considered to
be excluded waste.
   KK.   “Recovered Organic Waste Products” means products made from
California, landfill-diverted recovered organic waste processed in a permitted
or otherwise authorized facility.
   LL.   “Recycled-Content Paper” means paper products and printing and writing
paper that consists of at least thirty (30) percent, by fiber weight,
postconsumer fiber (14 CCR Section 18982(a)(61)).
   MM.   “Renewable Gas” means gas derived from organic waste that has been
diverted from a California landfill and processed at an in-vessel digestion
facility that is permitted.
   NN.   “SB 619" means Senate Bill 619 of 2021 amending Section 42652.5 of the
Public Resources Code.
   OO.   “Self-Hauler” means a commercial generator approved by the City, who
hauls organic waste to a facility or location using the generator’s own
employees and equipment, in an effort to avoid subscribing to the franchise
hauler’s service.
   PP.   “Single-Family” means of, from, or pertaining to any residential
premises with fewer than five (5) units.
   QQ.   “Solid Waste” has the same meaning as defined in State Public
Resources Code Section 40191, which defines Solid Waste as all putrescible and
nonputrescible solid, semisolid, and liquid wastes, including garbage, trash,
refuse, paper, rubbish, ashes, industrial wastes, demolition and construction
wastes, abandoned vehicles and parts thereof, discarded home and industrial
appliances, dewatered, treated, or chemically fixed sewage sludge which is not
hazardous waste, manure, vegetable or animal solid and semi-solid wastes, and
other discarded solid and semisolid wastes, with the exception that solid waste
does not include any of the following wastes:
      1.   Hazardous waste, as defined in the State Public Resources Code
Section 40141.
      2.   Radioactive waste regulated pursuant to the State Radiation Control
Law (Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 114960)) of Part 9 of Division 104 of
the State Health and Safety Code).
      3.   Medical waste regulated pursuant to the State Medical Waste
Management Act (Part 14 (commencing with Section 117600)) of Division 104 of
the State Health and Safety Code). Untreated medical waste shall not be
disposed of in a solid waste landfill, as defined in State Public Resources
Code Section 40195.1. Medical waste that has been treated and deemed to be
solid waste shall be regulated pursuant to Division 30 of the State Public
Resources Code.
   RR.   “Source Separated” means materials, including commingled recyclable
materials, that have been separated or kept separate from the solid waste
stream, at the point of generation by the resident, tenant, business owner,
property owner, business owner’s employee, or property owner’s employee into
different containers for the purpose of collection.
   SS.   “Supermarket” means a full-line, self-service retail store with gross
annual sales of two million dollars ($2,000,000), or more, and which sells a
line of dry grocery, canned goods, or nonfood items and some perishable items.
   TT.   “Tier One Commercial Edible Food Generator” means supermarket, grocery
store with a total facility size equal to or greater than ten thousand (10,000)
square feet, food service provider, food distributor, or wholesale food vendor.
   UU.   “Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generator” means a restaurant with
two hundred fifty (250) or more seats, or a total facility size equal to or
greater than five thousand (5,000) square feet, hotel with an on-site food
facility and two hundred (200) or more rooms, health facility with an on-site
food facility and one hundred (100) or more beds, large venue, large event, a
State agency with a cafeteria with two hundred fifty (250) or more seats or
total cafeteria facility size equal to or greater than five thousand (5,000)
square feet, or local education agency facility with an on-site food facility.
   VV.   “Wholesale Food Vendor” means a business or establishment engaged in
the merchant wholesale distribution of food, where food (including fruits and
vegetables) is received, shipped, stored, prepared for distribution to a
retailer, warehouse, distributor, or other destination.
[Ord. No. 621, 1/18/22.]
8.70.020 Requirements for Single Family Generators.
Single-Family organic waste generators shall comply with the following
requirements:
   A.   Shall subscribe to the franchised hauler’s organic waste collection
services for all organic waste generated. The City or City’s designee shall
have the right to review the number and size of a generator’s containers to
evaluate adequacy of capacity provided for each type of collection service for
proper separation and containment of materials. Single-Family generators shall
adjust its service level for its collection services as requested by the City.
Generators may additionally manage their organic waste by using a community or
backyard composting site.
   B.   Shall place designated materials in designated containers. A person or
entity is not required to replace functional containers, including containers
purchased prior to January 1, 2022, that do not comply with the color
requirements of the regulations, prior to the end of the useful life of those
containers, or prior to January 1, 2036, whichever comes first. Commencing
January 1, 2022, labels will be placed on each new container or lid provided to
generators consistent with the applicable container collection requirements and
limitations of this article specifying what materials are allowed to be placed
in each container.
[Ord. No. 621, 1/18/22.]
8.70.030 Requirements for Commercial Business Generators.
Commercial businesses, including multi-family residential dwellings, shall:
   A.   Subscribe to the franchise hauler’s collection services and comply with
requirements of those services. The City or City’s designee shall have the
right to review the number and size of a generator’s containers and frequency
of collection to evaluate adequacy of capacity provided for each type of
collection service for proper separation of materials and containment of
materials. Commercial businesses shall adjust their service level for their
collection services as requested by the City.
   B.   Generator shall place designated materials in the permitted containers.
A person or entity is not required to replace functional containers, including
containers purchased prior to January 1, 2022, that do not comply with the
color requirements of the regulations, prior to the end of the useful life of
those containers, or prior to January 1, 2036, whichever comes first.
Commencing January 1, 2022, labels will be placed on each new container or lid
provided to generators consistent with the applicable container collection
requirements and limitations of this article specifying what materials are
allowed to be placed in each container.
   C.   Supply and allow access to adequate number, size and location of
collection containers for employees, contractors, tenants, and customers.
   D.   Excluding multi-family residential dwellings, provide containers for
the collection of source separated organic waste and recyclable materials in
all indoor and outdoor areas where disposal containers are provided for
customers. Such containers do not need to be provided in restrooms. If a
commercial business does not generate any of the materials that would be
collected in one type of container, then the business does not have to provide
that particular container in all areas where disposal containers are provided
for customers. The containers provided by the business shall have either:
      1.   A body or lid that conforms with the container colors provided
through the collection service provided by the City’s franchised hauler, with
either lids conforming to the color requirements or bodies conforming to the
color requirements or both lids and bodies conforming to color requirements. A
commercial business is not required to replace functional containers, including
containers purchased prior to January 1, 2022, that do not comply with the
requirements of the subsection prior to the end of the useful life of those
containers, or prior to January 1, 2036, whichever comes first.
      2.   Container labels that include language or graphic images, or both,
indicating the primary material accepted and the primary materials prohibited
in that container, or containers with imprinted text or graphic images that
indicate the primary materials accepted and primary materials prohibited in the
container. Container labeling requirements are required on new containers
placed into service commencing January 1, 2022.
   E.   Multi-family residential dwellings are not required to comply with
container placement or labeling requirements.
   F.   To the extent practical through education, training, inspection, and/or
other measures, excluding multi-family residential dwellings, prohibit
employees from placing materials in a container not designated for those
materials.
   G.   Excluding multi-family residential dwellings, periodically inspect
containers for contamination and inform employees if containers are
contaminated and of the requirements to keep contaminants out of said
containers.
   H.   Annually provide information to employees, contractors, tenants, and
customers about organic waste recovery requirements and about proper sorting of
source separated materials.
   I.   Provide education information before or within fourteen (14) days of
occupation of the premises to new tenants that describes requirements to source
separated materials and the location of containers and the rules governing
their use at each property.
   J.   Provide or arrange access for City or City’s designee to their
properties during all inspections conducted in accordance with this chapter to
confirm compliance.
   K.   Nothing in this Section prohibits a generator from preventing or
reducing waste generation, managing organic waste on site, or using a community
composting site (14 CCR Section 18984.9(c)).
   L.   Commercial businesses that are tier one or tier two commercial edible
food generators shall comply with food recovery requirements.
[Ord. No. 621, 1/18/22.]
8.70.040 Waivers for Commercial Generators.
The City may grant waivers to generators for physical space limitations and de
minimis (low) volumes.
   A.   De minimis waivers (low volume). The City may waive a commercial
business’ obligation (including multi-family residential dwellings) to comply
with some or all of the organic waste requirements of this chapter if its own
staff or City designee certifies that the business generates below a certain
amount of organic waste material. Commercial businesses requesting a de minimis
waiver shall:
      1.   Submit an application to the City or City’s designee specifying the
services that they are requesting a waiver from and provide documentation as
noted below.
      2.   Provide documentation that either:
         a.   The commercial business’ total solid waste collection service is
two (2) cubic yards or more per week and organic waste comprises less than
twenty (20) gallons per week per applicable container of the business’ total
waste; or,
         b.   The commercial business’ total solid waste collection service is
less than two (2) cubic yards per week and organic waste comprises less than
ten (10) gallons per week per applicable container of the business’ total
waste.
         c.   Notify City if circumstances change such that commercial
business’ organic waste exceeds threshold required for waiver, in which case
waiver will be rescinded.
         d.   De minimis waivers are valid for a period of five (5) years and
subject to reverification by the City or City designee at any time.
   B.   Physical space waivers. The City may waive a commercial business’ or
property owner’s obligations (including multi-family residential dwellings) to
comply with some or all of the organic waste collection service requirements if
its own staff, or City designee, certifies that the premises lack adequate
space for the collection containers required for compliance with the organic
waste collection requirements.
A commercial business or property owner may request a physical space waiver
through the following process:
      1.   Submit an application form to the City or City designee specifying
the type(s) of collection services for which they are requesting a compliance
waiver.
      2.   Provide documentation that the premises lack adequate space for
containers and include documentation from either its franchised hauler,
licensed architect, or licensed engineer.
      3.   Physical space waivers are valid for a period of five (5) years and
subject to reverification by the City or City designee at any time.
   C.   The City shall make the final determination for each waiver
application. Approved waivers may be reverified and/or rescinded by the City at
any time.
[Ord. No. 621, 1/18/22.]
8.70.050 Requirements for Commercial Edible Food Generators.
   A.   Tier one commercial edible food generators must comply with
requirements commencing January 1, 2022, and tier two commercial edible food
generators must comply commencing January 1, 2024.
   B.   Large venue or large event operators not providing food services, but
allowing for food to be provided by others, shall require food facilities
operating at the large venue or large event to comply with the requirements of
this Section, commencing January 1, 2024.
   C.   Commercial edible food generators shall comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   Arrange to recover the maximum amount of edible food that would
otherwise be disposed.
      2.   Contract with, or enter into a written agreement with, food recovery
organizations or food recovery services for the collection or acceptance of the
edible food that the commercial edible food generator provides to the food
recovery organization for food recovery.
      3.   Shall not intentionally spoil edible food that is capable of being
recovered by a food recovery organization or a food recovery service.
      4.   Allow the City’s designated enforcement entity or designee to access
the premises and review records.
      5.   Keep records that include the following information:
         a.   A list of each food recovery service or organization that
collects or receives its edible food pursuant to a contract or written
agreement.
         b.   A copy of all contracts or written agreements.
         c.   A record of the following information for each of those food
recovery services or food recovery organizations:
            i.   The name, address and contact information of the food recovery
service or food recovery organization.
            ii.   The types of food that will be collected or transported to
the food recovery service or food recovery organization.
            iii.   The established frequency that food will be collected or
self-hauled.
            iv.   The quantity of food, measured in pounds recovered per month,
collected or transported to a food recovery service or food recovery
organization for food recovery.
            v.   Provide copies of contracts, agreements, and required records
to the City or City designee upon request.
   D.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit or conflict with
the protections provided by the California Good Samaritan Food Donation Act of
2017, the Federal Good Samaritan Act, or share table and school food donation
guidance pursuant to Senate Bill 557 of 2017 (approved by the Governor of the
State of California on September 25, 2017, which added Article 13 [commencing
with Section 49580] to Chapter 9 of Part 27 of Division 4 of Title 2 of the
Education Code, and to amend Section 114079 of the Health and Safety Code,
relating to food safety, as amended, supplemented, superseded and replaced from
time to time).
[Ord. No. 621, 1/18/22.]
8.70.060 Requirements for Food Recovery Organizations and Services.
   A.   Food recovery services collecting or receiving edible food directly
from commercial edible food generators, via a contract or written agreement
established shall maintain the following records:
      1.   The name, address, and contact information for each commercial
edible food generator from which the service collects edible food.
      2.   The quantity in pounds of edible food collected from each commercial
edible food generator per month.
      3.   The quantity in pounds of edible food transported to each food
recovery organization per month.
      4.   The name, address, and contact information for each food recovery
organization that the food recovery service transports edible food to for food
recovery.
   B.   Food recovery organizations collecting or receiving edible food
directly from commercial edible food generators, via a contract or written
agreement, shall maintain the following records:
      1.   The name, address, and contact information for each commercial
edible food generator from which the organization receives edible food.
      2.   The quantity in pounds of edible food received from each commercial
edible food generator per month.
      3.   The name, address, and contact information for each food recovery
service that the organization receives edible food from for food recovery.
   C.   Food recovery organizations and food recovery services shall inform
generators about California and Federal Good Samaritan Food Donation Act
protection in their contract or agreement.
   D.   Food recovery organizations and food recovery services that have their
primary address physically located in the City and contract with or have
written agreements with one (1) or more commercial edible food generators shall
report to the City or City designee the total pounds of edible food recovered
in the previous calendar quarter from the tier one and tier two commercial
edible food generators they have established a contract or written agreement
with beginning April 1, 2023 for the previous quarter. Reports are required to
be submitted to the City or City designee no later than thirty (30) days from
the end of the quarter being reported.
   E.   Food recovery services and food recovery organizations operating in the
City shall provide information and consultation to the City, upon request,
regarding existing, or proposed new or expanded, food recovery capacity that
could be accessed by the City and its commercial edible food generators. A food
recovery service or food recovery organization contacted by the City shall
respond to such request for information within sixty (60) days, unless a
shorter timeframe is otherwise specified by the City.
[Ord. No. 621, 1/18/22.]
8.70.070 Requirements for Haulers and Facility Operators.
   A.   Requirements for Haulers. Haulers shall meet the following requirements
and standards as a condition of approval of a permit or other authorization
with the City to collect organic waste:
      1.   Through written notice to the City initially on or before July 1,
2022 and when changes occur, identify the facilities to which they will
transport organic waste including facilities for source separated recyclable
materials, and source separated green container organic waste.
      2.   Notwithstanding any the foregoing, nothing in this Chapter shall
restrict or otherwise prohibit haulers from meeting compliance requirements by
any alternative methods or procedures, provided it complies with SB 1383, the
SB 1383 Regulations, and/or any other applicable law, as may be amended from
time to time, or being relieved of, or delaying compliance with such
requirement pursuant to SB 619.
   B.   Requirements for facility operators and community composting
operations.
      1.   Owners of facilities, operations, and activities that recover
organic waste, including, but not limited to, compost facilities, in-vessel
digestion facilities, and publicly-owned treatment works shall, upon City
request, provide information regarding available and potential new or expanded
capacity at their facilities, operations, and activities, including information
about throughput and permitted capacity necessary for planning purposes.
Entities contacted by the City shall respond within sixty (60) days.
      2.   Community composting operators, upon City request, shall provide
information to the City or City designee to support organic waste capacity
planning, including, but not limited to, an estimate of the amount of organic
waste anticipated to be handled at the community composting operation. Entities
contacted by the City or City designee shall respond within sixty (60) days.
[Ord. No. 621, 1/18/22.]
8.70.080 Self-Hauler Requirements for Organic Waste.
   A.   Approved self-haulers shall source separate all organic waste generated
on-site from solid waste in accordance with 14 CCR Section 18984.1.
   B.   Self-Haulers shall haul their source separated organic waste to a solid
waste facility, operation, activity, or property that processes or recovers
source separated organic waste approved by the City.
   C.   Self-Haulers shall haul their source separated organic waste to an
approved facility not less than every seven (7) days utilizing their own
equipment and labor.
   D.   Self-Haulers that are commercial businesses (including multi-family
residential dwellings) shall keep a record of the amount of organic waste
delivered to each solid waste facility, operation, activity, or property that
processes or recovers organic waste. This record shall be subject to inspection
by the City or City designee. The records shall include the following
information:
      1.   Delivery receipts and weight tickets from the entity accepting the
waste.
      2.   The amount of material in cubic yards or tons transported by the
generator to each entity.
   E.   Self-Haulers that are commercial businesses (including multi-family
self-haulers) shall provide information collected in Section 9(d) to the City
or City designee no later than the 15th of each month for the previous month’s
activities.
   F.   An application must be approved by the City or its designee prior to
commencing self-haul activities.
[Ord. No. 621, 1/18/22.]
8.70.090 Compliance with CALGreen Recycling Requirements.
   A.   Persons applying for a permit from the City for new construction and
building additions and alterations shall comply with the requirements of this
Section and all required components of the California Green Building Standards
Code, 24 CCR, Part 11, known as CALGreen, as amended, if its project is covered
by the scope of the regulation.
   B.   For projects covered by CALGreen, the applicants must, as a condition
of the City’s permit approval, comply with the following:
      1.   Where five (5) or more multi-family dwelling units are constructed
on a building site, provide readily accessible areas that serve occupants of
all buildings on the site and are identified for the storage and collection
materials, consistent with the recommendations of the franchised hauler, or
comply with provision of adequate space for recycling for multi-family and
commercial premises pursuant to Sections 4.408.1, 4.410.2, 5.408.1, and 5.410.1
of the California Green Building Standards Code, 24 CCR, Part 11 as amended
provided amended requirements are more stringent than the CALGreen requirements
for adequate recycling space effective January 1, 2020.
      2.   New commercial construction or additions resulting in more than
thirty (30) percent of the floor area shall provide readily accessible areas
identified for the storage and collection of materials, consistent with the
recommendations of the franchised hauler, or shall comply with provision of
adequate space for recycling for multi-family and commercial premises pursuant
to Sections 4.408.1, 4.410.2, 5.408.1, and 5.410.1 of the California Green
Building Standards Code, 24 CCR, Part 11 as amended provided amended
requirements are more stringent than the CALGreen requirements for adequate
recycling space effective January 1, 2020.
      3.   Comply with CALGreen requirements and applicable law related to
management of C&D, including diversion of organic waste in C&D from disposal.
Comply with City’s C&D ordinance, Chapter 8.05 of City’s municipal code, and
all written and published City policies and/or administrative guidelines
regarding the collection, recycling, diversion, tracking, and/or reporting of
C&D.
[Ord. No. 621, 1/18/22.]
8.70.100 Model Water Landscaping Ordinance Requirements.
   A.   Property owners or their building or landscape designers, including
anyone requiring a building or planning permit, plan check, or landscape design
review from the City, who are constructing a new (single-family, multi-family,
public, institutional, or commercial) project with a landscape area greater
than five hundred (500) square feet, or rehabilitating an existing landscape
with a total landscape area greater than two thousand five hundred (2,500)
square feet, shall comply with Title 23, CCR, section 492.6(a)(3) (B), (C),
(D), and (G) of the MWELO, including sections related to use of compost and
mulch as delineated in this Section.
   B.   The following compost and mulch use requirements that are part of the
MWELO are now also included as requirements of this chapter. Other requirements
of the MWELO are in effect and can be found in 23 CCR, Division 2, Chapter 2.7.
   C.   Property owners or their building or landscape designers that meet the
threshold for MWELO compliance outlined in Subsection A above shall:
      1.   Comply with Title 23, CCR, section 492.6(a)(3) (B), (C), (D), and
(G) of the MWELO, which requires the submittal of a landscape design plan with
a soil preparation, mulch, and amendments section to include the following:
         a.   For landscape installations, compost at a rate of a minimum of
four (4) cubic yards per one thousand (1,000) square feet of permeable area
shall be incorporated to a depth of six (6) inches into the soil. Soils with
greater than six (6) percent organic matter in the top six (6) inches of soil
are exempt from adding compost and tilling.
         b.   For landscape installations, a minimum three- (3-) inch layer of
mulch shall be applied on all exposed soil surfaces of planting areas except in
turf areas, creeping or rooting groundcovers, or direct seeding applications
where mulch is contraindicated. To provide habitat for beneficial insects and
other wildlife up to five (5) percent of the landscape area may be left without
mulch. Designated insect habitat must be included in the landscape design plan
as such.
         c.   Organic mulch and compost materials made from recycled or post-
consumer materials that comply with 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12, Article 12
shall be used. Other products such as inorganic materials or virgin forest
products must be approved by the City prior to use. Organic mulches are not
required where prohibited by local fuel modification plan guidelines or other
applicable local ordinances.
      2.   The MWELO compliance items listed in this Section are not an
inclusive list of MWELO requirements; therefore, property owners or their
building or landscape designers that meet the threshold for MWELO compliance
outlined in Subsection A shall consult the full MWELO for all requirements.
   D.   If, after the adoption of this chapter, the California Department of
Water Resources, or its successor agency, amends 23 CCR, Division 2, Chapter
2.7, 492.6(a)(3)(B), (C), (D), and (G) of the MWELO September 15, 2015
requirements in a manner that requires jurisdictions to incorporate the
requirements of an updated MWELO in a local ordinance, and the amended
requirements include provisions more stringent than those required in this
Section, the revised requirements of 23 CCR, Division 2, Chapter 2.7 shall be
enforced.
[Ord. No. 621, 1/18/22.]
8.70.110 Procurement Requirements for City Departments, Direct Service
Providers, and Vendors.
All vendors providing paper products and printing and writing paper shall:
   A.   If fitness and quality are equal, provide recycled-content paper
products and recycled-content printing and writing paper that consists of at
least thirty (30) percent, by fiber weight, postconsumer fiber instead of non-
recycled products whenever recycled paper products and printing and writing
paper are available at the same or lesser total cost than non-recycled items.
   B.   Provide paper products and printing and writing paper that meet Federal
Trade Commission recyclability standard as defined in 16 Code of Federal
Regulations (CFR) Section 260.12.
   C.   Certify in writing, under penalty of perjury, the minimum percentage of
postconsumer material in the paper products and printing and writing paper
offered or sold to the City. This certification requirement may be waived if
the percentage of postconsumer material in the paper products, printing and
writing paper, or both can be verified by a product label, catalog, invoice, or
a manufacturer or vendor internet website.
   D.   Certify in writing, on invoices or receipts provided, that the paper
products and printing and writing paper offered or sold to the City is eligible
to be labeled with an unqualified recyclable label as defined in 16 Code of
Federal Regulations (CFR) Section 260.12 (2013).
   E.   Provide records to the City designee within thirty (30) days of the
purchase (both recycled-content and non-recycled content, if any is purchased)
made by any division or department or employee of the City. Records shall
include a copy (electronic or paper) of the invoice or other documentation of
purchase, written certifications as required in subsection D and E of this
Section for recycled-content purchases, purchaser name, quantity purchased,
date purchased, and recycled content (including products that contain none),
and if non-recycled content paper products and printing and writing paper are
provided, include a description of why recycled-content paper products and
printing and writing paper were not provided.
[Ord. No. 621, 1/18/22.]
8.70.120 Inspections and Investigations.
   A.   City representatives, and/or designee, are authorized to conduct
Inspections and investigations, at random or otherwise, of any collection
container, self-hauler vehicle loads, or community compost facility for
materials collected from generators, or source separated materials to confirm
compliance with this chapter by organic waste generators, commercial businesses
(including multi-family residential dwellings), property owners, commercial
edible food generators, self-haulers, food recovery services, and food recovery
organizations, subject to applicable laws. This Section does not allow City or
City designees to enter the interior of a private residential property for
inspection.
   B.   Regulated entity shall provide or arrange for access during all
inspections (with the exception of residential property interiors) and shall
cooperate with the City’s employee or designee during such inspections and
investigations. Such inspections and investigations may include confirmation of
proper placement of materials in containers, edible food recovery activities,
records, or any other requirement of this chapter described herein. Failure to
provide or arrange for access to an entity’s premises or access to records for
any inspection or investigation is a violation of this chapter and may result
in penalties described.
   C.   Any records obtained during inspections and other reviews shall be
subject to the requirements and applicable disclosure exemptions of the Public
Records Act as set forth in Government Code Section 6250 et seq.
   D.   City representatives, or City designee, are authorized to conduct any
inspections or other investigations as reasonably necessary to further the
goals of this chapter, subject to applicable laws.
   E.   The City shall receive written complaints from persons regarding an
entity that may be potentially non-compliant with SB 1383 Regulations,
including receipt of anonymous complaints. Written complaints must include the
following:
      1.   If the complaint is not anonymous, name and contact information of
the complainant;
      2.   Identity of the alleged violator, if known;
      3.   A description of the alleged violation;
      4.   Relevant evidence to support the complaint;
      5.   The identity of any witnesses.
[Ord. No. 621, 1/18/22.]
8.70.130 Enforcement.
   A.   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute grounds for
issuance of a Notice of Violation (NOV) and assessment of a fine by a City
Enforcement Official or representative. Enforcement actions under this chapter
are issuance of an administrative citation and assessment of a fine. The City’s
procedures on imposition of administrative fines are hereby incorporated in
their entirety, as modified from time to time, and shall govern the imposition,
enforcement, collection, and review of administrative citations issued to
enforce this chapter and any rule or regulation adopted pursuant to this
chapter, except as otherwise indicated in this chapter.
   B.   Other remedies allowed by law may be used, including civil action or
prosecution as misdemeanor or infraction. City may pursue civil actions in the
California courts to seek recovery of unpaid administrative citations. City may
choose to delay court action until such time as a sufficiently large number of
violations, or cumulative size of violations exist such that court action is a
reasonable use of City staff and resources.
   C.   Responsible Entity for Enforcement.
      1.   Enforcement pursuant to this ordinance may be undertaken by the City
Enforcement Official or their designated entity.
      2.   Enforcement may also be undertaken by a Regional or County Agency
Enforcement Official, designated by the City.
         a.   Enforcement official(s) will interpret ordinance; determine the
applicability of waivers, if violation(s) have occurred; implement enforcement
actions; and, determine if compliance standards are met.
         b.   Enforcement official(s) may issue Notices of Violation(s).
   D.   Process for Enforcement.
      1.   Enforcement and/or designee will monitor compliance with the chapter
randomly and through compliance reviews, route reviews, investigation of
complaints, and an inspection.
      2.   The City may issue an official notification to notify regulated
entities of its obligations under the chapter.
      3.   For incidences of prohibited container contaminants found in
containers, the City or designee will issue a Notice of Violation to any
generator after determining that a violation has occurred. If prohibited
container contaminants are observed in a generator’s containers, the City may
assess contamination processing fees or contamination penalties on the
generator.
      4.   Notice of Violation(s) require compliance within sixty (60) days of
issuance of the notice.
      5.   Absent compliance by the respondent within the deadline set forth in
the Notice of Violation, City shall commence an action to impose penalties, via
an administrative citation and fine, pursuant to applicable law.
         Notices shall be sent to the property owner or, if no such address is
available, to the owner at the address of the dwelling or commercial property
or to the party responsible for paying for the collection services, or a
combination thereof depending upon available information.
   E.   Penalty Amounts for Types of Violations. The penalty levels are as
follows:
      1.   For a first violation, the amount of the base penalty shall be fifty
dollars ($50) per violation.
      2.   For a second violation, the amount of the base penalty shall be one
hundred dollars ($100) per violation.
      3.   For a third or subsequent violation, the amount of the base penalty
shall be two hundred fifty ($250) per violation.
   F.   Compliance Deadline Extension Considerations. The Jurisdiction may
extend the compliance deadlines set forth in a Notice of Violation issued if it
finds that there are extenuating circumstances beyond the control of the
respondent that make compliance within the deadlines impracticable, including
the following:
      1.   Acts of God such as earthquakes, wildfires, flooding, and other
emergencies or natural disasters;
      2.   Delays in obtaining discretionary permits or other government agency
approvals; or,
      3.   Deficiencies in organic waste recycling infrastructure or edible
food recovery.
   G.   Appeals Process. Persons receiving an administrative citation
containing a penalty for an uncorrected violation may request a hearing to
appeal the citation. A hearing will be held only if it is requested within the
time prescribed and consistent with City’s procedures in the City’s codes for
appeals of administrative citations. Evidence may be presented at the hearing.
The City will appoint a hearing officer who shall conduct the hearing and issue
a final written order.
   H.   Education Period for Non-Compliance. The City or City designee will
conduct inspections, route reviews or waste evaluations, and compliance reviews
of organic waste generators, self-haulers, tier one commercial edible food
generators, food recovery organizations, food recovery services, or other
entity to determine compliance.
   I.   Civil Penalties for Non-Compliance. Beginning January 1, 2024, if the
City determines that an organic waste generator, self-hauler, tier one or tier
two commercial edible food generator, food recovery organization, food recovery
service, or other entity is not in compliance with this chapter, it shall
document the noncompliance or violation, issue a Notice of Violation, and take
enforcement action.
[Ord. No. 621, 1/18/22.]
TITLE 9
PUBLIC PEACE, SAFETY AND MORALS
Chapters:
   
9.05   Firearms and Other Weapons
   
9.10   Trespassing and Loitering
   
9.15   Motorcycles and Off-Road Vehicles
   
9.20   Motorcycle and Off-Road Vehicle Events
   
9.25   Regulation of Ephedrine Purchases
   
9.30   False Police Alarms
   
9.35   Use of Parks, Recreation Facilities and Other Public Places
   
9.40   Regulations for Use of Skate Parks
   
9.45   Graffiti Abatement
   
9.50   Blinder Racks; Adult Video Recordings
   
9.55   Distribution of Notices and Handbills
   
9.60   Curfew Regulations
   
9.65   Storage, Use and Sale of Fireworks
   
9.70   Emergency Response Cost Recovery - DUI
   
9.75   Responding to Disorderly Gatherings
   
9.80   Illegal Dumping - Forfeiture of Nuisance Vehicles
   
9.85   [Repealed]
   
9.90   Consumption and Possession of Alcoholic Beverages in Public Places
   
9.95   [Repealed]
   
9.100   Psychoactive Bath Salts, Psychoactive Herbal Incense and Other
Synthetic Drugs
   
9.110   Noise Control
Chapter 9.05
FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS
Sections:
   
9.05.010   Discharge of Firearms and Other Weapons
   
9.05.020   Possession of Crossbow, Longbow, BB Gun or Pellet Gun by Persons
Under the Age of Eighteen (18) years
   
9.05.030   Violation a Misdemeanor
9.05.010 Discharge of Firearms and Other Weapons.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to shoot, fire or discharge any crossbow,
longbow, weapon commonly known as a BB or pellet gun, rifle, pistol, revolver,
shotgun or other firearm of any kind within the City.
   B.   The prohibitions set forth in Section
9.05.010.A. shall not apply to the following:
      1.   Peace officers in the lawful discharge of their duty;
      2.   Persons engaged in pest control in an agricultural area;
      3.   Persons on their own property or with the permission of the owner of
the property when such discharge conforms to all other applicable statutes;
      4.   Persons at an authorized shooting gallery or target range for which
prior approval from the City Manager or his designee has been granted;
      5.   Persons engaged in the lawful defense of self, others or property;
      6.   Persons using blank cartridges at a parade, funeral or theatrical
production;
      7.   Persons using a device commonly known as a “line gun” to project a
rope, string or other cord for an otherwise lawful purpose.
9.05.020 Possession of Crossbow, Longbow, BB Gun or Pellet Gun by Persons Under
the Age of Eighteen (18) Years.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to
possess any crossbow, longbow or any weapon commonly known as a BB gun or
pellet gun within the City.
   B.   The prohibitions set forth in Section
9.05.020.A. shall not apply to the following:
      1.   Persons under the age of eighteen (18) years who are closely
supervised by an adult and the owner of the property where such activity occurs
has given prior permission for such activity;
      2.   Persons under the age of eighteen (18) years who have in their
possession written permission from a parent or legal guardian to possess a
crossbow, longbow, BB gun or pellet gun for a specified purpose and specified
period of time.
9.05.030 Violation a Misdemeanor.
Any person who violates any provision or who fails to comply with any of the
requirements of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor for each and
every violation and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished in accordance
with the provisions of Sections
1.20.010 through
1.20.040 of
Chapter 1.20 of Title 1 of this Code.
Chapter 9.10
TRESPASSING AND LOITERING
Sections:
   
9.10.010   Chapter Application
   
9.10.020   Provisions Not to Be Deemed Duplicative of State Law
   
9.10.030   Sitting or Lying on Public Ways
   
9.10.040   Obstructing Entrances
   
9.10.050   Private Property
   
9.10.060   Trespass by Refusal to Leave
   
9.10.070   Trespass by Prohibited Entry
   
9.10.080   Form of Notification
   
9.10.090   Exceptions
9.10.010 Chapter Application.
This Chapter applies to the City of Adelanto.
9.10.020 Provisions Not to Be Deemed Duplicative of State Law.
No provision contained in this Chapter is intended, nor shall it be deemed or
construed, to make punishable any act or acts which are prohibited by any law
of the State.
9.10.030 Sitting or Lying on Public Ways.
No person shall sit, lie or sleep in or upon any highway, alley, sidewalk or
crosswalk or other public way within the City. The provisions of this Section
do not prohibit sitting upon a public highway, alley, sidewalk or crosswalk or
other public way open for pedestrian travel if:
   A.   Necessitated by the physical disability of such person; or
   B.   Viewing a legally conducted parade; or
   C.   On a bench lawfully installed for such purposes; or
   D.   So authorized or directed by a peace officer or a public safety
officer.
9.10.040 Obstructing Entrances.
No person shall loiter, stand or sit in or at the entrance of any church, hall,
public business, or place or public assemblage within the City so as to
obstruct such entrance.
9.10.050 Private Property.
No person shall enter or remain upon any drive-in or take-out restaurant
property, automobile parking lot, shopping center property or any other place
open to the public without the implied or expressed consent of the owner, his
agent or person in lawful possession thereof, or with knowledge that such
consent has been withdrawn, in such manner as unreasonably to obstruct or
interfere with the free passage of any vehicle or person. Nor shall any person
drive a motor vehicle or remain in a motor vehicle on any drive-in or take-out
restaurant property, automobile parking lot, shopping center property or any
other place open to the public without the implied or expressed consent of the
owner, his agent or person in lawful possession thereof, or with knowledge that
such consent has been withdrawn, so as to unreasonably annoy or molest any
person thereon or as to unreasonably obstruct or interfere with the free
passage of any vehicle or person.
9.10.060 Trespass by Refusal to Leave.
No person shall remain on any private property or business premises after being
notified by the owner or lessee or other person in charge thereof to remove
therefrom.
9.10.070 Trespass by Prohibited Entry.
No person, without permission, express or implied, of the owner or lessee or
other person in charge of private property or business premises, shall enter
upon such private property or business premises after having been notified by
the owner or lessee or other person in charge thereof to keep off or keep away
therefrom.
9.10.080 Form of Notification.
Within the meaning of Sections
9.10.060 and
9.10.070, notification by the owner or lessee or other person in charge of the
property of premises may be satisfied by direct verbal communication by any
such person or by his duly designated agent, including a peace officer or
private patrolman, or by sign conspicuously posted on the property or premises
giving notice of the prohibition of the particular from of trespass involved.
9.10.090 Exceptions.
This Chapter shall not apply in any of the following instances:
   A.   Where its application results in or is coupled with any act prohibited
by the Unruh Civil Rights Act (which forbids a business establishment generally
open to the public, from unreasonably and arbitrarily excluding any prospective
customer, and from practicing any racial or other prohibited discrimination);
   B.   Where its application results in or is coupled with an act prohibited
by any other provision of law relating to unlawful discrimination against any
person on account of color, race, religion, creed, ancestry or national origin;
   C.   Where its application results in or is coupled with an act prohibited
by Section 365 of the California Penal Code or any other provision of law
relating to duties of innkeepers and common carriers;
   D.   Where its application would result in an interference with or
inhibition of peaceful labor picketing or other lawful labor activities;
   E.   Where its application would result in an unreasonable interference with
or an unreasonable inhibition of any other exercise of a constitutionally
protected right of freedom of speech such as (but not limited to) peaceful
expressions of political or religious opinions, not involving conduct otherwise
punishable criminally under such laws as Penal Code Section 647c (obstruction
of a street, sidewalk or other public area), or Penal Code Section 415
(disturbing the peace); or
   F.   Where the person who is upon another’s private property or business
premises is there under claim or color of legal right. This exception is
applicable (but not limited to) the following types of situations involving
disputes wherein the participants generally have suitable civil remedies
readily available to them: Marital and post-marital disputes; child custody or
visitation disputes; disputes regarding title to or rights in real property;
landlord-tenant disputes; disputes between members of the same family or
between persons residing upon the property concerned up until the time of the
dispute; employer-employee disputes; business-type disputes such as those
between partners; debtor-creditor disputes; and instances wherein the person
claims rights to be present pursuant to order, decree or process of a court.
Chapter 9.15
MOTORCYCLES AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Sections:
   
9.15.010   Regulation of Operation of Motor Vehicles, including Motorcycles and
Off-Road Vehicles
   
9.15.020   Motor Vehicle Operation - Off-Road Dust Provision
   
9.15.030   Violations of Section
9.15.010 or
9.15.020 - Removal of Motor Vehicle
   
9.15.040   Exemptions
9.15.010 Regulation of Operation of Motor Vehicles, including Motorcycles and
Off-Road Vehicles.
No person shall drive any motor vehicle, including a motorcycle, motor driven
cycle or off-road vehicle, on any land belonging to or occupied by another
without having and, upon request of a peace officer, displaying written
permission from the owner of such land or his agent, or the person in lawful
possession thereof, provided that this Section shall not be applicable to
persons having visible or lawful business with said owner, agent or person in
lawful possession.
9.15.020 Motor Vehicle Operation - Off-Road Dust Provision.
No person shall drive any motor vehicle, including a motorcycle, motor driven
cycle or off-road vehicle, on any land in such a manner as to create any dust
or dirt emission beyond any boundary line of the parcel upon which the off-road
vehicle is being operated.
9.15.030 Violation of Section 9.15.010 or 9.15.020 - Removal of Motor Vehicle.
Any person who violates any provision of Section
9.15.010 or
9.15.020 of this Chapter is guilty of an infraction on the first violation. On
the second and any subsequent violation of the same Section, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor and may be arrested by any peace officer for such
violation. If such peace officer arrests a violator of Section 
9.15.010 or
9.15.020, he may remove such motor vehicle from the private property. Within
two (2) working days of the removal of the motor vehicle, the removing agency
shall make all notifications required to comply with Vehicle Code Section
22852.
9.15.040 Exemptions.
The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to the operation of vehicles
upon property used for raceways or racing facilities in accordance with a
license or permit issued by the City pursuant to
Chapter 9.20 of this Code.
Chapter 9.20
MOTORCYCLE AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLE EVENTS
Sections:
   
9.20.010   Definitions
   
9.20.020   Permit Required
   
9.20.030   Application
9.20.010 Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this Chapter:
   A.   “Off-road Vehicle” means any motor driven vehicle designed to be
utilized on other than improved roadways for recreational purposes such as, but
not limited to, dune buggies.
   B.   “Event” means any gathering of more than ten (10) off-road vehicles or
motorcycles for a recreational outing such as, but not limited to, hound and
hare races, rallies, closed course races, hill-climbs and enduro races.
9.20.020 Permit Required.
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to organize, conduct or
participate in an off-road vehicle or motorcycle event within the corporate
limits of the City, unless a permit for such event has first been issued by the
Chief of Police as hereafter provided.
9.20.030 Application.
Applications for a permit to organize or conduct an off-road vehicle or
motorcycle event shall be in the form of a letter requesting permission to
organize and conduct an event. The letter shall describe the proposed event.
The Chief of Police shall grant the permit if he determines that the event will
apparently be conducted in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations,
that the proposed location will be desirable to the public convenience and
welfare, that the proposed operation will not create any undue fire hazard, and
that such operation is of sufficient distance from occupied areas so as not to
cause excessive noise, dust or fumes affecting the occupied areas. The Chief of
Police, upon granting of said permit, may attach whatever conditions and terms
are necessary or appropriate to carry out the objectives stated in this
Section.
Chapter 9.25
REGULATION OF EPHEDRINE PURCHASES
Sections:
   
9.25.010   Legislative Purpose
   
9.25.015   Definitions
   
9.25.020   Limitation on Sales
   
9.25.025   Penalties
9.25.010 Legislative Purpose.
   A.   The City Council finds that there is a current and immediate threat to
the public health, safety and welfare in that the manufacture, processing,
transportation, possession and sale of illicit narcotics and drugs are
inherently dangerous and that chemicals, compounds, substances, byproducts and
wastes which are associated with the manufacture of illicit narcotics and drugs
are both dangerous and injurious to the health, welfare and safety of the
citizens of the City.
   B.   The City Council finds that there has been a dramatic increase of
sales, reports of sales, thefts and possession of over the counter drugs which
contain substances known as ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, pseudoephedrine
hydrochloride, ephedrine hydrochloride and pseudoephedrine sulfate, along with
other substances and products associated with the manufacture of
methamphetamine and that retailers are regularly victimized by those persons
who steal those substances, drugs and products on a regular basis.
   C.   The City Council finds that the general public does not normally
purchase the described products in multiple quantities, and it is not the City
Council’s intent to restrain legitimate businesses or customers from selling or
purchasing the described products.
   D.   No provisions of this Chapter shall hinder or supersede any other
applicable state or federal statute.
9.25.015 Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this Chapter:
   A.   “Ephedrine” means any drug, substance or compound, whether legal or
illegal, that contains ephedrine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine sulfate,
pseudoephedrine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine or ephedrine.
   B.   “Retailer” means any single geographic location of any retail business,
company, corporation, person, employee or associate who furnishes, distributes,
sells or gives away products as described in this Section.
   C.   “Customer” means any person who purchases or acquires the products
described in this Section or persons who are present for the purchase or
acquisition of the products described in this Section.
   D.   “Sell” means to furnish, give away, exchange, transfer, deliver,
surrender or supply, whether for monetary gain or not.
   E.   “Count” means the number of pills, tablets, capsules or individual
units of a substance contained within an individual package, box or container.
9.25.020 Limitation on Sales.
   A.   No retailer shall sell to a single customer more than three (3)
packages, per transaction, of a product containing ephedrine. No retailer shall
sell to a single customer, per transaction, products containing ephedrine where
the total count exceeds one hundred (100).
   B.   No customer shall acquire more than three (3) packages, per day, of a
product containing ephedrine. No customer shall acquire, per day, products
containing ephedrine where the total count exceeds one hundred (100).
9.25.025 Penalties.
   A.   Any person, customer or retailer violating any of the provisions of
this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six (6) months or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
Chapter 9.30
FALSE POLICE ALARMS
Sections:
   
9.30.010   Definitions
   
9.30.020   Response Service Charge
   
9.30.030   Waiver for Special Circumstances
   
9.30.040   Service Charge a Debt
9.30.010 Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this Chapter:
   A.   “Alarm System” shall mean any device designed for the detection and/or
apprehension of persons effecting unauthorized entry and/or attempted entry
into any premises, or for alerting emergency services entities of the
commission of an unlawful act or requirement for emergency service, which
device, when actuated, emits a sound beyond the business premises or
residential unit or dwelling protected by such device or transmits a signal or
message to another location. It also means combination of approved compatible
devices with the necessary electrical interconnection and energy to produce an
alarm signal in the event of fire or system activation.
   B.   “Emergency Services Entities” means the City Police Department and/or
Fire Department.
   C.   “False Alarm” shall mean an activated alarm or alarm signal from any
alarm which is responded to within the City by the City’s emergency services
entity or entities, but for which no emergency situation exists or where there
is no evidence to indicate that there was an emergency situation as determined
by the responding officer. “False alarm” shall not include those alarms
activated by extraordinary meteorological, atmospheric or other conditions or
means as determined by said emergency services entity or entities.
   D.   “Fiscal Year” shall mean the period from and including July 1 of any
year to and including June 30 of the following year.
   E.   “Person” shall mean individual, partnership, corporation or other
entity.
9.30.020 Response Service Charge.
A service charge which is established by resolution of the City Council in
order to defray costs incurred in providing law enforcement services in
response to a false alarm shall be paid to the City, by each person who
possesses premises, for each third and subsequent emergency services entity
response made to those premises generated by a false alarm during any fiscal
year.
9.30.030 Waiver for Special Circumstances.
Where practical difficulties make it impossible or extremely difficult to
comply with this Chapter, the City Manager or his authorized representative may
issue a waiver of any service charge to be billed, subject to such terms and
conditions as he may deem necessary to protect the public health and safety so
that the spirit of this Chapter shall be observed, the public health and safety
secured and substantial justice done.
9.30.040 Service Charge a Debt.
The alarm service charge shall be a civil debt owing the City from the owner,
occupant or person in possession, charge or control of the location of the
alarm unit. If an invoice for the service charge is unpaid sixty (60) days
after mailing, a penalty of ten percent (10%) shall be charged, and an
additional one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) per month shall be charged until
the charges and penalties are paid in full.
If court action is taken to enforce non-payment of charges, the owner, occupant
or person in possession, charge or control of the location of the alarm unit
shall pay all reasonable attorney’s fees and costs incurred by the City in
collecting the debt.
Chapter 9.35
USE OF PARKS, RECREATION FACILITIES AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES
Sections:
   
9.35.010   Declaration of Policy
   
9.35.020   Definitions
   
9.35.030   Compliance
   
9.35.040   Specific Acts Prohibited
   
9.35.050   Reserved
   
9.35.060   Groups of Seventy-Five (75) or More
   
9.35.070   Smoking in Parks and Recreation Facilities
   
9.35.080   Amplified Sound in City Parks
   
9.35.090   Alcoholic Beverages in City Parks and Facilities
   
9.35.100   Inflatable Structures in Public Parks
   
9.35.110   Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages in Public Places
   
9.35.120   Bodily Functions Prohibited in Public Places
   
9.35.130   Enforcement
9.35.010 Declaration of Policy.
City parks, public recreational facilities, public rights-of-way and other
public places are established for the use and enjoyment of all persons for,
among other purposes, pursuit of active or passive recreation. It is the City's
responsibility to promote the health, peace, safety, welfare and convenience of
all persons in regards to their use and enjoyment of such public places. The
City Council finds that the regulations set forth in this Chapter are necessary
to ensure that all persons may use and enjoy such public places in a safe
manner.
[Ord. No. 533, Section 2, 3/11/15.]
9.35.020 Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this Chapter:
   A.   "Alcoholic Beverage(s)" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
23004 of the California Business and Professions Code, as the same presently
exists, or as the same may be amended from time to time.
   B.   "City Manager" means the City Manager of the City or the person
authorized by said City Manager to act in his or her stead with respect to the
provisions of this Chapter.
   C.   "Inflatable Structure" means inflatable structures or equipment,
commonly used for jumping, bouncing, sliding, riding, or as an apparatus for
sports and recreational activities. The term includes, but is not limited to,
inflatable buildings, castles, roofs, covers, slides, swimming pools, boxing
rings, and obstacle courses.
   D.   "Public Facility" means any public building or structure owned or
controlled by the City, and any public park.
   E.   "Public Right-of-Way" means any place of any nature which is dedicated
to use by the public for pedestrian and vehicular travel, and includes, but is
not limited to, a street, sidewalk, curb, gutter, crossing, intersection,
parkway, highway, alley, lane, mall, court, way, avenue, boulevard, road,
roadway, viaduct, subway, tunnel, bridge, thoroughfare, park square, and other
similar public way.
   F.   "Public Park" means a park, playground, recreation center, tennis
courts, swimming facility, sports field, ballfield and/or open space or other
area owned or controlled by the City and open to use by the public.
[Ord. No. 533, Section 2, 3/11/15.]
9.35.030 Compliance.
No person shall enter, be or remain in any City park unless such person
complies with all the regulations and conditions set forth in this Chapter. The
provisions of this Chapter, however, shall not apply to emergency police, fire
or public utility services.
[Ord. No. 533, Section 2, 3/11/15.]
9.35.040 Specific Acts Prohibited.
Every person who willfully within any public park, public facility or public
right-of-way commits any of the acts set out in this Section or violates any
other prohibition in this Chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable in
accordance with Sections
1.20.010 through
1.20.040 of
Chapter 1.20 of Title 1 of this Code. The prohibited acts include the
following:
   A.   To hitch, fasten, lead, drive or let loose any animal or fowl of any
kind, except in areas which may be designated by the City Manager, provided
that this shall not apply to dogs and cats when led by a leash and under full
control by its owner or custodian.
   B.   To ride or drive any skates, skateboard, horse or other animal, or to
propel any vehicle, cycle, bicycle, skateboard, skates or automobile, except in
areas designated for purposes of vehicle or other travel or otherwise by the
City Manager. This provision does not apply to any vehicle being used for
authorized City business, nor to any police or other emergency vehicle
performing an authorized mission, nor to a vehicle which is within a park
pursuant to written permission of the City Manager. Neither does this provision
apply to any electrically driven wheelchair carrying a physically incapacitated
person.
   C.   To enter, remain, stay or loiter in any park or facility between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the following day without permission from the
City Manager or except as a participant in an activity permitted by the City
Manager.
   D.   To light or maintain any fire or to cook, prepare, serve or eat any
meal other than at a stove, barbecue, fire circle or other place provided for
that purpose.
   E.   To possess, carry or discharge any firearms, firecrackers, rockets,
explosives or any other fireworks, air gun, bow and arrow, slingshot or any
similar device or weapon; nor shall any person carry into or use any other
object within a park with the intent of disturbing the peace of any person by
means of noise or otherwise.
   F.   To throw, project, propel or drive upon a lawn or across any public
park, public walkway or driveway within a public park any missile, model
airplane, model car, go-carts or other self-propelled devices and vehicles not
covered under the California Vehicle Code, capable of causing personal injury
or damage to personal property, except at such places designated therefore by
the City Manager.
   G.   To drive, hit or putt any golf ball or to use any golf club in any
public park or upon any pathway or trail, except in such areas as may be
designated by the City Manager for that purpose.
   H.   To cut, break, injure, deface or destroy any tree, shrub, plant, rock,
building, cage, pen, monument, sidewalk or paved area, fence, bench or other
structure, apparatus or property, or pull up, cut, take or remove any shrub,
bush, plant or flower, or mark or write upon, paint or deface in any manner any
building, monument, bench, sidewalk, paved area or other structure. This
prohibition shall not apply to any employee or contractor of the City engaged
in work on the City's behalf.
   I.   To cut or remove any wood, turf, grass, soil, rock, gravel, sand or
fertilizer from a public park or from any place within a public park.
   J.   To camp or lodge therein except by permission in writing by the City
Manager.
   K.   To throw, discard, place or dispose of any garbage or refuse in any
place other than in a garbage can or other receptacle maintained for that
purpose.
   L.   To park any vehicle on any road or path except at places designated for
parking.
   M.   To play or bet at or against any game which is played, conducted, dealt
or carried on with cards, dice or other devices for money, chips, shells,
credit or other representative of value, or maintain or exhibit any gambling
table or other instrument of gambling or gaming. This prohibition shall not
apply to simulated gambling games or to bingo games when conducted by a non-
profit organization during fund raising events pursuant to a permit or
reservation issued by the City Manager pursuant to this Code and in compliance
with all other applicable law.
   N.   To hold any meeting, service, concert, event or exhibition without
first obtaining written permission from the City Manager, if required by this
Code.
   O.   To engage in any commercial activity, including but not limited to the
selling, offering for sale, advertising for sale or solicitation for future
delivery or performance of any goods, wares, merchandise or services, except
pursuant to a specific concession or contract granted by the City or a permit
therefore.
   P.   To interfere with the use of any scheduled group or activity that has
received a permit from the City for use of said park.
   Q.   To place, use or operate an inflatable structure without a permit
issued pursuant to this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 533, Section 2, 3/11/15; Ord. No. 537, Section 2, 2/24/16; Ord. No.
603, Section 2, 7/10/19.]
9.35.050 Reserved.
9.35.060 Groups of Seventy-Five (75) or More.
   A.   Compliance Required. No person or group may hold, conduct or allow, and
no person shall participate in, any picnic, celebration, parade, event,
gathering, assembly or meeting at which seventy-five (75) persons or more are
in attendance in any public park, public facility or public right-of-way within
the City unless such activity is conducted in accordance with the. provisions
of this Section, in addition to any other applicable provisions of this Code.
   B.   Permit Required. Except as provided in subsection (C) of this Section,
a special event permit must be obtained from the City Manager for any picnic,
celebration, parade, event, gathering, assembly or meeting to be held in any
public park, public facility or public right-of-way if seventy-five (75)
persons or more will be in attendance.
   C.   Exempt Activity. The following activities are exempt from the permit
requirement set forth in this Section:
      1.   Celebrations, parades, events, gatherings, assemblies or meetings
which take place on streets, sidewalk or other public rights-of-way owned or
controlled by the City, if such activities are conducted in compliance with all
applicable laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, traffic and
safety regulations.
      2.   Filming and videotaping activity governed by, and conducted in
accordance with,
Chapter 13.45 of this Code.
      3.   Activities conducted by a governmental agency acting within the
scope of its authority.
   D.   Issuance of Permits. The City Manager is authorized to issue special
event permits pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Section. Issuance of
a special event permit pursuant to this Section does not obligate or require
the City to provide services, equipment or personnel in support of an event.
The City Manager may, however, cause such services, equipment or personnel to
be provided if such are reasonably available and the event organizer agrees to
reimburse the City for the cost thereof. The City Manager may reduce or waive
any portion of such costs associated with the provision of City services,
equipment or personnel in support of an event if the payment of the full costs
will create an undue financial hardship on the person or group obtaining the
permit.
   E.   Permit Application Timing. Applications for a special event permit
required under this Section shall be filed with the City Manager at least
seventy-two (72) hours prior to the time the special event is proposed to be
conducted. The City Manager shall have the authority, if good cause is shown
and the nature of the application reasonably and feasibly lends itself to
expedited processing, to consider, grant or deny and application for a special
event permit which is filed later than seventy-two (72) hours prior to the time
the special event is proposed to be conducted.
   F.   Contents of Application. Applications for a special event permit shall
be upon a form which is furnished by or acceptable to the City Manager. Each
application shall contain full, complete and detailed information including,
but not limited to, the following:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the event organizer;
      2.   The nature of the event and the proposed location of the event;
      3.   The date(s) and time(s) when the event will be conducted;
      4.   A certification that the event organizer shall be financially
responsible for any City fees, departmental service charges or costs that may
lawfully be imposed for the event;
      5.   Insurance information, if applicable; and
      6.   Any other information reasonably required by the City Manager.
   G.   Permit Issuance. The City Manager shall issue a special event permit if
the City Manager finds that all of the following criteria have been met:
      1.   The event will not substantially interrupt public transportation or
other vehicular or pedestrian traffic in the area of its location;
      2.   The event will not conflict with construction or development in the
public right-of-way or at a public facility;
      3.   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles for the event
will not unreasonably interfere with the movement of police, fire, ambulance
and other public safety or emergency vehicles within the public rights-of-way
in the area of the proposed event location;
      4.   The event will not unreasonably interfere with any other event for
which a special event permit has already been granted, or with the provision of
City services in support of any other scheduled event or scheduled government
function;
      5.   The event will not have an unmitigable adverse impact on residential
or business access and traffic circulation in the area of the proposed event
location;
      6.   The event will not adversely affect the City's ability to reasonably
perform municipal functions or furnish City services;
      7.   The proposed event will not have a significant adverse environmental
impact; and
      8.   The insurance provisions required by this Section, if applicable,
have been or will be satisfied.
   H.   Permit Denial or Revocation. The City Manager may deny an application
for a special event permit or revoke a special event permit if the City Manager
finds any of the following:
      1.   One or more of the findings set forth is subsection G. of this
Section cannot be made;
      2.   The application contains incomplete, false or misleading
information;
      3.   The applicant fails to comply with all terms of this Chapter;
      4.   The proposed event will violate any federal, state and/or local law
or regulation; or
      5.   The proposed event will present an unreasonable danger to the health
or safety of the applicant, spectators, City employees and/or members of the
public.
   I.   Notice of Denial or Revocation. A person or organization whose special
event permit application is denied, or whose permit is revoked, shall be
immediately notified of the denial or revocation in writing, which notification
shall contain a statement setting forth the reasons for the denial or
revocation, as well as reference to the appeal provisions set forth in
subsection M. of this Section.
   J.   Permit Conditions. The City Manager may condition any special event
permit issued pursuant to this Section with reasonable requirements concerning
the time, place and manner of holding the event as is necessary to coordinate
multiple uses of public property, assure preservation of public property and
public places, prevent dangerous, unlawful or impermissible uses, protect the
safety of persons and property, and control vehicular and pedestrian traffic in
and around the venue. Possible conditions include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      1.   Conditions designed to avoid or lessen interference with public
safety functions and/or emergency service areas;
      2.   The number and type of vehicles, animals or structures to be
displayed or used in the event;
      3.   The inspection and approval by City personnel of stages, booths,
structures, vehicles or equipment to be used or operated during the event to
ensure that such items are safely constructed, can be safely operated and
conform to the requirements of all applicable laws and regulations;
      4.   The provision and use of traffic cones or barricades;
      5.   The provision of a waste management plan, and the cleanup and
restoration of the event site;
      6.   The obtaining of any and all business licenses or other necessary
permits required by this Code for the sale of food, beverage or other goods or
services at the event; and
      7.   The manner by which alcohol sales and service, if any, shall be
conducted during the event.
   K.   Insurance and Indemnification. The organizer of a special event shall
possess or obtain, and maintain for the duration of the event, comprehensive
general liability insurance to protect the City against loss from liability
imposed by law for damages on account of bodily injury and property damage
arising from the event. Such insurance shall be in a combined single limit of
at least One Million dollars ($1,000,000), shall name the City, its officers,
employees, and agents as additional insureds, and shall be effectuated through
an insurance endorsement. If the special event is of a demonstrated high or low
risk category, according to recognized insurance and risk management standards,
the City Manager may authorize a greater or lesser amount of coverage than set
forth in this subsection, or may require a particular type of insurance
coverage different from that specified in this subsection. In addition to
obtaining and maintaining the required insurance, each permittee shall execute
an agreement in a form approved by the City agreeing to defend, indemnify and
hold harmless the City against any and all losses and liabilities arising from
the conduct of the permittee, or its officers, employees or agents, relating to
the permitted event.
   L.   Waiver of Insurance Requirements. Except for special events where the
sale of alcoholic beverages is authorized, the insurance requirements set forth
in subsection K. of this Section may be reduced or waived by the City Manager.
If insurance is reduced or waived, the City Manager may still require the
permittee to defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City from any claim or
liability arising from the event. In making the determination of whether to
reduce or waive insurance requirements, the City Manager shall consider the
following factors:
      1.   Whether the special event is constitutionally protected speech and/
or expressive activity;
      2.   Whether the applicant has determined that the cost of obtaining
insurance is financially burdensome and would constitute an unreasonable burden
on the right of constitutionally protected speech and/or expressive activity;
      3.   Whether it is objectively impossible to obtain insurance coverage;
      4.   Whether the event will involve the use of equipment, vehicles or
animals, or will pose an unreasonable danger to participants or the public; and
      5.   Whether a fee or donation is charged or required as a condition of
admission or participation in the event.
   M.   Appeals. Any person aggrieved by the denial or revocation of a permit
pursuant to this Section may appeal such decision to the City Council by filing
a written notice of such appeal with the City Clerk within ten (10) business
days of the decision of the City Manager giving rise to said appeal. Such
appeal shall set forth in detail the facts upon which the appeal is being made.
The City Council shall, within ten (10) business days of receiving such notice
of appeal, hold a hearing. When the necessity for a timely response so
requires, the appeal may be referred by the City Clerk to a neutral Hearing
Officer. Costs for the neutral Hearing Officer shall be borne by the appellant,
if any costs are incurred. At the appeal hearing, the aggrieved party and the
City shall be entitled to be heard and present evidence they believe to be
relevant. Upon conclusion of the hearing, the City Council or the Hearing
Officer may, with findings, approve, reverse or modify the decision of the City
Manager. Any decision of the City Council or the Hearing Officer shall be
final.
[Ord. No. 533, Section 2, 3/11/15.]
9.35.070 Smoking in Parks and Recreation Facilities.
No person shall be permitted to smoke in any public park or public facility.
Smoking shall include, but is not limited to: the combustion of any cigar,
cigarette, pipe, or any similar article; the use of any form of tobacco or
other combustible substance in any form; the use of electronic smoking devices,
electronic cigarettes, electronic cigarillos, electronic pipes, electronic
hookahs, vaporizers, vape pens, or any other inhalation device that generates
an inhalable substance of any kind from tobacco, marijuana, or any other weed
or plant.
[Ord. No. 533, Section 2, 3/11/15.]
9.35.080 Amplified Sound in City Parks.
   A.   The intent of this Section is to reasonably regulate the use of parks
within the City in such a manner that various groups may enjoy such parks
without unduly interfering with or creating conflicts with other groups, and to
ensure that if public address systems, amplified instruments or percussion
instruments are used within the parks, that they shall be used in such place
and manner that they will not unduly interfere with or be an annoyance to other
groups or individual people who may be using the parks at the same time or to
the surrounding neighborhood.
   B.   Public address systems, acoustical instruments and/or electrically
amplified instruments are prohibited unless the City Manager finds the
amplification meets the criteria stated in Section
9.35.080.A., and the amplification use is approved in writing by and in the
sole discretion of the City Manager.
[Ord. No. 533, Section 2, 3/11/15.]
9.35.090 Alcoholic Beverages in City Parks and Facilities.
The possession (open and closed containers), consumption, sale, transportation
or disbursement of alcoholic beverages is prohibited in public parks , public
facilities or public right-of-way, unless a permit is obtained and approved in
writing by the City Manager pursuant to Section
9.90.020, and in that event only in compliance with the conditions and
restrictions of that permit.
[Ord. No. 533, Section 2, 3/11/15.]
9.35.100 Permits.
   A.   Permit Required. Any person desiring to place, operate, stage and/or
use an inflatable structure in a public park shall first file a written
application with, and receive a permit from, the City Manager.
   B.   Application Contents. Any person or authorized representative desiring
a permit to place, operate, and/or use an inflatable structure in a city park
shall file, at least one week prior to the anticipated event, an application
for such a permit. The application shall be on a form provided by the City,
shall be signed by the applicant under penalty of perjury, shall be accompanied
by a nonrefundable fee established by resolution of the City Council, and shall
include the following information:
      1.   The name and contact information of the applicant.
      2.   The name and contact information of the vendor providing the
inflatable structure, if any.
      3.   A statement describing the kind, type or nature of the inflatable
structure.
      4.   The name of the insurance carrier; the amount of personal and
property liability, naming the City as an additional insured, carried together
with the name of the nearest representative and his/her business address.
      5.   The number of people expected to use the inflatable structure.
      6.   The location where the inflatable structure will be placed,
operated, and used.
      7.   The date when the inflatable structure will be placed, operated, and
used.
      8.   A description of how the inflatable structure and/or other
attraction will be self-contained.
   C.   Review and issuance of permit. The City Manager shall issue a permit
for the requested inflatable structure if he/she determines that placement,
operation and use of the structure in the proposed location and manner will not
do any of the following:
      1.   Unreasonably interfere with the public's use of the city park or any
other event for which a permit has been granted;
      2.   Unreasonably interfere with the provision of a City or emergency
service;
      3.   Present an unreasonable danger to the health or safety of the
applicant, persons who will use the inflatable structure, spectators, City
employees and/or members of the public.
   D.   Permit Conditions. A permit issued pursuant to this Section shall
include the following conditions:
      1.   The designated area for the placement and use of the inflatable
structure.
      2.   The date, and starting and ending times, for the placement and use
of the inflatable structure.
      3.   Any damage to City property directly attributable to the placement
or use of the inflatable structure shall be the sole responsibility of the
applicant.
      4.   The applicant to whom the permit is issued must have in his or her
possession a copy of the permit at all times during the placement and use of
the inflatable structure.
      5.   The inflatable structure must be operated at all times pursuant to
the terms and conditions included in the permit.
      6.   The inflatable structure shall not be operated or used for
commercial purposes.
      7.   Such other requirements as are found by the City Manager or his/her
designee to be reasonably necessary for the protection of the public or City
property, including, but not limited to, reasonable insurance requirements.
[Ord. No. 533, Section 2, 3/11/15.]
9.35.110 Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages in Public Places.
It is unlawful for any person to consume any alcoholic beverage(s) while upon
any public street, alleyway, sidewalk, park or parkway, whether in a motor
vehicle or otherwise, within the City.
[Ord. No. 533, Section 2, 3/11/15.]
9.35.120 Bodily Functions Prohibited in Public Places.
Any person who, in any public park, street, alley, highway, public meeting,
assembly or other public place, or in the immediate neighborhood thereof and in
view from the same places, urinates or defecates, is guilty of a misdemeanor,
provided that this Section shall not be applicable to the act of urinating or
defecating in a proper receptacle in a restroom or bathroom in any enclosed
structure.
[Ord. No. 533, Section 2, 3/11/15.]
9.35.130 Enforcement.
Except as otherwise provided, the City Manager shall have the primary
responsibility for the enforcement of this Chapter. Each police and law
enforcement officer of the City is given permission to enter the public and
restricted parts of all parks and public facilities to maintain public order or
to prevent, remedy or take other appropriate action with respect to violations
of the provisions of this Chapter or of other applicable laws or regulations.
[Ord. No. 533, Section 2, 3/11/15.]
Chapter 9.40
REGULATIONS FOR USE OF SKATE PARK
Sections:
   
9.40.010   Definitions
   
9.40.020   Skate Park Facility Use Regulations
   
9.40.030   Posting of Skate Park Facility Regulations
   
9.40.040   Penalties
   
9.40.050   Seizure of Evidence
   
9.40.060   Administrative Citations
9.40.010 Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this Chapter:
   A.   “Skateboard” shall mean a board-like object which has two (2) axles
attached to the bottom of the board-like object with one (1) or two (2) wheels
attached to each axle, and the user rides or stands upon the board-like object
and may include a handlebar.
   B.   “In-line Skates,” also known as “roller blades,” are footwear
containing four (4) or more axles mounted in a straight line extending
generally from or behind the heel of the footwear to or in front of the toe of
the footwear with a single wheel attached to each axle.
   C.   “Roller Skates” are any footwear or device which may be attached to the
foot or footwear to which wheels are attached and such wheels may be used by
the wearer in moving.
   D.   “Amplified Sound” means music, sound wave, vibration or speech
projected or transmitted by electronic equipment.
   E.   “City Manager” means the City Manager of the City, or the person
authorized by the City Manager to act in his or her stead with respect to the
provisions of this Chapter.
9.40.020 Skate Park Facility Use Regulations.
   A.   All users of a City skate park facility are required to wear
appropriate safety gear, including helmets, elbow pads, wrist guards and knee
pads at all times while inside the fenced skate park.
   B.   The skate park facility is for use by persons using skateboards, roller
skates and in-line skates only. All other uses are prohibited.
   C.   No smoking, alcohol or drug use allowed in or around the skate park
facility.
   D.   No food or drink allowed in or on the skating facility.
   E.   No graffiti or tagging of the facility.
   F.   The use of profanity is prohibited.
   G.   The use of amplified music is prohibited.
   H.   Due to safety concerns, spectators who are not skating may not enter
the fenced skate park. Spectators must remain outside the fence.
   I.   No animals are allowed inside the fenced area of the facility, whether
on a leash or not.
   J.   Skateboarding, roller skating and in-line skating are hazardous
activities. All persons using the skate park facility shall do so at their own
risk.
9.40.030 Posting of Skate Park Facility Regulations.
The Parks and Recreation Manager shall ensure that the skate park facility is
posted with signs affording reasonable notice of the following:
   A.   Park hours of operation shall be posted as approved by the City
Manager.
   B.   Skateboarding, roller skates and in-line skating are hazardous
activities. Skate at your own risk.
   C.   Skateboards, roller skates and in-line skates only.
   D.   Bicycles or motorized vehicles are prohibited.
   E.   Failure to wear helmets, knee pads, wrist guards and elbow pads will
subject persons to citation.
   F.   Skating on park grounds, curbs, parking lot and entrance sidewalks is
prohibited.
   G.   No graffiti or tagging.
   H.   No glass bottles.
   I.   No food or drink allowed on the skating surface.
   J.   No smoking, alcohol or drug use allowed in the skate park or immediate
area.
   K.   No spectators permitted inside the fenced skate area.
   L.   No unauthorized pieces of equipment, obstacles or apparatus may be
brought into the skate area.
9.40.040 Penalties.
A violation of any part of this Chapter is an infraction, and the fine for such
violation shall be as follows:
   A.   For a first offense, the fine shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
   B.   For a second offense, the fine shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
   C.   For a third or subsequent offense within any twelve (12) month period,
the fine shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00), and the offender’s right to
use the skate park facility shall be suspended for a period of not less than
six (6) consecutive months.
   D.   The parent or legal guardian having control or custody of an
unemancipated minor whose conduct violates this Chapter shall be jointly and
severally liable with the minor for any fines imposed pursuant to this Chapter.
9.40.050 Seizure of Evidence.
Any device used in the violation of any provision of this Chapter shall be
seized by the enforcing officers and removed, stored and reclaimed in
accordance with law.
9.40.060 Administrative Citations.
   A.   Notwithstanding the provisions in Section
9.40.040.A., any violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter may be, but
is not required to be, prosecuted as an administrative citation procedure
pursuant to this Section.
   B.   Any enforcement official may issue an administrative citation to any
responsible party whom the enforcement official determines has violated any
Section of this Chapter.
   C.   The enforcement official shall attempt to obtain on the administrative
citation the signature of the responsible party. If a responsible party of
person served refuses or fails to sign the administrative citation, the failure
or refusal to sign shall not affect the validity of the citation or of
subsequent proceedings.
   D.   The administrative citation shall contain at a minimum the following:
      1.   The date and location of the violation and the approximate time the
violation occurred.
      2.   The Code Section violated and a description of how the Section was
violated.
      3.   The amount of the fine imposed for the violation and the time within
which and the place at which the fine shall be paid.
      4.   An order prohibiting another occurrence of the Code violation.
      5.   A description of the administrative citation review process,
including the time within which to contest the administrative citation and the
place from which to obtain a request for hearing form to contest the
administrative citation.
      6.   The name and signature of the citing enforcement official.
   E.   Administrative Fine. The administrative fine in the amount set forth in
Section
9.40.040.A., or such other amount as may be set from time to time by resolution
of the City Council, shall be paid to the City within thirty (30) calendar days
from the date of service of the administrative citation.
   F.   Any responsible party to whom an administrative citation is issued may
contest the citation no later than thirty (30) days from the date of service of
the administrative citation by:
      1.   Completing and returning to the City a request for hearing form,
which may be obtained from the City Clerk, or other written notice of appeal
that contains a specific identification number of the subject citation, the
name and address of the appellant, a statement in ordinary and concise language
of the specific(s) or action protested and the grounds for contesting the
citation, together with all material facts in support thereof, and the date and
signatures of the appellant; and
      2.   Depositing the administrative fine with the City.
   G.   The person requesting the hearing shall be provided written notice of
the time and place of the hearing at least five (5) calendar days before the
date of the hearing, either by causing a copy of such notice to be delivered to
the appellant personally or by mailing a copy thereof, postage prepaid,
addressed to the appellant at his/her address shown on the written notice of
appeal. The City shall set the date and time for the administrative hearing not
less than seven (7) calendar days and not more than ninety (90) calendar days
from the date the notice of appeal is filed and the administrative fine is
deposited with the City, provided, however, that no hearing to contest an
administrative citation shall be held unless the full penalty amount has been
deposited in advance. The administrative hearing will be conducted by the City
Manager or his/her designee. If the responsible party fails to attend the
scheduled hearing, the hearing will proceed without the responsible party; and
he or she will be deemed to have waived his or her right to an administrative
hearing.
   H.   Within ten (10) days after the date on which the administrative hearing
concludes, the administrative hearing officer shall issue a written decision to
uphold or cancel the administrative citation. The administrative hearing
officer shall set forth the reasons for the decision. The decision shall be
served upon the responsible party. If the administrative hearing officer
upholds the administrative citation, the City shall retain the fine deposited
by the responsible party. If the administrative hearing officer cancels the
administrative citation, the fine deposited with the City shall be promptly
refunded. The administrative hearing officer's written decision is final, and
he/she shall notify the responsible party of his or her right to appeal as
provided herein.
   I.   The City may collect any past due administrative fine by use of any
available legal means.
   J.   Appeal of Decision of Administrative Hearing Officer. Within twenty
(20) days after service of the decision of the administrative hearing officer
upon the responsible party, he or she may seek review of the decision by filing
a notice of appeal with the municipal court. The responsible party shall serve
upon the City Clerk either in person or by first class mail a copy of the
notice of appeal. If the responsible party fails to timely file a notice of
appeal, the administrative hearing officer's decision shall be deemed
confirmed.
   K.   Penalties. Failure to pay an administrative fine is a violation of this
Code. Filing a criminal action does not preclude the City from using any other
legal remedy available to gain compliance with the administrative order.
[Ord. No. 500, 9/8/10]
Chapter 9.45
GRAFFITI ABATEMENT
Sections:
   
9.45.010   Purpose and Intent
   
9.45.020   Definitions
   
9.45.030   Graffiti Prohibited
   
9.45.040   Possession of Graffiti Implements by Minors Prohibited
   
9.45.050   Possession of Graffiti Implements Prohibited in Designated Public
Places
   
9.45.060   Accessibility to Graffiti Implements Prohibited
   
9.45.070   Graffiti Removal Provisions
   
9.45.080   Rewards
   
9.45.090   Penalties and Civil Liability of Parents
9.45.010 Purpose and Intent.
The City Council finds graffiti on public or private property a blighting
element which leads to depreciation of the value of property which has been
targeted by such vandalism and depreciates the value of the adjacent and
surrounding properties to the extent that graffiti creates a negative impact
upon the entire City.
The City Council finds and determines that graffiti is obnoxious and a public
nuisance and must be eliminated by means of prevention, education and abatement
to avoid the detrimental impact of such graffiti on the City and its residents,
and to prevent the further spread of graffiti.
The purpose and intent of the City Council, through the adoption of this
Chapter, is to provide additional enforcement tools to protect public and
private property from acts of vandalism and defacement. It is the further
intent of the City Council, through the adoption of this Chapter, to provide
notice to all of those who disregard the property rights of others, that the
law enforcement agencies of the City, the Police Department, Code Compliance
Section and the City Attorney, will strictly enforce the law and vigorously
prosecute those persons engaging in violations of this Chapter.
9.45.020 Definitions.
   A.   “Aerosol Paint Container” means any aerosol container which is adapted
or made for the purpose of spraying paint or other substance capable of
defacing property.
   B.   “Felt Tip Marker” means any tipped style marker or similar implement
with a tip which, at its broadest width, is one-eighth (1/8) inch or greater.
   C.   “Graffiti” means any unauthorized inscribing, word, figure or design
which is marked, etched, scratched, drawn, painted, pasted or otherwise affixed
to or on any surface, regardless of the nature of the material of that
structural component, to the extent the same was not authorized in advance by
the owner thereof, or despite advance authorization, is otherwise deemed by the
City Council to be a public nuisance.
   D.   “Graffiti Implement” means an aerosol paint container, a felt tip
marker or any other device containing any solution or substance capable of
being used to leave a visible mark at least one-eighth (1/8) of an inch in
width upon any surface.
9.45.030 Graffiti Prohibited.
   A.   No person shall place graffiti or other writing upon any public or
privately owned tree or structure including, but not limited to, buildings,
walls, fences, poles and signs, (“structures” hereinafter in this Chapter)
located within the City. It shall also be unlawful for any person to apply or
affix any adhesive backed label, sticker, “bumper sticker” or similar item to
any tree or structure not owned or lawfully possessed by such person.
   B.   No person owning or otherwise in control of any real property within
the City shall permit or allow any graffiti to be placed upon or remain on any
structure located on such property.
9.45.040 Possession of Graffiti Implements by Minors Prohibited.
Possession of any graffiti implement by any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years with the intent to deface property while upon public or private
property shall be unlawful unless that minor has received the consent of the
owner of such private property whose consent to such possession and presence is
given in writing in advance or unless that minor is accompanied by and under
the supervision of a parent or legal guardian. This provision shall not apply
to the possession of felt tip markers by minors attending or traveling to or
from a school at which the minor is enrolled, if the minor is participating in
a class at said school which formally requires possession of such felt tip
markers. The burden of proof in any prosecution for violation of this Section
shall be upon the minor student to establish the need to possess a felt tip
marker.
9.45.050 Possession of Graffiti Implements Prohibited in Designated Public
Places.
Possession of any graffiti implement by any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years with the intent to deface property while in any public park,
playground, swimming pool, recreational facility or while in or within ten (10)
feet or an underpass, bridge abutment, storm drain or other similar type of
infrastructure not normally used by the public, shall be unlawful except as may
be authorized by the City or unless that minor is accompanied by and under the
supervision and control of a parent or legal guardian.
9.45.060 Accessibility to Graffiti Implements Prohibited.
   A.   Furnishing of Graffiti Implements to Minors Prohibited. It shall be
unlawful for any person, other than a parent or legal guardian, to sell,
exchange, give, loan or otherwise furnish or cause or permit to be exchanged,
given, loaned or otherwise furnished, any graffiti implement to any minor
without the consent of the parent or lawful guardian which consent shall be
given in advance in writing.
   B.   Display Requirements. No person or business engaged in a commercial
enterprise shall display for sale, trade or exchange, any graffiti implement
except in an area from which the public shall be securely precluded without
employee assistance. Two such acceptable methods for displaying graffiti
implements for sale shall be by containment in (1) a completely enclosed
cabinet or other storage device which shall be permanently affixed to a
building or structure, and which shall, at all times except during access by
authorized representatives, remain securely locked; or (2) in an enclosed area
behind a sales or service counter from which the public is precluded from
entry. Nothing herein shall relieve such person or business entity from, at all
times, complying with the requirements of California Penal Code Section 594.1
(c) by posting signs as described therein.
   C.   Storage Requirements. No person or business engaged in the business of
selling, providing or trading graffiti implements shall store any graffiti
implement except in either (1) a completely enclosed room which shall, at all
times except during access or actual occupancy by the owner or an authorized
adult representative of the owner, remain securely locked; or (2) a completely
enclosed cabinet or other storage device which shall be permanently affixed to
a building or building structure, and which shall, at all times except during
access by the owner or an authorized adult representative of the owner, remain
securely locked. For purposes of this Section, an owner or authorized
representative of the owner, shall be deemed to actually occupy a room even
during brief periods of absence if the room is contained within a larger
structure which is occupied by the owner.
   D.   Civil Responsibility for Damages for Wrongful Display or Storage. Any
person who displays or stores or permits the display or storage of any graffiti
implement in violation of the provisions of this Section shall be personally
liable for any and all costs, including attorney’s fees and court costs,
incurred by any party in connection with the removal of graffiti, the repair of
any property containing graffiti, or such party’s prosecution of a civil claim
for reimbursement or damages resulting from such graffiti removal or property
repair, arising from the use by any person or such wrongfully displayed or
stored graffiti implement in violation of the provisions of any of the
California Penal Code Sections or in violation of this Chapter.
9.45.070 Graffiti Removal Provisions.
   A.   Right of City to Require Removal. It is unlawful for any person who is
the owner or who has primary responsibility for control of property or who has
primary responsibility for the repair or maintenance of property (“Responsible
Party” hereinafter in this Section), to permit said property to be defaced with
graffiti for a period of seven (7) days after service by the City by first
class mail of notice of same, unless (1) said person shall demonstrate by a
preponderance of evidence that he or she does not have the financial ability to
remove the defacing graffiti; or (2) it can be demonstrated that the
Responsible Party has an active program for the removal of graffiti and has
scheduled the removal of the graffiti as part of that program, in which case it
shall be unlawful to permit such property to remain defaced with graffiti for a
period of seven (7) days after service by first class mail of notice of same.
   B.   Declaration of Nuisance.
      1.   Graffiti as a Nuisance. The City Council hereby declares and finds
graffiti to be a nuisance subject to abatement according to the provisions and
procedures herein contained and as authorized by California Government Code
Sections 38773, et seq.
      2.   Graffiti Attracting Surface as a Nuisance. The existence of any
surface of a structure on any privately owned parcel of land which has been
defaced with graffiti after removal more than five (5) times in twelve (12)
months is hereby deemed to be a nuisance, and may be abated by the City by
order of the City Council requiring modifications thereto, or to the immediate
area surrounding same. Such modifications may include, but are not limited to:
Retrofitting of such surfaces at the expense of the property owner(s) of said
lot, with such features or qualities as may be established by the City as
necessary to reduce the attractiveness of the surface for graffiti, or as
necessary to permit more convenient, expedient or efficient removal of graffiti
therefrom.
   C.   Right of City to Remove.
      1.   Use of Public Funds. Whenever the City becomes aware or is notified
and determines that graffiti is so located on public or privately owned
property viewable from a public or quasi-public place within the City, the City
shall be authorized to use public funds for the removal of same, or for the
painting or repairing of same, but shall not authorize or undertake to provide
for the painting or repair of any more extensive area than that where the
graffiti is located, unless the City Manager, or designee, determines in
writing that a more extensive area is required to be repainted or repaired in
order to avoid aesthetic disfigurement to the neighborhood or community, or
unless the Responsible Party agrees to pay for the costs of repainting or
repairing the more extensive area.
      2.   Right of Entry on Private Property.
         (a)   Securing Owner Consent. Prior to entering upon private property
or property owned by a public entity other than the City, for the purposes of
removal of graffiti, the City shall attempt to secure the consent of the
Responsible Party and a release of the City from liability for private or
public property damage.
         (b)   Failure to Obtain Owner Consent. If a Responsible Party fails to
remove the offending graffiti within the time herein specified or if the City
shall have requested consent to remove or paint over the offending graffiti and
the Responsible Party shall have refused consent for entry on terms acceptable
to the City consistent with the terms of this Section, the City may commence
abatement and cost recovery proceedings for the removal of the graffiti
pursuant to the nuisance abatement authority granted by California Government
Code Sections 38773, et seq., which authority includes the recovery of all
costs incurred by the City in abating graffiti and recordation of lien as to
affected property.
   D.   Ease of Removal Provisions.
      1.   Common Utility Colors and Paint Type. Any gas, telephone, water,
sewer, cable, electrical and other utility operating in the City, shall paint
their freestanding, above-surface metal fixtures which are installed after the
effective date of this Chapter, with a uniform paint type and color as directed
by the City Manager.
      2.   Conditions on Encroachment Permits. Encroachment permits issued by
the City may, among other items, be conditioned on one (1) permittee applying
an anti-graffiti material to the encroaching object or structure of a type and
nature which is acceptable to the City Manager, or his or her designee; (2) the
immediate removal by the permittee of any graffiti; (3) the right of the City
to remove graffiti or to paint the encroaching object or structure; (4) the
permittee providing the City with sufficient matching paint and/or anti-
graffiti material on demand for use in the painting of the encroaching object
of structure containing graffiti.
      3.   Conditions on Discretionary Approvals. In imposing conditions upon
conditional use permits, variances, building permits or other similar land use
entitlements or development or design applications, the City may impose
graffiti removal requirements or any or all of the following conditions, or
other similar or related conditions:
         (a)   Use of Anti-Graffiti Material. Applicant may be required to
apply an anti-graffiti material or provide a landscape design of a type and
nature which is acceptable to the City Manager, or his or her designee, to such
of the publicly viewable surfaces to be constructed on the site deemed by the
City Manager, or designee, to be likely to attract graffiti (“Graffiti
Attracting Surfaces” hereinafter in this Section);
         (b)   Right of Access to Remove Graffiti. Applicant shall grant, in
writing, the right of entry over and access to such parcels, upon forty-eight
(48) hours posted notice, by authorized City employees or agents, for the
purpose of removing or “painting over” graffiti on Graffiti Attracting Surfaces
previously designated by the City Manager or designee. Such grant shall be made
an express condition of approval and shall be deemed to run with the land;
         (c)   Supply City with Graffiti-Removal Material. Applicant, and any
and all successors in interest, shall, for a specified period of years after
approval, provide the City with sufficient matching paint and/or anti-graffiti
material on demand for use in the painting over or removal of designated
Graffiti Attracting Surfaces;
         (d)   Owner to Immediately Remove Graffiti. Persons applying for
subdivision maps shall, as part of any conditions, covenants and restrictions,
covenant, which covenant shall run with the land, in a form satisfactory to the
City, that the owners of the lots shall immediately remove any graffiti placed
on publicly viewable trees and structures thereon to the City’s satisfaction.
9.45.080 Rewards.
   A.   Reward Authority.
      1.   Pursuant to Section 53069.5 of the California Government Code, the
City does hereby offer a reward in the amount as may be set by resolution of
the City Council, for the apprehension of or information leading to the
identity of, and the apprehension of or conviction of any person for violation,
within the City, of California Penal Code Sections 594 or 594.3 through the use
of graffiti, of Penal Code Sections 640, 640.5, 640.6 or Sections
9.45.030,
9.45.040 or
9.45.050 of this Chapter. In the event of multiple contributions of
information, a reward amount shall be divided by the City in the manner it
shall deem appropriate. For the purposes of this Subsection, diversion of the
violator to a community service program or plea bargain to a lesser offense,
shall constitute a conviction.
      2.   Claims for rewards under this Section shall be filed with the City.
Each claim shall:
         (a)   Specifically identify the date, location and kind of property
damaged or destroyed;
         (b)   Identify by name the person who was convicted;
         (c)   Identify the court and the date upon which the conviction
occurred.
      3.   No claim for a reward shall be allowed by the City Council unless
the City investigates and verifies the accuracy of the claim and determines the
requirements of this Section have been satisfied.
      4.   The person committing the graffiti vandalism, and if an
unemancipated minor, then the parent or lawful guardian of said minor shall be
civilly liable for any reward paid pursuant to this Section pursuant to the
provisions of California Government Code Section 53069.5.
   B.   Reimbursement of Cellular Phone Costs.
      The City shall reimburse to any person reporting by means of a cellular
phone an act of graffiti vandalism presently occurring within the City, the
amount of the actual phone charges, exclusive of taxes, incurred by said
person.
9.45.090 Penalties and Civil Liability of Parents.
   A.   Criminal Penalties. Any person who violates any provision or who fails
to comply with any of the requirements of this Chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished in accordance with
the provisions of
Chapter 1.20 of this Code, and by the performance of community service in the
form of graffiti clean up to the maximum extent permitted by California Penal
Code Section 594 and/or any other such provision of law.
   B.   Additional Penalties Available. Whenever appropriate, the City intends
to petition a sentencing court to impose the following additional penalties
upon conviction:
      1.   Litter or graffiti clean up pursuant to California Vehicle Code
Section 42001.7 upon conviction of violation of California Vehicle Code
Sections 23111, 23112 or 23113(a).
      2.   Suspension or delay of issuance of a driver’s license pursuant to
California Vehicle Code Section 13202.6 upon a graffiti vandalism conviction.
      3.   Performance of community service, including graffiti removal service
by any minor determined to be a ward of the court as a result of committing a
vandalism-related offense in the City, as provided in California Welfare and
Institutions Code Section 742.16.
      4.   Performance of community service, including graffiti removal service
of up to one hundred (100) hours by any minor determined to be a ward of the
court as a result of committing a drug related offense in the City, as provided
in California Welfare and Institutions Code Section 729.8.
   C.   It is the City’s further intent that, pursuant to California Penal Code
Section 640.6(a), all acts of graffiti vandalism occurring within the City
shall be prosecuted as misdemeanors pursuant to California Penal Code Section
594, et seq., or this Chapter.
   D.   Pursuant to California Civil Code Section 1714.1(b), any parent or
legal guardian whose minor child possesses a graffiti implement shall be
personally liable for any and all costs to any person or business incurred in
connection with the removal of graffiti caused by said minor child, or by said
graffiti implement, and for all law enforcement costs, City staff costs,
attorneys’ fees and court costs incurred in connection with the civil
prosecution of any claims for damages or reimbursement up to the sum of twenty-
five thousand dollars ($25,000.00).
   E.   Pursuant to California Government Code Section 38773.6, the City may
abate any nuisance resulting from the defacement by a minor of property by
another by graffiti or other inscribed materials in accordance with Sections
9.80.070.A., B., C. and D. Pursuant to the procedures set forth in
Chapter 1.22 of this Code, the City shall be entitled to recovery of all costs
incurred by the City under this Chapter, including all nuisance abatement
costs.
[Ord. No. 568, Section 17, 5/10/17.]
Chapter 9.50
BLINDER RACKS; ADULT VIDEO RECORDINGS
Sections:
   
9.50.010   Blinder Racks
   
9.50.020   Adult Video Recordings
9.50.010 Blinder Racks.
No person shall display or exhibit in any public place or place open to the
public, other than a location from which minors are excluded, any material
which is harmful to minors unless a device commonly known as a “blinder rack”
is in place so that the lower two-thirds (2/3’s) thereof is not exposed to
public view. For purposes of this Section, “harmful matter,” “person,”
“exhibit,” “minor” and “matter” are as defined in California Penal Code Section
313 as currently in effect and as may be amended.
9.50.020 Adult Video Recordings.
Any person who sells or rents video recordings of harmful matter shall locate
the area created within said person’s business establishment for the placement
of such video recordings as required by Section 313.1(e) of the California
Penal Code to an area labeled “adults only” which is not adjacent to displays
of video recordings which are of interest primarily to children, nor shall any
person who sells or rents video recordings of harmful matter permit or allow
minors to enter into or remain in the “adults only” area unless the minor is
accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
Chapter 9.55
DISTRIBUTION OF NOTICES AND HANDBILLS
Sections:
   
9.55.010   Definitions
   
9.55.020   Throwing or Distributing Handbills in Public Places
   
9.55.030   Placing Handbills on Vehicles
   
9.55.040   Distribution of Handbills Where Prohibition Posted
   
9.55.050   Dropping Litter From Aircraft
   
9.55.060   Posting Notices Prohibited
9.55.010 Definitions.
For the purpose of this Chapter the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future, words used in the
plural number include the singular number and words used in the singular number
include the plural number. The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
   A.   “Aircraft” is any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used or
designated for navigation or for flight in the air. The word “aircraft”
includes helicopters and lighter than air dirigibles and balloons.
   B.   “Handbill” is any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet, or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature.
   C.   “Newspaper” is any newspaper of general circulation as defined by the
laws of the state and any other publication whether or not designated a
newspaper and which is regularly issued and printed and containing in each
issue local and other news of a general nature and having advertising space in
each issue thereof open to purchase by the general public for the publication
of general advertising matter therein, or any other periodical or current
magazine regularly published and sold to the public with not less than four (4)
issues per year.
   D.   “Person” is any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind.
   E.   “Private Premises” is any dwelling, house, building or other structure
designed or used whether wholly or in part for private residential purposes,
whether inhabited or vacant, and includes any yard, grounds, walk, driveway,
porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox belonging to or appurtenant to such
dwelling, house, building or other structure, and any business or professional
establishment.
   F.   “Public Place” is any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or
other public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
   G.   “City” is the City of Adelanto.
   H.   “Vehicle” is every device in, upon, or by which any person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
9.55.020 Throwing or Distributing Handbills in Public Places.
No person shall throw, cast, distribute or deposit any handbill in or upon any
public place. Any person may hand out or distribute any handbill without charge
to any person willing to accept it.
9.55.030 Placing Handbills on Vehicles.
No person shall throw, cast, distribute or deposit any handbill in or upon any
vehicle provided, however, it shall not be unlawful in any public place for a
person to hand out or distribute a handbill without charge to any occupant of a
vehicle willing to accept it.
9.55.040 Distribution of Handbills Where Prohibition Posted.
No person shall throw, cast, distribute or deposit any handbill upon any
private premises, if there is placed on said premises in a conspicuous position
near the entrance thereof, a sign bearing the words “No Trespassing,” “No
Peddlers or Agents,” “No Advertisement” or any similar notice, indicating in
any manner that the occupants of the premises do not desire to have any such
handbills left upon the premises. The provisions of this Section shall not
apply to the distribution of mail by the Unites States, or to newspapers, as
defined herein in Section
9.55.010.C.
9.55.050 Dropping Litter From Aircraft.
No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit within the City while
aloft any litter, including, without limitation, any handbill or other object.
9.55.060 Posting Notices Prohibited.
No person shall post or affix any notice, poster or other paper or device, to
any lamppost, public utility pole or shade tree in the public right of way or
on public property, or upon any public structure or building, except as may be
authorized or required by law.
Chapter 9.60
CURFEW REGULATIONS
Sections:
   
9.60.010   Loitering by Minors After Curfew Prohibited
   
9.60.015   Exceptions
   
9.60.020   Daytime Loitering by Minors Prohibited
   
9.60.025   Exceptions
   
9.60.030   Responsibilities of Parents, Legal Guardians and/or Custodians of
Minors
9.60.010 Loitering by Minors After Curfew Prohibited.
It is unlawful for any minor to be in or upon the public streets, highways,
roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds, public buildings or other places open to the
public, places of amusement, eating establishments or any vacant lots between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and sunrise immediately following.
9.60.015 Exceptions.
The following are exceptions to the application of Section
9.60.010:
   A.   When the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, legal guardian or
other person having the care or custody of the minor; or
   B.   When the minor is engaged in or going directly to or returning directly
from any lawful activity with the written permission of the minor’s parent or
legal guardian; or
   C.   When the minor is traveling directly to or from his or her place of
gainful employment or to or from a medical appointment and the minor can
produce written evidence of same; or
   D.   When, with the approval of the minor’s parent, legal guardian or other
adult person having the care or custody of the minor, such minor is traveling
directly to or from a meeting, entertainment, recreational or school activity,
and the minor can produce written evidence of such approval; or
   E.   During such time as the minor is exercising rights protected by the
First Amendment of the United States Constitution or Article I of the
California Constitution, including, but not limited to, free exercise of
religion, freedom of speech and/or freedom of assembly, provided such minor has
in his or her possession a form of written consent signed by the minor’s parent
or legal guardian. The form of consent must state the hours during which the
minor is permitted to be away from home, the nature of the permitted activity
(ies) involving the exercise of constitutional rights and the specific location
where the minor is permitted to be during such hours; or
   F.   When the minor is emancipated pursuant to the law of any state,
provided the minor maintains written evidence of such emancipation in his or
her possession during curfew hours; or
   G.   When the minor is in a motor vehicle involved in interstate or
intrastate travel provided that in the event the minor is not accompanied by
his or her parent or guardian, the minor possesses a parent’s or guardian’s
written consent thereto; or
   H.   When the minor is homeless.
9.60.020 Daytime Loitering by Minors Prohibited.
It is unlawful for any minor who is subject to compulsory education or to
compulsory continuing education to be in or upon the public streets, highways,
roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds, public buildings or other places open the
public, places of amusement, eating establishments or any vacant lots during
school hours and on school days applicable to such minor.
9.60.025 Exceptions.
The following are exceptions to the application of Section
9.60.020:
   A.   When the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, legal guardian or
other adult person having the care or custody of the minor; or
   B.   When the minor is on a medical emergency errand directed by his or her
parent, legal guardian or other adult person having care or custody of the
minor and can produce written evidence of same; or
   C.   When the minor is traveling directly to or from a medical appointment
and can produce written evidence of same; or
   D.   When the minor has in his or her possession written permission or a
permit to leave the school campus, or is traveling to or from, or is otherwise
engaged in an event or activity sponsored, sanctioned or arranged for by the
minor’s school and in which the minor is authorized to participate; or
   E.   When the minor is receiving home or private school instruction pursuant
to Education Code Section 48222, or is receiving instruction by a qualified
tutor pursuant to Education Code Section 48224, or is otherwise exempt by law
from attendance at a public or private full-time day school; or
   F.   When the minor is authorized to be absent from his or her school
pursuant to the provisions of Education Code Section 48205 or any other
applicable state or federal law.
9.60.030 Responsibilities of Parents, Legal Guardians and/or Custodians of
Minors.
It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or custodian of a minor to knowingly
permit or allow such minor to be in violation of any of the provisions of
Section
9.60.010 or
9.60.020 of this Chapter. In the event of any conflict between this Section and
California Penal Code Section 272 or any successor provision thereto, said
Penal Code section shall be deemed to govern.
Chapter 9.65
STORAGE, USE AND SALE OF FIREWORKS
Sections:
   
9.65.010   Purpose
   
9.65.015   Definition
   
9.65.020   Sale and Discharge of Fireworks
   
9.65.025   License Required; Application for License to Sell Fireworks
   
9.65.030   General Requirements for Fireworks Licensees
   
9.65.035   Operation of Fireworks Stand
   
9.65.040   Temporary Fireworks Stands
   
9.65.045   Temporary Sales Tax Permit Required; Display of License and Permit
   
9.65.050   Prohibition on Discharge of Fireworks
   
9.65.055   Penalties
9.65.010 Purpose.
The purpose of this Chapter is to bring the City's regulation of the use of
fireworks into compliance with the California State Fire Marshal's Department
regulations and to protect and secure the public health, safety and general
welfare.
[Ord. No. 494, 4/14/10; Ord. No. 516, Section 2, 4/24/13.]
9.65.015 Definition.
"Safe and Sane Fireworks" shall be as defined in Section 12504 of the
California Health and Safety Code, as that section may in the future be
amended.
[Ord. No. 494, 4/14/10; Ord. No. 516, Section 2, 4/24/13.]
9.65.020 Sale and Discharge of Fireworks.
“Safe and Sane Fireworks” may only be sold and/or discharged within the City,
and such discharge may only occur during the period beginning at 12:00 noon on
the 28th day of June and ending at 11:59 pm on the 4th day of July each year.
[Ord. No. 494, 4/14/10; Ord. No. 516, Section 2, 4/24/13; Ord. No. 599, Section
3, 5/8/19.]
9.65.025 License Required; Application for License to Sell Fireworks.
   A.   Except as otherwise provided herein, no person shall offer for sale or
sell fireworks of any kind in the City, without having first applied for and
received a license therefore.
   B.   All applications for licenses to sell fireworks shall:
      1.   Be made in writing, accompanied by an initial license fee of two
hundred dollars ($200.00), which will be used to defray the cost of
administration, inspection and supervision of fireworks licensees. The
Temporary Business License application and Temporary Use Permit application
shall be incorporated into the Fireworks application; fees for the Temporary
Business License application and Temporary Use Permit are incorporated into the
application fee.
      2.   Be submitted between the first and the last day of March each year,
except when the last day falls on a day when City Hall is closed, then the
following business day shall be the last day.
      3.   Set forth the proposed location of the fireworks stand applied for.
Each stand must be on private property located in the "C" zoning district or
heavier industrial or manufacturing zones of the City, or on public land at the
sole discretion of the City. A notarized statement from the owner of record of
the property must accompany the application.
      4.   Be accompanied by an agreement from the manufacturer and/or
wholesaler of the fireworks to defend, indemnify and hold the City harmless
from any claims, liability, litigation, damages or other injuries resulting
from defective fireworks.
      5.   Include a statement that the applicant agrees to comply strictly
with the terms of any license granted to it and furnish any additional
information upon request of the City Manager, the City Council or their
authorized employees and/or representatives.
   C.   At the time of issuance of the license, the applicant must deliver to
the Business License Department evidence of public liability insurance in an
amount not less than one hundred thousand dollars/three hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00/$300,000.00) and not less than fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) property damage insurance in the form and content required by the
City, certificated, and a copy of the requisite permit from the State Fire
Marshal.
   D.   At the time of application, each applicant shall submit a non-
refundable clean-up fee of either 6% of the organization’s prior year’s net
sales, or $600, whichever is greater, so that the City recuperates cost of
cleaning up after 4th of July holiday. If this is an organization’s first year
participating, the $600 rate shall apply.
[Ord. No. 494, 4/14/10; Ord. No. 516, Section 2, 4/24/13; Ord. No. 599, Section
3, 5/8/19.]
9.65.030 General Requirements for Fireworks Licensees.
The following qualifications must be met by each applicant for a license issued
hereunder:
   A.   No license shall be issued to any person, firm or corporation except
non-profit associations or corporations organized primarily for civic
betterment or youth activities. Such organizations, groups or individuals shall
be limited to one (1) license.
   B.   Each such organization must have its principal and permanent meeting
place within the corporate limits of the City, must maintain a bona fide
membership of at least eighty percent (80%) of the organization must be
Adelanto residents, and must have been organized and established in the City's
corporate limits for a minimum of one (1) year continuously preceding the
filing of the application for the business license.
   C.   No organization may receive more than one (1) license for fireworks
sale during any one (1) calendar year. One (1) license may be issued to two (2)
or more qualifying applicants as a joint venture, but may only operate one (1)
stand. The maximum number of licenses which may be issued pursuant to this
Chapter during any one (1) calendar year shall not exceed one (1) license for
each three thousand (3,000) residents of the City, or fraction thereof, based
on the latest official roster, State of California census estimate.
   D.   If the number of applications exceeds the number of licenses allowed to
be issued, the licenses shall be granted by a drawing supervised by the City
Clerk. The drawing will be held at a Council meeting, the applicants will be
notified of the drawing date and notification of selection will be performed
the following day.
   E.   Reserved.
   F.   Reserved.
   G.   Reserved.
[Ord. No. 494, 4/14/10; Ord. No. 516, Section 2, 4/24/13; Ord. No. 599, Section
3, 5/8/19; Ord. No. 605, Section 3, 8/28/19; Ord. No. 649, Section 2, 3/13/24.]
9.65.035 Operation of Fireworks Stand.
   A.   No person other than the licensee organization shall operate the stand
for which the license is issued or share or otherwise participate in the
profits of the operation of such stand.
   B.   No person other than the individuals who are members of the licensee
organization, or the spouses or adult children of such members, shall sell or
otherwise participate in the sale of fireworks at such stand(s) except that in
no instance shall a person under the age of eighteen (18) years be permitted to
sell or otherwise participate in the operation of the fireworks stand.
[Ord. No. 494, 4/14/10; Ord. No. 516, Section 2, 4/24/13; Ord. No. 599, Section
3, 5/8/19.]
9.65.040 Temporary Fireworks Stands.
   A.   All fireworks sales must be made from within a temporary fireworks
stand, and sales from any other building or structure are prohibited.
   B.   No fireworks stand shall be located within twenty-five (25) feet of any
other building nor within one hundred (100) feet of any gasoline pump.
   C.   All stands shall be erected under the supervision of the Building and
Safety Department, and must be constructed in a manner that will reasonably
ensure the safety of attendants and patrons. Any building and safety permit
fees shall be waved.
   D.   No fireworks stand shall have a floor area in excess of three hundred
(300) square feet.
   E.   Each fireworks stand must have at least two (2) unobstructed exits; and
each stand in excess of forty (40) feet in length must have at least three (3)
unobstructed exits spaced approximately equidistant apart, provided, however,
that in no case shall the distance between the exits exceed twenty-four (24)
feet.
   F.   Each fireworks stand shall provide two (2), two and one-half (2-1/2)
gallon "water pressure" type or 2A10BC dry chemical type fire extinguishers,
underwriter approved, in good working order and easily accessible for use in
case of fire.
   G.   All weeds and combustible materials shall be cleared from the location
of the fireworks stand and for a distance of at least fifty (50) feet from any
point of the stand.
   H.   "No Smoking Within 100 Feet" signs must be prominently displayed on the
fireworks stand.
   I.   Each fireworks stand must have an adult in attendance and in charge
thereof while fireworks are stored therein, including an onsite presence
overnight while the stand is closed. Sleeping or remaining in the fireworks
stand after close of business each day is forbidden.
   J.   Each fireworks stand shall obtain a safety inspection and clearance
from the San Bernardino County Fire Department prior to opening.
   K.   The sale of fireworks shall not begin before 12:00 noon on the 28th day
of June and shall not continue after 11:59pm on the 4th day of July.
   L.   Each fireworks stand shall display a sign of at least ten (10) square
feet stating that discharge of fireworks is only legal within the City limits
between 12:00 noon, June 28 and 11:59pm, July 4.
   M.   During the days allowed for the sale of fireworks, no sales shall be
made except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight.
   N.   All unsold stock and accompanying litter shall be removed from the
fireworks stand location by 5:00 p.m. on July 6.
   O.   The fireworks stand shall be removed, and the temporary site cleared by
12:00 noon on the 10th day of July. If this requirement cannot be met by the
July 10th date, the stand operator must work with City staff to arrange for a
new pick up date.
   P.   Each organization operating or participating in a fireworks stand shall
submit, to the City, a financial statement of actual sales and profit by 5:00
p.m. August 31, following the fireworks sale, unless that day falls on a day
when City Hall is closed, then the following business day shall be the last
day. The financial statements are subject to review and approval by the City.
The records shall be retained by the City. Failure to comply will result in
revocation of future license eligibility.
[Ord. No. 494, 4/14/10; Ord. No. 516, Section 2, 4/24/13; Ord. No. 599, Section
3, 5/8/19; Ord. No. 605, Section 3, 8/28/19.]
9.65.045 Temporary Sales Tax Permit Required; Display of License and Permit.
   A.   Organizations licensed by the City for fireworks sales are required to
obtain a temporary sales tax permit from the State Board of Equalization.
   B.   The temporary sales tax permit and the City license to sell fireworks
must be displayed in a prominent place in the fireworks stand.
[Ord. No. 494, 4/14/10; Ord. No. 516, Section 2, 4/24/13.]
9.65.050 Prohibition on Discharge of Fireworks.
It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite, explode, project or otherwise
fire or use, any fireworks or permit the ignition, explosion or projection
thereof, upon or over onto the property of another without his/her consent, or
to ignite, explode, project or otherwise fire or make use of any fireworks
within ten (10) feet of any residence, dwelling or other structure used as a
place of habitation, congregation or assembly, or within one hundred (100) feet
of any fireworks stand.
[Ord. No. 494, 4/14/10; Ord. No. 516, Section 2, 4/24/13.]
9.65.055 Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or imprisonment not to exceed one hundred eighty
(180) days, or both fine and imprisonment. Further, the fireworks sales license
of any licensee who violates or permits any provision of this Chapter to be
violated shall be revoked and the licensee shall not be entitled to receive a
license for a period of three (3) years thereafter.
[Ord. No. 494, 4/14/10; Ord. No. 516, Section 2, 4/24/13; Ord. No. 605, Section
3, 8/28/19.]
Chapter 9.70
EMERGENCY RESPONSE COST RECOVERY - DUI
Sections:
   
9.70.010   Purpose
   
9.70.020   Findings
   
9.70.030   Civil Liability
   
9.70.040   Liability Upon Conviction
   
9.70.050   Notice of Assessment of Cost Recovery Fees
   
9.70.060   Payment of Cost Recovery Fees
   
9.70.080   Administrative Review
   
9.70.090   Appeal
9.70.010 Purpose.
This Chapter is adopted pursuant to municipal affairs provisions of the City
Charter for the following purposes:
   A.   To provide for the recovery of costs incurred by the Police Department
in the apprehension and arrest or citation of persons who are convicted of an
offense involving the driving of a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol
or any drug; and
   B.   To provide for the recovery of other costs incurred by the Police and
Fire Departments in responding to accidents caused by persons who are convicted
of an offense involving the driving of a vehicle while under the influence of
alcohol or any drug.
9.70.020 Findings.
The City Council finds as follows:
   A.   That persons who drive a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol
or any drug create a serious hazard to themselves and others;
   B.   That the City’s Police and Fire Departments are required to spend a
significant amount of time in the apprehension and arrest of persons who drive
while under the influence of alcohol or any drug and in responding to accidents
caused by such persons;
   C.   That the time spent by the Police and Fire Departments for that purpose
is costly and detrimentally affects the ability of those departments from being
available to respond to other calls or incidents;
   D.   That, although the California Government Code, at Sections 53150 et
seq., provides that persons who drive a vehicle under the influence of alcohol
or any drug shall reimburse the City for costs incurred in making appropriate
emergency responses to incidents caused by such persons, the scope of that cost
recovery provision is insufficient because the apprehension and arrest of all
drivers under the influence of alcohol or any drug are expensive and time-
consuming, even though they may not require an emergency response; and
   E.   That all persons who are apprehended or arrested for driving while
under the influence of alcohol or any drug, as well as those who cause an
accident and who are subsequently convicted of driving while under the
influence of alcohol or any drug, should be required to reimburse the City for
the costs incurred by the Police Department in such apprehension or arrest.
9.70.030 Civil Liability.
Any person who is arrested or cited by the Police Department for driving a
vehicle while under the influence of alcohol or any drug and who is
subsequently convicted of such an offense, shall be assessed a cost recovery
fee for the purpose of reimbursing the City for all costs incurred by the
Police Department which were related to the making of that arrest or issuance
of that citation. In addition, if such driver caused an accident while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug, the cost recovery fee assessed shall also
include any additional costs which were incurred by the Police or Fire
Departments in responding to that accident.
9.70.040 Liability Upon Conviction.
The civil liability imposed herein shall arise upon the conviction of a person
for an offense involving the driving of a vehicle while under the influence of
alcohol or any drug. Convictions giving rise to such liability shall include a
conviction under Vehicle Code Section 23152 or Sections 23103/23103.5 or any
other violation of California law which requires a findings that the person
drove a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol or any drug. The term
shall include a plea of guilty or no contest as well as a finding of guilt by a
judge or jury after a trial.
9.70.050 Notice of Assessment of Cost Recovery Fees.
Upon the conviction of an offense giving rise to liability under the provisions
of this Chapter, the Chief of Police shall cause notice of the assessment to be
mailed to the person so convicted. In addition to setting forth the amount of
the cost recovery fees assessed pursuant to this Chapter, such notice shall set
forth the right of the person so assessed to request administrative review of
such assessment in the manner provided herein.
9.70.060 Payment of Cost Recovery Fees.
When a cost recovery fee is assessed upon any person in the manner provided by
this Chapter, such fee will be due and payable on or before the last day of the
month in which the notice of the assessment was mailed to the person assessed
the fee. In the event of the failure of a person so assessed to pay any such
fee when due, a delinquent penalty of ten percent (10%) shall be added to the
fee on the last day of each month after the due date thereof, provided,
however, that the total amount of such penalties shall not exceed fifty percent
(50%) of the delinquent fees. In addition, in the event of the failure of a
person assessed a cost recovery fee to pay such fee when due, that person shall
be assessed interest on the amount of the delinquent fee, exclusive of any
penalties thereon, at the rate of one percent (1%) per month, or fraction
thereof, from the date the fee first became delinquent until the date the fee
is paid.
9.70.080 Administrative Review.
   A.   Right to Administrative Review. Any person aggrieved by a determination
to assess a fee in the manner provided for by this Chapter or by a
determination of the amount of the fee assessed, may apply to the Chief of
Police for administrative review of such determination.
   B.   Application for Administrative Review. Applications for administrative
review of the determination that a fee be assessed or the amount of the fee
assessed, shall be made in writing and shall be filed with the Police
Department no later than fifteen (15) days from the date that notice of
liability for the fee was mailed to the person liable thereunder. In addition
to setting forth a request for administrative review of such determination,
such application shall contain a brief statement of the reasons why that person
believes that such determination does not comply with the provisions of this
Chapter and the relief being requested.
   C.   Decision on Application for Administrative Review. Upon the filing of
an application for administrative review of the determination that a fee be
assessed or the amount of a fee assessed under this Chapter, the Chief of
Police shall consider the application and render a decision either affirming
the determination or reversing or modifying the determination. Prior to
rendering a decision, the Chief of Police shall consider the application and
render a decision either affirming the determination or reversing or modifying
the determination. Prior to rendering a decision, the Chief of Police, with
sole discretion, may convene a hearing for the purpose of reviewing evidence or
hearing arguments bearing on such decision. If such a meeting is convened,
notice of the date, time and place of such hearing shall be served by mail on
the person requesting administrative review a reasonable time prior to such
hearing. After rendering a decision, the Chief of Police shall promptly cause
written notice of the decision to be served by mail on the person requesting
the administrative review.
   D.   Payment of Cost Recovery Fee Following a Decision on Application for
Administrative Review. When the Chief of Police renders a decision to affirm a
determination to assess a fee or the amount of a fee, in whole or in part,
following the filing of an application for administrative review of such
determination, such fee or such part thereof found by the Chief of Police to
have been validly assessed shall not be payable until the last day of the month
immediately following the month in which notice of such decision is mailed to
the person against whom the fee was assessed, provided, however, that if the
decision of the Chief of Police is appealed to the City Council, payment shall
not be due until the Council has acted on the appeal.
9.70.090 Appeal.
Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Chief of Police which is rendered
pursuant to the procedures for administrative review set forth in this Chapter
may appeal to the City Council. Such appeal shall be made in accordance with
the procedures set forth in Section
2.04.080 et seq. of this Code. In the event that the City Council affirms a
decision of the Chief of Police to Assess a fee or the amount of a fee
assessed, payment of that fee shall be due and payable immediately following
the Council's decision.
Chapter 9.75
RESPONDING TO DISORDERLY GATHERINGS
Sections:
   
9.75.010   Statement of Purpose and Intent
   
9.75.020   Definitions
   
9.75.030   Duty to Maintain Public Peace
   
9.75.040   Cost of Police and Other Public Safety Service Personnel Response
   
9.75.050   Billing of Public Safety Expenses
   
9.75.060   Appeal Process
   
9.75.070   Recovery of Public Safety Expenses
9.75.010 Statement of Purpose and Intent.
   A.   The City Council finds that certain public and private gatherings (or
parties) that are excessively loud and/or disorderly and disturb the public
peace interfere with the public peace and safety when they require repeated
police responses, increase the cost of public safety services and deter the
Police Department and the City from addressing other urgent public safety
matters.
   B.   The City Council further finds that the additional procedures and
penalties established herein are needed to properly protect the health, safety
and general welfare of existing and future residents and workers in the City.
9.75.020 Definitions.
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   A.   “Person Responsible” - The person responsible for a loud and/or
disorderly gathering or party shall be deemed to be, in order of priority:
      1.   The owner(s) of the premises where the loud and/or disorderly
gathering or party takes place, if the premises are owner-occupied property;
      2.   The tenant(s) of the premises where the loud and/or disorderly
gathering or party takes place, if the premises are tenant-occupied property;
      3.   The person(s) responsible for organizing the loud and/or disorderly
gathering or party. If the person is a minor, then the parent(s) or guardian(s)
of that minor will be jointly or severally liable for reimbursement of the law
enforcement expenses and any other public safety expenses incurred.
   B.   “Loud and/or Disorderly Gathering or Party” - A loud and/or disorderly
activity attended by a group of persons on public or private property which
disturbs the peace or quiet of any neighborhood or which causes discomfort or
annoyance to any reasonable person of normal sensitivity residing in the area.
   C.   “Special Security Assignment” - The assignment of police officers and
other public safety service (law enforcement) personnel during a second or
subsequent call to a location after providing a warning that the loud and/or
disorderly gathering or party violates the law.
9.75.030 Duty to Maintain Public Peace.
Each person who sponsors a gathering or party, or who allows his or her
property to be utilized for a gathering or party, shall maintain such in a
quiet or orderly fashion so as to protect the public peace. Violation of this
duty constitutes a public nuisance in accordance with
Chapter 8.25 of this Code.
9.75.040 Cost of Police and Other Public Safety Service Personnel Response.
When a loud and/or disorderly gathering or party occurs, the person or persons
responsible will be held jointly and severally liable for payment of the public
safety service expenses for Special Security Assignment(s).
9.75.050 Billing of Public Safety Expenses.
For the purposes of this Chapter, the City’s Finance Department shall cause the
person responsible for a loud and/or disorderly gathering or party to be billed
the actual cost for the police services provided in responding to the
disturbance and any other City and/or public safety expenses incurred (these
costs shall include, but shall not be limited to, damages to City property and/
or injuries to City personnel, and City administrative costs). The Police
Department shall accumulate the costs of all services provided in responding to
the disturbance and forward same to the Finance Department within fifteen (15)
days of the disturbance for billing. Such bills shall be due and payable by the
person who sponsored the gathering or party within thirty (30) days after the
billing date.
9.75.060 Appeal Process.
Any person receiving a cost recovery fee bill for public safety services
pursuant to this Chapter may, within fifteen (15) days after the billing date,
file with the City Clerk a written request appealing the imposition of such
charges. Any billing sent pursuant to this Chapter shall inform the billed
party of the right to appeal said billing. All appeals shall be made in
writing, shall state the grounds for such appeal, shall specify the factual
basis for the appeal and shall contain a signature verifying the truth of all
matters asserted. Any appeal regarding such billing shall be heard by the City
Manager, or by his or her designee, as the hearing officer. Notice of the
hearing shall be sent by certified or registered mail to the appellant (unless
such mail is refused or unclaimed, then the City shall send the mail via first
class postage prepaid mail and such mailing shall be deemed actual service).
Within ten (10) days after the hearing, the hearing officer shall give written
notice of the decision of the hearing officer. If the appeal is denied in part
or in full, all amounts due to the City shall be paid within thirty (30) days
after notice of the decision of the hearing officer is sent by certified or
registered mail to the appellant (unless such mail is refused or unclaimed,
then the City shall send the mail via first class postage prepaid mail and such
mailing shall be deemed actual service). The decision of the hearing officer
may be appealed to the City Council pursuant to the procedure set forth in
Section
8.25.090 of this Code. If such decision is not appealed, then the decision is
final.
9.75.070 Recovery of Public Safety Expenses.
All amounts due under this Chapter shall be a debt to the City by the property
owner and all persons responsible for the loud and/or disorderly gathering or
party and is payable pursuant to California Government Code Sections 6151.5 et
seq.
Chapter 9.80
NUISANCE VEHICLES - SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE OF NUISANCE VEHICLES
Sections:
   
9.80.010   Statement of Purpose and Intent
   
9.80.020   Definitions
   
9.80.030   Abatement of Nuisance Vehicles by Seizure and Forfeiture
   
9.80.040   Responsible Persons
   
9.80.050   Right, Title and Interest in Nuisance Vehicles
   
9.80.060   Authority for Seizure of Nuisance Vehicles
   
9.80.070   Process for Seizure
   
9.80.080   Post-Seizure Hearing
   
9.80.090   Administrative Forfeiture Proceedings
   
9.80.100   Exceptions to Forfeiture of Nuisance Vehicles
   
9.80.110   Court Declaration of Forfeiture of Nuisance Vehicles
   
9.80.120   Disposal of Nuisance Vehicles
   
9.80.130   Recovery of Monetary Loss
9.80.010 Statement of Purpose and Intent.
   A.   The City Council has determined that illegal dumping and illegal street
racing are nuisance activities that endanger the public health and safety.
Vehicles used in these nuisance activities are themselves nuisances to be
abated through seizure and forfeiture as provided in this Chapter.
   B.   The procedures presented in this Chapter for the seizure and forfeiture
of nuisance vehicles are expressly intended as a remedy to abate these
nuisances; to protect the City’s residents and the public from harm to their
health, safety and welfare; to avoid the destruction and injury to lives and
property; and to compensate the City for economic damages incurred as a result
of the occurrence of these nuisance activities. Examples of such damages are
the costs of cleaning up illegal dump sites and diverting limited police and
public works resources to address these nuisance activities. Any deterrent
effect is deemed incidental to the remedial purpose of this Chapter.
   C.   The City Council has determined that people who use vehicles to
illegally dump waste matter or attempt to do so, or transport waste matter for
the purpose of illegally dumping it within the City, bring decay and blight
into City neighborhoods, create public health hazards and invite more illegal
dumping. Such blight, decay and unhealthful conditions adversely affect the
quality of life for the City’s residents, lead to a reduction in the value of
property and invite other criminal activity. The City Council finds there is a
need to provide for the abatement of such nuisance vehicles.
   D.   The City Council has determined that people who use vehicles for
illegal street racing create an immediate threat to public safety.
Participation in street racing requires drivers and other participants to use
vehicles to blatantly violate motor vehicle laws. Such activity has been known
to cause serious injuries and deaths in several cities throughout California
and to imperil innocent residents and the public. Such activity contributes to
an increase in crime, particularly offenses involving alcohol and controlled
substances. The City Council finds there is a need to provide for the abatement
of such nuisance vehicles.
9.80.020 Definitions.
   A.   “Business Day” - any weekday other than a Saturday, Sunday or a legal
holiday which falls on a day other than a Saturday or Sunday.
   B.   “Claimant” - any person claiming an interest in a nuisance vehicle
subject to forfeiture under this Chapter, either by properly requesting a post-
seizure hearing as set forth in Section
9.80.080.D., or properly filing a claim opposing forfeiture as set forth in
Section
9.80.090.D.
   C.   “Exhibition of Speed” - a willful act of showing off or displaying a
dangerous or imprudent speed in a vehicle on a highway where the presence of
another person is known to the driver or may be reasonably anticipated by the
driver. In order to constitute an exhibition of speed under this Chapter, there
must be at least two (2) spectators present at the time of the offense.
   D.   “Highway” - a way or place of whatever nature, which is used or can be
used by the public for vehicular travel. It does not include a facility which
is specifically designed and legally maintained and operated for the purposes
of speed contests or exhibitions of speed or specifically permitted for those
purposes.
   E.   “Illegal Dumping” - the willful or intentional depositing, dropping,
dumping, placing or throwing of any waste matter onto that portion of public or
private property located within the City and which is not expressly designated
by the City for the purpose of disposal of waste matter. “Illegal dumping” does
not include the discarding of small quantities of waste matter related to
consumer goods only and which are reasonably understood to be ordinarily
carried on or about a person, including but not limited to, beverage containers
and closures, packaging, wrappers, wastepaper, newspapers, magazines or other
similar waste matter that escapes or is allowed to escape from a container,
receptacle or package.
   F.   “Local Law Enforcement or Governmental Entities” - any city, charter
city, county, or city and county, or the respective departments thereof, in
this state.
   G.   “Nuisance” - shall have the same meaning as set forth in Civil Code
Section 3479.
   H.   “Owner” - the last registered owner, the last legal owner and any then-
existing lien holder of record as shown on the records of the Department of
Motor Vehicles or similar state or federal agency, for any vehicle used for any
of the nuisance activities subject to this Chapter.
   I.   “Speed Contest” - a contest or event where a vehicle is raced on a
highway against another vehicle or a clock or other timing device. In order to
constitute a speed contest under this Chapter, at least two (2) vehicles or at
least two (2) spectators must be present at the event. An event where the time
to cover a prescribed route of more than twenty (20) miles is measured, but
where the vehicles does not exceed the speed limit is not a speed contest.
   J.   “Street Racing” - a speed contest or exhibition of speed as those terms
are defined in this Chapter.
   K.   “Vehicle” - a vehicle as that term is defined in California Vehicle
Code Section 670 and a motor vehicle as that term is defined in California
Vehicle Code Section 415.
   L.   “Waste Matter” - any form of tangible matter described by any of the
following categories:
      1.   All forms of garbage, refuse, rubbish, recyclable materials and
solid waste as those terms are defined in Title 8 of this Code;
      2.   Dirt, solid rock, decomposed rock, gravel, sand or other aggregate
material;
      3.   Abandoned or discarded furniture, or commercial or industrial or
agricultural machinery, apparatus, structure or container; sports or athletic
equipment; or any piece, portion or part thereof;
      4.   All forms of liquid waste not otherwise defined in or otherwise
deemed to fall within the purview of Title 8 of this Code or Health and Safety
Code Section 25117, including but not limited to, gray water, black water,
water-based or oil-based paints; chemical solutions; non-potable water, except
as specifically used for irrigation or construction; non-potable water
contaminated with any substance rendering it unusable for irrigation or
construction; oils, fuels, and other petroleum distillates or by-products;
      5.   Hazardous waste as that term is defined in Title 8 of this Code and
in Health and Safety Code Section 25117;
      6.   Any form of biological waste not otherwise designated by this Code
or other applicable laws as hazardous waste, including but not limited to
bodily fluids, body parts, carcasses, and any associated container, enclosure
or wrapping material used to dispose of such matter; and
      7.   Any physical substance used as an ingredient in any process, now
known or hereafter developed or devised, to manufacture any controlled
substance specified in Health and Safety Code Sections 11054, 11055, 11056,
11057, 11058 or their successor provisions or sections, or which is a by-
product or result of any such manufacturing process.
9.80.030 Abatement of Nuisance Vehicles by Seizure and Forfeiture.
   A.   Pursuant to the City’s authority and power under Article IV of the
City’s Charter to make and enforce all laws and regulations regarding municipal
affairs and pursuant to Government Code Section 38771, the City Council
declares that:
      1.   Any vehicle used to illegally dump waste matter or attempt to do so
in violation of this Code or other applicable state law is a nuisance;
      2.   Any vehicle used to transport waste matter for the purpose of
illegal dumping in violation of this Code of other applicable state law is a
nuisance;
      3.   Any vehicle used to acquire, attempt to acquire, sell or attempt to
sell any controlled substance in violation of applicable state or other law is
a nuisance, subject to the limitation set forth at Section
9.80.030.E.; and
      4.   Any vehicle used for street racing is a nuisance.
   B.   All such nuisance vehicles shall be abated through seizure and
forfeiture procedures as provide in this Chapter, subject to the forfeiture
exceptions set forth at Section
9.80.100.
   C.   A criminal conviction shall not be required as a prerequisite to any
forfeiture proceeding brought pursuant to the authority of this Chapter, except
as provided in Section
9.80.030.E.
   D.   Physical seizure of a nuisance vehicle subject to this Chapter shall
not be required as a prerequisite to institution of forfeiture proceedings.
   E.   Section
9.80.030.A.3. shall apply only to those persons who have been convicted of any
drug-related offense within five (5) years prior to the date of the commission
of the act giving rise to the nuisance under this Chapter.
9.80.040 Responsible Persons.
Any person who owns, leases, borrows, possesses, maintains or uses any vehicle
for any of the purposes or acts set forth in this Chapter is responsible for
creating a public nuisance.
9.80.050 Right, Title and Interest in Nuisance Vehicles.
All right, title and interest in any nuisance vehicle described in Section
9.80.030 shall vest in the City upon commission of the act giving rise to the
nuisance under this Chapter, except for those vehicles subject to the
forfeiture exceptions set forth at Section
9.80.100.
9.80.060 Authority for Seizure of Nuisance Vehicles.
Nuisance vehicles subject to forfeiture under this Chapter may be seized by any
peace officer upon process issued by any court having jurisdiction of the
vehicle. Seizure without process may be made if any of the following situations
exist:
   A.   The seizure is incidental to an arrest or a search under a search
warrant.
   B.   There is probable cause to believe that the vehicle was used in
violation of this Chapter based upon a reasonable investigation of the facts.
9.80.070 Process for Seizure.
   A.   Investigation of Vehicle Ownership Interests. The Police Department
shall make a prompt investigation as to any potential claimant to a nuisance
vehicle that is subject to this Chapter whose right, title, interest or lien is
of record in the Department of Motor Vehicles of this state or any other state
or appropriate federal agency.
   B.   Notice of Seizure.
      1.   At the time a nuisance vehicle is seized pursuant to this Chapter by
the Police Department, the seizing officer shall provide a notice of seizure to
the person from whose possession the vehicle was seized.
      2.   If the Police Department’s investigation reveals any potential
claimants other than the person from whom the nuisance was seized, and whose
right, title, interest or lien existed prior to the date of the commission of
the act giving rise to the nuisance, then the Police Department shall send a
notice of seizure to each such claimant within three (3) business days
following the date the vehicle was seized. Such notice shall be served by
regular mail at the claimant’s address appearing on the records of the
applicable state’s Department of Motor Vehicles or appropriate federal agency.
The Police Department shall forward a copy of each such notice to the City
Attorney.
      3.   The notice of seizure shall include the following:
         (a)   A description of the seized vehicle, including its make, model,
license plate number and Vehicle Identification Number (VIN);
         (b)   The location, authority and reason for the vehicle’s seizure by
the Police Department;
         (c)   A statement describing the opportunity for a post-seizure
hearing as specified in Section
9.80.080 and the requirements and time limits for requesting such a hearing;
and
         (d)   A statement that a report of the seizure investigation shall be
sent to the City Attorney for review for institution of forfeiture proceedings.
   C.   Receipts.
      1.   Receipts for nuisance vehicles seized pursuant to this Chapter shall
be delivered to any person from whose possession such vehicle was seized. Where
such a possessor is arrested for a public offense incidental to the vehicle’s
seizure, then the receipt shall be issued in accordance with Penal Code Section
1412. For the purposes of this Chapter, neither Penal Code Section 1412 nor any
provision of this Chapter shall be construed as precluding the delivery of a
completed Vehicle Report (CHP 180 Form) as the receipt required by this
Section.
      2.   There shall be a presumption affecting the burden of proof that a
person to whom a receipt was issued is an owner of the seized vehicle. This
presumption may be rebutted at the trial as specified in Section
9.80.100.A.2.
   D.   Towing and Storage. The Police Department shall make arrangements for
the towing of a seized vehicle and its storage at a City facility designated by
the Public Works Director or that person’s designated agent.
   E.   Seized Vehicles as Evidence. A nuisance vehicle seized pursuant to this
Chapter, where appropriate, may be held for evidence in any proceeding brought
by the City Attorney or District Attorney.
   F.   No Seizure; Notice of Potential Claimant. In those instances where a
nuisance vehicle subject to this Chapter is identified but not seized and the
Police Department’s investigation reveals any potential claimants whose right,
title, interest or lien existed prior to the date of the commission of the act
giving rise to the nuisance, then the Police Department shall provide the name,
address and other identifying information, if any, of each potential claimant
to the City Attorney.
9.80.080 Post-Seizure Hearing.
   A.   Opportunity for Hearing. The Police Department shall provide any
potential claimants, discovered as a result of its investigation of vehicle
ownership interests, with the opportunity for a post-seizure hearing to
determine the validity of the seizure, that is, whether there was probable
cause to believe the vehicle was used in violation of this Chapter.
   B.   Manner of Hearing. The Police Department shall have the authority, but
not the obligation, to conduct this hearing in the same manner as a vehicle
post-storage hearing conducted pursuant to California Vehicle Code Section
22852.
   C.   Hearing Officer. The Police Department may authorize its own officer or
employee to act as a hearing officer and conduct the post-seizure hearing,
provided that the officer so chosen is not the same person who directed or
participated in the seizure of the nuisance vehicle.
   D.   Request for Hearing. Any claimant who desires a post-seizure hearing
must make a request to the Police Department in person, or in writing, or by
telephone as specified in the notice of seizure. The request must be made
within ten (10) business days of the date of the notice of seizure. Failure to
make a request within the time allowed shall constitute the claimant’s waiver
of any right to a post-seizure hearing and satisfies the requirement for such a
hearing.
   E.   Time for Hearing. The post-seizure hearing shall be conducted within
five (5) business days of the date of the first request received by the Police
Department from any claimant.
   F.   Multiple Claimants; Notice of Hearing.
      1.   If there are multiple claimants, then upon receipt of the first
request for a post-seizure hearing, the Police Department shall send written
notice, by regular mail, of the date, time and location of the post-seizure
hearing to the remaining claimants.
      2.   The Police Department shall not be required to conduct multiple
post-seizure hearings for each seized nuisance vehicle.
      3.   Claimants who cannot attend the post-seizure hearing as scheduled
and wish to be heard, may send a written statement for the hearing officer’s
consideration to the Police Department at the address specified in the notice
of seizure.
   G.   Findings of Hearing Officer.
      1.   If the hearing officer determines that no probable cause existed for
the seizure, the vehicle shall be released as soon as practicable to the
appropriate claimant without imposing any towing and/or storage charges. The
City Attorney and each claimant shall be notified of the release.
      2.   If the hearing officer determines that probable cause for the
seizure existed and that the seized vehicle may be subject to the forfeiture
exceptions set forth in Section
9.80.100, the hearing officer shall confer with the City Attorney as soon as
possible. Upon the determination of the City Attorney that a forfeiture
exception applies, the vehicle shall be released as soon as practicable to the
appropriate claimant without imposing any towing and/or storage charges. The
City Attorney and each claimant shall be notified of the release.
      3.   If the hearing officer determines that probable cause existed for
the seizure, then forfeiture proceedings against the vehicle will continue as
provided in Section
9.80.090.
9.80.090 Administrative Forfeiture Proceedings.
   A.   Application. The provisions of this Section shall apply only to
nuisance vehicles actually seized under the authority of this Chapter.
   B.   Factual Determination. The City Attorney shall determine from the
police reports and other relevant information, if any, whether the factual
circumstances surrounding the seizure warrant forfeiture of the seized vehicle.
   C.   Notice of Administrative Proceedings.
      1.   In those instances where forfeiture is warranted, the City Attorney
shall cause a notice of administrative proceedings to be sent by certified
mail, return receipt requested, to each potential claimant identified by the
Police Department. Personal service shall not be required. This notice shall be
accompanied by a claim form.
      2.   The notice of administrative proceedings shall include the
following:
         (a)   The vehicle and seizure information presented in the notice of
seizure;
         (b)   Notice that administrative forfeiture proceedings have begun and
can be opposed only by filing a claim opposing forfeiture, the time limits for
filing the claim and instructions for filing and serving the claim; and
         (c)   Notice that failure to properly file and serve the claim will
result in forfeiture of the vehicle.
      3.   The City Attorney shall serve the notice of administrative
proceeding as soon as practicable, but in any event, within thirty (30)
business days of the date the last police report for the seizure is received by
the City Attorney’s office.
      4.   If a claimant entitled to notice resides out of state and has
refused or failed to accept certified mail, then service may be made by regular
mail.
      5.   If a claimant entitled to notice cannot be located or service as
required by this Section cannot otherwise be effected, then service may be made
by publication in a local newspaper of general circulation. Such service shall
be deemed sufficient when it is accomplished pursuant to Government Code
Section 6063 or its successor provisions or section.
      6.   The City attorney shall send written notice to the Department of
Motor Vehicles, Registration Operations Division, Involuntary Transfer Section,
requesting that a Vehicle License and Title stop be placed against the DMV
record of the seized nuisance vehicle.
   D.   Claim Opposing Forfeiture.
      1.   A claimant seeking to oppose the administrative forfeiture of a
seized nuisance vehicle must file a claim, using the Claim Opposing Forfeiture
form, within ten (10) business days of the date of the notice of administrative
proceedings.
      2.   The claim must be verified in accordance with Section 446 of the
Code of Civil Procedure or its successor provision or section.
      3.   The claim must be filed with the Civil Division, Court Clerk of the
San Bernardino County Superior Court, Victorville Division.
      4.   The claimant must serve a court-conformed copy of the claim upon the
City Attorney within ten (10) business days of the date on which it was filed.
      5.   Upon the proper filing and service of a Claim Opposing Forfeiture
form, the forfeiture proceeding will continue as provided in Section
9.80.100.
   E.   Failure to File Claim; Order of Forfeiture.
      1.   The failure of a claimant to properly file and serve a claim
opposing forfeiture shall result in the waiver of the claimant’s interest in
the seized nuisance vehicle.
      2.   The City Attorney may, pursuant to this Section, declare and order
the forfeiture of a seized nuisance vehicle in those cases where no claim has
been properly filed and served.
   F.   City Attorney Declaration of Forfeiture.
      1.   The City Attorney shall prepare a written declaration of forfeiture
of the seized nuisance vehicle and dispose of it in accordance with Section
9.80.110. The declaration of forfeiture signed by the City Attorney under this
Section shall be deemed to provide good and sufficient legal title to the
vehicle so forfeited.
      2.   The City Attorney shall serve, by regular mail, a copy of the
declaration to each claimant who received a notice of administrative
proceedings.
9.80.100 Exceptions to Forfeiture of Nuisance Vehicles.
   A.   Seized Vehicles.
      1.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this Chapter, the Police
Department shall return a seized vehicle, and that vehicle shall not be subject
to forfeiture, upon the determination of any of the following circumstances:
         (a)   The vehicle was actually stolen, provided that:
            (1)   The theft was reported to a law enforcement agency prior to
the reporting of the vehicle’s use in violation of this Chapter to the Police
Department or other City department;
            (2)   The identity of the registered owner can be reasonably
ascertained; and
            (3)   The registered owner redeems the vehicle within thirty (30)
days of the seizure.
         (b)   The vehicle is owned by a bona fide rental car agency, provided
that the vehicle’s use in violation of this Chapter was made without the
agency’s knowledge and consent.
         (c)   The vehicle is owned by the employer of the person who used it
in violation of this Chapter, provided that:
            (1)   The use was made without the employer’s knowledge and
consent;
            (2)   The use did not provide a direct benefit to the employer’s
business; and
            (3)   The use did not further or advance the employer’s business
interests in any way, and the use was of such nature that had the employer
known, the use would have resulted in termination or substantial discipline.
         (d)   The vehicle is legally owned as community property, provided
that:
            (1)   The vehicle is the sole vehicle available to the immediate
family of the driver or possessor from whom the vehicle was seized that may be
operated with a Class C driver’s license;
            (2)   The community property interest owner, other than the driver
or possessor from whom the vehicle was seized, enters into a written,
stipulated vehicle release agreement pursuant to Section
9.80.100.B. as consideration for the non-forfeiture of the vehicle;
            (3)   The community property interest owner submits written proof
of that interest, presents his or her valid driver’s license or a valid
driver’s license for an authorized driver, presents proof of valid registration
and insurance and pays all towing and storage fees or reimburses the City for
any and all towing and/or storage fees incurred; and
            (4)   The vehicle was not used in a street race that directly
resulted in the death or serous injury of any person.
   B.   Stipulated Vehicle Release Agreement.
      1.   The City Attorney shall prepare the stipulated vehicle release
agreement. The agreement, at minimum, shall provide for the following:
         (a)   Consent of the community property interest owner signing the
agreement to the automatic future seizure and forfeiture of, and transfer of
title to the City, of the vehicle identified in the agreement upon any
subsequent use of the vehicle in violation of this Chapter.
         (b)   Seizure pursuant to this Section shall be made with a seizure
order issued by the Superior Court. The supporting affidavit or declaration
shall include a copy of the agreement and a certified copy of this Chapter; and
         (c)   Any other provision deemed appropriate in the sole discretion of
the City Attorney.
      2.   The City Attorney shall send written notice to the Department of
Motor Vehicles, Registration Operations Division, Involuntary Transfer Section
within ten (10) business days of the date the vehicle is seized.
   C.   Vehicles that have not been Seized. Notwithstanding the provisions of
this Chapter, vehicles subject to seizure and forfeiture that have not been
seized, and which otherwise meet the criteria set forth in Section
9.80.100.A., shall not be the subject of any seizure order, petition for
forfeiture or forfeiture proceeding.
9.80.110 Court Declaration of Forfeiture of Nuisance Vehicles.
   A.   Upon proof that the vehicle was used for any of the purposes set forth
in Section
9.80.030, the court shall declare the vehicle a nuisance and order that it be
forfeited to the City for disposal as set forth in Section
9.80.120.
   B.   If the vehicle which has been declared a nuisance and ordered forfeited
to the City is not in the City’s possession, the court shall issue a seizure
order for the vehicle forthwith.
9.80.120 Disposal of Nuisance Vehicles.
   A.   In all cases were vehicles seized pursuant to this Chapter are
forfeited to the City, the vehicles shall be sold or destroyed. The proceeds of
sale shall be distributed and appropriated as follows:
      1.   To the City treasury to reimburse costs paid or incurred by the City
Attorney or associated with proceedings instituted under this Chapter. These
costs shall include, without limitation, the towing, storage and release, sale,
(including any repairs, transportation or storage necessary to facilitate the
sale, of any nuisance vehicle seized and forfeited under this Chapter), auction
commissions, the costs for publication and mailing of all required notices,
and, where necessary, the costs for translation of required notices and
pleadings into a foreign language by a court-certified interpreter. Personnel
costs shall not be included.
         (a)   To the bona fide or innocent purchaser, conditional vendor,
mortgagee or lien holder of the vehicle, if any, up to the amount of his or her
interest in the vehicle only, when the court or City Attorney declaring the
forfeiture orders a distribution to that person.
      2.   Any remaining funds shall be allocated by the City as follows:
         (a)   For all cases arising under this Chapter:
            (1)   Fifty percent (50%) to the City Public Works Department, to
be maintained by the City in a separate fund for illegal dumping abatement;
            (2)   Fifty percent (50%) to local law enforcement or governmental
entities that participated in the seizure distributed so as to reflect the
proportionate contribution to each agency, with distribution to the Police
Department to be maintained in a separate fund for local nuisance vehicle
abatement.
      3.   In the event the condition of the vehicle is such that it is not
suitable for sale at a public auction or the cost of sale exceeds its fair
market value, it may be sold for scrap.
      4.   A vehicle may be destroyed only if it has been modified in ways that
make its sale impracticable or the condition of the vehicle warrants
destruction, and there are no lien holders or claimants who did not know that
the vehicle was used in violation of this Chapter.
      5.   A forfeited vehicle shall not be sold to the person who used or
drove the vehicle during the commission of the act giving rise to the nuisance
under this Chapter.
      6.   In lieu of forfeiture, a settlement may be negotiated, in which case
the proceeds of the settlement shall be distributed in the same manner as a
sale.
      7.   All the funds distributed to the City Public Works Department or to
local law enforcement or governmental entities pursuant to this Section shall
not supplant any funds that would, in the absence of this Section, be made
available to support their abatement efforts, procedures or programs.
      8.   For budgeting purposes, funds attributable to this Chapter shall not
be considered anticipated revenue into the general fund.
9.80.130 Recovery of Monetary Loss.
Nothing in this Chapter shall preclude an owner of a nuisance vehicle subject
to seizure and forfeiture who suffers a monetary loss from the forfeiture of a
vehicle under this Chapter from recovering the amount of the actual monetary
loss from the person who committed the act giving rise to the nuisance that
resulted in the forfeiture.
Chapter 9.85
[REPEALED]
Chapter 9.90
CONSUMPTION AND POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC PLACES
Sections:
   
9.90.010   Definitions
   
9.90.015   Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages
   
9.90.020   Exceptions
   
9.90.025   Alcoholic Beverage Containers
   
9.90.030   Posting Signs
9.90.010 Definitions.
   A.   “Alcoholic Beverage” means and includes alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine,
beer and every liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and
which is fit for beverage purposes, either alone or when diluted, mixed or
combined with other substances.
   B.   “Public Place” means any public street, right-of-way, alley, park and
such other public area(s) as the City Council may, from time-to-time, designate
by resolution; any publicly used exterior grounds of a service station or
public parking lot; or any City owned building or ground. The City Council
shall have the right to make exceptions in designated places for specific
events.
9.90.015 Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages.
Every person who consumes an alcoholic beverage on any public street, alley,
highway or other public place is guilty of a misdemeanor. This Section shall
not be deemed to prescribe any act which is positively permitted, prohibited or
preempted by any law of the State of California.
9.90.020 Exceptions.
   A.   The provisions of this Chapter shall not be construed to prohibit
persons from engaging in organized activities permitted by the City, nor to
prohibit the City from conducting such activities.
   B.   Pursuant to written approval of the City Manager and his/her appointed
representative, alcoholic beverages may be sold and served in City facilities
by persons or groups renting or using said facilities with the permission of
the City for a specific occasion, subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Written application for each such occasion shall be made and
submitted to the City in a form approved by the City Manager.
      2.   Each applicant must comply with all applicable rules and regulations
of the California Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control (ABC) for each
occasion.
      3.   Each open air event where alcoholic beverages are to be allowed must
be reviewed and approved by the Chief of Police.
      4.   Each applicant shall furnish such information as may reasonably be
required by the City Manager, in relation to the proposed occasion or event.
      5.   Each applicant will be required to obtain a one (1) day Liquor
Liability Insurance Policy with combined single limits of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) for bodily injury and property damage, for each occasion,
naming the City as additional named insured, provided, however, that the City
Manager may increase or decrease the required amount of coverage as warranted
by individual circumstances. The Certificate of Insurance must be on file with
the City Manager no later than seventy-two (72) hours before the start of each
event or occasion.
   C.   The terms of this Chapter shall not apply to Mavericks Stadium, which
is operated under separate rules, regulations and ABC permits.
9.90.025 Alcoholic Beverage Containers.
   A.   No person having in his or her possession any bottle, can or other
receptacle containing any alcoholic beverage which has been opened and/or has
had its seal broken and/or the contents have been partially removed, shall
enter, be or remain on the premises, adjacent parking area, or any retail
package off-sale alcoholic beverage licensee licensed pursuant to California
Business & Professions Code Sections 23000 et seq., or any public sidewalk or
right-of-way immediately adjacent to the licensed and posted premises.
   B.   The provisions of this Section shall only apply to locations where the
signs are posted pursuant to Section
9.90.030.A.
9.90.030 Posting Signs.
   A.   Every person owning or operating a retail package off-sale alcoholic
beverage establishment within the City, license pursuant to California Business
& Professions Code Sections 23000 et seq., shall post and maintain in good
repair, in a conspicuous place at each entrance to the licensed premises and to
the parking lot immediately adjacent thereto, a sign that gives notice
substantially as follows:
      “Possession of Open Container(s) or Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages on
These Premises and the Adjacent Public Sidewalk and Right-of-Way is Prohibited.
AMC Chapter 9.90”
   B.   The provisions of this Section shall not apply to the premises of
adjacent parking area(s) of any retail package off-sale alcoholic beverage
licensee, in which event the provisions of Section
9.90.025 shall apply.
[Ord. No. 351, 10/27/98.]
Chapter 9.95
[REPEALED]
Chapter 9.100
PSYCHOACTIVE BATH SALTS, PSYCHOACTIVE HERBAL INCENSE AND OTHER SYNTHETIC DRUGS
Sections:
   
9.100.010   Purpose and Intent
   
9.100.020   Definitions
   
9.100.030   Provision, Sale and/or Distribution of Synthetic Drugs Prohibited
   
9.100.040   Provision, Sale and/or Distribution of Substances Claimed or
Represented to be Synthetic Drugs Prohibited
   
9.100.050   Possession of Synthetic Drugs Prohibited
   
9.100.060   Public Nuisance
   
9.100.070   Summary Abatement
   
9.100.080   Revocation of Business License
   
9.100.090   Penalties
   
9.100.100   Seizure of Evidence
   
9.100.110   Exclusions
   
9.100.120   Severability
9.100.010   Purpose and Intent.
Recreational use of Psychoactive Bath Salts, Psychoactive Herbal Incense and
similar products commonly known as “Synthetic Drugs” has been documented to
cause hallucinations, agitation, psychosis, aggression, suicidal and homicidal
ideations, cannibalism and death. While State and Federal laws and regulations
prohibit some Synthetic Drugs, the makers of these drugs continually alter the
composition of the compounds in their products so as to escape the purview of
these laws and regulations. The purpose and intent of this Chapter is to
provide the City with reasonable measures to address the dangers to the
community posed by Synthetic Drugs that are not regulated by State or Federal
Law.
[Ord. No. 514, 7/25/12.]
9.100.020   Definitions.
   A.   “Business” shall have the same meaning as the term is defined in
Section
5.04.010.A. of this Municipal Code.
   B.   “Consume,” “consuming” or “consumption” shall mean to ingest, inhale,
inject, smoke or snort (insufflate).
   C.    “Distribute”, “distributing” or “distribution” shall mean to furnish,
give away, exchange, transfer, deliver or supply, whether for monetary gain or
not.
   D.   “Person” shall include any natural person, business, firm, company,
corporation, public corporation, club, trust, partnership, association and/or
similar organization.
   E.   “Possess,” “possessing” or “possession” shall mean to have for
consumption, distribution or sale in one's actual or constructive custody or
control, or under one's authority or power, whether such custody, control,
authority and/or power be exercised solely or jointly with others.
   F.   “Provide,” “providing” or “provision” shall mean offering to distribute
or sell a product or substance to any person.
   G.   “Psychoactive Bath Salts” shall mean any crystalline or powder product
that contains a synthetic chemical compound that, when consumed, elicits
psychoactive or psychotropic stimulant effects. The term “Psychoactive Bath
Salts” includes without limitation:
      1.   Products that elicit psychoactive or psychotropic stimulant effects
and contain any of the following intoxicating chemical compounds:
         (a)   Cathinone (2-amino-1-phenyl-1-propanone), 4-methylmethcathinone
(2-methylamino-1-(4-methylphenyl)propan-1-one), 4-methoxymethcathinone (1-(4-
methoxyphenyl)-2-(methylamino)propan-1 -one), MDPV
(methylenedioxypyrovalerone), MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxy-N-methylamphetamine),
methylone (3,4-methylenedioxy-N-methylcathinone), methcathinone (2-
(methylamino)-1-phenyl-propan-1-one), flephedrone (4-fluoromethcathinone), 3-
FMC (3-fluoromethcathinone), ethcathinone (2-ethylamino-1-phenyl-propan-1-one),
butylone (-keto-N-methylbenzodioxolylbutanamine), a-PPP (-
pyrrolidinopropiophenone), MPPP (4'-methyl--pyrrolidinopropiophenone), MDPPP
(3',4'-methylenedioxy--pyrrolidinopropiophenone), -PVP (1-phenyl-2-(1-
pyrrolidinyl)-1-pentanone) or naphyrone (1-naphthalen-2-yl-2-pyrrolidin-1-
ylpentan-1-one);
         (b)   Any derivative of the above listed intoxicating chemical
compounds;
         (c)   Any synthetic substance and its isomers with a chemical
structure similar to the above listed compounds;
         (d)   Any chemical alteration of the above listed intoxicating
chemical compounds; or
         (e)   Any other substantially similar chemical structure or compound;
and
      2.   Products that elicit psychoactive or psychotropic stimulant effects
and are marketed under any of the following trade names: Bliss, Blizzard, Blue
Silk, Bonzai Grow, Charge Plus, Charlie, Cloud Nine, Euphoria, Hurricane, Ivory
Snow, Ivory Wave, Lunar Wave, Ocean, Ocean Burst, Pixie Dust, Posh, Pure Ivory,
Purple Wave, Red Dove, Scarface, Snow Leopard, Stardust, Vanilla Sky, White
Dove, White Night and White Lightning.
   The term “Psychoactive Bath Salts” shall not include any product, substance,
material, compound, mixture or preparation that is specifically excepted by the
California Uniform Controlled Substances Act (“UCSA”) (Health and Safety Code
§§ 11000 et seq.), listed in one of the UCSA's schedules of controlled
substances (Health and Safety Code §§ 11053-11058), regulated by one of the
UCSA's Synthetic Drug Laws (Health and Safety Code §§ 11357.5, 11375.5 and
11401), regulated by the Federal Controlled Substances Act (the “CSA”) (21
U.S.C. §§ 81 et seq.) or approved by the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”).
   H.   “Psychoactive Herbal Incense” shall mean any organic product consisting
of plant material that contains a synthetic stimulant compound that, when
consumed, elicits psychoactive or psychotropic euphoric effects. The term
“Psychoactive Herbal Incense” includes without limitation:
      1.   Products that elicit psychoactive or psychotropic euphoric effects
and contain any of the following intoxicating chemical compounds:
         (a)   Cannabicyclohexanol (2-[(1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]- 5-(2-
methylnonan-2-yl)phenol), JWH-018 (naphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol-3-
yl)methanone), JWH-073 (naphthalen-1-yl-(1-butylindol-3-yl)methanone), JWH-200
((1-(2-morpholin-4-ylethyl)indol-3-yl)-naphthalen-1-ylmethanone), HU-210 (
(6aR,10aR)- 9-(Hydroxymethyl)- 6,6-dimethyl- 3-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a-tetrahydrobenzo [c]chromen- 1-ol), CP 47,497 (2-[(1R,3S)-3-
hydroxycyclohexyl]- 5-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)phenol) CP 47,497 (2-[(1R,3S)-3-
hydroxycyclohexyl]-5-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)phenol) or AM-2201 (1-[(5-
fluoropentyl)-1H-indol-3-yl]-(naphthalen-1-yl)methanone);
         (b)   Any derivative of the above listed intoxicating chemical
compounds;
         (c)   Any synthetic substance and its isomers with a chemical
structure similar to the above listed intoxicating chemical compounds;
         (d)   Any chemical alteration of the above listed intoxicating
chemical compounds; or
         (e)   Any other substantially similar chemical structure or compound;
and
      2.   Products that elicit psychoactive or psychotropic euphoric effects
and are marketed under any of the following trade names: K2, K3, Spice, Genie,
Smoke, Potpourri, Buzz, Spice 99, Voodoo, Pulse, Hush, Mystery, Earthquake,
Black Mamba, Stinger, Ocean Blue, Stinger, Serenity, Fake Weed and Black Mamba.
   The term “Psychoactive Herbal Incense” shall not include any product,
substance, material, compound, mixture, or preparation that is specifically
excepted by the UCSA (Health and Safety Code §§ 11000 et seq.), listed in one
of the UCSA's schedules of controlled substances (Health and Safety Code §§
11053-11058), regulated by one of the USCA's Synthetic Drug Laws (Health and
Safety Code §§ 11357.5,11375.5 and 11401), regulated by the CSA (21 U.S.C. §§
81 et seq.) or approved by the FDA.
   J.   “Psychoactive or psychotropic stimulant effects” shall mean affecting
the central nervous system or brain function to change perception, mood,
consciousness, cognition and/or behavior in ways that are similar to the
effects of cocaine, methylphenidate or amphetamines.
   K.   “Psychoactive or psychotropic euphoric effects” shall mean affecting
the central nervous system or brain function to change perception, mood,
consciousness, cognition and/or behavior in ways that are similar to the
effects of cannabis.
   L.   “Sell,” “selling” or “sale” shall mean to furnish, exchange, transfer,
deliver or supply for monetary gain.
   M.   “Synthetic Drug” shall include Psychoactive Bath Salts and Psychoactive
Herbal Incense, as those terms are defined hereinabove.
[Ord. No. 514, 7/25/12.]
9.100.030   Provision, Sale and/or Distribution of Synthetic Drugs Prohibited.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to provide, distribute or sell any
Synthetic Drug within the City of Adelanto.
   B.   Merely disclaiming a Synthetic Drug as “not safe for human consumption”
will not avoid the application of this Section.
[Ord. No. 514, 7/25/12.]
9.100.040   Provision, Sale and/or Distribution of Substances Claimed or
Represented to be Synthetic Drugs Prohibited.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to claim or represent that a product that
person is providing, distributing or selling is a Synthetic Drug within the
City of Adelanto.
   B.   To determine if a person is claiming or representing that a product is
a Synthetic Drug, the enforcing officer may consider any of the following
evidentiary factors:
      1.   The product is not suitable for its marketed use (such as a
crystalline or powder product being marketed as “glass cleaner”);
      2.   The business providing, distributing or selling the product does not
typically provide, distribute or sell products that are used for that product's
marketed use (such as a liquor store selling “plant food”);
      3.   The product contains a warning label that is not typically present
on products that are used for that product's marketed use (such as “not for
human consumption,” “not for purchase by minors,” or “does not contain
chemicals banned by Section 11357.5”);
      4.   The product is significantly more expensive than products that are
used for that product's marketed use (such as a half of a gram of a substance
marketed as “glass cleaner” costing $50.00);
      5.   The product resembles an illicit street drug (such as cocaine,
methamphetamine or marijuana); or
      6.   The product's name or packaging uses images or slang referencing an
illicit street drug (such as “Eight Ballz” or “Green Buddha”).
   C.   Merely disclaiming a substance claimed or represented to be a Synthetic
Drug as “not safe for human consumption” will not avoid the application of this
Section.
[Ord. No. 514, 7/25/12.]
9.100.050   Possession of Synthetic Drugs Prohibited.
It is unlawful for any person to possess any Synthetic Drug within the City of
Adelanto.
[Ord. No. 514, 7/25/12.]
9.100.060   Public Nuisance.
   A.   It is a public nuisance for any person to provide, distribute or sell
any Synthetic Drug within the City of Adelanto.
   B.   It is a public nuisance for any person to allow the provision,
distribution or sale of any Synthetic Drug on property owned, controlled or
managed by such person within the City of Adelanto.
   C.   It is a public nuisance for any person to provide, distribute or sell
any substance claimed or represented to be a Synthetic Drug within the City of
Adelanto.
   D.   It is a public nuisance for any person to allow the provision,
distribution or sale of any substance claimed or represented to be a Synthetic
Drug on property owned, controlled or managed by such person within the City of
Adelanto.
   E.   To determine if a person is claiming or representing that a substance
or product is a Synthetic Drug, the enforcing officer may consider any of the
evidentiary factors set forth in Section
9.100.040.B. of this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 514, 7/25/12.]
9.100.070   Summary Abatement.
Because the use of Synthetic Drugs has been documented to cause hallucinations,
agitation, psychosis, aggression, suicidal and homicidal ideations, cannibalism
and death, any violation of this Chapter presents a grave and imminent danger
not only to the person consuming the Synthetic Drug, but also to the public at
large. If the Code Enforcement Officer, based on the facts then known,
determines that a violation of this Chapter presents an imminent danger or
hazard or is imminently injurious to the public health or safety, then that
violation is punishable by the summary abatement procedures set forth Section
1.20.070 of this Code.
[Ord. No. 514, 7/25/12.]
9.100.080   Revocation of Business License.
No person holding a validly issued City business license and owning or
operating a business in the City may use that business to provide, distribute
or sell any Synthetic Drug or any substance claimed or represented to be a
Synthetic Drug. A violation of this Section by the holder of a validly issued
City business license, shall constitute grounds for modification, suspension
and/or revocation of said license in accordance with the procedures set forth
in
Chapter 5.04 of this Municipal Code.
[Ord. No. 514, 7/25/12.]
9.100.090   Penalties.
   A.   Misdemeanor Violation. Failure to comply with any of the requirements
of this Chapter is a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment in the City or
County jail for a period not exceeding six (6) months or by fine not exceeding
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by both, provided that where the City
Attorney determines that such action would be in the interest of justice, he/
she may specify in the accusatory pleading that the offense shall be an
infraction.
   B.   Infraction Violation. Where the City Attorney determines that, in the
interest of justice, a violation of this Chapter is an infraction, such
infraction is punishable by a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for a first violation, a fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a
second violation of the same provision within one (1) year, and a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each additional infraction
violation of the same provision within one (1) year. An infraction is not
punishable by imprisonment. A person charged with an infraction shall not be
entitled to a trial by jury and shall not be entitled to have the public
defender or other counsel appointed at public expense to represent him/her,
unless he/she is arrested and not released on his/her written promise to
appear, his/her own recognizance or a deposit of bail. However, any person who
has previously been convicted two (2) or more times during any twelve (12)
month period for any violation of this Chapter for a crime made punishable as
an infraction shall be charged with a misdemeanor upon the third violation.
   C.   Separate Offense. Each person committing, causing or maintaining a
violation of this Chapter or failing to comply with the requirements set forth
herein shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day
during any portion of which any violation of any provision of this Chapter is
committed, continued, maintained or permitted by such person and shall be
punishable accordingly.
   D.   Civil Remedies Available; Remedies Cumulative. In addition to the
penalties provided in this Section, any condition caused or permitted to exist
in violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter shall constitute a public
nuisance and may be abated by the City by civil process by means of a
restraining order, preliminary or permanent injunction or in any manner
provided by law for the abatement of such nuisance. All remedies herein are
cumulative and non-exclusive.
   E.   Administrative Citation. In lieu of issuing a criminal citation, the
City may issue an administrative citation pursuant to Section
1.20.060 of this Municipal Code, to any person responsible for committing,
causing or maintaining a violation of this Chapter. Nothing in this Section
shall preclude the City from also issuing a citation upon the occurrence of the
same offense on a separate day.
   F.   Administrative Fine. Any person issued an administrative citation
pursuant to this Chapter shall for each separate violation be subject to: (1)
an administrative fine in an amount not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for the first citation; (2) an administrative fine in an amount not to exceed
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a second citation issued for the same
offense within a twelve (12) month period of the date of the first offense; and
(3) a fine in an amount not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a
third and any subsequent citation issued for the same offense within a twelve
(12) month period of the date of the first offense.
   G.   Additional Penalties: Costs of Abatement. Nothing in this Chapter shall
preclude the City from pursuing the remedies made applicable hereto elsewhere
in this Municipal Code or under State law, including but not limited to, as
applicable, denial or revocation of certificates of occupancy and injunctive
relief. In any administrative or criminal proceeding involving the abatement of
a public nuisance, the City shall also be entitled to recover its full
reasonable costs of abatement, including, but not limited to, investigation,
analysis and prosecuting the enforcement against the guilty party, upon
submission of proof of such cost by the City.
   H.   Public Nuisance Remedies. The prevailing party in any proceeding
associated with the abatement of a public nuisance as provided herein, shall be
entitled to recovery of attorneys' fees incurred in any such proceeding, where
the City has elected, at the initiation of that individual action or proceeding
to seek recovery of its own attorneys' fees. In no action, administrative
proceeding or special proceeding shall an award of attorneys' fees to a
prevailing party exceed the amount of reasonable attorneys' fees incurred by
the City in the action or proceeding.
[Ord. No. 514, 7/25/12.]
9.100.100   Seizure of Evidence.
Any product(s) or substance(s) possessed, provided, distributed or sold in
violation of any provision of this Chapter shall be seized by the enforcing
officers and removed and stored in accordance with law.
[Ord. No. 514, 7/25/12.]
9.100.110   Exclusions.
   A.   This Chapter shall not apply to drugs or substances lawfully prescribed
or to intoxicating chemical compounds which have been approved by the federal
Food and Drug Administration or which are specifically permitted by California
law, including without limitation, intoxicating chemical compounds that are
specifically excepted by the California Uniform Controlled Substances Act
(Health and Safety Code § 11000 et seq.).
   B.   This Chapter shall not apply to drugs or substances which are
prohibited by State or Federal law, including without limitation, California
Health and Safety Code Sections 11357.5, 11375.5, 11401 and the Federal
Controlled Substances Act
   C.   This Chapter shall not be deemed to prescribe any act which is
positively permitted, prohibited or preempted by any State or Federal law or
regulation.
[Ord. No. 514, 7/25/12.]
9.100.120   Severability.
If any subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Chapter is for any reason
held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction or preempted by State or Federal legislation, such decision or
legislation shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
Chapter. The City Council declares that it would have passed this Chapter and
each and every subsection, sentence, clause or phrase not declared invalid or
unconstitutional without regard to any such decision or preemptive legislation.
[Ord. No. 514, 7/25/12.]
Chapter 9.110
NOISE CONTROL
Sections:
   
9.110.010   Purpose and Intent
   
9.110.020   Definitions
   
9.110.030   Noise Measurement Criteria
   
9.110.040   Noise Measurement Procedure
   
9.110.050   Base Ambient Noise Levels
   
9.110.060   Noise Levels Prohibited
   
9.110.070   Noise Source Exemptions
   
9.110.080   Disturbing Noises Prohibited
   
9.110.090   Noise Disturbances - Acts Specified
   
9.110.100   Public Nuisance
   
9.110.110   Notice and Penalties
   
9.110.120   Additional Penalties
9.110.010   Purpose and Intent.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish criteria and standards for the
regulation of noise levels within the City of Adelanto. The City Council
declares and finds that excessive noise levels are detrimental to the public
health, welfare, and safety and are contrary to the public interest. It is this
chapter’s intent to protect persons form excessive levels of noise from sources
including but not limited to; persons, animals, or fowl; automobiles,
motorcycles, engines, machines, or other mechanical devices; and loudspeakers,
speakers, musical instruments, stereos, radios, televisions, record players or
other amplifying devices. This chapter includes standards for the measurement
of noise levels to ensure that noise levels do not disturb and interfere with
the peace, comfort, or repose of the residents of the neighborhood from which
the noise is emitted.
[Ord. No. 631, 7/13/22.]
9.110.020   Definitions.
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this Chapter, shall have the
meanings defined in this Section unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
   A.   “A-weighted sound level” means the sound pressure level in decibels as
measured on a sound level meter using A-weighting network. The level to read is
designated db(A) or dB(A).
   B.   “Ambient noise level” means the all-encompassing noise level associated
with a given environment, being a composite of sounds from all sources,
excluding any intrusive noise.
   C.   "Commercial area" means any area occupied by businesses which sell,
rent, trade, or store goods, or which provide a service.
   D.   "Decibel (dB)" means a unit for measuring the amplitude of a sound,
equal to twenty (20) times the logarithm to the base 10 of the ratio of the
pressure of the sound measured to the reference pressure, which is twenty (20)
micropascals (twenty (20) micronewtons per square meter).
   E.   "Emergency" means any occurrence or set of circumstances involving
actual or imminent danger, physical trauma or property damage that demands
immediate action.
   F.   "Emergency work" means any work performed for the purpose of preventing
or alleviating the danger, physical trauma or property damage threatened or
caused by an emergency.
   G.   "Industrial area" means any area occupied by land uses whose primary
operation involves manufacturing, assembling, processing, or otherwise treating
raw materials, semifinished products, or finished products, for packaging and
distribution to either wholesale or retail markets.
   H.   "Noise" means any sound which annoys or disturbs humans, or which
causes or tends to cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on
humans.
   I.   "Noise disturbance" means any sound which (a) endangers or injures the
safety or health of humans or animals, or (b) annoys or disturbs a reasonable
person of normal sensitivities, or (c) endangers or injures personal or real
property.
   J.   "Noise sensitive zone" means any area designated for the purpose of
ensuring exceptional quiet, including a school (including nursery school and
preschool), church, library, courthouse, daycare facility, while the same is in
use, or any hospital, nursing home, or care facility.
   K.   "Noise source" means a disturbance-causing operation which originates
from a single unit or noise generating mechanism which operates simultaneously.
Example of a single noise source is the combination of motor, pump, and
compressor; or a power plant with several boilers.
   L.   "Noise zone" means defined areas or regions of a generally consistent
land use community wherein the ambient noise levels are generally similar
(within a range of five (5) decibels). Typically, most sites within any given
noise zone will be of comparable proximity to major noise sources.
   M.   "Noncommercial purpose" means the use, operation, or maintenance of any
sound equipment for other than a commercial purpose, including, but not limited
to, philanthropic, political, patriotic and charitable purposes.
   N.   “Person” means any natural person, partnership, cooperative
association, corporation, personal representative, receiver, trustee, assignee,
or any other legal entity.
   O.   "Public right-of-way" means any street, avenue, boulevard, highway,
sidewalk or alley or similar place which is owned or controlled by a
governmental entity.
   P.   "Public space" means any real property or structures thereon which are
owned or controlled by a governmental entity and normally accessible to the
public, including but not limited to parks and other recreation areas.
   Q.   “Responsible person” means any person who owns, leases, or is lawfully
in charge of the property or motor vehicle where the noise violation takes
place, or any person who owns or controls the source of the noise or violation.
If the responsible person is a minor, then the parent or guardian who has
custody of the child at the time of the violation shall be the responsible
person who is liable under this chapter.
   R.   "Sound" means an oscillation in pressure, particle displacement,
particle velocity or other physical parameter, in a medium with internal forces
that causes compression and rarefaction of that medium. The description of
sound may include any characteristic of such sound, including duration,
intensity, and frequency.
   S.   "Sound amplifying equipment" means any machine or device for the
amplification of the human voice, or music, or any other sound, excluding
standard automobiles when used and heard only by the occupants of the vehicle
in which the device is installed and, as used in this Chapter, warning devices
on authorized emergency vehicles or horns or other warning devices on any
vehicle used only for traffic safety purposes.
   T.   "Sound level" means the weighted sound pressure level obtained by the
use of a sound level meter and frequency weighting network, such as A, B or C,
as specified in American National Standards Institute specifications for sound
level meters (ANSI S1.4-1971 or the latest approved revision thereof). If the
frequency weighting employed is not indicated, the A-weighting shall apply.
   U.   "Sound level meter" means an instrument, including a microphone, an
amplifier, an output meter, and frequency weighting networks for the
measurement of sound levels, which satisfies the requirements pertinent for
type S2A meters in American National Standards Institute specifications for
sound level meters, S1.4-1971, or the most recent revision thereof.
   V.   "Vibration" means mechanical motion of the earth or ground, building,
or other type of structure, induced by the operation of any mechanical device
or equipment located upon or affixed thereto.
[Ord. No. 631, 7/13/22.]
9.110.030   Noise Measurement Criteria.
Any noise level measurements made pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
shall be performed using a sound level meter as defined in this chapter. The
location selected for measuring exterior noise levels shall be at the property
line of the property containing the offending noise source at which the noise
level is at a maximum, or along the affected property’s boundary line closest
to the noise source.
[Ord. No. 631, 7/13/22.]
9.110.040   Noise Measurement Procedure.
   The measurement procedure presented in this Section assumes that personnel
performing the noise measurements have been trained in the use of the
instruments and in interpretation of measured data. Upon receipt of a complaint
from a citizen, an agent of the City, equipped with sound level measurement
equipment satisfying the requirements specified in Section
9.110.020, shall investigate the complaint. The investigation shall consist of
a measurement and the gathering of data to adequately define the noise problem,
and shall include the following:
   A.   Nonacoustic Data.
      1.   Type of noise source.
      2.   Location of noise source relative to complainant's property.
      3.   Time period during which noise source is considered by complainant
to be intrusive.
      4.   Total duration of noise produced by noise source.
      5.   Date and time of noise measurement survey.
   B.   Procedure. Utilizing the A-weighting scale of the sound level meter and
the slow meter response, the noise level shall be measured at a position or
positions along the complainant's property line closest to the noise source or
at the location along the offending property’s boundary line where the noise
level is at a maximum. In general, the microphone shall be located five feet
(5') above the ground and ten feet (10') or more from the nearest reflective
surface, where possible. However, in those cases where another elevation is
deemed appropriate, the latter shall be utilized. If the noise complaint is
related to interior noise levels, interior noise measurements shall be made at
a point at least four feet (4') from the wall, ceiling, or floor nearest the
noise source with windows in the normal seasonal configuration. Calibration of
the instrument being used shall be performed immediately prior to and following
the recording of any noise data utilizing the acoustic calibrator.
[Ord. No. 631, 7/13/22.]
9.110.050   Base Ambient Noise Levels.
   A.   All ambient noise measurements shall commence in decibels within the
respective zones and times as follows:
 
Zone                  Time                                 Sound Level Decibels
                      10:00 pm Sunday to 7:00 a.m. Monday
                      10:00 pm Monday to 7:00 a.m. Tuesday
                      10:00 pm Tuesday to 7:00 a.m.
                      Wednesday
                      10:00 pm Wednesday to 7:00 a.m.
All Residential Zones Thursday                             45 dB(A)
                      10:00 pm Thursday to 7:00 a.m.
                      Friday
                      11:00 pm Friday to 7:00 a.m.
                      Saturday
                      11:00 pm Saturday to 7:00 a.m.
                      Sunday
All Commercial Zones  Anytime                              70 dB(A)
All Industrial Zones  Anytime                              75 dB(A)
 
   B.   If the ambient noise level exceeds the applicable limit as noted in the
above table, the ambient noise level shall be the standard.
[Ord. No. 631, 7/13/22.]
9.110.060   Noise Levels Prohibited.
Unless otherwise permitted, noise levels shall not exceed the ambient noise
levels in Section
9.110.050 by the following dB(A) levels for the cumulative period of time
specified:
   A.   Less than five (5) dB(A) for a cumulative period of more than thirty
(30) minutes in any hour.
   B.   Less than ten (10) dB(A) for a cumulative period of more than fifteen
(15) minutes in any hour.
   C.   Less than fifteen (15) dB(A) for a cumulative period of more than five
(5) minutes in any hour.
   D.   Less than twenty (20) dB(A) for a cumulative period of more than one
(1) minute in any hour.
   E.   Twenty (20) dB(A) or more for any period of time.
[Ord. No. 631, 7/13/22.]
9.110.070   Noise Source Exemptions.
The following activities shall be exempted from the provisions of this chapter:
   A.   All mechanical devices, apparatus or equipment used, related to or
connected with emergency machinery, vehicles or work including for the purpose
of responding to an emergency, or necessary to restore, preserve, protect or
save lives or property from imminent danger of loss or harm.
   B.   Warning devices that are required by law to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the community.
   C.   The provisions of this regulation shall not preclude the construction,
operation, maintenance and repairs of equipment, apparatus or facilities of
park and recreation projects, public works projects or essential public works
services and facilities.
   D.   Activities conducted on the grounds of any elementary, intermediate,
secondary, or post-secondary school during regular hours of operation.
   E.   Outdoor gatherings, public dances and shows, provided said events are
authorized by the City.
   F.   Activities conducted in public parks and public playgrounds, provided
said events are conducted pursuant to a permit as required by this Code.
   G.   Any activity to the extent regulation thereof has been preempted by
state or federal law.
   H.   Traffic on any roadway or railroad right-of-way, including public
transit operations.
   I.   The operation of any airport.
   J.   Construction, alteration, and demolition activity on private properties
that are determined by the Director of Building and Safety to be essential to
the completion of a project.
   K.   Refuse collection conducted by the City’s franchised waste collection
service(s).
   L.   Sounds generated in commercial and industrial zones that are necessary
and incidental to the uses permitted therein.
   M.   Sounds generated in connection with speech or communication protected
by the U.S. Constitution or the California Constitution, except to the extent
such sounds are subject to permissible time, manner and place restrictions.
[Ord. No. 631, 7/13/22.]
9.110.080   Disturbing Noises Prohibited.
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, and in addition
thereto, it is unlawful for any person to willfully make or continue, or cause
to be made or continued, a loud, unnecessary or unusual noise which disturbs
the peace and quiet of any neighborhood or which causes any discomfort or
annoyance to any reasonable person of normal sensitiveness residing in the
area.
   B.   The standards that shall be considered in determining whether a
violation of the provisions of this Section exists shall expressly include, but
not be limited to, whether the violation occurs between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
Friday until 7:00 a.m. Saturday, 11:00 p.m. Saturday until 7:00 a.m. Sunday,
and 10:00 p.m. any other day until 7:00 a.m. the following morning. Other
standards shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   The sound level of the objectionable noise.
      2.   The sound level of the ambient noise.
      3.   The proximity of the noise to residential sleeping facilities.
      4.   The nature and zoning of the area within which the noise emanates
and the area where it is received.
      5.   The density of the inhabitation of the area within which the noise
emanates and where it is received.
      6.   The time of day or night the noise occurs.
      7.   The duration of the noise and its tonal, informational or musical
content.
      8.   Whether the nature of the noise is usual or unusual.
      9.   Whether the origin of the noise is natural or unnatural.
      10.   Whether the noise is continuous, recurrent, or intermittent.
      11.   Whether the noise is produced by a commercial or noncommercial
activity.
[Ord. No. 631, 7/13/22.]
9.110.090   Noise Disturbances - Acts Specified.
The following acts, and the causing or permitting thereof, are declared to be
in violation of this Chapter:
   A.   Radios, television sets, musical instruments, and similar devices.
Operating, playing, or permitting the operation or playing of any radio, car
radio, stereo, car stereo, stereo receiver, computer, compact disc player, tape
recorder, cassette player, television set, phonograph, drum, musical
instrument, or similar device, which produces or reproduces music or sound such
that the music or sound therefrom creates a noise disturbance across a
residential real property line, including partitions common to two (2)
residences within a building, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. Friday until 7:00
a.m. Saturday, 11:00 p.m. Saturday until 7:00 a.m. Sunday, and 10:00 p.m. any
other day until seven a.m. the following morning, or at any time violates the
provisions of Section 9.110.060. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other
section in this Chapter, the provisions of this subsection may be enforced by a
peace officer.
   B.   Loudspeakers (amplified sound). Using or operating for any purpose any
loudspeaker, loudspeaker system, or similar device such that the sound
therefrom creates a noise disturbance across a residential real property line,
including partitions common to two (2) residences within a building, between
the hours of 11:00 p.m. Friday until 7:00 a.m. Saturday, 11:00 p.m. Saturday
until 7:00 a.m. Sunday, and 10:00 p.m. any other day until 7:00 a.m. the
following morning, or at any time violates the provisions of Section 9.110.060,
except for any noncommercial public speaking, public assembly or other activity
for which a variance has been issued by the City.
   C.   Street sales. Offering for sale, selling anything or advertising by
shouting or outcry within any residential or commercial area or noise sensitive
zone of the City except by variance issued by the appropriate City department.
The provisions of this subsection shall not be construed to prohibit the
selling by outcry of merchandise, food and beverages at licensed sporting
events, parades, carnivals, fairs, circuses or other similar licensed public
entertainment events.
   D.   Automobile horns. Sounding any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus, or other motor vehicle in any other manner or circumstances or
for any other purpose than required or permitted by the Vehicle Code or other
California law.
   E.   Automotive engines and mufflers. Racing the engine of any motor vehicle
while the vehicle is not in motion, except when necessary to do so in the
course of repairing, adjusting or testing the same. Additionally, operating or
permitting the use of any motor vehicle, on any public right-of-way or public
place or on private property within a residential zone for which the exhaust
muffler, intake muffler or any other noise abatement device has been modified
or changed in a manner such that the noise emitted by the motor vehicle is
increased above that emitted by the vehicle as originally manufactured.
   F.   Loading and unloading. Loading, unloading, opening, closing or other
handling of boxes, crates, containers, building materials, garbage cans, or
similar objects between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day
in such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance across a residential real
property line or at any time to violate the provisions of Section 9.110.060.
   G.   Vibration. Operating or permitting the operation of any device that
creates vibration which is above the vibration perception threshold of an
individual at or beyond the property boundary of the source if on private
property or at one hundred fifty feet (150') (forty-six (46) meters) from the
source if on a public space or public right-of-way. For the purposes of this
subsection, "vibration perception threshold" means the minimum ground or
structure-borne vibrational motion necessary to cause a normal person
2022 S-42   9 - 69
City of Adelanto Municipal Code   Title 9 - Public Peace, Safety and Morals
to be aware of the vibration by such directed means as, but not limited to,
sensation by touch or visual observation of moving objects. The perception
threshold shall be presumed to be .001 g's in the frequency range zero
(0)—thirty (30) hertz and .003 g's in the frequency range between thirty (30)
and one hundred (100) hertz.
   H.   Explosives, firearms, and similar devices. Using or firing explosives,
firearms, firecrackers, or similar devices such that the sound therefrom
creates a noise disturbance across a real property line, or within a noise
sensitive zone, public space or public right-of-way, without first obtaining a
variance issued by an authorized City employee.
   I.   Stationary nonemergency signaling devices.
      1.   Sounding or permitting the sounding of any electronically amplified
signal from any stationary bell, chime, siren, whistle, or similar device,
intended primarily for non-emergency purposes, from any place, for more than
ten (10) seconds in any hourly period.
      2.   Houses of religious worship and chimes in the civic center shall be
exempt from the operation of this provision.
      3.   Sound sources covered by this provision and not exempted under
Section 9.110.090.I.2. may be exempted by a variance issued by the appropriate
City department.
   J.   Emergency signaling devices.
      1.   The intentional sounding or permitting the sounding outdoors of any
fire, burglar or civil defense alarm, siren, whistle or similar stationary
emergency signaling device, or any motor vehicle burglar alarm, except for
emergency purposes or for testing, as provided in Section 9.110.090.J.2.
      2.   Testing of a stationary emergency signaling device shall not occur
before 8:00 a.m. or after 7:00 p.m. Any such testing shall only use the minimum
cycle test time. In no case shall such test time exceed ten (10) seconds.
      3.   Testing of the complete emergency signaling system, including the
functioning of the signaling device and the personnel response to the signaling
device, shall not occur more than once in each calendar month. Such testing
shall not occur before 8:00 a.m. or after 7:00 p.m. The time limit specified in
Section 9.110.090.J.2. shall not apply to such complete system testing.
      4.   Sounding or permitting the sounding of any exterior burglar or fire
alarm unless such alarm is automatically terminated within fifteen (15) minutes
of activation. Such testing shall not occur before 8:00 a.m. or after 7:00 p.m.
   K.   Noise sensitive zones.
      1.   Creating or causing the creation of any sound within any noise
sensitive zone, so as to exceed the specified land use noise standards set
forth in Section 9.110.060; or
      2.   Creating or causing the creation of any sound within or adjacent to
any noise sensitive zone containing a hospital, nursing home, police or
sheriff’s station, fire station, school (including nursery school and
preschool), library, courthouse, or other designated use so as to interfere
with the functions of such activity or annoy the patients or participants of
such activity(ies).
2022 S-42   9 - 70
City of Adelanto Municipal Code   Title 9 - Public Peace, Safety and Morals
   L.   Domestic power tools and landscaping equipment.
      1.   Operating or permitting the operation of any mechanically powered
saw, sander, drill, grinder, lawn or garden tool, or similar tool between 9:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day so as to create a noise disturbance across
a residential or commercial real property line.
      2.   Any motor, machinery, pump, etc., shall be sufficiently enclosed or
muffled and maintained so as not to create a noise disturbance.
      3.   Operating leaf blowers, consisting of portable power equipment used
in any landscape maintenance, construction, property repair or property
maintenance for the purpose of blowing, dispersing or redistributing dust,
dirt, leaves, grass clippings, cuttings, or trimmings from plants, trees or
other debris is unlawful if operated within any residential area or in any
nonresidential area within four hundred feet (400') of any residential area in
the City between the hours after 8:00 p.m. and before 7:00 a.m. Monday through
Friday, after 7:00 p.m. and before 9:00 a.m. on Saturdays, and after 7:00 p.m.
and before 10:00 a.m. on Sundays and legal holidays. Notwithstanding the
provisions of Section 9.110.110, violations of this subsection shall be
infractions except as specifically provided in this Section. The first
violation in any one (1) year period shall be subject to a fine of fifty
dollars ($50.00); a second violation in any one (1) year period shall be
subject to a fine of seventy-five dollars ($75.00); a third violation in any
one (1) year period shall be subject to a fine of one hundred and fifty dollars
($150.00). A fourth or subsequent violation of this subsection in any one (1)
year period may be filed as a misdemeanor pursuant to Section 1.20.010.
Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Section in this Chapter, the
provisions of this subsection may be enforced by a peace officer.
   M.   Air-conditioning or air refrigerating equipment. Operating or
permitting the operation of any air-conditioning or air refrigerating equipment
in such a manner as to exceed any of the following sound levels measured as
specified in the American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air
Conditioning Engineers Code of Recommended Practices:
 
                           Units Installed Before 01- Units Installed After 01-
Measurement Location       01-80                      01-80
                           (dB(A))                    (dB(A))
Any point on neighboring
property line, five feet
(5') above grade level, no 60                         55
closer than three feet
(3') from any wall
Center of neighboring
patio five feet (5') above
grade level, no closer     55                         50
than three feet (3') from
any wall
Outside the neighboring
living area window nearest
the equipment location,
not more than three feet   55                         50
(3') from the window
opening, but at least
three feet (3') from any
other surface
[Ord. No. 631, 7/13/22.]
9.110.100   Public Nuisance.
A violation of this chapter by any person responsible for committing, causing
or maintaining such violation shall constitute a public nuisance that shall be
subject to the provisions of Chapters 9.110 and 1.20 of this Code.
[Ord. No. 631, 7/13/22.]
9.110.110   Notice and Penalties.
   A.   Enforcement of any provision of this chapter may be made through
Section
1.20.070.
   B.   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall, if feasible, first
be the subject of a written notice to the responsible person that if, within a
twelve (12) month period following the initial response, city personnel,
including a peace officer, are again required to respond to the same person for
violating this chapter, a criminal and/or administrative citation will be
issued pursuant to
Chapter 1.20 of this Code. Such notice shall be signed by the responsible
person; however, such notice shall not be ineffective due to a party’s refusal
to sign. If a responsible person declines or refuses to accept or sign any
warning or notice, then such warning or notice may be issued pursuant to
Section
1.20.020.D. Subsequent violation(s) occurring after issuance of a written
warning shall be cause for a criminal and/or administrative citation to be
issued pursuant to
Chapter 1.20 and subject to appropriate legal action as provided by law,
including criminal and/or civil enforcement.
   C.   Notwithstanding Section 9.110.090.L.3, any person found to be violating
any provision of this chapter shall be punishable in accordance with
Chapter 1.20 and a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for the
first violation.
   D.   Any person convicted of a subsequent violation under this Chapter
shall, for each separate violation, be subject to: (A) a fine in an amount not
to exceed one thousand two hundred fifty dollars ($1,250.00) for a second
conviction of the same offense within a twelve (12)-month period from the date
of the first offense; and (B) a fine in an amount not to exceed fifteen hundred
dollars ($1,500) for the third conviction of the same offense within a twelve
(12)-month period from the date of the first offense. The fine for a fourth and
any subsequent conviction(s) of the same offense within a twelve (12)-month
period from the date of the first offense shall be two thousand dollars
($2,000.00).
   E.   In addition, in the discretion of the City Attorney and based upon the
specific facts and circumstances presented to him or her, including the time of
day or night the alleged offense occurred, any such violation may be charged as
an infraction subject to the penalties contained in
Chapter 1.20.
[Ord. No. 631, 7/13/22.]
9.110.120   Additional Penalties.
Nothing in this chapter shall preclude the city from pursuing any other legal
remedies provided by this code or otherwise available to the city in law or in
equity.
[Ord. No. 631, 7/13/22.]
TITLE 10
VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
Chapters:
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.04   Administration
   
10.06   Enforcement and Obedience
   
10.08   One-Way Streets and Alleys
   
10.10   Special Stops
   
10.12   Miscellaneous Driving Rules
   
10.14   Pedestrians
   
10.16   Stopping, Standing and Parking for Certain Purposes or in Certain
Places
   
10.18   Stopping for Loading or Unloading
   
10.20   Parking Citation Processing
   
10.22   Restricted Use of Streets
   
10.24   Special Speed Zones
   
10.26   Authority to Establish, Amend Traffic Schedules/Fines
   
10.28   Traffic Regulations
   
10.30   Bicycles, Motorcycles and Off-Road Vehicles
   
10.32   Bicycle Licensing, Registration, Impounding and Fees for Service
   
10.34   Skateboards, Roller Skates, Inline Skates and Other Self-Powered
Wheeled Devices
   
10.36   Trip Reduction and Travel Demand Management
   
10.38   Impounded/Stored Vehicles/Traffic Offender Fund
   
10.40   Electric Vehicle Charging Stations
Chapter 10.02
DEFINITIONS
Sections:
   
10.02.010   Application of Vehicle Code Definitions
   
10.02.020   Application of Definitions
10.02.010 Application of Vehicle Code Definitions.
Whenever any words or phrases used herein are not defined, but are defined in
the Vehicle Code of the State of California and amendments thereto, such
definitions shall apply.
10.02.020 Application of Definitions.
The following words and phrases when used in this Title shall, for the purpose
of this Title, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this Chapter.
   A.   “Bicycle” - The word “bicycle” means a light vehicle without a motor,
having two (2) wheels, handle bars and a seat or seats, and propelled by the
operator.
   B.   “City Traffic Engineer” - The words “City Traffic Engineer” whenever
hereinafter employed means and refers to the City Engineer or his/her designee.
   C.   “Coach” - The word “coach” means any motorbus, motor coach, trackless
trolley or passenger stage used as a common carrier of passengers.
   D.   “City Council” - The word “City Council” means the Council of the City
of Adelanto.
   E.   “Curb” - The word “curb” means the lateral boundary of the roadway
whether such curb be marked by curbing construction, or not so marked; the word
“curb” as herein used shall not include the line dividing the roadway of a
street from parking strips in the center of a street, nor from tracks or
rights-of-way of public utility companies.
   F.   “Divisional Island” - The term “divisional island” means a raised
island located in the roadway and separating opposing or conflicting streams of
traffic.
   G.   “Holidays” - Within the meaning of this Title, holidays are as
designated by Government Code Sections 6700 and 6701.
   H.   “Loading Zone” - The term “loading zone” means the space adjacent to a
curb reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading
of passengers or materials.
   I.   “Official Time Standard” - Whenever certain hours are named herein,
they shall mean Standard Time or Daylight Saving Time as may be in current use
in this City.
   J.   “Park” - The word “park” means to stand or leave standing any vehicle,
whether occupied or not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   K.   “Parkway” - The word “parkway” means that portion of a street other
than a roadway or a sidewalk.
   L.   “Passenger Loading Zone” - The term “passenger loading zone” means the
space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during the
loading or unloading of passengers.
   M.   “Pedestrian” - The word “pedestrian” means any person afoot.
   N.   “Police Officer” - The word “police officer” means every officer of the
Police Department of this City or any officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   O.   “Stop” - The word “stop” when required means complete cessation of
movement.
   P.   “Stop or Stand” - The term “stop or stand,” when prohibited, means any
stopping or standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
directions of a police officer or official traffic control device.
   Q.   “Vehicle Code” - The term “Vehicle Code” means the Vehicle Code of the
State of California.
Chapter 10.04
ADMINISTRATION
Sections:
   
10.04.010   Police Administration
   
10.04.020   Duty of Traffic Division
   
10.04.030   Traffic Accident Studies
   
10.04.040   Traffic Accident Reports
10.04.010 Police Administration.
There is hereby established in the Police Department of this City, a traffic
division to be under the control of an officer of police, appointed by and
directly responsible to, the Chief of Police.
10.04.020 Duty of Traffic Division.
It shall be the duty of the traffic division with such aid as may be rendered
by other members of the Police Department to enforce the street traffic
regulations of this City and all of the State vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic in this City, to make arrests for traffic violations, to investigate
traffic accidents and to cooperate with the City Traffic Engineer and other
officers of the City in the administration of the traffic laws and in
developing ways and means to improve traffic conditions, and to carry out those
duties specially imposed upon said division by this Title and the traffic
ordinances of this City.
10.04.030 Traffic Accident Studies.
Whenever the accidents at any particular location become numerous, the traffic
division shall cooperate with the City Traffic Engineer in conducting studies
of such accidents and determining remedial measures.
10.04.040 Traffic Accident Reports.
The traffic division shall maintain a suitable system of filing traffic
accident reports. Accident reports, or cards referring to them, shall be filed
according to current Police Department policy. Such reports shall be available
for the use and information of the City Traffic Engineer.
Chapter 10.06
ENFORCEMENT AND OBEDIENCE
Sections:
   
10.06.010   Violation as Infraction Unless Provided Otherwise
   
10.06.020   Authority of Police and Fire Department Officials
   
10.06.030   Unauthorized Persons not to Direct Traffic
   
10.06.040   Compliance with Lawful Orders Required
   
10.06.050   Riding on Motorcycles and Bicycles
   
10.06.060   Application to Bicycles and Animals
   
10.06.070   Obstructing Officers
   
10.06.080   Application to Public Employees
   
10.06.090   Exemption of Certain Vehicles
   
10.06.100   Duty, Obligation of Operators of Vehicles Exempt from Chapter
   
10.06.110   Report of Damage to Certain Property
   
10.06.120   Removal of Vehicles from Streets
   
10.06.130   Authority of Police in Crowds
10.06.010 Violation as Infraction Unless Provided Otherwise.
Except as otherwise provided by any specific Section of this Chapter, it shall
be an infraction for any person to violate or fail to comply with any provision
of this Chapter.
10.06.020 Authority of Police and Fire Department Officials.
Officers of the Police Department and such officers as are assigned by the
Chief of Police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand,
audible or other signal in conformance with traffic laws, except that in the
event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard
pedestrians, officers of the Police Department or members of the Fire
Department may direct traffic as conditions may require, notwithstanding the
provisions to the contrary contained in this Title or the Vehicle Code.
10.06.030 Unauthorized Persons not to Direct Traffic.
No person other than an officer of the Police Department or members of the Fire
Department or a person authorized by the Chief of Police or a person authorized
by law shall direct or attempt to direct traffic by voice, hand or other
signal, except that persons may operate, when and as herein provided, any
mechanical pushbutton signal erected by order of the City Traffic Engineer.
10.06.040 Compliance with Lawful Orders Required.
No person shall fail or refuse to comply with or to perform any act forbidden
by any lawful order, signal or direction of a traffic or police officer, or a
member of the Fire Department, or a person authorized by the Chief of Police or
by law.
10.06.050 Riding on Motorcycles and Bicycles.
No person shall ride upon a highway on either a motorcycle or bicycle on a
portion of said vehicle, which is not specifically designed for the carrying of
passengers, nor shall any person operating a motorcycle or bicycle upon a
highway permit another to do so.
The provisions of this Section shall not apply to operation of vehicles upon
property used for raceways or racing facilities in accordance with a license or
permit issued by the City.
10.06.060 Application to Bicycles and Animals.
Every person riding a bicycle or riding or driving an animal upon a highway
shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties
applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this Title except those provisions
which by their very nature can have no application.
10.06.070 Obstructing Officers.
No person shall interfere with or obstruct in any way any police officer or
other officer or employee of this City in their enforcement of the provisions
of this Title. The removal, obliteration or concealment of any chalk mark or
other distinguishing mark used by any police officer or other employee or
officer of this City in connection with the enforcement of the parking
regulations of this Title shall, if done for the purpose of evading the
provisions of this Title, constitute such interference or obstruction.
10.06.080 Application to Public Employees.
The provisions of this Title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by
or used in the service of the United States government, the State, or any
county or city. It is unlawful for any driver to violate any of the provisions
of this Title except as otherwise permitted in this Title or by State statute.
10.06.090 Exemption of Certain Vehicles.
   A.   Emergency Vehicles. The provisions of this Title regulating the
operation, parking and standing of vehicles shall not apply to vehicles
operated by the Police or Fire Department, any public ambulance or any public
utility vehicle or any private ambulance, which public utility vehicle or
private ambulance has qualified as an authorized emergency vehicle, when any
vehicle mentioned in this Section is operated in the manner specified by the
Vehicle Code in response to an emergency call.
   B.   Due Care Required. The foregoing exemptions shall not, however, relieve
the operator of any such vehicle from obligation to exercise due care for the
safety of others or the consequences of his willful disregard of the safety of
others.
   C.   Utility and Post Office Vehicles. The provisions of this Title
regulating the parking or standing of vehicles shall not apply to any vehicle
of a City department or public utility while necessarily in use for
construction or repair work or any vehicle owned or operated by the United
States Postal Service while in use for the collection, transportation or
delivery of United States mail.
10.06.100 Duty, Obligation of Operators of Vehicles Exempt from Chapter.
The exemptions contained in Section
10.06.090 shall not, however, relieve the operator of any such vehicle from the
obligation to exercise due care for the safety of others or the consequences of
his willful disregard of the safety of others.
10.06.110 Report of Damage to Certain Property.
   A.   Public Property Included. The operator of a vehicle or the person in
charge of any animal involved in any accident resulting in damage to any
property publicly owned or owned by a public utility, including but not limited
to any fire hydrant, parking meter, lighting post, telephone pole, electric
light or power pole, or resulting in damage to any tree, traffic control device
or other property of a like nature located in or along any street, shall within
twenty-four (24) hours after such accident, make a written report of such
accident to the Police Department of this City.
   B.   Contents of Report. Every such report shall state the time when and the
place where the accident took place, the name and address of the person owning
and of the person operating or in charge of such vehicle or animal, the license
number of every such vehicle, and shall briefly describe the property damage in
such accident.
   C.   Physical Incapacity. The operator of any vehicle involved in an
accident shall not be subject to the requirements or penalties of this Section
if and during the time he is physically incapable of making a report, but in
such event he shall make a report as required in Subsection A. of this Section
within twenty-four (24) hours after regaining ability to make such report.
10.06.120 Removal of Vehicles from Streets.
Any regularly employed and salaried officer of the Police Department or Code
Enforcement Department of this City may remove or cause to be removed:
   A.   Any vehicle that has been parked or left standing upon a street or
highway for seventy-two (72) or more consecutive hours;
   B.   Any vehicle which is parked or left standing upon a street or highway
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. when such parking or standing is
prohibited by ordinance or resolution of this City and signs are posted giving
notice of such removal;
   C.   Any vehicle which is parked or left standing upon a street or highway
where the use of such street or highway or a portion thereof is necessary for
the cleaning, repair or construction of the street or highway or for the
installation of underground utilities or where the use of the street or highway
or any portion thereof is authorized for a purpose other than the normal flow
of traffic or where the use of the street or highway or any portion thereof is
necessary for the movement of equipment, articles or structures of unusual
size, and the parking of such vehicle would prohibit or interfere with such use
or movement, provided that signs giving notice that such vehicle may be removed
are erected or placed at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the removal.
10.06.130 Authority of Police in Crowds.
At places where large numbers of people and vehicles are to gather or have
gathered, nothing in this Title shall be construed to prevent any police
officer from prohibiting any person from parking any vehicle upon or using any
street or sidewalk, or from prohibiting any pedestrian from using any street or
sidewalk, and said police officer shall have authority to direct the parking of
vehicles in any reasonable manner, way or direction; and it is hereby declared
to be unlawful for any person to fail to promptly obey the said police
officer’s order, signal or command, regardless of any other provision of this
Title.
Chapter 10.08
ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS
Section:
   
10.08.010   One-way Traffic Signs
10.08.010 One-way Traffic Signs.
Whenever any ordinance or resolution of this City designates any one-way street
or alley, the City Traffic Engineer shall place and maintain signs giving
notice thereof; and no such regulations shall be effective unless such signs
are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall
be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite
direction is prohibited.
Chapter 10.10
SPECIAL STOPS
Sections:
   
10.10.010   Erection Required Where
   
10.10.020   Emerging from Alley, Driveway or Building
10.10.010 Erection Required Where.
The City Traffic Engineer shall erect and maintain, or cause to be erected and
maintained, stop signs as provided in the Vehicle Code of the State as follows:
   A.   At each and every street intersecting a through street as may be so
designated by ordinance or resolution of the City Council;
   B.   At locations within intersections, other than designated in Subsection
A. of this Section, where a stop sign is required on the basis of a traffic
engineering study;
   C.   At any railroad grade crossing where a stop sign is required on the
basis of a traffic engineering study.
10.10.020 Emerging from Alley, Driveway or Building.
The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall stop
such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or into the sidewalk
area extending across any alleyway or driveway.
Chapter 10.12
MISCELLANEOUS DRIVING RULES
Sections:
   
10.12.010   Driving through Processions
   
10.12.020   Clinging to Moving Vehicle
   
10.12.030   New Pavement and Markings
   
10.12.040   Obedience to Barriers and Signs
   
10.12.050   Traffic Barriers
   
10.12.060   Obstructing Intersection Traffic
   
10.12.070   Animals in Unattended Vehicles
   
10.12.080   Vehicle Operation in Public Parks and Lands
   
10.12.090   Vehicles on Private Property
10.12.010 Driving through Processions.
No operator of any vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a
funeral procession or a parade, provided that such vehicles are conspicuously
so designated. The directing of all vehicles and traffic on any street over
which such funeral procession or parade wishes to pass shall be subject to the
order of the Police Department.
10.12.020 Clinging to Moving Vehicle.
No person shall attach himself with his hands, or to catch on, or hold on to
with his hands or by other means, to any moving vehicle or train for the
purpose of receiving motive power therefrom.
10.12.030 New Pavement and Markings.
No person shall ride or drive any animal or any vehicle over or across any
newly made pavement or freshly painted markings in any street when a barrier
sign, cone marker or other warning device is in place warning persons not to
drive over or across such pavement or marking, or when any such device is in
place indicating that the street or any portion thereof is closed.
10.12.040 Obedience to Barriers and Signs.
No person, public utility or department in the City shall erect or place any
barrier or sign on any street unless of a type approved by the City Traffic
Engineer or disobey the instructions, remove, tamper with or destroy any
barrier or sign lawfully placed on any street by any person, public utility or
by any department of this City.
10.12.050 Traffic Barriers.
No person shall operate a vehicle contrary to the directions or provisions of
any barrier or sign erected:
   A.   Pursuant to the provisions of any ordinance of the City of Adelanto; or
   B.   By any public utility; or
   C.   By any department of the City of Adelanto; or
   D.   By any other person pursuant to law or contract with the City, nor
shall any unauthorized person move or alter the position of any such barrier or
sign.
10.12.060 Obstructing Intersection Traffic.
No operator of any vehicle shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk
unless there is sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or
crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the
passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control
signal indication to proceed.
10.12.070 Animals in Unattended Vehicles.
No person shall leave an animal in any unattended vehicle without adequate
ventilation or in such a manner as to subject the animal to extreme
temperatures which adversely affect the animal’s health or welfare.
10.12.080 Vehicle Operation in Public Parks and Lands.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, drive, move, park or leave
standing in or upon any public park or public lands, any motorized vehicle,
except upon parking facilities or roadways designed and established for
vehicular traffic, without written authorization from the Chief of Police or
his authorized representative. This authorization shall be presented upon
demand to any peace officer.
10.12.090 Vehicles on Private Property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or drive or leave any vehicle
in, over or upon any private property without the written permission of the
owner thereof, or the person entitled to the possession thereof for the time
being, or the authorized agent of either, and that such person, upon request of
a peace officer, display such written permission.
Chapter 10.14
PEDESTRIANS
Sections:
   
10.14.010   Crosswalks - Establishment between Intersections
   
10.14.020   Crosswalks - Establishment at Intersections
   
10.14.030   Prohibiting the Use of Crosswalks by Pedestrians
   
10.14.040   Violation - Penalty
10.14.010 Crosswalks - Establishment between Intersections.
   A.   Pursuant to the Vehicle Code, whenever the City Council determines,
upon the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation, that a crosswalk
between intersections would facilitate the orderly movement of pedestrian and
vehicular traffic, the City Council shall by resolution direct the City
Engineer to provide and maintain painted markings or other appropriately
devised symbols or warning signs at all crosswalks which have been designated
as such.
   B.   Removal. Whenever the City Council finds, upon the basis of a traffic
engineering study, that the conditions for which a crosswalk has been provided
and maintained as provided in Subsection A. of this Section no longer exist,
the City Council shall by resolution direct the City Engineer to remove such
markings, symbols or signs from such crosswalk.
10.14.020 Crosswalks - Establishment at Intersections.
   A.   The City Council authorizes the City Engineer to provide and maintain
painted crosswalk markings or other appropriately devised symbols or warning
signs at any intersection whenever a traffic engineering investigation
indicates that such markings, symbols or signs would facilitate the orderly
movement of pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   B.   Removal. Whenever the City Engineer, upon the basis of a traffic
engineering investigation, finds that the conditions for which painted
crosswalk markings or other appropriately devised symbols or warning signs at
any intersection have been provided and maintained as provided in Subsection A.
of this Section no longer exist, the City Engineer shall remove such markings,
symbols or signs at such crosswalk.
10.14.030 Prohibiting the Use of Crosswalks by Pedestrians.
   A.   Pursuant to the Vehicle Code, whenever the City Council determines,
upon the basis of a traffic engineering investigation, that prohibiting the use
of any crosswalk is necessary, the City Council shall by resolution direct the
City Engineer to erect and maintain signs adjacent to such crosswalk directing
that pedestrians shall not cross in the crosswalk.
   B.   Removal. Whenever the City Council determines, upon the basis of a
traffic engineering investigation, that the conditions for which signs were
erected prohibiting the use of a crosswalk as provided in Subsection A. of this
Section no longer exist, the City Council shall by resolution direct the City
Engineer to remove such signs.
10.14.040 Violation - Penalty.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter or disobeying any
signs or markings installed pursuant thereto shall be guilty of an infraction.
Chapter 10.16
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES OR IN CERTAIN PLACES
Sections:
   
10.16.010   Application of Regulations
   
10.16.020   No Stopping Zones and No Parking Areas
   
10.16.030   No Parking Areas Regulations
   
10.16.040   Handicap Parking
   
10.16.050   Disabled Person Parking Spaces Loading and Unloading Areas
Designated
   
10.16.060   Use of Streets for Storage of Vehicles Prohibited
   
10.16.070   Washing or Polishing Vehicles
   
10.16.080   Parking Adjacent to Schools
   
10.16.090   Parking Prohibited on Narrow Streets
   
10.16.100   Parking for Certain Purposes Prohibited
   
10.16.110   Emergency Parking Signs
   
10.16.120   Parking on City Property
   
10.16.130   Police and Fire Vehicles
   
10.16.140   Parking Parallel on One-way Streets
   
10.16.150   Parking Space Markings
   
10.16.160   No Stopping Zones Regulations
   
10.16.170   Fifteen (15) Minute Parking
   
10.16.180   Thirty (30) Minute Parking
   
10.16.190   One (1) Hour Parking
   
10.16.200   Two (2) Hour Parking
   
10.16.210   Penalty - Continuing Violations
   
10.16.220   Fines
10.16.010 Application of Regulations.
   A.   Exception. The provisions of this Title prohibiting the stopping,
standing or parking of a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times
herein specified, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or official traffic control device.
   B.   More Restrictive Provisions. The provisions of this Title imposing a
time limit on standing or parking shall not relieve any person from the duty to
observe other and more restrictive provisions of the Vehicle Code or the
ordinances of this City prohibiting or limiting the standing or parking of
vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
10.16.020 No Stopping Zones and No Parking Areas.
The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to maintain by appropriate signs
or by paint upon the curb surface, all no stopping zones, no parking areas and
restricted parking areas, as defined and described in this Title.
When said curb markings or signs are in place, no operator of any vehicle shall
stop, stand or park such vehicle adjacent to any such legible curb marking or
sign in violation of any of the provisions of this Title.
10.16.030 No Parking Areas Regulations; Fine.
No operator of any vehicle shall stop, stand, park or leave standing such
vehicle in any of the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police officer or
other authorized officer, or traffic sign or signal:
   A.   Within any divisional island unless authorized and clearly indicated
with appropriate signs or markings.
   B.   On either side of any street between the projected property lines of
any public walk, public steps, street or thoroughfare terminating at such
street, when such area is indicated by appropriate signs or by red paint upon
the curb surface.
   C.   In any area where the City Traffic Engineer determines that the parking
or stopping of a vehicle would constitute a traffic hazard or would endanger
life or property, when such area is indicated by appropriate signs or by red
paint upon the curb surface.
   D.   In any area established by resolution of the City Council as a no
parking area, when such area is indicated by appropriate signs or by red paint
upon the curb surface.
   E.   Upon, along or across any railway track in such manner as to hinder,
delay or obstruct the movement of any car traveling upon such track.
   F.   In any area where the parking or stopping of any vehicle would
constitute a traffic hazard or would endanger life or property.
   G.   On any street or highway where the use of such street or highway or a
portion thereof is necessary for the cleaning, repair or construction of the
street or highway or the installation of underground utilities or where the use
of the street or highway or any portion thereof is authorized for a purpose
other than the normal flow of traffic or where the use of the street or highway
or any portion thereof is necessary for the movement of equipment, articles or
structures of unusual size, and the parking of such vehicle would prohibit or
interfere with such use or movement, provided that signs giving notice of such
no parking are erected or placed at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the
effective time of such no parking.
   H.   Within twenty (20) feet of the approach to any traffic signal, stop
sign or official electronic flashing device.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 1, 9/23/09.]
10.16.040 Handicap Parking.
The City Engineer or his/her designated Traffic Engineer shall designate
parking spaces as handicap parking on public streets, highways or public
parking lots for the exclusive use of vehicles which display a distinguishing
license plate or a placard issued pursuant to California Vehicle Code Section
22511.5 or 22511.9. The parking space shall be designated by blue paint on the
curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to the space. In
addition to the blue paint, the space shall also be designated by appropriate
signs.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 2, 9/23/09.]
10.16.050 Disabled Person Parking Spaces Loading and Unloading Areas
Designated.
On any street or portion of street, or on any public parking lot or parking
facility, when marked by cross-hatched lines in the area adjacent to a disabled
person parking space, it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave
standing any vehicle in said area. This Section shall also apply to any
privately owned and maintained off-street parking facility.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 3, 9/23/09.]
10.16.060 Use of Streets for Storage of Vehicles Prohibited.
No person who owns or has possession, custody or control of any vehicle shall
park such vehicle upon any street or alley for more than a consecutive period
of seventy-two (72) hours.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 4, 9/23/09.]
10.16.070 Washing or Polishing Vehicles
No person shall wash or cause to be washed, polish or cause to be polished any
vehicle or any part thereof upon any public street in this City when a charge
is made for such service.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 5, 9/23/09.]
10.16.080 Parking Adjacent to Schools.
   A.   Authority to Erect Signs. The City Traffic Engineer is hereby
authorized to erect signs indicating no parking upon that side of any street
adjacent to any school property when such parking would, in his opinion,
interfere with traffic or create a hazardous situation.
   B.   Compliance. When official signs are erected prohibiting parking upon
that side of a street adjacent to any school property, no person shall park a
vehicle in any such designated place.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 6, 9/23/09.]
10.16.090 Parking Prohibited on Narrow Streets.
   A.   Authority to Erect Signs. The City Traffic Engineer is hereby
authorized to place signs or markings indicating no parking upon any street
when the width of the roadway does not exceed twenty (20) feet or upon one (1)
side of a street as indicated by such signs or markings when the width of the
roadway does not exceed thirty (30) feet.
   B.   Compliance. When official signs or markings prohibiting parking are
erected upon narrow streets as authorized herein, no person shall park a
vehicle upon any such street in violation of any such sign or marking.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 7, 9/23/09.]
10.16.100 Parking for Certain Purposes Prohibited.
No person shall park a vehicle upon any highway or right-of-way for the
principal purpose of:
   A.   Displaying such vehicle for sale;
   B.   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs necessitated
by an emergency;
   C.   Using such vehicle to support a sign;
   D.   Vending, except adjacent to the premises of the purchaser when taking
orders or delivering any commodity.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 8, 9/23/09.]
10.16.110 Emergency Parking Signs.
   A.   Authority to Order. Whenever the City Traffic Engineer shall determine
that an emergency traffic congestion is likely to result from the holding of
public or private assemblages, gatherings or functions, or for other reasons,
the City Traffic Engineer shall have power and authority to order temporary
signs to be erected or posted indicating that the operation, parking or
standing of vehicles is prohibited on such streets and alleys as the City
Traffic Engineer shall direct during the time such temporary signs are in
place. Such signs shall remain in place only during the existence of such
emergency, and the City Traffic Engineer shall cause such signs to be removed
promptly thereafter.
   B.   Compliance. When signs authorized by the provisions of this Section are
in place giving notice thereof, no person shall operate, park or stand any
vehicle contrary to the directions and provisions of such signs.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 9, 9/23/09.]
10.16.120 Parking on City Property.
   A.   Authority to Erect Signs. Whenever the City Manager shall determine
that the orderly, efficient conduct of the City’s business requires that
parking or standing of vehicles on City property be prohibited, limited or
restricted, the City Manager shall have the power and authority to order signs
to be erected or posted indicating that the parking of vehicles is thus
prohibited, limited or restricted.
   B.   Compliance. When signs authorized by the provisions of this Section are
in place, giving notice thereof, no person shall park or stand any vehicle
contrary to the directions or provisions of such signs.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 10, 9/23/09.]
10.16.130 Police and Fire Vehicles.
The provisions of this Title regulating the movement, parking and standing of
vehicles shall not apply to emergency vehicles of the Police Department or
Sheriff’s Department or of the Fire Department or of a public utility while the
driver of any such vehicle is engaged in the necessary performance of public
emergency duties.
10.16.140 Parking Parallel on One-way Streets.
   A.   When Permitted. Subject to other and more restrictive limitations, a
vehicle may be stopped or parked within eighteen (18) inches of the left hand
curb facing in the direction of traffic movement upon any one-way street unless
signs are in place prohibiting such stopping or standing.
   B.   When Signs Required for Left Hand Parking. In the event a highway
includes two (2) or more separate roadways and traffic is restricted to one (1)
direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or park a vehicle upon
the left hand side of such one-way roadway unless signs are in place permitting
such standing or parking.
   C.   Prohibited Left Hand Parking. The City Traffic Engineer is authorized
to determine when standing or parking shall be prohibited upon the left hand
side of any one-way street or when standing or parking may be permitted upon
the left hand side of any one-way roadway of a highway having two (2) or more
separate roadways and shall erect signs giving notice thereof.
   D.   Backing to Curb. The requirement of parallel parking imposed by this
Section shall not apply in the event any commercial vehicle is actually engaged
in the process of loading or unloading freight or goods, in which case such
vehicle may be backed up to the curb, provided that such vehicle does not
extend beyond the centerline of the street and does not block traffic thereby.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 11, 9/23/09.]
10.16.150 Parking Space Markings.
The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to install and maintain parking space
markings to indicate parking spaces adjacent to curbing where authorized
parking is permitted.
When such parking space markings are placed on the highway, subject to other
and more restrictive limitations, no vehicle shall be stopped, left standing or
parked other than within a single space unless the size or shape of such
vehicle makes compliance impossible.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 12, 9/23/09.]
10.16.160 No Stopping Zones Regulations.
The City Traffic Engineer shall designate established no stopping zones by
placing and maintaining appropriate signs indicating that stopping of vehicles
is prohibited and indicating the hours and days when stopping is prohibited.
During the hours and on the days designated on the signs, it shall be unlawful
for the operator of any vehicle to stop said vehicle on any of the streets or
parts of streets established by resolution of the City Council as no stopping
zones.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 13, 9/23/09.]
10.16.170 Fifteen (15) Minute Parking;.
Green curb marking shall mean no standing or parking for a period of time
longer than fifteen (15) minutes at any time between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on
any day except Sundays and holidays.
When authorized signs, parking meters or curb markings have been determined by
the City Traffic Engineer to be necessary and are in place giving notice
thereof, no operator of any vehicle shall stop, stand or park said vehicle
adjacent to any such legible curb marking or sign or parking meter in violation
thereof.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 14, 9/23/09.]
10.16.180 Thirty (30) Minute Parking.
When authorized signs, parking meters or curb markings have been determined by
the City Traffic Engineer to be necessary and are in place giving notice
thereof, no operator of any vehicle shall stop, stand or park said vehicle
between the hours of 8:00 a. m. and 6:00 p.m. of any day except Sundays and
holidays for a period of time longer than thirty (30) minutes.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 15, 9/23/09.]
10.16.190 One (1) Hour Parking.
When authorized signs, parking meters or curb markings have been determined by
the City Traffic Engineer to be necessary and are in place giving notice
thereof, no operator of any vehicle shall stop, stand or park said vehicle
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of any day except Sundays and
holidays for a period of time longer than one (1) hour.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 16, 9/23/09.]
10.16.200 Two (2) Hour Parking.
When authorized signs, parking meters or curb markings have been determined by
the City Traffic Engineer to be necessary and are in place giving notice
thereof, no operator of any vehicle shall stop, stand or park said vehicle
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of any day except Sundays and
holidays for a period of time longer than two (2) hours.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 17, 9/23/09.]
10.16.210 Penalty - Continuing Violations.
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall, upon a conviction
thereof, be guilty of an infraction, and punishable by a fine as set forth
herein, provided further that each period of time a vehicle is left parked
after the initial violation of such provision(s) shall be deemed a separate
offense, equal to the maximum legal parking time for the particular timed zone
or parking space as designated in Sections setting the maximum legal time.
10.16.220   Fines.
All fines shall be set and amended by ordinance or resolution of the City
Council. All citations are also subject to all County and State administrative
fees, including but not limited to those pursuant to Government Code §70372(b),
Government Code § 76000(b), and Senate Bill 1407.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 18, 9/23/09.]
Chapter 10.18
STOPPING FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING
Sections:
   
10.18.010   Authority to Establish Loading Zones
   
10.18.020   Curb Markings for Zones (Exception - Handicap Parking - Blue Curb)
   
10.18.030   Effect of Permission to Load or Unload
   
10.18.040   Standing for Loading or Unloading Only
   
10.18.050   Standing in Passenger Loading Zone
   
10.18.060   Standing in Alley
   
10.18.070   Bus Zones
   
10.18.080   Fines
10.18.010 Authority to Establish Loading Zones.
   A.   Conditions. The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to determine
and to mark loading zones and passenger loading zones as follows:
      1.   In front of the entrance to any place of business or in front of any
hall or place used for the purpose of public assembly.
   B.   Maximum Curb Length Usable. In no event shall more than one-half (1/2)
of the total curb length in any block be reserved for loading zone purposes.
   C.   Yellow Paint. Loading zones shall be indicated by yellow paint upon the
top of all curbs within such zones.
   D.   White Paint. Passenger loading zones shall be indicated by white paint
upon the top of all curbs in said zones.
10.18.020 Curb Markings for Zones (Exception - Handicap Parking - Blue Curb).
The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized, subject to the provisions and
limitations of this Title, to place, and when required herein shall place, the
following curb markings to indicate parking or standing regulations, and said
curb markings shall have the meanings as herein set forth.
   A.   Red shall mean no stopping, standing or parking at any time except as
permitted by the Vehicle Code, and except that a bus may stop in a red zone
marked or signed as a bus zone.
   B.   Yellow shall mean no stopping, standing or parking at any time between
7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of any day except Sundays and holidays for any purpose
other than the loading or unloading of passengers or materials, provided that
the loading or unloading of passengers shall not consume more than three (3)
minutes nor the loading or unloading of materials more than twenty (20)
minutes.
   C.   White shall mean no stopping, standing or parking for any purpose other
than loading or unloading of passengers, or for the purpose of depositing mail
in an adjacent mail box, which shall not exceed three (3) minutes and such
restrictions shall apply between 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of any day except
Sundays and holidays and except as follows:
      1.   When such zone is in front of a hotel or in front of a mailbox, the
restrictions shall apply at all times;
      2.   When such zone is in front of a theater, the restrictions shall
apply at all times except when such theater is closed.
   D.   Blue indicates parking limited exclusively to the vehicles of
physically handicapped persons.
   E.   When the City Traffic Engineer as authorized under this Title has
caused curb markings to be placed, no person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle adjacent to any such legible curb marking in violation of any of the
provisions of this Section.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 19, 9/23/09.]
10.18.030 Effect of Permission to Load or Unload.
   A.   Time Limit. Permission herein granted to stop or stand a vehicle for
purposes of loading or unloading of materials shall apply only to commercial
vehicles and shall not extend beyond the time necessary therefore, and in no
event for more than twenty (20) minutes.
   B.   Materials Included. The loading or unloading of materials shall apply
only to commercial deliveries, also the delivery or pickup of express and
parcel post packages and United States mail.
   C.   Enforcement. Within the total time limits above specified, the
provisions of this Section shall be enforced so as to accommodate necessary and
reasonable loading or unloading but without permitting abuse of the privileges
hereby granted.
10.18.040 Standing for Loading or Unloading Only.
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any yellow loading zone for
any purpose other than loading or unloading passengers or material for such
time as is permitted in Section
10.20.030.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 20, 9/23/09.]
10.18.050 Standing in Passenger Loading Zone.
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any passenger loading zone for
any purpose other than the loading or unloading of passengers for such time as
is specified in Section
10.20.030.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 21, 9/23/09.]
10.18.060 Standing in Alley.
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose other than
loading or unloading of persons or material in any alley except as designated
by the City Traffic Engineer.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 22, 9/23/09.]
10.18.070 Bus Zones.
   A.   Authority to Establish. The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized
to establish bus zones opposite curb space for the loading and unloading of
buses or common carriers of passengers and to determine the location thereof.
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any bus zone. Buses, for which
these spaces were intended, are exempt.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 23, 9/23/09.]
10.18.080   Fines.
All fines shall be set and amended by ordinance or resolution of the City
Council. All citations are also subject to all County and State administrative
fees, including but not limited to those pursuant to Government Code § 70372
(b), Government Code § 76000(b), and Senate Bill 1407.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 24, 9/23/09.]
Chapter 10.20
PARKING CITATION PROCESSING
Sections:
   
10.20.010   Definitions
   
10.20.012   Authorization to Contract with Outside Agencies
   
10.20.014   Authority to Conduct Administrative Review Process; Hearing
Officer; Procedures
   
10.20.016   Procedures for Issuing Citations
   
10.20.018   Parking Penalties; Penalties Received by Date Fixed; No Contest;
Request to Contest
   
10.20.020   Penalties not Received by Date Fixed
   
10.20.022   Notice of Delinquent Violation; Contents
   
10.20.024   Copy of Citation Upon Request by Registered Owner/Recipient
   
10.20.026   Affidavit of Nonliability; Leased or Rented Vehicle
   
10.20.028   Affidavit of Nonliability; Sale
   
10.20.030   Contesting Citation; Procedure
   
10.20.032   Collection of Unpaid Penalties
   
10.20.034   Obligation of Processing Agency Once Penalty Paid
   
10.20.036   Deposit of Penalties with the City
   
10.20.038   Filing of Annual Reports
   
10.20.040   Fines
10.20.010 Definitions.
Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions provided in this
Section shall govern the construction of this Chapter.
   A.   “Agency” shall mean the “processing agency” as defined below.
   B.   “City” shall at all times refer to the City of Adelanto.
   C.   “Contestant” shall mean any “operator,” “registered owner” or “owner”
and/or “resident” as defined in this Section, who contests a code enforcement
citation.
   D.   “Department” shall mean the Department of Motor Vehicles.
   E.   “Hearing Officer” shall mean any individual selected by the City, or if
the City elects to contract for parking processing services, that individual
selected by the processing agency authorized to administratively adjudicate
code enforcement citation contests.
   F.   “Issuing Agency” shall mean the City or its authorized agent that
issues code enforcement citations.
   G.   “Issuing Officer” shall mean a peace officer as defined in Chapter 4.5
(commencing with Section 830) of Title 3 of the California Penal Code, or the
successor statutes thereto, or other issuing officer (as designated by the
City) who is authorized to issue a code enforcement citation.
   H.   “Operator” shall mean any individual driving and/or in possession of a
vehicle at the time a citation is issued or the registered owner of the
vehicle.
   I.   “Code Enforcement Citation,” hereinafter referred to as “citation,”
shall mean a notice that is personally given or mailed to the operator,
registered owner or owner and/or resident, or attached to the operator’s
vehicle, or owner’s and/or resident’s property, informing the operator, owner
and/or resident, of a parking, equipment and/or other Vehicle Code or City
ordinance violation, and the right to elect to pay the penalty for the
violation or contest the citation.
   J.   “Citation Penalty” includes, but is not limited to, the citation
penalty for the particular violation, as well as late payment penalties,
administrative fees, assessments, costs of collection as provided by law and
other related (including Department) fees.
   K.   “Processing Agency” shall mean the City or its authorized agent that
processes code enforcement citations and issues notices of delinquent code
enforcement violations on behalf of the City.
   L.   “Registered Owner” shall mean the individual or entity whose name is
recorded with the Department of Motor Vehicles as having ownership of a
particular vehicle.
   M.   “Vehicle” shall mean any self-propelled vehicle operated or suitable
for operation on a highway.
   N.   “Violation” shall mean any parking, equipment or other Vehicle Code or
City ordinance violation as established pursuant to State law or local
ordinance.
10.20.012 Authorization to Contract with Outside Agencies.
   A.   The City may issue and/or process code enforcement citations and
notices of delinquent code enforcement violations, or it may enter into a
contract with a private code enforcement citation processing agency, or with
another city, county or other public issuing or processing agency.
   B.   Any contract entered into pursuant to this Section shall provide for
monthly distribution of amounts collected between the parties, except amounts
payable to the County pursuant to Chapter 12 (commencing with Section 76000) of
Title 8 of the Government Code, or the successor statutes thereto, and amounts
payable to the Department pursuant to Vehicle Code Section 4763 or the
successor statute thereto.
10.20.014 Authority to Conduct Administrative Review Process; Hearing Officer;
Procedures.
The processing agency may review appeals or other objections to a code
enforcement citation pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Section.
   A.   For a period of twenty-one (21) days from the issuance of the code
enforcement citation or ten (10) days from the mailing of the notice of a
delinquent code enforcement citation, the citation recipient may request an
initial review by the processing agency. The request for initial review may be
made in writing, by telephone or in person.
   B.   The initial review by the processing agency shall consist of those
procedures outlined in this Section.
   C.   In order to contest the citation, the recipient must deposit with the
processing agency the full amount of the penalty on or before the fifteenth
(15th) day following the mailing to that recipient of the results of the
processing agency’s initial review. At the same time, the recipient must
provide a written explanation of the reason or reasons for contesting the
citation on a form provided by the processing agency. If the recipient is
unable to deposit the full amount of the penalty, he/she must provide
verifiable and substantial proof of an inability to deposit the penalty. Upon
presentation of such proof, the processing agency shall proceed with the
contest procedure despite the recipient’s failure to deposit the full amount of
the penalty. If it is ultimately determined that the recipient is not liable
for the violation, then the full amount of the penalty deposited shall be
refunded.
   D.   The contestant may contest the citation either by written declaration,
on forms provided by the processing agency, or by personal appearance before a
hearing examiner.
   E.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection A. of this Section, if a
vehicle has been immobilized or impounded for unpaid parking citations, the
processing agency shall permit the registered owner of the vehicle to contest
the citations upon which the seizure was based, without requiring a deposit of
the penalty, provided that the vehicle remains under the control of the
immobilizing or impounding agency.
10.20.016 Procedures for Issuing Citations.
Citations shall be issued in accordance with the following procedures:
   A.   If a vehicle/property is unattended at the time the citation is issued
for a violation, the issuing officer shall securely attach to the vehicle and/
or property the citation setting forth the violation, including references to
the section of the Vehicle Code, the City’s Municipal Code/City ordinance(s),
or other regulations violated; the approximate time of the violation; the
location of the violation; and the date by which the recipient is to deposit
the penalty or contest the citation pursuant to Section
10.20.030. The citation shall state the amount of the penalty and the address
of the agent authorized to receive deposit of the penalty.
   B.   The citation shall also set forth the vehicle license number and
registration expiration date, if such date is visible; the last four (4) digits
of the vehicle identification number, if that number is visible through the
windshield; the color of the vehicle; and, if possible, the make of the
vehicle. For code enforcement citations, the citation shall also set forth the
address of the violation.
   C.   The citation or copy thereof shall be considered a record kept in the
ordinary course of business of the issuing agency and the processing agency and
shall be prima facie evidence of the facts contained therein.
   D.   Once the citation is prepared and attached to the vehicle and/or
property pursuant to Subsection A. above, the issuing officer shall file notice
of the violation with the processing agency.
   E.   If during issuance of a parking citation, without regard to whether the
vehicle was initially attended or unattended, the vehicle is driven away prior
to attaching the citation to the vehicle, the issuing officer shall file the
notice with the processing agency. The processing agency shall mail, within
fifteen (15) days of issuance of the citation, a copy of the citation to the
registered owner.
   F.   If after a copy of the citation is attached to the vehicle, property or
personally given to the recipient, the issuing agency or the issuing officer
determines that the issuing officer was in error in issuing the citation, the
issuing officer or the issuing agency may recommend, in writing, that the
citation be canceled. The recommendation shall state the reason or reasons for
cancellation and shall be filed with the processing agency. Under no
circumstances shall a personal relationship with any public official, officer,
issuing officer or law enforcement agent be grounds for cancellation.
   G.   If a processing agency makes a finding that there are grounds for
cancellation as set forth in the City’s administrative policy or pursuant to
any other basis provided by law, then the finding or findings shall be filed
with the processing agency; and the parking citation shall be canceled pursuant
to Subsection A. of Section 
10.20.030.
10.20.018 Parking Penalties; Penalties Received by Date Fixed; No Contest;
Request to Contest.
   A.   Parking penalties shall be established by ordinance or resolution of
the City Council. All penalties received by the processing agency shall accrue
to the benefit of the City.
   B.   If the penalty is received by the processing agency and there is no
contest by the date fixed on the citation, all proceedings as to that citation
shall terminate.
   C.   If the recipient contests the parking citation, the processing agency
shall proceed in accordance with Section
10.20.030.
10.20.020 Penalties not Received by Date Fixed.
   A.   If payment of the penalty is not received by the processing agency by
the date fixed on the citation, the processing agency shall deliver to the
recipient a notice of delinquent violation pursuant to Section
10.20.022.
   B.   Delivery of a notice of delinquent parking violation may be made by
personal service or by first class mail addressed to the registered owner of
the vehicle as shown on the records of the Department.
10.20.022 Notice of Delinquent Violation; Contents.
   A.   The notice of a delinquent violation shall contain the information
required to be included in a citation pursuant to Section
10.20.016.
   B.   The notice of a delinquent violation shall also contain a notice to the
registered owner, or recipient, that, unless the registered owner or recipient
pays the penalty or contests the citation within ten (10) days after mailing
the notice of a delinquent violation or completes and files an affidavit of
nonliability that complies with Section
10.20.026 or
10.20.028, the vehicle registration shall not be renewed until the parking
penalties have been paid (refers to Vehicle Code violations).
   C.   In addition, the notice of a delinquent violation shall contain, or be
accompanied by, an affidavit of nonliability and information of what
constitutes nonliability, information as to the effect of executing an
affidavit and instructions for returning the affidavit to the issuing agency.
   D.   If the penalty is paid within ten (10) days after the mailing of the
notice of a delinquent violation, no late penalty or similar fee shall be
charged to the recipient.
10.20.024 Copy of Citation Upon Request by Registered Owner/Recipient.
   A.   Within fifteen (15) days of request, made by mail or in person, the
processing agency shall mail or otherwise provide to the registered owner, the
registered owner’s agent or citation recipient who has received a notice of a
delinquent violation, a copy of the original citation. The issuing agency may
charge a fee sufficient to cover the actual cost of copying and/or locating the
original citation, not to exceed five dollars ($5.00). Until the processing
agency complies with a request to provide a copy of the citation, the
processing agency may not proceed to immobilize a vehicle in question or
initiate further proceedings.
   B.   If the description of the vehicle/property on the citation does not
substantially match the corresponding information on the registration card or
property listing, the processing agency shall, on written request of the
recipient, cancel the notice of violation.
10.20.026 Affidavit of Nonliability; Leased or Rented Vehicle.
   A.   A registered owner shall be released from liability for a citation if
the registered owner files with the processing agency an affidavit of
nonliability in a form satisfactory to the processing agency and such form is
returned within thirty (30) days after the mailing of the notice of a
delinquent violation together with proof of a written lease or rental agreement
between a bona fide rental or leasing company and its customer which identifies
the renter or lessee and provides the operator’s driver’s license number, name
and address.
   B.   The processing agency shall serve or mail to the renter or lessee
identified in the affidavit of nonliability a notice of a delinquent violation.
The processing agency shall inform the renter or lessee that he or she must pay
the full amount of the fine, or provide notice to the processing agency that he
or she intends to contest the citation pursuant to Section
10.20.030, within fifteen (15) days of the mailing of the notice of a
delinquent violation. If the processing agency does not receive payment of the
citation or does not receive notice of intent to contest within fifteen (15)
days, the processing agency may proceed against the renter or lessee pursuant
to Section 
10.20.032.
10.20.028 Affidavit of Nonliability; Sale.
   A.   A registered owner of a vehicle shall be released from liability for a
citation issued to that vehicle if the registered owner served with a notice of
a delinquent violation files with the processing agency, within thirty (30)
days of receipt of the notice of a delinquent violation, an affidavit of
nonliability together with proof that the registered owner served with a notice
of a parking violation has made a bona fide sale or transfer of the vehicle and
has delivered possession thereof to the purchaser prior to the date of the
alleged violation. The processing agency shall obtain verification from the
Department that the former owner has complied with the requirements necessary
to release the former owner from liability pursuant to Vehicle Code Section
5602 or the successor statute thereto.
   B.   If the registered owner has complied with Vehicle Code Section 5602 or
the successor statute thereto, the processing agency shall cancel the notice of
a delinquent violation with respect to the registered owner.
   C.   If the registered owner has not complied with the requirements
necessary to release the owner from liability pursuant to Vehicle Code Section
5602 or the successor statute thereto, the processing agency shall inform the
registered owner that the citation must be paid in full or contested pursuant
to Section
10.20.030. If the registered owner does not comply, the processing agency shall
proceed pursuant to Section
10.20.032.
10.20.030 Contesting Citation; Procedure.
   A.   If an operator or registered owner, owner and/or resident contests a
citation or a notice of a delinquent violation, the processing agency shall do
all of the following:
      1.   First, either investigate with its own records and staff or request
that the issuing agency investigate the circumstances of the citation with
respect to the contestant’s written explanation of the reason or reasons for
contesting the citation.
      2.   If, based on the results of that investigation, the processing
agency is satisfied that the violation did not occur, or the registered owner,
owner and/or resident was not responsible for the violation by virtue of having
sold, rented or leased the vehicle/property, or because legally supportable or
mitigating circumstances as set forth in the City’s administrative policy
warrant a dismissal, the processing agency shall cancel the citation and make
an adequate record of the reason or reasons for canceling the citation. The
processing agency shall mail the results of the investigation by first class
mail to the contestant within ten (10) days of the decision.
      3.   If the contestant is not satisfied with the results of the
investigation provided for in Subsections 1. and 2. of this Section, the
contestant may, within fifteen (15) days of the mailing of the results of the
initial investigation, deposit the amount of the penalty and other related fees
or provide proof of an inability to deposit the penalty and request an
administrative review.
      4.   If the contestant prevails at the administrative hearing, then the
full amount of the penalty deposited shall be refunded.
   B.   The administrative review procedure shall consist of the following:
      1.   The contestant shall make a written request for administrative
review on a form and in a manner satisfactory to the processing agency and may
request to contest the citation either in person or by written declaration.
      2.   If the contestant is a minor, that person shall be permitted to
appear at a hearing or admit responsibility for a citation without the
necessity of the appointment of a guardian. The processing agency may proceed
against the minor in the same manner as if the minor were an adult.
      3.   The administrative review shall be conducted before an examiner
designated to conduct the review by the City Council or by the processing
agency.
   C.   The issuing officer shall not be required to participate in an
administrative review. The issuing agency shall not be required to produce any
evidence other than the citation or copy thereof and information received from
the Department or City identifying the registered owner of the vehicle or the
owner and/or resident of the property. The documentation in proper form shall
be considered prima facie evidence of the violation.
   D.   The processing agency’s final decision shall be in writing and
delivered personally to the contestant or the contestant’s agent or delivered
by first class mail within ten (10) working days following the hearing.
   E.   If the contestant is not the registered owner of the vehicle, owner
and/or resident of the property, all notices to the contestant required under
this Section shall also be given to the registered owner or owner and/or
resident by first class mail.
10.20.032 Collection of Unpaid Penalties.
Except as otherwise provided below, the processing agency shall proceed under
Subsection A. or B., but not both, in order to collect an unpaid penalty:
   A.   File an itemization of unpaid parking penalties and other related fees
with the Department for collection pursuant to Vehicle Code Section 4760 or the
successor statute thereto.
   B.   If more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) in unpaid parking
penalties, or other penalties, and other related fees have been accrued by any
one (1) registered owner or the registered owner’s renter, lessee or sales
transferee, owner and/or resident, proof thereof may be filed with the court,
which has the same effect as a civil judgment. Execution may be levied and such
other measures may be taken for the collection of the judgment as are
authorized for the collection of unpaid civil judgments entered against a
defendant in an action against a debtor.
   C.   The processing agency shall send notice by first class mail to the
registered owner or renter, lessee, or sales transferee, owner and/or resident
indicating that a civil judgment has been filed and the date that the judgment
shall become effective. The notice shall also indicate the time that execution
may be levied against the person’s assets, that liens may be placed against
that person’s property, that the person’s wages may be garnished, and that
other steps may be taken to satisfy the judgment. The notice shall also state
that the processing agency will terminate the commencement of a civil judgment
proceeding if all penalties and other related fees are paid prior to the date
set for hearing. If judgment is entered, then the City may file a writ of
execution or an abstract with the court clerk’s office identifying the means by
which the civil judgment is to be satisfied.
   D.   If a judgment is rendered for the processing agency, that agency may
contract with a collection agency licensed pursuant to Chapter 8 (commencing
with Section 6850) of Division 3 of the Business and Professions Code, or the
successor statutes thereto, to collect the judgment.
   E.   If required by law, the processing agency shall pay the established
first paper civil filing fee at the time an entry of civil judgment is
requested.
   F.   If the registration of the vehicle has not been renewed for sixty (60)
days beyond the renewal date (for Vehicle Code violations) and the citation has
not been collected by the Department pursuant to Vehicle Code Section 4760, or
the successor statute thereto, then the processing agency may file a proof of
unpaid penalties and fees with the court which has the same effect as a civil
judgment as provided above in Subsection B.
   G.   The processing agency shall not file a civil judgment with the court
relating to a citation filed with the Department unless the processing agency
has determined that the registration of the vehicle has not been renewed for
sixty (60) days beyond the renewal date, and the citation has not been
collected by the Department pursuant to Vehicle Code Section 4760 or the
successor statute thereto.
10.20.034 Obligation of Processing Agency Once Penalty Paid.
   A.   If the operator or registered owner, owner and/or resident served with
a notice of a delinquent violation, or any other person who presents the
citation or notice of a delinquent violation, deposits the penalty with the
person authorized to receive it, the processing agency shall do both of the
following:
      1.   Upon request, provide the operator, registered owner, or the
registered owner’s agent, owner and/or resident with a copy of the citation
information presented in the notice of a delinquent violation. The processing
agency shall, in turn, obtain and record in its records the name, address and
driver’s license number of the person actually given the copy of the citation
information.
      2.   Determine whether the notice of a delinquent violation has been
filed with the Department or a civil judgment has been entered pursuant to
Section 
10.20.032.
   B.   If the processing agency receives full payment of all penalties and
other related fees and the processing agency has neither filed a notice of a
delinquent violation or entered a civil judgment, then all proceedings for that
citation shall cease.
   C.   If the notice of a delinquent violation has been filed with the
Department and has been returned by the Department pursuant to the provisions
of the Vehicle Code and payment of the parking penalty has been made, along
with any other related fees, then the proceedings for that citation shall
cease.
   D.   If the notice of a delinquent violation has been filed with the
Department and has not been returned by the Department and payment of the
penalty along with any other fees applied by either, the Department or the
processing agency shall do all of the following:
      1.   Deliver a certificate of payment to the operator or other person
making payment;
      2.   Within five (5) working days, transmit payment information to the
Department in the manner prescribed by the Department;
      3.   Terminate proceedings on the notice of a delinquent violation; and
      4.   Deposit all penalties and other fees as required by law.
10.20.036 Deposit of Penalties with the City.
   A.   All penalties collected, including process service fees and costs
related to civil debt collection, shall be deposited to the account of the
processing agency, and then remitted to the City, if the City is not also the
processing agency.
   B.   If the City is not the processing agency, then the City shall enter
into an agreement with the processing agency for periodic transfer of citation
receipts, along with a report setting forth the number of cases processed and
the sums received.
10.20.038 Filing of Annual Reports.
The processing agency shall prepare an audited report at the end of each fiscal
year setting forth the number of cases processed and all sums received and
distributed, together with any other information that may be specified by the
City or its authorized issuing agency or the State Controller. The report is a
public record and shall be delivered to the City and its authorized issuing
agency.
[Ord. No. 321, 10/8/96.]
10.20.040   Fines.
All fines in this Title 10 shall be set and amended by ordinance or resolution
of the City Council. All citations are also subject to all County and State
administrative fees, including but not limited to those pursuant to Government
Code § 70372(b), Government Code § 76000(b), and Senate Bill 1407.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 25, 9/23/09.]
Chapter 10.22
RESTRICTED USE OF STREETS
Sections:
   
10.22.010   Prohibited Vehicles
   
10.22.020   Truck Routes - Regulations
   
10.22.030   Truck Routes - Designated
   
10.22.040   Oversized Vehicle Parking Regulations
   
10.22.050   Streets in Which Commercial Vehicles are Prohibited Designated
   
10.22.060   Visibility Obstructions
   
10.22.070   No Parking of Commercial Vehicles
10.22.010 Prohibited Vehicles.
   A.   Advertising Vehicles. No person shall operate or drive any vehicle used
for advertising purposes or any advertising vehicle equipped with a sound
amplifying or loudspeaking device upon any street or alley at any time without
the express consent of the Chief of Police.
10.22.020 Truck Routes - Regulations.
   A.   Authority to Erect Signs. Whenever any resolution of this City
designates and describes any street or portion thereof as a street, the use of
which is permitted by any vehicle exceeding a maximum gross weight limit of
three (3) tons, the City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to designate
such street or streets by appropriate signs as truck routes for the movement of
vehicles exceeding a maximum gross weight limit of three (3) tons.
   B.   Use. When any such truck route or routes are established and designated
by appropriate signs, the operator of any vehicle exceeding a maximum gross
weight limit of three (3) tons shall drive on such route or routes, and none
other except that nothing in this Section shall prohibit the operator of any
vehicle exceeding a maximum gross weight of three (3) tons coming from a truck
route having ingress and egress by direct route to and from restricted streets
when necessary for the purpose of making pickups or deliveries of goods, wares
and merchandise from or to any building or structure located on such restricted
streets or for the purpose of delivering materials to be used in the actual and
bona fide repair, alteration, remodeling or construction of any building or
structure upon such restricted streets for which a building permit has
previously been obtained therefor.
   C.   Application. The provisions of this Section shall not apply to:
      1.   Passenger buses under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities
Commission; or
      2.   Any vehicle owned by a public utility while necessarily in use in
the construction, installation or repair of any public utility.
   D.   Maximum Weight. Those streets and parts of streets established by
resolution of the City Council are hereby declared to be truck routes for the
movement of vehicles exceeding a maximum gross weight of three (3) tons.
10.22.030 Truck Routes - Designated.
The streets or portions of streets in this City hereinafter described are
hereby defined and established as truck routes and shall be governed by the
provisions of Section 
10.22.020.
   A.   PALMDALE ROAD (Highway 18) in its entirety within the City limits.
   B.   STATE HIGHWAY 395 in its entirety within the City limits.
   C.   RANCHO ROAD in its entirety within the City limits.
   D.   KOALA ROAD in its entirety within the City limits.
   E.   AIR EXPRESSWAY ROAD in its entirety within the City limits.
   F.   ADELANTO ROAD from Air Expressway to Highway 395.
   G.   All roads within established industrial parks.
   H.   All roads providing direct access to established businesses in
manufacturing industrial zoned properties.
10.22.040 Oversized Vehicle Parking Regulations.
   A.   Prohibition. No person shall park or leave standing upon any public
street or highway in a residential district:
      1.   Any motor vehicle over twenty-five (25) feet long measured from the
extreme forward point to the extreme rear point, including extensions;
      2.   Any motor vehicle, over ninety-six (96) inches wide, measured at its
widest point, excluding side-view mirrors or similar extensions, designed, used
or maintained for the transportation of property;
      3.   Any motor vehicle, including buses, motor trucks, trailers, semi-
trailers, trailer coaches or truck tractors as defined in the California
Vehicle Code, over ninety-six (96) inches wide, measured at its widest point
excluding side-view mirrors or similar extensions, designed, used or maintained
for the transportation of property;
      4.   Any motor vehicle which is designed, used or maintained as farm
machinery or a special purpose or equipment machine; or
      5.   Any non-motorized vehicle, such as a semi-trailer, trailer, trailer
coach, utility trailer, two (2) or more axle camper, or a one (1) axle camper,
which has been detached from its drawing vehicle for a period not to exceed
twenty-four (24) hours.
   B.   Exceptions. Subsection A. shall not apply to the following:
      1.   Any oversized recreational motor vehicle, as defined by California
Health and Safety Code Section 18010 or any amendments thereto, while parked or
standing for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or property for a
period not to exceed twenty-four (24) hours;
      2.   Any oversized motor vehicle parked while used in performing or
assisting in performing services or repairs on residential property;
      3.   Any oversized motor vehicle which is parked for not more than
twenty-four (24) consecutive hours to make emergency repairs to such vehicle;
and
      4.   Any non-motorized vehicle, such as a semi-trailer, trailer, trailer
coach, utility trailer, two (2) or more axle camper or a one (1) axle camper
which has been detached from is drawing vehicle parked for a period not to
exceed four (4) hours in any area other than a residential district.
   C.   Arterial Highway Oversize Vehicle Parking Regulations.
      1.   Except as provided in Subsections B. and C. hereof, no person shall
park or leave standing upon any arterial highway between the hours of 9:00 p.m.
and 6:00 a.m., or for longer than two (2) hours at any other time, any motor
vehicle over eighty-four (84) inches high, measured from the surface of the
roadway to its highest point, or over eighty-four (84) inches wide, measured
from its widest point, excluding side-view mirrors or similar extensions on any
designated arterial highway of the City.
      2.   In case of emergency, oversize vehicles shall be removed immediately
if between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.; otherwise, they may park on
the designated arterial highways provided that such vehicles shall be removed
within four (4) hours. Emergency parking is defined to mean any vehicle left
standing at the roadside because of mechanical breakdown or because of driver’s
physical incapacity to proceed.
      3.   Notwithstanding the prohibition contained in this Section, wherever
highway markings clearly indicate legal on-street parking in front of
residential property facing any designated arterial highway, an oversized
vehicle may park or stand in front of such residential property for not more
than eight (8) consecutive hours to load or unload passengers or property or to
furnish commercial services or repairs to the premises.
10.22.050 Streets in Which Commercial Vehicles are Prohibited Designated.
TO BE DETERMINED
10.22.060 Visibility Obstructions.
Whenever the City Traffic Engineer finds that any hedge, shrubbery or tree
growing in a parkway or any vehicle parked along the curb, obstructs the view
of any intersection, or any traffic upon the streets approaching such
intersection, he shall cause the hedge, shrubbery or tree to be immediately
removed or reduced in height, or, if the visibility obstruction is due to a
parked vehicle, the curb adjacent to the intersection to be painted red or
signed “no parking.”
10.22.070 No Parking of Commercial Vehicles.
   A.   The parking of commercial vehicles with a maximum gross weight over ten
thousand (10,000) pounds is prohibited in a designated R-1 zone or upon any
public street or highway which is not posted as a truck route in the City, or
private or public property or public right-of-way, except while unloading or
loading property, or which such vehicle is parking in connection with, and in
aid of, the performance of a service to or on a property in the block in which
such vehicle is parked.
   B.   The City Traffic Engineer shall review requests for parking
restrictions of commercial vehicles with a maximum gross weight over ten
thousand (10,000) pounds on streets or portions of streets and shall present to
the City Council those locations in which, in his opinion, the parking of
commercial vehicles with a maximum gross weight over ten thousand (10,000)
pounds would interfere with traffic, reduce sight distances of approaching
traffic from cross streets and driveways, or create a hazardous situation.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 26, 9/23/09.]
Chapter 10.24
SPECIAL SPEED ZONES
Sections:
   
10.24.010   Authority to Increase Twenty-five (25) Miles per Hour Limit
   
10.24.020   Authority to Decrease Sixty-five (65) Miles per Hour Limit
   
10.24.030   Authority to Link Speed Limit Districts
   
10.24.040   Speed Limits Declared
   
10.24.050   Regulation of Speed by Traffic Signals
10.24.010 Authority to Increase Twenty-five (25) Miles per Hour Limit.
   A.   Pursuant to the Vehicle Code, whenever the City Council determines,
upon the basis of an engineering and traffic survey, that a greater speed would
facilitate the orderly movement of vehicular traffic and would be safe upon any
street otherwise subject to a prima facie limit of twenty-five (25) miles per
hour under the Vehicle Code, the City Council shall determine and declare a
higher prima facie speed limit. When such determination has been made, the City
Council shall by resolution direct the City Engineer to erect and maintain
signs upon such street as provided in the Vehicle Code indicating file
appropriate prima facie speed limit. Such signs may be supplemented by
appropriate pavement markings.
   B.   Removal. Whenever the City Council, upon the basis of a traffic
engineering investigation, finds that the conditions for which a speed limit
has been determined as provided in Subsection A. of this Section no longer
exist, the City Council shall by resolution direct the City Engineer to remove
such signs and markings from such street.
10.24.020 Authority to Decrease Sixty-five (65) Miles per Hour Limit.
   A.   Pursuant to the Vehicle Code, whenever the City Council determines,
upon the basis of an engineering and traffic survey, that the limit of sixty-
five (65) miles per hour is more than is reasonable or safe upon any street or
highway where such limit of sixty-five (65) miles per hour is applicable under
the Vehicle Code, the City Council shall determine and declare a lower prima
facie limit which is appropriate to facilitate the orderly movement of traffic
and is reasonable and safe. When such determination has been made, the City
Council shall by resolution direct the City Engineer to erect and maintain
signs upon such street or highway as provided in the Vehicle Code indicating
the appropriate speed limit. Such signs may be supplemented by appropriate
pavement markings.
   B.   Removal. Whenever the City Council, upon the basis of a traffic
engineering investigation, finds that the conditions for which a speed limit
has been determined as provided in Subsection A. of this Section no longer
exists, the City Council shall by resolution direct the City Engineer to remove
such signs and pavement markings from such street or highway.
10.24.030 Authority to Link Speed Limit Districts.
   A.   Pursuant to the Vehicle Code, whenever the City Council determines,
upon the basis of an engineering and traffic survey, that the limit of sixty-
five (65) miles per hour is more than is reasonable or safe upon any portion of
a street or highway for a distance of not exceeding two thousand (2,000) feet
in length between either business or residential districts, the City Council
may determine and declare a reasonable and safe prima facie limit thereon lower
than sixty-five (65) miles per hour, but not less than twenty-five (25) miles
per hour. When such determination has been made, the City Council shall by
resolution direct the City Engineer to erect and maintain signs thereon as
provided in the Vehicle Code. Such signs may be supplemented by appropriate
pavement markings.
   B.   Removal. Whenever the City Council finds, upon the basis of an
engineering and traffic survey, that the conditions for which a prima facie
limit lower than sixty-five (65) miles per hour has been determined as provided
in Subsection A. of this Section no longer exist, it shall by resolution direct
the City Engineer to remove such signs and markings from such portion of street
or highway.
10.24.040 Speed Limits Declared.
Pursuant to the “Speed Zoning Engineering & Traffic Survey” report dated
February 8, 2022, and pursuant to California Vehicle Code Sections 627, 22357
and 22358, the City Council of the City of Adelanto determines that the maximum
speed limits for the following streets, along their entire length unless noted
otherwise, in the City of Adelanto are reasonable and safe and established as
follows:
Street Name From To Recommended Speed Limit (mph)
Street Name       From              To                Recommended Speed Limit
                                                      (mph)
Adelanto Road     Holly Road        Rancho Road       55
Adelanto Road     Rancho Road       Air Expressway    45
Adelanto Road     Air Expressway    Bartlett Avenue   45
Adelanto Road     Bartlett Avenue   Chamberlaine Way  35
Air Expressway    Adelanto Road     Pearmain Street   45
Air Expressway    Pearmain Street   Highway 395       45
Air Expressway    Highway 395       Bellflower Street 40
Air Expressway    Bellflower Street Aster Road        50
Air Expressway    Aster Road        Raccoon Avenue    50
Aster Road        Palmdale Road     Seneca Road       30
Aster Road        Seneca Road       Victor Street     40
Aster Road        Victor Street     Mojave Street     40
Aster Road        Air Expressway    Bartlett Avenue   40
Bartlett Avenue   Adelanto Road     Pearmain Street   35
Bartlett Avenue   Pearmain Street   Highway 395       35
Bartlett Avenue   Highway 395       Bellflower Street 40
Bartlett Avenue   Bellflower Street Aster Road        40
Bellflower Street Palmdale Road     Seneca Road       40
Bellflower Street Seneca Road       Victor Street     40
Bellflower Street Victor Street     Mojave Street     40
Bellflower Street Mojave Street     Rancho Road       45
Bellflower Street Rancho Road       Air Expressway    50
Bellflower Street Air Expressway    Bartlett Avenue   35
Bellflower Street Bartlett Avenue   Chamberlaine Way  35
Bellflower Street Chamberlaine Way  Auburn Avenue     35
Cactus Road       Highway 395       Jonathon Road     35
Chamberlaine Way  Pearmain Street   Jonathon Road     30
Chamberlaine Way  Jonathon Road     Highway 395       30
Chamberlaine Way  Highway 395       Bellflower Street 30
Chamberlaine Way  Bellflower Street Verbena Road      35
Chamberlaine Way  Verbena Road      Aster Road        35
Chamberlaine Way  Aster Road        Koala Road        40
El Mirage Road    Muskrat Avenue    Koala Road        50
El Mirage Road    Koala Road        City Limit Line   55
Emerald Road      Rancho Road       Air Expressway    30
Jonathon Road     Begonia Road      Seneca Road       40
Jonathon Road     Seneca Road       Victor Street     40
Jonathon Road     Victor Street     Mojave Street     40
Jonathon Road     Mojave Street     Cactus Road       45
Jonathon Road     Air Expressway    Bartlett Avenue   30
Jonathon Road     Bartlett Avenue   Chamberlaine Way  30
Koala Road        Holly Road        Rancho Road       45
Koala Road        Rancho Road       Yucca Road        45
Koala Road        Yucca Road        Air Expressway    55
Koala Road        Air Expressway    Chamberlaine Way  55
Koala Road        Chamberlaine Way  El Mirage Road    55
Mojave Street     Highway 395       Jonathon Road     40
Mojave Street     Jonathon Road     Bellflower Street 40
Mojave Street     Bellflower Street Verbena Road      40
Mojave Street     Verbena Road      Aster Road        40
Pearmain Street   Palmdale Road     Seneca Road       25
Pearmain Street   Air Expressway    Bartlett Avenue   35
Rancho Road       Emerald Road      Adelanto Road     45
Rancho Road       Adelanto Road     Highway 395       40
Rancho Road       Highway 395       Bellflower Street 55
Rancho Road       Bellflower Street Daisy Road        55
Rancho Road       Daisy Road        Raccoon Avenue    45
Rancho Road       Raccoon Avenue    Koala Road        45
Seneca Road       Highway 395       Jonathon Road     35
Seneca Road       Jonathon Road     Bellflower Street 45
Seneca Road       Bellflower Street Verbena Road      45
Seneca Road       Verbena Road      Aster Road        45
Verbena Road      Palmdale Road     Seneca Road       45
Verbena Road      Seneca Road       Victor Street     45
Verbena Road      Victor Street     Mojave Street     45
Victor Street     Jonathon Road     Bellflower Street 40
Victor Street     Bellflower Street Verbena Road      40
Victor Street     Verbena Road      Aster Road        40
[Ord. No. 479, Section 1.02, 6/25/08; Ord. No. 630, Section 2, 5/25/22.]
10.24.050 Regulation of Speed by Traffic Signals.
The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to regulate the timing of traffic
signals so as to permit the movement of traffic in an orderly and safe manner
at speeds slightly at variance from the speeds otherwise applicable within the
district or at intersections and shall erect appropriate signs giving notice
thereof.
Chapter 10.26
AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH, AMEND TRAFFIC SCHEDULES/FINES
Section:
   
10.26.010   Authority to Establish, Amend Traffic Schedules/Fines
   
10.26.020   Fines
10.26.010 Authority to Establish, Amend Traffic Schedules/Fines.
The City Council shall establish and may amend by ordinance or resolution the
following traffic schedules/fines:
   A.   U-turns.
   A.   Through streets.
   B.   Stop intersections.
   C.   Railroad stops.
   D.   No parking zones.
   E.   Overnight parking.
   F.   Parking.
   G.   Time parking zones.
   H.   Truck routes.
   I.   Noncommercial routes.
   J.   One-way streets.
   K.   Yield intersections.
   L.   Speed zones.
All traffic schedules of the City, and related fines, are on file in the office
of the City Clerk.
10.26.020   Fines.
All fines in this Title 10 shall be set and amended by ordinance or resolution
of the City Council. All citations are also subject to all County and State
administrative fees, including but not limited to those pursuant to Government
Code § 70372(b), Government Code § 76000(b), and Senate Bill 1407.
[Ord. No. 491, Section 27, 9/23/09.]
Chapter 10.28
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Sections:
   
10.28.010   Scope
   
10.28.020   Exemption of Certain Vehicles
   
10.28.030   Traffic Control Devices
   
10.28.040   Turning Movements
   
10.28.050   One-way Streets
   
10.28.060   Closing of Streets
   
10.28.070   Through Highways
   
10.28.080   Weight Limitations
   
10.28.090   Weight Limits on Bridges
   
10.28.100   Driving through Funeral Processions
   
10.28.110   Driving on New Pavement Prohibited
   
10.28.120   Driving on Limited Access Roadway Prohibited
   
10.28.130   Tampering with Traffic Survey Devices
   
10.28.140   Unauthorized Painting of Curbs
10.28.010 Scope.
The provisions of this Title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by
or used in the service of the United States Government, the State or any county
or city. It is unlawful for any driver to violate any of the provisions of this
Title except as otherwise permitted in this Title or by State statute.
10.28.020 Exemption of Certain Vehicles.
   A.   The provisions of this Title regulating the operation, parking and
standing of vehicles shall not apply to any vehicle that has qualified under
the Vehicle Code as an authorized emergency vehicle, when any such vehicle is
operated in the manner specified in the Vehicle Code in response to an
emergency call.
   B.   The foregoing exemption shall not, however, protect the driver of any
such vehicle from the consequences of his willful disregard of the safety of
others.
   C.   The provisions of this Title regulating parking or standing of vehicles
shall not apply to any vehicle of the City or of the State Department of
Transportation, while necessarily in use for the construction, repair work,
survey work or traffic engineering investigations on any highway or any vehicle
owned by the United States while in use for the collection, transportation or
delivery of the United States mail.
10.28.030 Traffic Control Devices.
   A.   Signs. The City Engineer shall determine and designate the size, shape
and character of all official warning, regulatory and direction signs, other
than signs the size, shape and character of which have been established by the
State Department of Transportation pursuant to the Vehicle Code.
      1.   Violation. No provision of this Title for which signs are required,
shall be enforced against an alleged violator thereof, unless appropriate signs
are in place and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person, giving notice of such provision.
   B.   Authorization and Placing of Signals.
      1.   The City Council shall by resolution designate, upon the basis of a
traffic engineering investigation, what intersections shall be controlled by
official traffic control signals.
      2.   Whenever the City Council finds, upon the basis of a traffic
engineering investigation, that the conditions, for which traffic control
signals have been placed at an intersection pursuant to Subsection B.1. of this
Section no longer exist, the City Council shall by resolution direct that such
traffic control signals be removed.
      3.   The City Engineer is authorized to place, maintain, operate or
remove, or cause to be placed, maintained, operated or removed, all official
traffic control signals authorized by the City Council as herein provided. Such
official traffic signals shall conform to the provisions of the Vehicle Code.
   C.   Hours of Operation. The City Engineer is authorized to determine, upon
the basis of a traffic engineering investigation, the hours and days during
which any traffic control device shall be in operation or be in effect, except
in those cases where such hours or days are specified in this Title or
established by resolution of the City Council.
   D.   Installation by City Engineer.
      1.   The City Engineer may place and maintain such traffic control
devices in addition to those authorized by other provisions of this Title as
may be necessary to regulate, guide or warn traffic; but the City Engineer
shall make such determination upon the basis of traffic engineering principles
and traffic investigations and in accordance with such standards, limitations
and rules as may be established by ordinance or resolution of the City Council.
      2.   Whenever the City Engineer finds, upon the basis of a traffic
engineering investigation, that the conditions, for which such traffic control
devices have been installed as provided in Subsection D.1. of this Section no
longer exist, the City Engineer shall remove such traffic control devices.
   E.   Traffic Markings.
      1.   The City Engineer is authorized to place, upon the basis of a
traffic engineering investigation, traffic guide lines, dividing highways into
the number of traffic lanes that are proper and necessary, and may place such
other pavement markings as are necessary to direct vehicular movements in
accordance with requirements of this Title and the Vehicle Code.
      2.   Whenever the City Engineer finds, upon the basis of a traffic
engineering investigation, that the conditions for which traffic guide lines or
other markings were placed as provided in Subsection E.1. of this Section no
longer exist, the City Engineer shall remove such traffic guide lines or such
markings.
   F.   Temporary Removal. Whenever, because of the construction, alteration,
repair or improvement of any highway, or because of other emergency, compliance
with any prohibition of this Title, including a prohibition pursuant to any
action of the City Council taken in accordance with this Title, will create a
traffic hazard and the City Engineer so finds, he is authorized to either
remove or cover up any traffic control device which informs persons of such
prohibition. While such traffic control device is removed or covered, the
effect of such prohibition is suspended. At the end of such emergency, unless
otherwise determined by the City Council, the City Engineer shall replace or
uncover such traffic control device.
10.28.040 Turning Movements.
   A.   Restricted Turn Signals.
      1.   Pursuant to the Vehicle Code, whenever the City Council determines,
upon the basis of a traffic engineering investigation, that the prohibition of
the making of any turning movement by any vehicle at any intersection or
between any designated intersections is necessary, the City Council shall by
resolution direct the City Engineer to erect any appropriate sign or signs
stating the prohibition of such turning movements. The sign or signs may be
supplemented by appropriate pavement markings.
      2.   Whenever the City Council finds, upon the basis of a traffic
engineering investigation, that the conditions for which such turning movements
at such intersections or between such intersections has been prohibited as
provided in Subsection A.1. of this Section no longer exist, the City Council
shall by resolution direct the City Engineer to remove such sign or signs and
pavement markings.
   B.   Turn Markers and Multiple Lanes.
      1.   Pursuant to the Vehicle Code, the City Council authorizes the City
Engineer, upon the basis of a traffic engineering investigation, to place
markers, buttons or signs within or adjacent to intersections and thereby
require and direct that a different course from that specified in the Vehicle
Code be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection or may allocate and
indicate more than one (1) lane of traffic from which drivers of vehicles may
make right- or left-hand turns.
      2.   Whenever the City Engineer finds, upon the basis of a traffic
engineering investigation, that any turning movement within or adjacent to any
intersection which has been required by the placing of markers, buttons or
signs as provided in Subsection B.1. of this Section is no longer necessary,
the City Engineer shall remove such markers, buttons or signs.
10.28.050 One-way Streets.
Pursuant to the Vehicle Code, whenever the City Council determines, upon the
basis of a traffic engineering investigation, that it is necessary to designate
particular highways or portions thereof as one-way highways and require that
all vehicles thereon move in one (1) specified direction, the City Council
shall by resolution direct the City Engineer to erect appropriate signs
indicating the direction of travel at each highway intersecting such one-way
highway upon such particular highway or portion thereof.
   A.   Whenever the City Council finds, upon the basis of a traffic
engineering investigation, that the conditions, for which such highway or
portions thereof has been designated as a one-way highway as provided in
Subsection A. of this Section no longer exist, the City Council shall by
resolution direct the City Engineer to remove such signs from such one-way
highway.
10.28.060 Closing of Streets.
   A.   Streets Dividing School Property. Pursuant to the Vehicle Code,
whenever the City Council determines on the basis of a traffic engineering
investigation that it is necessary to close a street that divides school
grounds to vehicular traffic, the City Council shall by resolution direct the
City Engineer to place appropriate signs indicating such closure.
   B.   Hours, Days and Conditions. Whenever the City Council, pursuant to
Section
10.28.050 of this Chapter, orders the closing of streets, the City Engineer
shall, on the basis of traffic engineering investigation, determine the hours
of the day, the days of the week and the conditions under which such streets
shall be closed.
10.28.070 Through Highways.
   A.   Establishment. Pursuant to the Vehicle Code, the City Council may
determine, upon the basis of a traffic engineering investigation, by resolution
that it is necessary to: (1) designate any highway as a through highway and to
require that all vehicles stop before entering or crossing the same; (2)
designate any intersection as a stop intersection and to require all vehicles
to stop at one (1) or more entrances to such intersections; (3) control traffic
within an intersection and require it to stop, when signs are erected as
provided by the Vehicle Code.
   B.   Railroad Stop Signs. Pursuant to the Vehicle Code, the City Council may
determine, upon the basis of a traffic engineering investigation, by resolution
that all vehicles shall stop before entering or crossing the tracks at any
highway railroad grade crossing when signs are in place giving notice thereof,
but no such ordinance shall be effective unless approved by an order of the
Public Utilities Commission of the State.
   C.   Stop Signs. When the City Council has adopted resolutions pursuant to
Subsections A. and B. of this Section, the City Engineer shall erect a stop
sign on each and every street intersecting such through street or portion
thereof so designated and at those entrances to or locations within other
intersections where a stop is required and at any railroad grade crossing so
designated. Every such sign shall conform with and shall be placed as provided
in the Vehicle Code. Such signs may be supplemented by appropriate pavement
markings.
      1.   Removal. Whenever the City Council finds, on the basis of a traffic
engineering investigation, that the conditions for which such highways have
been designated as through highways or such intersection has been designated as
a stop intersection or such location within an intersection has been designated
where vehicles are required to stop, or such highway railroad grade crossing
has been designated at which vehicles are required to stop before entering or
crossing the tracks, as provided in Subsections A. and B. of this Section, no
longer exist, the City Council shall by resolution direct the City Engineer to
remove such signs and pavement markings from such intersections or railroad
grade crossings.
   D.   Emergency Stop Signs. The City Engineer is authorized when any
emergency condition, as indicated by a traffic engineering investigation,
exists at any highway intersection or intersections, to place and maintain stop
signs as provided in Subsection C. of this Section for the duration of such
emergency condition. Such stop signs shall be removed when such emergency
condition ceases to exist unless otherwise determined by the City Council.
      1.   Removal. The City Engineer is authorized, when because of temporary
detours or other emergency, it would be impractical and a hazard to require
vehicles to stop at an intersection where stop signs have been erected pursuant
to this Chapter, to either remove such signs or so cover them that no portion
of the word “stop” remains visible. At the termination of such emergency, the
City Engineer shall restore such signs or uncover such signs unless otherwise
determined restore such signs or uncover such signs unless otherwise determined
by the City Council.
   E.   Obedience to Stop Signs. Where stop signs have been erected pursuant to
this Chapter, any vehicle approaching such signs shall stop in accordance with
the provisions of the Vehicle Code except that no stop is required where:
      1.   An officer is on duty and directs traffic to proceed;
      2.   A traffic signal is in operation and indicates that traffic may
proceed;
      3.   A stop sign has been removed or covered pursuant to Subsection D.1.
of this Section.
   F.   Yield-Right-of-Way Signs.
      1.   Pursuant to the Vehicle Code, whenever the City Council determines,
upon the basis of a traffic engineering investigation, that it is necessary to
require vehicles entering an intersection at one (1) or more of its approaches
to slow and yield the right-of-way as provided in the Vehicle Code, the City
Council shall by resolution direct the City Engineer to erect and maintain
“yield-right-of-way” signs on such approaches.
      2.   Whenever the City Council determines, upon the basis of a traffic
engineering investigation, that the conditions for which the “yield right-of-
way” signs were erected as provided in Subsection F.1. of this Section no
longer exist, the City Council shall by resolution direct the City Engineer to
remove such signs.
10.28.080 Weight Limitations.
   A.   Limits on Unimproved Highways.
      1.   Whenever the City Council determines, upon the basis of an
engineering investigation, that a highway is unimproved as the word
“unimproved” is used in the Vehicle Code and that the nature of the pavement or
surface is such that it will be damaged if vehicles of over a certain gross
weight are permitted to operate thereon, the City Council shall by resolution
direct the City Engineer to erect signs specifying the maximum gross weight
limits which shall be permitted to operate on such highway.
      2.   The City Engineer shall erect and maintain signs upon all unimproved
highways upon which a weight limit is imposed at the entrances thereto from all
improved highways, from all highways upon which no weight limit has been
imposed and from all highways upon which a greater weight limit has been
imposed.
      3.   Whenever such weight limit signs have been placed as provided in
this Section, it shall be a misdemeanor for any person to drive or operate a
vehicle upon such unimproved highway when the maximum gross weight of such
vehicle, plus the weight of the load thereon, exceeds the weight limit stated
by such signs except that any commercial vehicle shall not be prohibited from
using any City street by direct route to or from a State highway for the
purpose of delivering or loading for transportation, goods, wares or
merchandise as provided in the Vehicle Code.
      4.   Whenever the City Council finds that because of repaving or repair
of an unimproved highway, that a weight limit is no longer necessary upon such
highway, the City Council shall by resolution direct the City Engineer to
remove the weight limit signs from such highway or entrances thereto.
   B.   Temporary Limits on Improved Highways.
      1.   Whenever the City Council, upon the basis of an engineering
investigation, determines that an improved highway as defined in the Vehicle
Code, will be destroyed by reason of deterioration if vehicles of over a
certain gross weight are permitted to operate thereon, the City Council shall
by resolution direct the City Engineer to erect temporary signs, as provided in
Subsection A.2. of this Section for unimproved highways, specifying the maximum
gross weight limits upon such highway. No such reduced weight limits shall
extend for a period of more than ninety (90) days unless actual repair of such
highway is begun within such time and thereafter continuously carried on to
completion.
      2.   Whenever such temporary weight limit signs have been placed as
provided in this Section, it shall be a misdemeanor for any person to drive or
operate a vehicle upon such improved highway when the maximum gross weight of
such vehicle, plus the weight of the load thereon, exceeds the weight limit
stated by such signs, except that any commercial vehicle shall not be
prohibited from using any City street by direct route to or from a state
highway for the purpose of delivering or loading for transporting goods, wares,
or merchandise as provided in the Vehicle Code.
   C.   Closing Highways to Commercial Vehicles.
      1.   Pursuant to the Vehicle Code, whenever the City Council determines,
upon the basis of a traffic engineering investigation, that it is necessary to
prohibit the use of any street, road or highway in an unincorporated
residential subdivision area to commercial vehicles exceeding a gross weight of
fourteen thousand (14,000) pounds, the City Council shall by resolution direct
the City Engineer to erect and maintain signs indicating such prohibition.
      2.   Whenever the City Council determines, upon the basis of a traffic
engineering investigation, that the conditions for which a load limit was
established as provided in Subsection C.1. of this Section no longer exist, the
City Council shall by resolution direct the City Engineer to remove such weight
restriction signs.
10.28.090 Weight Limits on Bridges.
   A.   Whenever the City Council determines, upon the basis of a structural
engineering investigation, that the structure of a bridge on a highway is such
that it is unsafe for vehicles over a certain weight to use such bridge, the
City Council shall by resolution direct the City Engineer to place signs at
both entrances to such bridge specifying the maximum gross weight limits of any
vehicle or combination of vehicles which shall be permitted to cross such
bridge.
   B.   Whenever the City Council finds, because of rebuilding, repairing or
strengthening such bridge, that such weight limits are no longer necessary, the
City Council shall by resolution direct the City Engineer to remove such weight
limit signs from the entrances to such bridge.
10.28.100 Driving through Funeral Processions.
No driver of a vehicle shall drive between vehicles comprising a funeral
procession while they are in motion and when the vehicles in such procession
are conspicuously so designated.
10.28.110 Driving on New Pavement Prohibited.
No person shall ride or drive any animal or any vehicle over or across any
newly-made pavement or freshly painted marking on any street when a barrier or
sign is in place warning persons not to drive over or across such pavement or
marking or sign stating that the street or any portion thereof is closed.
10.28.120 Driving on Limited Access Roadway Prohibited.
No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any limited access roadway except
at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
10.28.130 Tampering with Traffic Survey Devices.
It is unlawful for any person to move, molest, tamper with or damage any survey
device used for the purpose of making traffic investigations located on any
City street.
10.28.140 Unauthorized Painting of Curbs.
No person, unless authorized by this City, shall paint any street or curb
surface, provided, however, that this Section shall not apply to the painting
of numbers on a curb surface by any person who has complied with the provisions
of any resolution or ordinance of this City pertaining thereto.
Chapter 10.30
BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Sections:
   
10.30.010   Definitions
   
10.30.020   Regulation of Operation of Motor Vehicles, including Motorcycles
and Off-road Vehicles
   
10.30.030   Motor Vehicle Operation - Off-road Dust Provision
   
10.30.040   Violation of Section
10.30.020 or
10.30.030 - Removal of Motor Vehicle
   
10.30.050   Exemptions
   
10.30.060   Permit Required; Application
   
10.30.070   Incorporation of Vehicle Code Art. 2.5 and Section 27150
   
10.30.080   Noise Level
   
10.30.090   Spark Arrester and Muffler
   
10.30.100   Exemptions
   
10.30.110   Riding on Motorcycles and Bicycles
   
10.30.120   Clinging to Moving Vehicles
10.30.010 Definitions.
As used in this Chapter, the following terms are defined:
   A.   “Off-road Vehicle” means any motor driven vehicle designed to be
utilized on other than improved roadways for recreational purposes such as, but
not limited to, dune buggies, motorcycles, “quads,” ATV’s and the like.
   B.   “Event” means any gathering of more than ten (10) off-road vehicles or
motorcycles for a recreational outing such as, but not limited to, hound and
hare races, rallies, closed course races, hill-climbs and enduro races.
10.30.020 Regulation of Operation of Motor Vehicles, including Motorcycles and
Off-road Vehicles.
No person shall drive any motor vehicle, including a motorcycle, motor driven
cycle or off-road vehicle, on any land belonging to or occupied by another
without having and, upon request of a peace officer, displaying written
permission from the owner of such land or his agent, or the person in lawful
possession thereof, provided that this Section shall not be applicable to
persons having visible or lawful business with said owner, agent or person in
lawful possession.
10.30.030 Motor Vehicle Operation - Off-road Dust Provision.
No person shall drive any motor vehicle, including a motorcycle, motor driven
cycle or off-road vehicle, on any land in such a manner as to create any dust
or dirt emission beyond any boundary line of the parcel upon which the off-road
vehicle is being operated.
10.30.040 Violation of Section 10.30.020 or 10.30.030 - Removal of Motor
Vehicle.
Any person who violates any provision of Section
10.30.020 or
10.30.030 of this Chapter is guilty of an infraction on the first violation. On
the second and any subsequent violation of the same Section, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor and may be arrested by any peace officer for such
violation. If such peace officer arrests a violator of Section
10.30.020 or
10.30.030, he may remove such motor vehicle from the private property. Within
two (2) working days of the removal of the motor vehicle, the removing agency
shall make all notification required to comply with Vehicle Code Section 22852.
10.30.050 Exemptions.
The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to the operation of vehicles
upon property used for raceways or racing facilities in accordance with a
license or permit issued by the City.
10.30.060 Permit Required; Application.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to organize, conduct
or participate in an off-road vehicle or motorcycle event within the corporate
limits of the City, unless a permit for such event has first been issued by the
City.
   B.   Applications for a permit to organize or conduct an off-road vehicle or
motorcycle event shall be in the form of a letter requesting permission to
organize and conduct an event. The letter shall describe the proposed event.
The City shall grant the permit if it determines that the event will apparently
be conducted in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, that the
proposed location will be desirable to the public convenience and welfare, that
the proposed operation will not create any undue fire hazard, and that such
operation is of sufficient distance from occupied areas so as not to cause
excessive noise, dust or fumes affecting the occupied areas. The City, upon
granting of said permit, may attach whatever conditions and terms are necessary
or appropriate to carry out the objectives stated in this Section.
10.30.070 Incorporation of Vehicle Code Art. 2.5 and Section 27150.
Cal. Vehicle Code, Art. 2.5 (commencing with § 27200) and Section 27150 are
incorporated by reference.
10.30.080 Noise Level.
No person shall operate a motor vehicle whose noise level is in excess of that
provided in Cal. Vehicle Code, Art. 2.5 (commencing with § 27200).
10.30.090 Spark Arrester and Muffler.
Any motor vehicle operated within the City shall be equipped with a spark
arrester and also with a muffler as defined in Vehicle Code Section 27150. No
person shall operate a motor vehicle unless it is so equipped with a spark
arrester and muffler.
10.30.100 Exemptions.
   A.   The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to operation of vehicles
upon property used for raceways or racing facilities in accordance with a
license or permit issued by the City.
   B.   The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply on land that is vacant
or unimproved private property unless that land is immediately adjacent and
contiguous to residential property, or enclosed by fence, or under cultivation,
or posted with signs forbidding trespass displayed at intervals of not less
than three (3) to a mile along all exterior boundaries and at all roads and
trails entering the private land.
10.30.110 Riding on Motorcycles and Bicycles.
No person shall ride upon a highway on either a motorcycle or bicycle on a
portion of said vehicle which is not specifically designed for the carrying of
passengers, nor shall any person operating a motorcycle or bicycle upon a
highway permit another to do so.
10.30.120 Clinging to Moving Vehicles.
It is unlawful for any person traveling upon any bicycle, motorcycle, motor
scooter or any moving vehicle of any nature whatever, on any public highway, to
cling to or attach himself or his vehicle to any other moving vehicle.
Chapter 10.32
BICYCLE LICENSING, REGISTRATION, IMPOUNDING AND FEES FOR SERVICE
Sections:
   
10.32.010   Definitions
   
10.32.020   License and Registration Required
   
10.32.030   Identification Card/Tag Issuance
   
10.32.040   Establishing of Fees
   
10.32.050   Dealer’s Records
   
10.32.060   Lost Records
   
10.32.070   Tampering with Bicycle Identification
   
10.32.080   Bicycle Impoundment
   
10.32.090   Bicycle Traffic Laws
10.32.010 Definitions.
For purpose of this Chapter, the following words and phrases are defined as
follows:
   A.   “Bicycle” is a device upon which any person may ride, propelled
exclusively by human power though a system of belts, chains, or gears, and
having either two (2) or three (3) wheels in a tandem or tricycle arrangement.
   B.   “Highway” is a way or place of whatever nature, maintained and open to
the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel. Highway includes
streets.
   C.   “Roadway” is that portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   D.   “Chief of Police” shall include his designated representative.
10.32.020 License and Registration Required.
   A.   No person in the City shall ride or propel any bicycle upon any street,
alley, park, bicycle path or lane, or other public place in the City which is
not registered and for which the appropriate license fee has not been paid or
which does not bear a license place or sticker as required by this Chapter, as
per Vehicle Code Section 39002.
   B.   The Adelanto Police Department shall license bicycles for persons
residing within the City. All applicants residing outside the City limits shall
be referred to their respective City or jurisdiction of residency.
   C.   Application for registration and licensing of bicycle shall be made by
the owner or person having control of such bicycle thereof to the Chief of
Police upon appropriate forms furnished by the Police Department. Such
application shall contain the name and address of the owner of person having
charge or control of such bicycle, the make and kind of bicycle, the factory
frame or serial number thereof and any other information or description which
is deemed necessary by the Chief of Police for purposes of identification and
for the transfer of ownership of such bicycle.
   D.   The Chief of Police shall keep a record of the registration and the
date of expiration of each license, to whom issued and the license number
thereof and such other information as he deems necessary for the identification
of bicycles and the enforcement of the provisions of this Chapter.
10.32.030 Identification Card/Tag Issuance.
Upon payment of the license fee provided by this Chapter, the Chief of Police
shall issue to the applicant a registration card containing the following
information:
   A.   The license number assigned to the applicant.
   B.   The applicant’s name and address.
   C.   Provisions for the transfer of ownership of said bicycle.
   D.   Brief description of the bicycle being registered.
      Said registration card shall be retained by the applicant as proof of
ownership and kept in a safe place. All license tags shall be renewed on
January 1st of the third year following the year of registration.
      Upon registration of any bicycle and the payment of the license fee
required by this Chapter, the Chief of Police shall issue to the applicant a
license tag bearing the unique number assigned to that bicycle by the State in
accordance with Vehicle Code Section 39001. This tag shall be affixed to the
frame of such bicycle in plain view below the seat thereof. Such license tag
shall remain on such bicycle and shall not be removed therefrom.
10.32.040 Establishing of Fees.
The fees required to be paid pursuant to this Chapter are as follows:
   A.   For a new license and registration, the sum of six dollars ($6.00) is
required.
   B.   For each transfer of ownership which requires a new registration card,
the sum of one dollar ($1.00) is required for each full year or pro rata share
of any one (1) year remaining on the original registration certificate or
license.
   C.   For replacement of a bicycle registration card or license tag lost,
stolen, destroyed, mutilated or illegible, the sum of one dollar ($1.00) is
required for each full year or pro rata share of any one (1) year remaining on
the original registration certificate or license.
   D.   For release of an impounded bicycle, the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) is
required.
      Revenues from fees collected shall be retained by the licensing City and
shall be used to meet costs and to improve bicycle safety programs within the
limits of the jurisdiction.
10.32.050 Dealer’s Records.
Every person engaged in the business of buying, trading or selling bicycles in
the City shall keep at his place of business a record of all bicycles, bought,
sold or rented by him, giving the date of such transaction, the name and
address of the person from whom purchased or traded, or to whom sold or rented,
a description of such bicycle by name and make, the frame or serial number, and
the number of the license tag attached thereto. Such record shall be maintained
in plain, legible handwriting in a bound book, which record shall be available
for inspection by members of the Police Department, giving the name, address
and telephone number of all persons buying, selling or trading bicycles at his
place of business, and the bicycle manufacture, type, frame number and bicycle
tag number if any.
10.32.060 Lost Records.
In the event that any identification card or tag is lost or stolen for any
bicycle registered pursuant to this Chapter and the owner or person having
charge or control of such bicycle furnishes satisfactory proof to the Chief of
Police of such loss or theft upon payment of the fee provided in Section
10.32.040, the Chief of Police shall issue a new identification card or tag. It
shall be the duty of any owner or person having charge or control of any
bicycle registered pursuant to this Chapter, to notify the Chief of Police
immediately of the loss or theft of such bicycle.
10.32.070 Tampering with Bicycle Identification.
It is unlawful for any person to remove, destroy, mutilate, tamper with or
alter the serial number on the frame of any bicycle, or the identification tag
affixed to the frame of any bicycle, or tamper with any identification card
registered pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter, provided, however, that
nothing herein shall prohibit the Chief of Police from placing numbers or
letters on frames of bicycles for purposes of identification.
10.32.080 Bicycle Impoundment.
The Chief of Police shall have the right to impound and retain possession of
any bicycle being operated in violation of the provisions described in this
Chapter and may retain possession of such bicycle until the provisions of such
Sections are complied with, and all fees provided by Section
10.32.040 are paid. If such bicycle is not claimed within three (3) months, it
shall be deemed to be abandoned. Any bicycle which has been so impounded and
held for three (3) months without redemption by or on behalf of the lawful
owner thereof shall, if saleable, be sold at such time and place to be
determined by the Chief of Police. If so determined by the Chief of Police
unredeemed bicycles complete with new registrations may be made available to
charitable groups for distribution.
When any bicycle so impounded bears the identification tag required by the
provisions of this Chapter, the impounding agency shall, within seven (7) days
after impoundment, send by regular mail a notification of impound addressed to
the registered owner at the registered address.
10.32.090 Bicycle Traffic Laws.
All laws to the provisions of the California Vehicle Code shall apply to the
operation of a bicycle, and any violations of said laws are punishable as
described in that Code. No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within
any business district, or on the sidewalk within any business district, or on
the sidewalk adjacent to any public school building, church, recreation center,
playground or over any pedestrian over crossing, or within any crosswalk.
Whenever a person is riding a bicycle on a sidewalk, such person shall yield
the right-of-way to any pedestrian; and when overtaking and passing a
pedestrian, shall give an audible signal. A person riding a bicycle off a
sidewalk and onto the roadway shall yield to all traffic on the roadway.
Chapter 10.34
SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES, INLINE SKATES AND OTHER SELF-POWERED WHEELED
DEVICES
Sections:
   
10.34.010   Operation of Devices Prohibited in Posted Private Property Within
Commercial and Industrial Zones
   
10.34.020   Operation of Devices Prohibited in Posted Public Property
   
10.34.030   Skateboarding Structures Prohibited on Public Property
   
10.34.040   Yielding the Right-of-Way
   
10.34.050   Attaching to Moving Objects Prohibited
   
10.34.060   Penalty for Violation
10.34.010 Operation of Devices Prohibited in Posted Private Property within
Commercial and Industrial Zones.
It is unlawful for any person to operate any self-powered wheeled device upon
private property located in any commercial or industrial zone in the City, so
long as such property is posted so as to give reasonable notice of such
prohibition. This section shall not apply to persons participating in any
events or classes sponsored by the property owner, in which the use of self-
powered wheeled devices are utilized, permitted or required.
[Ord. No. 484, Section 1, 1/28/09.]
10.34.020 Operation of Devices Prohibited in Posted Public Property.
It is unlawful for any person to operate any self-powered wheeled device, upon
any public property within the City where notice of such prohibition has been
posted. This section shall not apply to persons participating in any events or
classes sponsored by the City, in which the use of self- powered wheeled
devices are utilized, permitted or required.
[Ord. No. 484, Section 1, 1/28/09.]
10.34.030 Skateboarding Structures Prohibited on Public Property.
It is unlawful for any person to place any skateboard ramp, half pipe and/or
similar physical structure upon which skateboarding, skating and/or other self-
powered wheeled device is conducted, or which is used in conjunction with
skateboarding, skating and/or other self-powered wheeled device, upon any
public property, sidewalk, or any City, County, or State maintained roadway.
This section shall not apply to temporary and permanent structures as part of
any event sponsored by the City, in which the use of such structures has been
permitted, or are a part of an approved skating facility.
[Ord. No. 484, Section 1, 1/28/09.]
10.34.040 Yielding the Right-of-Way.
   A.   The driver of a motor vehicle, prior to driving over or upon any
sidewalk or public crosswalk, shall yield the right-of-way to any person riding
in, on or by means of a skateboard, roller skates, inline skates and other
self-powered wheeled devices.
   B.   Whenever any person is riding in, on or by means of a skateboard,
roller skates, inline skates and other self-powered wheeled devices on a public
sidewalk or public crosswalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian.
[Ord. No. 484, Section 1, 1/28/09.]
10.34.050 Attaching to Moving Objects Prohibited.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person riding a skateboard, roller skates,
inline skates and other self-powered wheeled devices, to attach to any moving
object, including but not limited to persons, bicycles, animals or motor
vehicles.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person operating a moving vehicle to permit any
person riding in, on or by means of a skateboard, roller skates, inline skates
and other self-powered wheeled devices, to attach to the motor vehicle while
the motor vehicle is in motion.
[Ord. No. 484, Section 1, 1/28/09.]
10.34.060 Penalty for Violation.
It is an infraction for any person to violate any provision, or fail to comply
with any of the requirements of this Chapter. Any person violating any
provision of this Chapter or failing to comply with any of its requirements
shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and as defined in Section
1.20.010 and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable by a fine not
exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first violation, two hundred
dollars ($200.00) for a second violation, and five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each additional violation within a one (1) year period. The fines in this
section may be amended by ordinance or resolution of the City Council.
[Ord. No. 484, Section 1, 1/28/09; Ord. No. 491, Section 28, 9/23/09.]
Chapter 10.36
TRIP REDUCTION AND TRAVEL DEMAND MANAGEMENT
Sections:
   
10.36.010   Purpose and Intent.
   
10.36.020   Requirements - Trip Reduction
   
10.36.030   Requirements - Travel Demand Management
10.36.010 Purpose and Intent.
   A.   The San Bernardino Associated Governments, as the Congestion Management
Agency for San Bernardino County, adopted the Congestion Management Program
(“CMP”) on November 4, 1992. The CMP requires each local jurisdiction to adopt
and implement a trip reduction and travel demand management ordinance that
provides alternative transportation methods. Failure to adopt an ordinance can
result in loss of Proposition III gas tax funds by being found in non-
compliance with the CMP.
   B.   The trip reduction and travel demand management ordinance is intended
to satisfy the legal requirements of Chapter 6 of the CMP.
10.36.020 Requirements - Trip Reduction.
As an employer of one hundred (100) or more employees, the City has conducted
and compiled an employee survey that provides a data base for implementing the
City’s ride-share program. The employee survey further provided data to the
Mojave Desert Air Quality Management District to be used to measure the
effectiveness of trip reduction as a means to reduce vehicle emissions in the
southeast Desert Air Basin. This data will be used to assist in the District’s
determination whether or not to implement Rule 1701, Employer Based Trip
Reduction.
10.36.030 Requirements - Travel Demand Management.
   A.   Travel demand management involves the implementation of strategies and
programs which reduce traffic congestion, vehicle miles traveled (“VMT”), and/
or vehicle trips (“VT”), which result in reduction in mobile source emissions.
The following are measures being implemented by the City. Control measures
implemented by the City prior to being improved by any other regulatory agency
will result in the City achieving credit for trip reductions and corresponding
improvements in the roadway and intersection level of service (“LOS”) on the
City’s CMP network.
   B.   Measures Presently Implemented by the City.
      1.   Transit/Multiple Occupancy Vehicle Service.
         a.   The City is a member of the Victor Valley Transit Services
Authority (“VVTSA”), which provides multiple occupancy vehicle service to the
City. Approximately nine hundred fifteen (915) miles of roads are serviced by
the current route, with monthly ridership in excess of twenty thousand
(20,000). The availability of this service reduces traffic congestion, VMT and
VT. The fixed-route network will be periodically evaluated to determine
appropriate revisions and expansion based upon new development and levels of
ridership. The City, with the VVTSA, has promoted the use of this service
through various public information measures. These include:
            (1)   Television commercials on local television and radio
stations;
            (2)   Appearance by the transit manager on local television and
radio talk shows, and at community group meetings;
            (3)   Availability of bus schedules at various City locations,
including City Hall and other places of public assembly; and
            (4)   Notification of City residents of the service through the
City newsletter and quarterly recreation and park district newsletter.
               The City will continue to encourage public information programs
which promote the use of alternate modes of transportation.
         b.   Bus/Multiple Occupancy Vehicle Turnouts. Bus turnouts are
required to be designed and installed as a condition of approval for new
developments which are likely to generate significant quantities of arriving/
departing traffic. These turnouts are provided to accommodate existing bus
service routes and to encourage the expansion of service to new developments.
      2.   Bicycle Program. The City adopted Ordinance 130 establishing a City-
wide bicycle trail system and associated design standards. The purpose of the
system is to establish a long range plan for the City that will encourage the
development and use of bicycles for commuter-oriented transportation. The City
is an active participant in the Bicycle Plan Advisory Committee, a standing
committee of SANBAG, that is pursuing the establishment of a regional bicycle
transportation network.
      3.   Promotion of Land Use Regulations.
         a.   Amend Zoning Regulations. The City has adopted Ordinance 126
which established a service commercial (C-3) zone district. This district
broadens the number and types of retail and service uses that are allowed in
areas with proximity to the industrial area with a high concentration of
daytime employees. This zoning amendment benefits the reduction of VT and VMT
by providing convenient access to vital consumer services and products to
industrial employees.
         b.   Encourage Mixed-use Development. The City encourages the
implementation of master-planned mixed-use developments as evidenced by the
approval of the ten thousand (10,000) acre Rancho Las Flores planned
development and by the planned mix-use general plan designation of over two
thousand (2,000) acres of land contained within the City’s current corporate
boundaries. These mixed-use developments facilitate optimum VT and VMT ratios
by such measures as residential density clustering, planned proximity to work
places and commerce and by encouraging efficient roadway infrastructure as well
as alternative transit infrastructure.
      4.   Traffic Flow Improvements.
         a.   Traffic Signals.
            (1)   Traffic Signal Coordination. Existing and new traffic signals
are being coordinated to increase uninterrupted vehicle travel.
            (2)   Traffic Signal Timing. Existing and new traffic signals are
periodically evaluated to ensure cycle times are optimal for traffic movement.
            (3)   Traffic signal improvements are being used to increase
roadway efficiency and capacity during peak travel periods, resulting in
improved vehicle movement.
         b.   Modification to Vehicle Travel Lanes. The City reviews new
developments to determine if additional travel lanes for acceleration/
deceleration purposes are needed. This is required at major street
intersections and/or major street entrance(s) to development projects.
      5.   Trip Reduction Ordinance. The City participated in the preparation
of the Mojave Desert Air Quality Management District’s Rule 1701, Employer
Based Trip Reduction. This Rule encourages participation in home-to-work
commute alternatives by employers with one hundred (100) or more employees,
when thirty-three (33) or more arrive to work sites during the peak travel
period. The district is currently evaluating the effectiveness of the Rule in
terms of emission reduction. The City will cooperate with the district during
this evaluation period; and if the Rule is implemented by the district, the
City will work to implement a trip reduction ordinance for its employees.
Chapter 10.38
IMPOUNDED/STORED VEHICLES/TRAFFIC OFFENDER FUND
Sections:
   
10.38.010   Authorization of Fee
   
10.38.020   Acts Subject to Recovery
   
10.38.030   Waiver of Fee
   
10.38.040   Establishing of Fee
   
10.38.050   Traffic Offender Fund
   
10.38.060   Expenditure of Monies
10.38.010 Authorization of Fee.
The owner of any vehicle towed under the direction of the Adelanto Police
Department or City of Adelanto Code Enforcement Officers pursuant to Vehicle
Code Section 22651(h), 22651(k), 22651(o), 22651(p), 22655.5 or 14602.6, shall
be required to pay an administrative fee for the release of said vehicle(s).
10.38.020 Acts Subject to Recovery.
   A.   When a vehicle is parked or left standing upon a highway for seventy-
two (72) or more hours in violation of a local ordinance authorizing removal
and after adequate warning has been posted on the vehicle.
   B.   When a vehicle is found upon a highway, any public lands or an off-
street parking facility with a registration expiration date in excess of six
(6) months before the date it is found.
   C.   When an officer issues the driver of a vehicle a notice to appear for
being unlicensed or driving on a suspended or revoked license.
   D.   When an officer arrests any person driving or in control of a vehicle
for an alleged offense and the officer is, by this Code or other law, permitted
to take, and does take the person into custody.
   E.   When a vehicle is taken as evidence in/of a crime and the vehicle was
used by the alleged perpetrator of the crime with the express or implied
permission of the owner of the vehicle.
10.38.030 Waiver of Fee.
   A.   This fee may be waived by authorization of the Police Department upon
receipt of verifiable proof that the vehicle in question was reported stolen at
the time the vehicle was removed or was involved in a collision.
   B.   Pursuant to Vehicle Code Section 22852, the registered and legal owner
(s) of a towed vehicle in the circumstances stated in Section 10.38.020 are to
be provided an opportunity for a hearing before the Chief of Police or his
appointed representative to determine the validity of the vehicle storage
resulting from the tow. If the hearing determines the storage to be unlawful,
the storing agency will be responsible for the towing and storage charges.
10.38.040 Establishing of Fee.
The administrative fee for vehicle processing/release, other than vehicles that
were taken as a result of Vehicle Code Sections 23152(a) and 23152(b), is fixed
at one hundred twelve dollars ($112.00). The administrative fee for vehicle
processing/release for vehicles taken as a result of the above listed Vehicle
Code Sections is fixed at one hundred sixty-eight dollars ($168.00). These fees
are subject to adjustment by action of the City Council.
10.38.050 Traffic Offender Fund.
A fund has been created for the purpose of traffic safety within the City of
Adelanto. This fund will be known as the “Traffic Offender Fund.” This fund is
created for the purposes of receiving and expending fees collected pursuant to
Section
10.38.040.
10.38.060 Expenditure of Monies.
The appropriation of all monies in the Traffic Offender Fund shall be made for
the purposes of traffic safety programs within the City of Adelanto. The
traffic safety program shall include the enforcement of, education of and
prosecution of a suspended or revoked driving privilege, unlicensed driver and
persons driving under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs. Expenditures shall
include, but are not limited to the following:
   A.   Purchase of equipment.
   B.   Contractual services.
   C.   Material and supplies.
   D.   Any other expenditure related to traffic safety and the enforcement of
traffic laws.
      The administration of the fund shall conform to this Code and all
accounting principals practiced by the City. The balance remaining in the
Traffic Offender Fund at the close of any fiscal year shall be deemed to have
been provided for a specific purpose and shall be carried forward and
accumulated in said fund for the purposes set forth herein.
Chapter 10.40
ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS
Sections:
   
10.40.010   Purpose
   
10.40.020   Definitions
   
10.40.030   Expedited Permitting Process
   
10.40.040   Permit Application Processing
   
10.40.050   Technical Review
   
10.40.060   Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Installation Requirements
10.40.010   Purpose.
The purpose of this Chapter is to promote and encourage the use of electric
vehicles by creating an expedited and streamlined permitting process for
electric vehicle charging stations.
[Ord. No. 614, § 3, 7/8/20.]
10.40.020 Definitions
   A.   "Electric Vehicle Charging Station" or "Charging Station" means any
level of electric vehicle supply equipment station that is designed and built
in compliance with Article 625 of the California Electrical Code, as it reads
on the effective date of this Chapter, and delivers electricity from a source
outside an electric vehicle into a plug-in electric vehicle.
   B.   "Specific Adverse Impact" means a significant, quantifiable, direct and
unavoidable impact, based on objective, identified and written public health or
safety standards, policies or conditions as they existed on the date the
application was deemed complete.
   C.   "Electronic Submittal" means the utilization of one or more of the
following:
      1.   Electronic mail or email
      2.   The internet.
      3.   Facsimile.
[Ord. No. 614, § 3, 7/8/20.]
10.40.030   Expedited Permitting Process.
Consistent with Government Code 65850.7, the Building Official shall implement
an expedited, streamlined permitting process for electric vehicle charging
stations, and adopt a checklist of all requirements with which electric vehicle
charging stations shall comply with in order to be eligible for expedited
review. The expedited, streamlined permitting process and checklist may refer
to the recommendations contained in the most current version of the "Plug-in
Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Permitting Checklist" or the "Zero-Emission
Vehicles in California Community Readiness Guidebook," as published by the
Governor's Office of Planning and Research. The City's adopted checklist shall
be published on the City's website.
[Ord. No. 614, § 3, 7/8/20.]
10.40.040   Permit Application Processing.
   A.   Prior to submitting an application for processing, the applicant shall
verify that the installation of an electric vehicle charging station will not
have specific, adverse impact to public health and safety and building
occupants. Verification by the applicant includes, but is not limited to:
electrical system capacity and loads; electrical system wiring, bonding and
overcurrent protections; building infrastructure affected by the charging
stations equipment and associated conduits; and areas of charging station
equipment and vehicle parking.
   B.   A permit application that satisfies the information requirements in the
City's adopted checklist shall be deemed complete and be promptly processed.
Upon confirmation by the Building Official that the permit application and
supporting documents meet the requirements of the City's adopted checklist, and
is consistent with Government Code Section 65850.7, the Building Official shall
approve the application and issue all necessary permits. Such approval does not
authorize an applicant to energize or utilize the electric vehicle charging
station until approval is granted by the City. If the Building Official
determines that the permit application is incomplete, he or she shall issue a
written correction notice to the applicant, detailing all deficiencies in the
application and any additional information required to be eligible for the
expedited permit issuance.
   C.   Consistent with Government Code Section 65850.7, the Building Official
shall allow for electronic submittal of permit applications covered by this
Ordinance and associate documentation. In accepting such permit applications,
the Building Official shall also accept electronic signatures on all forms,
applications and other documentation in lieu of wet signature by any applicant.
[Ord. No. 614, § 3, 7/8/20.]
10.40.050   Technical Review.
   A.   It is the intend of this Chapter to encourage the installation of
electric vehicle charging stations by removing obstacles to permitting for
charging stations so long as the action does not supersede the Building
Official's authority to address higher priority life-safety situations. If the
Building Official makes a finding based on substantial evidence that the
electric vehicle charging station could have a specific adverse impact upon the
public health or safety, as defined in this Chapter, the City may require the
applicant to apply for a use permit.
   B.   If the technical review of the charging station, consistent with
Government Code Section 65850.7, the Building Official shall not condition the
approval for any electric vehicle charging station permit on the approval of
such a system by an association, as that term is defined under Civil Code
Section 4080.
[Ord. No. 614, § 3, 7/8/20.]
10.40.060   Electric Vehicle Charging Station Installation Requirements.
   A.   Electric vehicle charging station equipment shall meet the requirements
of the California Electrical Code, the Society of Automotive Engineers, the
National Electrical Manufacturer's Association and accredited testing
laboratories such as Underwriters Laboratories and the rules of the Public
Utilities Commission or a Municipal Electric Utility Company regarding safety
and reliability.
   B.   Installation of electric vehicle charging stations and associated
wiring, bonding, disconnecting means and overcurrent protective devices shall
meet the requirements of Article 625 and all applicable provisions of the
California Electrical Code.
   C.   Installation of electric vehicle charging stations shall be
incorporated into the load calculations of all new or existing electrical
services and shall meet the requirements of the California Electrical Code.
Electric charging vehicle equipment shall be considered a continuous load.
   D.   Anchorage of either floor-mounted or wall-mounted electric vehicle
charging stations shall meet the requirements of the California Building or
Residential Code as application per occupancy stations shall not adversely
affect building elements.
[Ord. No. 614, § 3, 7/8/20.]
TITLE 11
RESERVED
TITLE 12
RESERVED
TITLE 13
STREETS, SIDEWALKS & PUBLIC UTILITIES
Chapters:
   
13.05   Underground Utility Lines
   
13.10   Underground Utility Facilities
   
13.15   Street Naming and Numbering
   
13.20   Vehicular and Pedestrian Circulation Standards
   
13.25   Encroachment Permits - General Provisions
   
13.30   Construction Permits
   
13.35   Equipment Moving Permits
   
13.40   Excavation Permits
   
13.45   Filming and Video Taping Permits
   
13.50   Moving Permit Regulations
   
13.55   Blinker Lights Regulations
   
13.60   Newsracks
   
13.65   Parades and Processions
   
13.70   Banners
Chapter 13.05
UNDERGROUND UTILITY LINES
Sections:
   
13.05.010   Definitions
   
13.05.020   When Underground Installation Required
   
13.05.030   Undergrounding of New Facilities
   
13.05.040   Exceptions
   
13.05.050   Temporary Utilities
   
13.05.060   Above Ground Appurtenant Equipment
   
13.05.070   In-Lieu Deposits
13.05.010 Definitions.
   A.   “Service Lines” are defined for the purposes of this Chapter as those
electrical, telephone, cable or other utility conductors that extend from the
"distribution lines" to the building, structure or improvement which consumes
or uses the utility service.
   B.   “Distribution Lines” are defined for the purposes of this Chapter as
those electrical utility conductors which are energized at thirty-four thousand
five hundred (34,500) volts or less, telephone, cable or other utility lines
that supply utility product to “service lines.”
   C.   “Development” is defined for the purposes of this Chapter as the
construction or the enlargement of any primary use building.
13.05.020 When Underground Installation Required.
Except as provided in Section
13.05.040, underground installation is required for all electrical lines
energized at twenty-four thousand five hundred (24,500) volts or less,
telephone, cable, antenna television and similar service wires or cables which:
   A.   Provide direct service to the property being developed; or
   B.   Are existing and located within the boundaries being developed; or
   C.   Are existing between the property line and the centerline of the
peripheral streets of the property being developed; or
   D.   Are located along or within six (6) feet of the lot lines of the
property being developed; or
   E.   Are located within the existing or required right-of-way for the
project; or
   F.   Are located as a result of a project.
13.05.030 Undergrounding of New Facilities.
Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, all new service and distribution
lines shall be constructed underground.
13.05.040 Exceptions.
   A.   The following exceptions shall apply, when and only when, a property
owner signs an agreement agreeing not to protest the formation of a municipal
underground utility district and further agreeing to prepare said property to
accept underground utility lines in accordance with the applicable rules of the
utility involved. Said agreement shall be recorded as an encumbrance against
the land.
      1.   Existing overhead distribution lines will be permitted to remain in
areas where these distribution lines have existing overhead service lines to
adjacent lots.
      2.   Existing overhead distribution lines will be permitted to remain for
developments consisting of three (3) lots or less that do not exceed six
hundred (600) feet of frontage.
   B.   The enlargement of fifty percent (50%) or less of the total square
footage of industrial or commercial buildings shall not be subject to any of
the requirements of this Chapter.
13.05.050 Temporary Utilities.
Temporary utilities along with the necessary poles, wires and cables may be
permitted for the period during which a valid building permit has been issued
or for temporary uses which comply with the requirements of the zoning
ordinance, building code and other applicable regulations.
13.05.060 Above Ground Appurtenant Equipment.
Appurtenances and associated equipment including, but not limited to, surface
mounted transformers and switches, pedestal mounted terminal boxes and meter
cabinets, and concealed ducts in an underground system may be placed above
ground unless the project is conditioned otherwise. Utility service poles may
be placed in the area within six (6) feet of the rear lot line of the property
to be developed where overhead lines exist for the sole purpose of terminating
underground facilities.
13.05.070 In-Lieu Deposits.
If technology or economics of scale require or permit a delay in the
underground installation required in the application of this Chapter, then the
cost of undergrounding shall be estimated by the City; and a cash deposit in
the estimated amount shall be deposited with the City. This cash deposit shall
be placed into an underground utility fund and used solely for the purpose of
undergrounding distribution lines as required by this Chapter throughout the
City.
Chapter 13.10
UNDERGROUND UTILITY FACILITIES
Sections:
   
13.10.010   Purpose and Intent
   
13.10.020   Definitions
   
13.10.030   Public Hearing
   
13.10.040   Designation of Districts by Resolution
   
13.10.050   Unlawful Acts
   
13.10.060   Emergency or Unusual Circumstances
   
13.10.070   Exceptions
   
13.10.080   Notice to Property Owners and Utility Companies
   
13.10.090   Responsibility of Utility Companies
   
13.10.100   Property Owner Responsibility
   
13.10.110   Service of Notice
   
13.10.120   Contents of Notice
   
13.10.130   Failure to Provide Facilities - Work Completion - Report - Hearing
   
13.10.140   Hearing - Notice
   
13.10.150   Hearing - City Council Decision
   
13.10.160   Assessment - Lien
   
13.10.170   Responsibility of City
   
13.10.180   Extension of Time
   13.10.190   Underground Utility District No. 1
13.10.010 Purpose and Intent.
It is the purpose and intent of this Chapter to provide for the orderly removal
of existing overhead facilities and the construction of new underground
facilities by providing a procedure by which the Council may create an
underground utility district upon finding that it is in the public interest to
do so.
13.10.020 Definitions.
Wherever in this Chapter the words or phrases hereinafter in this Section
defined are used, they shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in
the following definitions:
   A.   “Commission” means the Public Utilities Commission of the State of
California.
   B.   “Person” means and includes individuals, firms, corporations,
partnerships, and their agents and employees;
   C.   “Poles, Overhead Wires and Associated Overhead Structures” means poles,
towers, supports, wires, conductors, guys, stubs, platforms, crossarms, braces,
transformers, insulators, cutouts, switches, communication circuits,
appliances, attachments and appurtenances located above ground within a
district and used or useful in supplying electric, communication or similar or
associated service;
   D.   “Underground Utility District” or “District” means that area in the
City within which poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures are
prohibited as such area is described in a resolution adopted pursuant to the
provisions of Section 
13.10.040.
   E.   “Utility” includes all persons or entities supplying electric,
communication or similar or associated service by means of electrical materials
or devices.
13.10.030 Public Hearing.
   A.   The City Council may from time to time call public hearings to
ascertain whether the public necessity, health, safety or welfare requires the
removal of poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures within
designated areas of the City and the underground installation of wires and
facilities for supplying electric, communication or similar or associated
service. The City Clerk shall notify all affected property owners as shown on
the last equalized assessment roll and utilities concerned by mail of the time
and place of such hearings at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date
thereof. Each such hearing shall be open to the public and may be continued
from time to time. At each such hearing, all persons interested shall be given
an opportunity to be heard. The decision of the City Council shall be final and
conclusive.
   B.   Prior to holding such public hearing, the City Engineer shall consult
with all affected utilities and shall prepare a report for submission at such
hearing containing, among other information, the extent of such utilities’
participation and estimates of the total costs to the City and affected
property owners. Such reports shall contain an estimate of the time required to
complete such underground installation and removal of overhead facilities.
13.10.040 Designation of Districts by Resolution.
If, after any such public hearing, the City Council finds that the public
necessity, health, safety or welfare requires such removal and such underground
installation within a designated area, the City Council shall, by resolution,
declare such designated area an underground utility district and include a
description of the area comprising such district and shall fix the time within
which such removal and underground installation shall be accomplished and
within which affected property owners must be ready to receive underground
service. A reasonable time shall be allowed for such removal and underground
installation, having due regard for the availability of labor, materials and
equipment necessary for such removal and for the installation of such
underground facilities as may be occasioned thereby.
13.10.050 Unlawful Acts.
Whenever the City Council creates an underground utility district and orders
the removal of poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures therein
as provided in Section
13.10.040, it is unlawful for any person or utility to erect, construct, place,
keep, maintain, continue, employ or operate poles, overhead wires and
associated overhead structures in the district after the date when said
overhead facilities are required to be removed by such resolution, except as
said overhead facilities may be required to furnish service to an owner or
occupant of property prior to the performance by such owner or occupant of the
underground work necessary for such owner or occupant to continue to receive
utility service as provided in Sections
13.10.100 through
13.10.160, and for such reasonable time required to remove said facilities
after said work has been performed, and except as otherwise provided in this
Chapter.
13.10.060 Emergency or Unusual Circumstances.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Chapter, overhead facilities may be
installed and maintained for a period, not to exceed ten (1) days, without
authority of the City Council in order to provide emergency service. The City
Council may grant special permission, on such terms as the City Council may
deem appropriate, in cases of unusual circumstances, without discrimination as
to any person or utility, to erect, construct, install, maintain, use or
operate poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures.
13.10.070 Exceptions.
In any resolution adopted pursuant to Section
13.10.040, the City may authorize any or all of the following exceptions:
   A.   Any municipal facilities or equipment installed under the supervision
and to the satisfaction of the City Engineer;
   B.   Poles or electroliers used exclusively for street lighting;
   C.   Overhead wires (exclusive of supporting structures) crossing any
portion of a district within which overhead wires have been prohibited or
connecting to buildings on the perimeter of a district, when such wires
originate in an area from which poles, overhead wires and associates overhead
structures are not prohibited;
   D.   Poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures used for the
transmission of electric energy at nominal voltages in excess of thirty-four
thousand five hundred (34,500) volts;
   E.   Overhead wires attached to the exterior surface of a building by means
of a bracket or other fixture and extending from one (1) location on the
building to another location of the same building or to an adjacent building
without crossing any public street;
   F.   Antennae, associated equipment and supporting structures, used by a
utility for furnishing communication services;
   G.   Equipment appurtenant to underground facilities, such as surface
mounted transformers and switches, pedestal mounted terminal boxes and meter
cabinets and concealed ducts;
   H.   Temporary poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures used
or to be used in conjunction with construction projects.
13.10.080 Notice to Property Owners and Utility Companies.
   A.   Within thirty (30) days after the effective date of a resolution
adopted pursuant to Section
13.10.040, the City Clerk shall notify all affected utilities and all persons
owning real property within the district created by said resolution of the
adoption thereof. The City Clerk shall further notify such affected property
owners of the necessity that, if they or any person occupying such property
desire to continue to receive electric, communication, or similar or associated
service, they or such occupant, shall provide all necessary facility changes on
their premises so as to receive such service from the lines of the supplying
utility or utilities at a new location.
   B.   Notification by the City Clerk shall be made by mailing a copy of the
resolution adopted pursuant to Section
13.10.040, together with a copy of this Chapter, to affected property owners as
such are shown on the last equalized assessment roll and to the affected
utilities.
13.10.090 Responsibility of Utility Companies.
If underground construction is necessary to provide utility service within a
district created by any resolution adopted pursuant to Section
13.10.040, the supplying utility shall furnish that portion of the conduits,
conductors and associated equipment required to be furnished by it under its
applicable rules, regulations and tariffs on file with the commission.
13.10.100 Property Owner Responsibility.
Every person owning, operating, leasing, occupying or renting a building or
structure within a district shall construct and provide that portion of the
service connection on his property between the facilities referred to in
Section
13.10.090 and the termination facility on or within said building or structure
being served. If the above is not accomplished by any person within the time
provided for in the resolution enacted pursuant to Section
13.10.040, the City Engineer shall give notice in writing to the owner thereof
as shown on the last equalized assessment roll to provide the required
underground facilities within thirty (30) days after receipt of such notice.
13.10.110 Service of Notice.
The notice to provide the required underground facilities may be given either
by personal service or by mail. In case of service by mail, the notice must be
deposited in the United States mail in a sealed envelope with postage prepaid,
addressed to the person in possession of such premises at such premises; and
the notice must be addressed to the owner thereof as such owner’s name appears
and must be addressed to such owner’s last known address as the same appears on
the last equalized assessment roll, and when no address appears, to General
Delivery, City of Adelanto. If notice is given by mail, such notice shall be
deemed to have been received by the person to whom it has been sent within
forty-eight (48) hours after the mailing thereof. If notice is given by mail to
either the owner or occupant of such premises, the City Engineer shall, within
forty-eight (48) hours after the mailing thereof, cause a copy thereof, printed
on a card not less than eight (8) inches by ten (10) inches in size, to be
posted in a conspicuous place on said premises.
13.10.120 Contents of Notice.
The notice given by the City Engineer to provide the required underground
facilities shall particularly specify what work is required to be done and
shall state that if said work is not completed within thirty (30) days after
receipt of such notice, the City Engineer will provide such required
underground facilities, in which case the cost and expense thereof will be
assessed against the property benefitted and become a lien upon such property.
13.10.130 Failure to Provide Facilities - Work Completion - Report - Hearing.
If upon expiration of the thirty (30) day period the said required underground
facilities have not been provided, the City Engineer shall forthwith proceed to
do the work with his own force or may let a contract for the work, provided
however, if such premises are unoccupied and no electric or communications
services are being furnished thereto, the City Engineer shall in lieu of
providing the required underground facilities, have the authority to order the
disconnection and removal of any and all overhead service wires and associated
facilities supplying utility service to said property. Upon completion of the
work by the City Engineer, the City Engineer shall file a written report with
the City Council setting forth the fact that the required underground
facilities have been provided and the cost thereof, together with a legal
description of the property against which such cost is to be assessed. The City
Council shall thereupon fix a time and place for hearing protests against the
assessment of the cost of such work upon such premises, which said time shall
not be less than ten (10) days thereafter.
13.10.140 Hearing - Notice.
The City Engineer shall forthwith, upon the time for hearing such protests
having been fixed, give a notice in writing to the person in possession of such
premises, and a notice in writing thereof to the owner thereof, in the manner
hereinabove provided for the giving of the notice to provide the required
underground facilities, of the time and place that the City Council will pass
upon such report and will hear protests against such assessment. Such notice
shall also set forth the amount of the proposed assessment.
13.10.150 Hearing - City Council Decision.
Upon the date and hour set for the hearing of protests, the City Council shall
hear and consider the report and all protests, if there be any, and then
proceed to affirm, modify or reject the assessment.
13.10.160 Assessment - Lien.
If any assessment is not paid within ten (10) days after its confirmation by
the City Council, the amount of the assessment shall become a lien upon the
property against which the assessment is made by the City Engineer; and the
City Engineer is directed to turn over to the assessor and tax collector a
notice of lien on each of said properties on which the assessment has not been
paid, and the assessor and tax collector shall add the amount of said
assessment to the next regular bill for taxes levied against the premises upon
which said assessment was not paid. Said assessment shall be due and payable at
the same time as said property taxes are due and payable, and if not paid when
due and payable, shall bear interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per
annum.
13.10.170 Responsibility of City.
The City shall remove at its own expense all City-owned equipment from all
poles required to be removed hereunder in ample time to enable the owner or
user of such poles to remove the same within the time specified in the
resolution enacted pursuant to Section
13.10.040.
13.10.180 Extension of Time.
In the event that any act required by this Chapter or by a resolution adopted
pursuant to Section
13.10.040 cannot be performed within the time provided on account of shortage
of materials, war, restraint by public authorities, strikes, labor
disturbances, civil disobedience or any other circumstances beyond the control
of the actor, then the time within which such act will be accomplished shall be
extended for a period equivalent to the time of such limitation.
13.10.190   Underground Utility District No. 1.
The following area shall constitute and be known as the Adelanto Underground
Utility District No. 1: That portion of a strip of land along the easterly
sixty-two (62) feet of the S1/2 of the NE1/4 of Section 21 Township 5 N 5W,
beginning at a point at the intersecting centerlines Palmdale Road (Highway 18)
and Highway 395, thence northerly along the Highway 395 to a point at the
intersection of the centerlines of Begonia Street and Highway 395.
[Ord. No. 478, § 1, 8/27/08]
Chapter 13.15
STREET NAMING AND NUMBERING
Sections:
   
13.15.010   Street Numbering Requirements
   
13.15.020   Authority and Duty of City Engineer
   
13.15.030   Responsibility; Designation; Location; Size; Maintenance; Change
and Removal
   
13.15.040   Odd and Even Numbers
   
13.15.050   Multiple Occupancy
   
13.15.060   Designation of Numbers
   
13.15.070   Street Address Map
   
13.15.080   Numbering at Owner’s Expense
   
13.15.090   Prerequisite for Building Ownership or Occupancy
   
13.15.100   Procedure for Changing Names of Public Streets and Private
Easements
   
13.15.110   Change of Name - Petition
   
13.15.120   Change of Name - Resolution
   
13.15.130   Change of Name - Protest
   
13.15.140   Definition
13.15.010 Street Numbering Requirements.
Every person exercising or having ownership, possession, custody, control or
charge of any building, structure or parking lot within the City of Adelanto,
shall have and maintain thereon, in accordance with a system of street
numbering prepared and maintained by the City Engineer of the City of Adelanto,
near or upon each entrance from a public street, private easement, or right-of-
way, in the manner and location designated by the City Engineer, a street
address number.
13.15.020 Authority and Duty of City Engineer.
The City Engineer shall have the authority and duty to establish street address
numbers expressed in Arabic numerals or figures and, notwithstanding street
address numbers located on street curbs, to prescribe their location on
buildings, structures and parking lots and to order installation, change,
substitution and removal of all such numbers to fulfill the provisions of this
Chapter.
13.15.030 Responsibility; Designation; Location; Size; Maintenance; Change and
Removal.
   A.   Responsibility to Install. Installation, change, substitution or
removal of any existing or subsequently designated street address numbers shall
be completed within five (5) days after receipt by the owner, occupant, lessee,
tenant, sub-tenant, fiduciary or custodian of such building, structure or
parking lot, or any person or agent in charge therefor, from the City Engineer.
   B.   Size. The minimum dimensions of any street address number designated by
the City Engineer on or after July 1, 1974, shall be as follows:
      1.   The height in inches of any number or figure therein shall not be
less than four (4) inches in height.
      2.   The width of any portion of a figure in or comprising the number
shall not exceed one-tenth (1/10) of its height.
   C.   Design. Design (including shape and style), as well as location of the
street address numbers, shall be such that they are legible and easily
readable. The City Engineer may prescribe a street address number larger in
size than the dimension stated in Subsection B. hereinabove, if he determines
that due to lighting conditions, building locations, shadows, background or
other reasons, the street address numbers of minimum dimensions will not be
easily readable from the street or approach to the entrance. A street address
number of unusual design or placement may not be employed without the prior
written approval of the City Engineer.
   D.   Rules and Regulations. The City Engineer shall adopt such reasonable
rules and regulations as are necessary to implement the street address numbers
provided for in this Chapter.
13.15.040 Odd and Even Numbers.
The street address numbers on the northerly and westerly sides of each street
shall be even numbers. The street address numbers on the southerly and easterly
sides of each street shall be odd numbers.
13.15.050 Multiple Occupancy.
If any building is separately occupied by two (2) or more families or
businesses and said building is provided with separate entrances opening to the
street, each of said entrances shall be separately numbered.
13.15.060 Designation of Numbers.
The City Engineer or his authorized representative shall, upon application,
designate a number for any building, structure or parking lot within the City
in accordance with the system of numbering as prepared and maintained by the
City Engineer.
13.15.070 Street Address Map.
   A.   Compiling and Filing. The City Engineer is authorized and directed to
compile a map or series of maps of the City, showing the official number of
each such building, lot, parcel or other holding and the same is designated and
entitled "street numbering map" and such map or series of maps shall be kept on
file as public record in the offices of the City.
   B.   Approval by City Council. The street numbering system and “street
numbering map” shall not be effective and applicable until approved by the City
Council by resolution. Said street numbering system and street numbering map
shall not be changed or modified by the City Engineer prior to the approval
thereof by the City Council resolution.
13.15.080 Numbering at Owner’s Expense.
The owner, occupant, lessee, tenant, sub-tenant, fiduciary or custodian of such
building, structure or parking lot, or any person or agent in charge thereof,
who has received written notice containing appropriate instructions for street
numbering designations, shall perform such street numbering at his own expense.
13.15.090 Prerequisite for Building Ownership or Occupancy.
It is unlawful for any person to own or occupy in the City any building,
structure or parking lot which fronts on a street without a proper number being
placed thereon, as required by this Chapter. All streets, including all such
private easements existing as of the effective date of this Chapter, shall be
named in accordance with a City resolution, which shall establish names for
such existing private easements and public streets, and a list of names for
such public streets and private easements to be created in the future and the
criteria for the application thereof. It shall be unlawful for any person to
name or attempt to name any such public street or private easement, regardless
of how it was established, with a name other than that name provided for such
public street or private easement by the City Council resolution adopted
pursuant to this Chapter. It shall further be unlawful for any person to use
for any such public street or private easement a name, which is different from
the name established for such public street or private easement by said City
Council resolution.
13.15.100 Procedure for Changing Names of Public Streets and Private Easements.
Whenever in the judgment of the City Council, the public interest or
convenience shall require that the name of any public street or private
easement be changed, in order to eliminate a duplication of names, or for any
other good or sufficient reason, the City Council may by resolution change the
name or names of any such public street or private easement forthwith, or may
order that the name of any such street be changed in the manner and at the time
hereinafter provided.
13.15.110 Change of Name - Petition.
The owners of lots and land fronting on any public street or private easement
in the City, or the duly authorized agents, may file with the City Clerk a
written petition addressed to the City Council, requesting that the name of any
street or private easement upon which the lots and lands of said petitioners
front be changed. Every such petition must be signed by the owner or the duly
authorized agent of such owner, and must give the legal or other sufficient
description of the property for which he signs, and the number of feet frontage
owned by him or for which he is a duly authorized agent, and the post office
address of the signer thereof. Every such petition must state the reasons for
any such proposed change of name and may suggest one (1) or more names
satisfactory to said petitioners for any such public street or private
easement. The City Clerk shall present such petition to the City Council at its
next regular meeting.
13.15.120 Change of Name - Resolution.
Before ordering the name of any public street or private easement changed upon
the petition filed as hereinabove stated, the City Council may, at its
discretion, adopt a resolution of intention declaring that the public interest
and convenience require that the name of the public street or private easement
described in any such petition be changed. Such resolution shall designate the
street or easement, the name of which is intended to change, shall describe
said street or easement by reference to other streets or easements parallel
thereto, and shall set forth the name or names which it bears or by which it is
commonly known, and shall state the name to which it is proposed to be changed.
Said resolution or intention shall be posted in the three (3) public places
designated by the resolution of the City Council. At the expiration of ten (10)
days after the resolution of intention has been posted, if no written
objections to the proposed change of name shall have been filed with the City
Clerk as provided in this Chapter or immediately upon the overruling of said
objections by the City Council, the City Council may pass a resolution ordering
the name of the street or private easement changed as contemplated in the
resolution of intention.
13.15.130 Change of Name - Protest.
The owners of lots or lands fronting on the public street or private easement,
the name of which is proposed to be changed, or the duly authorized agents, may
within ten (10) days after posting of the resolution of intention, file written
objections to the proposed change of name with the City Clerk. Such written
objections must be signed by each person objecting, shall contain the number of
feet frontage owned by him or for which he is the duly authorized agent, and
the post office address of each signer thereof. The City Council shall at its
next regular meeting after the filing of said objections, fix a time for the
hearing of the same, which shall not be more than two (2) weeks thereafter. The
City Clerk shall thereupon notify each person objecting, by depositing in the
post office of the City a notice addressed to him postage prepaid, informing
him of the time and place of hearing. At the time specified, the City Council
shall hear all objections urged and pass upon the same, and its decision
thereon shall be final and conclusive.
13.15.140 Definition.
For purposes of this Chapter, the word “street” shall be deemed to include
avenue, highway, easement or right-of-way, boulevard, court, lane, place, way
and alley. The singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include
the singular.
Chapter 13.20
VEHICULAR AND PEDESTRIAN CIRCULATION STANDARDS
Sections:
   
13.20.010   General Provisions
   
13.20.020   Access Control
   
13.20.030   Intersection Design Standards
   
13.20.040   Residential Street Standards
   
13.20.050   Pedestrian Circulation Standards
13.20.010 General Provisions.
   A.   Standards and specifications for transportation facilities and all work
done within the public road right-of-way shall conform to the standards and
specifications of the Engineering Department.
   B.   Right-of-way shall be required as shown on the adopted General Plan
circulation map.
   C.   In instances where roadways are designated on the circulation plan
where no road currently exists, the location and design standards, including
the grade and alignment, will be determined by the Engineering Department at
the time of submittal of street improvement plans for the individual project.
   D.   Cul-de-sacs shall have a minimum paved radius of forty (40) feet and
right-of-way width of fifty (50) feet; length shall not exceed three hundred
thirty (330) feet; provided, that adequate fire flow is available, unless
approved by the Fire Department.
   E.   Acceptable legal and physical access shall be provided to each site in
accordance with the following:
      1.   Acceptable access shall include a public thoroughfare or right-of-
way which is dedicated, deeded or condemned for use as a principal means of
access to abutting property and which is constructed to acceptable standards
for the purpose of carrying through traffic; any exceptions to these
requirements must be approved by the City Engineer;
      2.   Where substandard alleys are located at the rear or sides of
property, such alleys shall be used primarily for service functions, including
but not limited to, trash collection, utility service and fire access; alleys
shall not be intended or used for conveyance of through traffic, required
parking or for primary access;
      3.   Alleys which conform to City standards may be allowed for secondary
access;
      4.   Any existing alleys must conform to standards contained herein in
order to be approved for public use of access;
      5.   Paving for alleyways shall meet specifications of the Engineering
Department;
      6.   Minimum alley right-of-way width shall be thirty (30) feet and
dedication to the City shall be required.
13.20.020 Access Control.
   A.   On new development, no direct driveway access from individual
residences shall be permitted onto major arterial, arterial and secondary
arterial streets as designated on the adopted circulation plan map.
   B.   Access shall be controlled on major arterials, arterials and secondary
arterials to minimize curb cuts, median breaks and facilitate the flow of
traffic. Any new development or subdivision of land adjacent to these roadways
shall be required to dedicate vehicular access rights, except where access
points are shown on an approved site plan or subdivision map. Shared access and
parking, and use of side streets for access, shall be required wherever
possible.
   C.   All development proposals shall be designed so as to provide for a free
flow of vehicles in and out of the site without unnecessary backing and turning
movements as well as for easy access to the various activity areas within each
site. Two-way access driveways shall be used wherever possible.
   D.   Placement of access points into each site shall minimize interference
with the off-site circulation system. Access points shall be placed at the
maximum feasible distance from an intersection.
   E.   Adequate provisions shall be made for emergency vehicle access. Two (2)
separate accesses shall be provided to each site from any paved, publicly
maintained right-of-way as determined by the City Engineer. The primary access
shall provide all weather access and be paved to City standards; minimum
specifications for secondary access shall require a well-graded, all-weather
surface as approved by the City Engineer and Fire Department. Secondary access
for new subdivided residential sites shall be paved. Secondary access
requirements shall be based upon such factors as distance, topography,
surrounding development and emergency response time.
13.20.030 Intersection Design Standards.
Intersection Design Standards shall conform with the Engineering Department
Standards, Drawings and Specifications approved by the City Engineer.
13.20.040 Residential Street Standards.
Residential Street Standards shall conform with the Engineering Department
Standards, Drawings and Specifications approved by the City Engineer.
13.20.050 Pedestrian Circulation Standards.
   A.   Sidewalks shall be required on public streets as determined by the
reviewing authority. Sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete, with a minimum
width of six (6) feet, exclusive of the curb. Any sidewalk constructed within
two and one-half (2-1/2) feet from face of curb shall join to back of curb.
Considerations in design are to be given for handicapped persons so that a
clear path of travel of at least four (4) feet is provided, in accordance with
current State and Federal Americans with Disabilities Act requirements.
   B.   Additional sidewalks on site may be required through the design review
process, the sidewalk system shall provide for a safe, continuous pedestrian
circulation and access system to all parts of the development. Pedestrian
access shall be provided from public streets and parking lots to building
entries, and walkways provided on-site shall connect with those off-site.
   C.   Pedestrian Circulation Standards shall conform with the Engineering
Department Standards, Drawings and Specifications approved by the City
Engineer.
Chapter 13.25
ENCROACHMENT PERMITS - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sections:
   
13.25.010   Scope of General Provisions
   
13.25.020   Delegation of Authority
   
13.25.030   Reference to Ordinances or Statutes
   
13.25.040   Terms and Genders
   
13.25.060   Issuance of Permits by City Engineer
   
13.25.070   Application - Issuance Fee
   
13.25.080   Requirement of Plans
   
13.25.090   Performance of Work to Satisfaction of City Engineer
   
13.25.100   Fees, Deposits and Bonds
   
13.25.110   Permits
   
13.25.120   Holding City Harmless
   
13.25.130   Notice of Completion of Work
   
13.25.140   Relocation of Structures - Removal of Encroachment
   
13.25.150   Placement of Material or Obstruction on City Facility
   
13.25.160   Interference with City Engineer
   
13.25.170   Compliance with House Moving Rules and Regulations
13.25.010 Scope of General Provisions.
These general provisions, rules of construction and definitions shall govern
the construction of this Chapter, unless the provision or the context provides
otherwise.
13.25.020 Delegation of Authority.
Whenever a power is granted to or a duty is imposed upon a public officer, the
power may be exercised or the duty may be performed by a deputy of the officer
or by a person authorized, pursuant to law or ordinance, by the officer, unless
this Chapter expressly provides otherwise.
13.25.030 Reference to Ordinances or Statutes.
Whenever reference is made to any portion of this Chapter or any other
ordinance or statute, such reference applies to all amendments and additions
now or hereafter made.
13.25.040 Terms and Genders.
The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the future, the
present. The masculine gender includes the feminine. The singular number
includes the plural, and the plural, the singular.
13.25.060 Issuance of Permits by City Engineer.
The City Engineer may issue permits, as provided in this Chapter, authorizing
the permittee to do any of the following acts:
   A.   Make or cause to be made any excavation or opening, fill or obstruction
in, over, along, on, across or through any City facility for any purpose,
excepting, however, for or in connection with the installation of poles, guys
and anchors constructed for use under a franchise for public utility purposes
where such poles, guys and anchors are located outside of the paved or traveled
portion of the City facility;
   B.   Construct or repair, or cause to be constructed or repaired any curb,
sidewalk, gutter, driveway, roadway surface, retaining wall, storm drain or
culvert, water line, sewer line, or work of any nature, or place, change or
renew an encroachment in, over, along, on, across or through any City facility,
excepting, however, for or in connection with the installation of poles, guys
and anchors constructed for use under a franchise for public utility purposes
where such poles, guys and anchors are located outside of the paved or traveled
portion of the City facility;
   C.   Move or cause to be moved over, upon, along or across any City
facility, any building or structure;
   D.   Place any banner over, across, on or along any City facility;
   E.   Plant, remove, cut, cut down, injure or destroy any tree, shrub, plant
or flower growing within any City facility excepting necessary pruning or
trimming to protect persons or property.
13.25.070 Application - Issuance Fee.
An application for a permit pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter shall be
made in writing and filed with the Engineering Department, accompanied by the
appropriate fee/deposit.
13.25.080 Requirement of Plans.
If, in the opinion of the City Engineer, the work proposed to be done requires
the making of plans or the setting of stakes, or both, the City Engineer may
require the application to be accompanied by the necessary plans, which plans
shall be prepared by a registered civil engineer.
13.25.090 Performance of Work to Satisfaction of City Engineer.
The permittee shall perform all work in accordance with plans, if plans are
made, and specifications referred to in the permit, to the satisfaction of and
under the supervision of the City Engineer.
13.25.100 Fees, Deposits and Bonds.
   A.   Payment. Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, the City
Engineer shall not issue any permit until all deposits and issuance fees have
been paid.
   B.   Issuance Fees not Refundable. The issuance fees required by the
provisions of this Chapter are for the purpose of defraying the cost of issuing
the requested permit. No part of any issuance fee may be refunded to any
applicant.
   C.   Deposit in Funds. Issuance fees and charges for repairs, inspection or
engineering collected under the provisions of this Chapter shall be deposited
in the respective funds from which the corresponding disbursements are made.
   D.   Extra Deposits and Bonds. If, in the opinion of the City Engineer, any
special or general deposit, or any undertaking or any combination thereof is
not sufficient for the proper protection of the public interest in the
highways, including any trees thereon, the City Engineer may require either an
additional deposit or an increase in the amount of the bond in such amount as
he determines will be sufficient to protect such public interest.
   E.   Insufficient Deposits.
      1.   Where any deposit is determined to be insufficient to pay all fees
and costs provided for in this Chapter, the permittee shall, upon demand, pay
to the commissioner an amount equal to the deficiency.
      2.   Where the permittee fails or refuses to pay the deficiency upon
demand, the City Engineer may recover the deficiency by appropriate action in
any court of competent jurisdiction. Until such deficiency is paid in full, no
permit shall be issued to such permittee.
13.25.110 Permits.
   A.   Issuance of Permit Public Record. If the applicant for a permit
complies with every provision of this Chapter and with all applicable
provisions of all other ordinances and statutes, the City Engineer shall issue
to the applicant a written permit to perform the work set forth in the
application. Upon the issuance of such permit the application shall become a
public record.
   B.   Imposition of Conditions or Changes by City Engineer.
      1.   Any permit authorized under any of the provisions of this Chapter
may be issued subject to such conditions, changes and limitations as are, in
the discretion of the City Engineer, necessary for the protection of the City
facility, or to prevent undue interference with traffic, or to protect both
persons and property within, upon or adjacent to said City facility from damage
or danger.
      2.   The City Engineer may issue a single permit for any number of
excavations which are part of a single project. The permit may be exercised by
giving not less than forty-eight (48) hours notice to the City Engineer on a
form to be prescribed by the City Engineer before work is commenced.
   C.   Reservation of the Power to Change the Conditions After Permit Issued.
Any permit issued by the City Engineer under any of the provisions of this
Chapter or the conditions to which it has been made subject, may be amended or
changed if the City Engineer deems such amendment or change to be necessary for
the protection of a City facility, or to prevent undue interference, or to
protect both persons and property. Notification of the amendment or change
shall be made by the City Engineer either by mailing written notice to the
permittee at the address indicated on his application for the permit or by
making personal service of said written notice upon the permittee. The
amendment or change shall be effective either twenty-four (24) hours after said
written notice is deposited in the United States mail or immediately upon
completion of personal service.
   D.   Commencement and Completion of Work. Every permittee shall complete the
work within the time required by the permit. Permits issued hereunder shall be
valid only for the period of time specified in the permits, unless the City
Engineer grants a time extension.
   E.   Refusal to Issue Permit. The City Engineer may refuse to issue permits
or may revoke any outstanding permits heretofore or hereafter issued, or any
portion thereof, where the work has not been started, when file work authorized
by the permits, or such portions thereof is included in the proposed work to be
done, by any existing assessment district, or by any proposed assessment
district for which formation proceedings have been instituted by the City
Council.
   F.   Nontransferability of Permits. Permits issued pursuant to this Chapter
are nontransferable.
   G.   Permits Subject to the Use of the City Facilities by Others. Every
permit granted pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter shall be granted
subject to the right of the City or of any other person entitled thereto, to
use that part of such City facility for any purpose for which such City
facility may lawfully be used.
13.25.120 Holding City Harmless.
On each application, the applicant shall sign a statement that he agrees to
preserve and save harmless the City and each officer and employee thereof
pursuant to Section
1.10.050 of this Code.
13.25.130 Notice of Completion of Work.
Upon completion of any work or act for which a permit has been granted, the
permittee shall notify the City Engineer in writing on a form prescribed by the
City Engineer.
13.25.140 Relocation of Structures - Removal of Encroachment.
   A.   The City Engineer may require any person who, pursuant to a duly issued
permit under this Chapter, has performed construction work or placed and
maintained any encroachment, to move the same at his own cost and expense to
such different location as is specified in a written demand of the City
Engineer, whenever such move is necessary to ensure the safety of the public or
to permit the improvement of the facilities and may require the application to
contain a signed statement by the applicant to this effect.
   B.   In the event the permittee fails to comply with any such demand, the
construction work or encroachment specified in the demand may be removed by the
City Engineer; and the cost thereof will be recovered from the permittee.
13.25.150 Placement of Material or Obstruction on City Facility.
No person shall place or pile any material in or upon any City facility or
leave any obstruction or impediment to travel in or upon any City facility
without a permit to do so.
13.25.160 Interference with City Engineer.
A person shall not prevent or obstruct the City Engineer, or his duly
authorized representative, in making any inspection authorized by this Chapter
or in taking any sample or in making any test.
13.25.170 Compliance with House Moving Rules and Regulations.
The permittee shall comply with the House Moving Rules and Regulations, as
amended, except to the extent that such rules and regulations are expressly
modified or deleted in the permit.
Chapter 13.30
CONSTRUCTION PERMITS
Sections:
   
13.30.010   Scope of Chapter
   
13.30.020   Application
   
13.30.030   Permit Deposits and Refunds
   
13.30.040   Warning Signs and Precautionary Measures
   
13.30.050   Certification of Acceptance
   
13.30.060   Removal of Material and Debris
   
13.30.070   Failure of Permittee to Protect the Road or the Traveling Public or
Complete the Work
13.30.010 Scope of Chapter.
The provisions of this Chapter apply to applications for the granting and
control of permits for the laying, constructing, reconstructing or repairing of
curbs, sidewalks, gutters, driveways, street surfaces, retaining walls, water
and sewer facilities, storm drains, culverts or other appurtenant street
structures in any highway.
13.30.020 Application.
An applicant for a construction permit shall complete and file with the City
Engineer an application in duplicate, conforming with the provisions of Section
13.25.070 which shall contain, in addition thereto, the following:
   A.   The location, nature and extent of the work to be performed;
   B.   The materials to be used;
   C.   The proposed date and time of day when said work will be commenced;
   D.   The proposed date and time of day when said work will be completed;
   E.   Such other information as the City Engineer may require.
13.30.030 Permit Deposits and Refunds.
   A.   An applicant for a permit to construct any work shall pay the
appropriate fee or deposit in an amount estimated by the City Engineer to be
equal to twice the actual cost of all necessary engineering and inspection
costs.
   B.   If the cost of the engineering inspection exceeds the amount of the
deposit, the permittee shall pay the deficiency to the City Engineer. If the
applicant fails to pay said deficiency within fifteen (15) days, the City
Engineer may recover such sum in any court of competent jurisdiction. Until
such amount is paid, further permits shall not be issued.
13.30.040 Warning Signs and Precautionary Measures.
The permittee shall install barriers, barricades and warning devices in
conformance with the standards set forth in the state of California Traffic
Manual for any excavation or construction that may affect the public or City’s
rights-of-way or easements.
13.30.050 Certification of Acceptance.
If the City Engineer, by survey or by inspection or by both, ascertains that
the work contemplated by this Chapter has been completed according to the
requirements of the permit issued therefor, and of all of the provisions of
this Chapter, he shall issue, if requested so to do by the permittee, a
certificate of acceptance which shall contain a statement of the location,
nature and extent of the work performed under the permit.
13.30.060 Removal of Material and Debris.
A permittee, upon completion of any work for which a permit under this Chapter
has been issued, shall remove all material and debris:
   A.   Where new work is covered with earth, in accordance with the terms of
the specifications attached to the permit;
   B.   In all other cases within three (3) days.
13.30.070 Failure of Permittee to Protect the Road or the Traveling Public or
Complete the Work.
If a permittee unnecessarily damages the road, creates a hazard or otherwise
endangers the traveling public, or the road, or fails to complete the work
within the prescribed time, or authorized extension thereof, the City Engineer
may take corrective action. The cost of such correction work shall be charged
against the permittee.
Chapter 13.35
EQUIPMENT MOVING PERMITS
Sections:
   
13.35.010   Issuance of Moving Permit - Specific Types of Equipment
   
13.35.020   General
   
13.35.030   Over Length
   
13.35.040   Over Width
   
13.35.050   Over Height
   
13.35.060   Overweight
   
13.35.070   Signs
   
13.35.080   Fees
13.35.010 Issuance of Moving Permit - Specific Types of Equipment.
The City Engineer or his designee may, in his discretion, upon application in
writing and if good cause appears, issue a permit authorizing the applicant to
operate or move over and along highways or routes under the jurisdiction of the
City, specific pieces of mobile mechanical equipment on specific vehicles, or
emergency public utility equipment on specific vehicles. Any such permit shall
be subject to the following conditions.
13.35.020 General.
   A.   Limit of Authorization.
      1.   The permit is valid only on routes under the jurisdiction of the
City.
      2.   The permit is not valid on State highways (includes the roadway
crossing under or over a State freeway). A separate moving permit will be
required on State highways.
      3.   The permit is not valid on streets or bridges which have posted
weight limits.
      4.   The permit shall be limited to specified routes or a specified area
of the City and shall specifically describe the routes or the area of the City
to which it is limited. This limitation shall be fixed by the City Engineer or
his designee so as to afford protection to routes under the jurisdiction of the
City and the traveling public.
      5.   The granting of the permit shall in no way relieve the permittee
from liability for damage to the routes under the jurisdiction of the City or
to persons or property.
      6.   The permit shall be issued for a specific period of time designated
by the City Engineer or his designee and set forth in the permit, which period
shall not exceed one (1) year.
      7.   The permit may be issued subject to such other conditions as the
City Engineer or his designee deems necessary for the protection of the routes
under the jurisdiction of the City.
      8.   The application for a permit pursuant to this Section shall be made
on a form furnished by the City Engineer or his designee and shall contain the
information required by California Vehicle Code Section 35781 and such other
information as may be required by the City Engineer or his designee.
   B.   Night Moves. Any load moved during nighttime hours shall meet all
requirements of State and County and City regulations and shall be properly
lighted with warning lights and signs as may be required by law and ordinance.
A pilot car is required for loads over ten (10) feet wide.
   C.   Parking of Vehicle. A permittee shall not, during restricted hours or
any other time, stand or park the permitted vehicle where it creates a definite
hazard or traffic obstruction. If the vehicle is in one of the above-mentioned
areas at the beginning of a restricted movement period, it shall continue to
move, using reasonable care and precaution to prevent traffic disruption, to
the nearest suitable spot en route where the load may be parked for the
duration of the restricted period.
   D.   Operating Hours. This permit is effective within the period stated on
the face of the permit. Unless specifically stated otherwise (see Section
13.35.030), moving is prohibited from 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. to
6:00 p.m., and from 5:00 a.m. Saturday until sunrise Monday.
      No moving during fog, rain or snow and the following holidays:
      News Year’s Day
      Memorial Day
      Fourth of July
      Labor Day
      Thanksgiving
      Christmas
   E.   Permit to be Carried on Vehicle. A permit is valid only when it is
carried on the permitted vehicle.
   F.   Permit Subject to Inspection. A permit is the property of the
Engineering Department and must be surrendered upon demand to any law
enforcement officer or employee of the Engineering Department charged with the
care and protection of highways.
   G.   Comply with Applicable Laws. Except as specifically provided in the
permit, the requirements of the California Vehicle Code and any other
applicable laws must be complied with in all particulars.
13.35.030 Over Length.
   A.   Pilot Cars. Pilot cars are required fore and aft when the overall
length is one hundred (100) feet long or over, unless otherwise specified on
the face of the permit. The pilot cars shall display additional signs as set
forth in Section
13.35.070.
   B.   Restricted Hours. Any overall length of one hundred (100) feet long or
over will be restricted to the hours of 12:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m. and may not
move from 5:00 a.m. Saturday until sunrise Sunday.
   C.   Inspection. Any overall length of one hundred (100) feet long or over
is subject to inspection by the Engineering Department and must be arranged for
twenty-four (24) hours before the scheduled move.
   D.   Keep to Right of Center Line. The load must be kept to the right of the
highway center line at all times and must stay off shoulders except when
entering or leaving the highway or when necessary to allow trailing traffic to
pass on narrow or winding roads.
13.35.040 Over Width.
   A.   Pilot Cars. Pilot cars displaying signs the same as specified in
Section
13.35.070 shall be provided by the permittee both fore and aft when the load is
fourteen (14) feet wide or more and shall provide for either fore or aft for
loads over twelve (12) feet wide (two [2] or three [3] lanes fore, four [4] or
more lanes aft).
   B.   Restricted Hours. Any load or vehicle fourteen (14) feet wide or wider
shall be restricted to moving during the hours of 11:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m. and
may not move from 5:00 a.m. Saturday until Monday. Any load or vehicle over ten
(10) feet wide, but less than fourteen (14) feet wide, shall not move between
the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. Monday through
Friday and from 3:00 a.m. Saturday until sunrise Monday.
   C.   Inspection. Any load fourteen (14) feet or over is subject to
inspection by the Engineering Department and must be arranged for twenty-four
(24) hours before scheduled move.
13.35.050 Over Height.
   A.   Impaired Vertical Clearance. It shall be the responsibility of the
permittee to check all underpasses, bridges, overhead wires or other structures
for impaired vertical clearance and to bypass or arrange clearance at such
locations.
   B.   Overhead Lines. The permittee must notify the owner of all overhead
lines subject to disturbance or damage by his operation at least twenty-four
(24) hours in advance of work, and mutually agreeable arrangements must be made
between the parties involved.
   C.   Snooter and Roof Boards. Snooter and roof boards are required from
eighteen (18) feet high to above the highest point of load. Any load in excess
of twenty (20) feet shall be provided with a means of access to the highest
point.
   D.   Restricted Hours. All loads eighteen (18) feet high or higher shall be
moved during the hours of 11:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m. and may not move from 6:00
a.m. on Saturday until 12:01 a.m. Monday.
   E.   Pilot Cars. A pilot car displaying signs the same as specified in
Section 
13.35.070 shall be provided for all loads eighteen (18) feet high or higher.
   F.   Inspection. Any load eighteen (18) feet or over is subject to
inspection by the Engineering Department and must be arranged for twenty-four
(24) hours before the scheduled move.
13.35.060 Overweight.
   A.   Allowable Overweight. Axle weights shall not exceed those shown on the
face of the permit.
   B.   All gross loads in excess of seventy-five (75) tons shall not exceed
five (5) miles per hour when approaching any crossing or structure.
13.35.070 Signs.
   A.   Unless specifically stated otherwise on the face of the permit, all
loads or vehicles being moved in the City under the provisions of California
Vehicle Code Section 35780 exceeding one hundred (100) inches in width,
exceeding legal length, or fourteen (14) feet in height when loaded, or with
more than ten (10) feet of overhang must display appropriate warning signs. All
signs shall be removed immediately upon completion of the move.
   B.   Signs shall be posted on front and rear and shall read “OVERSIZE LOAD,”
“WIDE LOAD,” or “LONG LOAD,” or as appropriate for front or rear overhang. The
“OVERSIZE LOAD” sign shall have preference when a combination of features
exist. The lettering shall be a ten (10) inch minimum height with a two (2)
inch minimum brush stroke and a minimum of one (1) inch border all around. All
signs shall be black letters on a yellow background mounted at least eighteen
(18) inches above the road surface front and rear. Signs must be neat, clean,
legible, mounted securely and visible from straight ahead or behind and to
forty-five (45) degrees each side thereof. All signs must be illuminated for
night moves or be constructed of suitable reflectorized material to be clearly
visible to approaching traffic.
13.35.080 Fees.
All fees for single trip or annual transportation permits shall be established
by resolution of the City Council.
Chapter 13.40
EXCAVATION PERMITS
Sections:
   
13.40.010   Purpose of Chapter
   
13.40.020   Application
   
13.40.030   Proof of Right to Use Street(s)
   
13.40.040   Special Deposit for Surface Repairs
   
13.40.050   Specification in Permit for Warning Signs
   
13.40.060   Precautionary Warning Measures
   
13.40.070   Refilling Excavation or Removal of Obstruction
   
13.40.080   Resurfacing of Street(s)
   
13.40.090   Deductions from Deposits and Refund of Excess Deposit
   
13.40.100   Additional Street(s) Repairs and Placing of a Bond for that Purpose
   
13.40.110   Necessity as Permissive Delay in Obtaining Permit
   
13.40.120   Certificate of Acceptance
   
13.40.130   Removal of Material and Debris
13.40.010 Purpose of Chapter.
The provisions of this Chapter apply to the making of applications for and the
granting and control of permits for the making of excavations, openings, fills
or obstructions in any street(s).
13.40.020 Application.
An applicant for an excavation permit shall complete and file with the City
Engineer an application in duplicate conforming with the provisions of Section
13.25.070 which shall contain, in addition thereto, the following:
   A.   The location, dimensions, purpose, extent and nature of the work to be
performed;
   B.   The proposed date and time of day when said work will be commenced;
   C.   The proposed date and time of day when said work will be completed;
   D.   Such other information as the City Engineer may require and shall file
with the application a plat in quadruplicate clearly showing the street(s)
affected and the exact locations and dimensions of the proposed excavations, as
well as any other details that the City Engineer prescribes, provided, however,
that when excavations are made for service connections or for the location of
trouble in conduits or pipes, or for making repairs thereto, the City Engineer
may waive the filing of a plat.
13.40.030 Proof of Right to Use Street(s).
Each applicant for a permit shall file with the City Engineer, if required by
the City Engineer, proof of the applicant’s right to use the street(s) for the
purposes set forth in the application.
13.40.040 Special Deposit for Surface Repairs.
Each applicant for a permit, in addition to the payment of the issuance fee,
shall deposit with the City Engineer a sum of money in no event less than ten
dollars ($10.00), which is twice the estimated cost to the nearest five dollars
($5.00) for repairing the surface of the street(s) which may be damaged or
destroyed by the proposed excavation or obstruction, provided, however, that
where a faithful performance bond is posted which guarantees to the City the
repair of the street(s), including construction financed in whole or in part by
special assessments, no deposits for repairs shall be required of applicant.
13.40.050 Specification in Permit for Warning Signs.
In any permit issued by him, the City Engineer may specify what lights,
barriers, barricades, warning signs or other measures designed to protect the
traveling public must be erected by the permittee, which measures shall be in
accordance with State street(s) regulations.
13.40.060 Precautionary Warning Measures.
   A.   If the permit does not specify the precautionary measures to be taken
by the permittee, such as the erection of barriers, barricades or warning
signs, the permittee shall place and maintain warning lights at each end of
such excavation or obstruction and at distances of not more than fifty (50)
feet along such excavation or obstruction from sunset of each day to sunrise of
the next day, until such excavation is entirely refilled and resurfaced or such
obstruction is removed; and every said person shall place and maintain
barriers, or barricades, at each end of any said excavation or obstruction at
all times until such excavation is entirely refilled or such obstruction is
removed.
   B.   Barriers, barricades and warning devices shall conform to the same
configuration and standards provided for in the current Engineering Department
standards as compiled in accordance with Vehicle Code Section 21400.
13.40.070 Refilling Excavation or Removal of Obstruction.
   A.   Immediately upon completion of the work necessitating the excavation or
obstruction permitted by any permit issued pursuant to this Chapter, the
permittee shall promptly, and in a workmanlike manner, refill the excavation or
remove the obstruction in a manner which the City Engineer determines is most
effective to accomplish thorough consolidation and enable the street(s) to be
restored to a condition equivalent to that in which it was prior to the
excavation or obstruction.
   B.   After refilling has been completed, the top surface of excavations made
in improved streets shall be covered with not less than one (1) inch nor more
than two (2) inches of pre-mixed bituminous material satisfactory to the City
Engineer and shall conform closely enough to the level of the adjoining surface
and shall be compacted so that it is hard enough and smooth enough to be safe
for pedestrian travel over it as well as for vehicular traffic to pass safely
over it at a legal rate of speed. The permittee shall maintain the surface of
the refill safe for pedestrian and vehicular traffic until the excavation has
been resurfaced in accordance with Section
13.40.080.
   C.   Failure to Refill Excavation. If any permittee fails or refuses to
refill any excavation which he has made or remove any obstruction which he has
placed in any street(s), the City Engineer may so do and charge the cost
thereof to the permittee.
   D.   Notice of Refilling Excavation. Upon completion of the refilling of the
excavation for which a permit has been issued, the permittee shall notify the
City Engineer in writing on a form prescribed by the City Engineer.
13.40.080 Resurfacing of Street(s).
   A.   Upon completion of the refilling of the excavation, the City Engineer,
at his option, may require the permittee to resurface that portion of the
street(s) surface damaged by the permittee’s excavation or obstruction, or the
City Engineer may elect to do such resurfacing himself. Where the pavement or
surface has been removed, the permittee shall replace it to a thickness of one
(1) inch greater than that of the surrounding pavement or surface, and, in no
event, to a thickness less than two (2) inches.
   B.   Where a treated or modified subgrade or surface has been removed or
destroyed, the permittee shall replace it to a thickness of not less than that
of the surrounding or adjacent subgrade or surface, unless the City Engineer
orders that the repair of such treated or modified subgrade or surface shall be
made by an oil and rock mixture, in which case the thickness shall not be less
than one-half (1/2) the thickness of the treated or modified surface or
subgrade.
   C.   Failure to Resurface Street(s). If, after the refilling of an
excavation the permittee fails or refuses to resurface that portion of the
surface of the street(s) damaged by him, or if the City Engineer elects to do
such resurfacing, the City Engineer may do such resurfacing. The cost of such
resurfacing shall be charged against the permittee except in those instances
where the permittee’s excavation is within an area of pavement to be
immediately reconstructed by the City, and the resurfacing of the excavation is
an integral part of the general City improvement. The cost shall be computed as
provided in Section
13.40.040.
13.40.090 Deductions from Deposits and Refund of Excess Deposit.
   A.   The City Engineer shall deduct from any deposit made or maintained by
the permittee:
      1.   The permit issuance fee if that has not otherwise been paid;
      2.   The cost to the City for refilling any excavation or removing any
obstruction;
      3.   The cost to the City for resurfacing the street(s);
      4.   The cost of any inspection by the City Engineer.
   B.   After making the proper deductions, the City Engineer shall refund any
remaining amount to the applicant in the same manner as provided by law for the
repayment of trust moneys, provided, however, that if a person makes and
maintains with the City Engineer either a general deposit or an undertaking as
provided by this Section, the deductions provided for herein need not be made.
In lieu of such deductions, the City Engineer may bill such persons for the
amount owed by him to the City, under the provisions of this Section. If such
amount is not paid within fifteen (15) days of the transmission of such bill,
the City Engineer may deduct such amount from the general deposit, and the
provisions of Section
13.25.100.E. shall apply, or may recover upon such undertaking.
13.40.100 Additional Street(s) Repairs and Placing of a Bond for that Purpose.
   A.   The street(s) surface excavated or damaged shall be replaced by the
permittee to as good or better condition as the same was in before such work
was begun and shall be maintained for the life of the utility encroaching in
the public road after the completion of the work performed under the permit,
during which life time period the permittee shall repair and make good any
injury or damage to any portion of the street(s) which occurs as a result of
work done under the permit, including any and all injury and damage to the
street(s) which would not have occurred had such work under said permit not
been done.
   B.   The permittee shall maintain a bond with the City Engineer in an amount
prescribed by the City Engineer sufficient to comply with the repairs required
in this Section, which shall be forfeited and the proceeds used by the City
Engineer to perform the necessary repair work prescribed by this Section in the
event the permittee fails to make said repairs.
13.40.110 Necessity as Permissive Delay in Obtaining Permit.
Nothing in this Chapter prohibits any person from maintaining by virtue of any
law, ordinance, or permit, any pipe or conduit in any street(s), or from making
such excavation as may be necessary for the preservation of life or property,
if the person making such excavation obtains a permit therefor within one (1)
day after the offices of the City Engineer are first opened subsequent to the
making of such excavation.
13.40.120 Certificate of Acceptance.
If the City Engineer, by survey or by inspection or by both, ascertains that
the work contemplated by this Chapter has been completed according to the
requirements of the permit issued therefor, and of all of the provisions of
this Section, he shall issue, if requested so to do by the permittee, a
certificate of acceptance which shall contain a statement of the location,
nature and extent of the work performed under the permit.
13.40.130 Removal of Material and Debris.
A permittee, upon completion of any work for which a permit under this Chapter
has been issued, shall remove all material and debris:
   A.   Where new work is covered with earth, in accordance with the terms of
the specifications attached to the permit;
   B.   In all other cases within three (3) days.
Chapter 13.45
FILMING AND VIDEO TAPING PERMITS
Sections:
   
13.45.010   Purpose
   
13.45.030   Permit Required
   
13.45.040   Exemptions
   
13.45.050   Application Form
   
13.45.060   Time for Filing Applications
   
13.45.070   Fees
   
13.45.080   Determination by City Manager
   
13.45.090   Appeal to the City Council
   
13.45.100   Public Facilities
   
13.45.110   Clean Up
   
13.45.120   Traffic Control
   
13.45.130   Special Restrictions
   
13.45.140   Insurance and Indemnity
   
13.45.150   Suspension
   
13.45.160   Revocation
   
13.45.170   Violation as a Nuisance
13.45.010 Purpose.
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide rules and regulations governing the
issuance of permits for filming, video taping or any related activity on
location within the City, to assure that such activity is consistent with
considerations of the public health, safety and general welfare and the
protection of property. The requirements provided in this Chapter shall be
separate and in addition to those provisions of ordinances of the City, and/or
other Codes adopted by reference, regarding business regulation and licensing.
Any and all fees provided in this Chapter are intended to cover the cost of
investigation and processing permits for filming, as specified herein, and
shall be in addition to all other applicable licenses and/or permits.
13.45.030 Permit Required.
Except as otherwise provided, it is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business or activity of filming, video taping or producing motion pictures on
motion picture film or electronic video tape for public exhibition as motion
pictures or for television, at any place within the City, other than at or in
an established motion picture or television studio or entirely within an
enclosed structure or building, with no outside storage of filming equipment,
without a film permit from the City. Any person interested in filming within
the City shall complete in full a film permit application as stated in this
Chapter and provide to City all the information requested in Section
13.45.050.
13.45.040 Exemptions.
The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   The filming or video taping of motion pictures solely for private or
family use;
   B.   The filming or videotaping of motion pictures for use in a criminal
investigation, civil proceeding or emergencies such as fires, floods or police
actions;
   C.   The filming or video taping of motion pictures for news purposes (but
not magazine or documentary programs);
   D.   Education, government and public access and local origination programs
for cable television systems franchised within the City;
   E.   The filming or video taping of motion pictures by the City itself
(e.g., video taping of sewer lines and promotional filming); and
   F.   Any other activity deemed to be in the public interest by the City
Manager.
13.45.050 Application Form.
The Finance Department shall furnish an application for film permits which,
following processing by the Finance Department, shall be forwarded to the City
Manager. Such application form shall require the following information:
   A.   Name, permanent street address and telephone number of the applicant;
   B.   If the applicant is a corporation, the name, principal address and
telephone number of the applicant shall be as shown in the most recent
statement of corporation on file with the applicable Secretary of State;
   C.   If the filming or video taping for motion picture or television
production is conducted by a non-profit organization which qualifies under
Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(3) or California Revenue and Taxation Code
Section 23701 as a charitable organization, and no person, directly or
indirectly, receives a profit from the marketing or production of the film or
tape or from showing the film, tapes or photos, the applicant must state this
on the application form;
   D.   Name, address and telephone number of the person in charge of the
location and responsible for applicant’s and applicant’s employees’ conduct;
   E.   The name, address and twenty-four (24) hour telephone number of at
least two (2) persons to be contacted in the event of emergency situations
which might alter the conditions of the film permit;
   F.   Name of film/project;
   G.   Location(s), date(s), time(s) and activities of the proposed filming or
taping. If the proposed filming or taping involves the use of private property,
the full name and address of the property owner where the filming/taping is to
take place and a signed affidavit from the property owner granting permission
for the proposed use of the property in question shall be provided;
   H.   Approximate number of individuals in cast and crew;
   I.   List of types and number of vehicles and other equipment;
   J.   As applicable, a statement that overnight parking and locations are
needed;
   K.   Requests for special assistance at the location, including but not
limited to street closure, traffic control and emergency services;
   L.   Special conditions or requests by the applicant;
   M.   Dated signature of applicant;
   N.   If the applicant is a corporation, the application shall be signed by
two (2) principal officers of the corporation; and
   O.   In addition to the provisions of this Chapter, any applicant who or
which will engage in any activity which requires compliance with any federal,
state or local regulations, including additional licenses or permits, shall
present evidence of satisfactory compliance with such regulations.
13.45.060 Time for Filing Applications.
   A.   Applications shall be presented to the Finance Department at least ten 
(10) business days in advance of the time that the proposed filming, taping or
production is to commence when road closures are required, four (4) business
days when traffic control will exceed three (3) minutes or when streets or
specified special effects are to be performed and at least two (2) business
days in all other cases.
   B.   The time for application processing shall be extended during those
periods when the City is required to wait for the issuance of permits from
other agencies and or public entities, for which it has applied.
13.45.070 Fees.
   A.   Each application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application
and investigation fee payable to the City which amount shall be set by
resolution of the City Council; provided, however, that no fee shall be
required of applicants filming or video taping for motion picture or television
production for charitable purposes, as defined in this Chapter.
   B.   In the event that weather conditions or other circumstances beyond the
control of the permittee require that the date(s) or time(s) of the proposed
filming or taping need to be altered, no additional application and
investigation fee shall be required because of such alteration of the date(s)
or time(s) so long as the City Clerk is given at least one (1) business day
notice of the alternation; but an additional fee will be charged if minor
changes, additions, deletions and extensions to the original filming permit are
requested which are not beyond the control of the permittee. The additional fee
shall be set by resolution of the City Council. A minor change, addition,
deletion or extension to the original filming permit request must be filed with
the Finance Department. Only one (1) such request per permit will be allowed.
   C.   If the City Manager determines that any potential danger to the
public’s health, safety or general welfare, or property would be eliminated by
the presence of police or fire protection at the site of the filming or video
taping for motion picture or television production, the City Manager may grant
the film permit upon condition that the permittee pay in advance to the City
the costs of such police or fire protection as may be required.
   D.   For filming permits which necessitate the City to provide services to
the permittee in addition to police or fire protection, service charges shall
be imposed. Such charges will be determined by the applicable servicing City
department(s) and shall be based on the actual cost incurred by the City in
providing such services. Such service charges shall include, but shall not be
limited to, charges for labor, supervision, overhead, administration and the
use of any and all City equipment, supplies, etc. Additional charges may be
imposed to cover the cost of extraordinary film permit investigation and/or
staff costs, if the City Manager feels this is necessary.
13.45.080 Determination by City Manager.
   A.   The City Manager is designated to be the City’s “film permit
coordinator” for purposes of coordinating the processing of the film permit, as
well as the actual filming when the use of public property is required.
   B.   Before granting any film permit pursuant to this Chapter, the City
Manager shall determine that such filming or video taping for motion picture or
television production will not unreasonably interfere with the public health,
safety and general welfare, or unreasonably endanger any property. In making
this determination, the City Manager shall take into consideration the noise,
traffic hazards, fire hazards and other environmental problems, including
health and safety problems, which are likely to be caused by such activities.
In granting the permit, the City Manager may further impose any reasonable
conditions as are necessary to protect the public health, safety and general
welfare or property.
13.45.090 Appeal to the City Council.
   A.   Any applicant aggrieved by any decision of the City Manager with
respect to a film permit may appeal such decision to the City Council by filing
a written request within ten (10) days following notice of such decision.
   B.   A written request for such appeal shall be filed with the Finance
Department and all such requests shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant;
      2.   The date of the decision in question;
      3.   The reasons for the appeal; and,
      4.   The grounds relied upon for relief.
         The appeal request shall be accompanied by a non-refundable appeal fee
in an amount to be set by resolution by the City Council. Upon receipt of the
appeal request, the Finance Department will request the City Clerk to, and the
City Clerk shall, set the matter for hearing at a regular meeting of the City
Council no later than thirty (30) days following the date the appeal was filed.
Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be mailed to the applicant,
by certified mail, no later than ten (10) days prior to the date set for
hearing. The notice may also designate certain records that the applicant is
required to produce at the time of the hearing.
   C.   At the hearing as prescribed by this Section, the applicant and the
City may submit any and all evidence as they believe to be relevant. The City
Council may require the presentation of additional evidence from either the
applicant or the City, or from both, and may continue the hearing from time to
time for the purpose of allowing the presentation of additional evidence. Upon
conclusion of the hearing, the City Council may, by resolution with findings,
approve, reverse or modify the decision of the City Manager and any such
decision of the City Council shall be final.
13.45.100 Public Facilities.
Use of any public facility within the City may require an additional rental or
use agreement.
13.45.110 Clean Up.
A permittee shall conduct operations in an orderly fashion. The area used shall
be cleaned of trash and debris upon completion and before leaving the site(s).
A deposit to assure that a permittee removes all trash and debris from filming
site(s) may be required. This requirement and the amount thereof shall be
determined by the City Manager.
13.45.120 Traffic Control.
For filming that would impair traffic flow, an applicant shall use City law
enforcement personnel.
   A.   If required for traffic safety or as a condition of the film permit, an
applicant shall furnish and install advance warning signs and any other traffic
control devices in conformance with the Manual of Traffic Controls, State of
California, Department of Transportation. All appropriate safety precautions
shall be taken.
   B.   All interruptions of normal pedestrian or vehicular traffic must be
authorized on the permit. Police officers assigned to on-site supervision may
further restrict operations based on safety concerns.
   C.   Traffic shall not be detoured without prior approval by the City.
   D.   Unless authorized by the City, camera cars shall be driven in the
direction of traffic and shall observe all traffic laws.
   E.   Any emergency road work or construction by State or local government
agencies and/or private contractors under permit or contract to the City shall
have priority over filming activities.
13.45.130 Special Restrictions.
For the convenience of the general public, all activity by a permittee between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. may be restricted. As a condition of film
permit approval, all surrounding residents and/or businesses within a three
hundred (300) foot radius of the filming activity may be required to be
notified of date(s) and time(s) in which late evening and early morning filming
is to take place.
13.45.140 Insurance and Indemnity.
   A.   It shall be a condition of the issuance and continued validity of any
film permit granted pursuant to this Chapter that the permittee first obtain,
pay for, and maintain a policy of general liability insurance approved as to
form by the City Attorney which shall insure the City, its officers and
employees against any liability, or claims of liability, brought or made by or
on behalf of any person for personal injury or property damage caused by or
arising out of any act or omission of the permittee, his agents or employees,
including any officers or employees of the City, or caused by or arising out of
the condition of any City-owned or controlled property, whether real or
personal, and occurring during the film permit period and as a result of the
activities for which such film permit was issued. The amount of coverage to be
provided by such policy shall be determined by the City Manager. The permittee
may satisfy the requirement imposed by this Section through the presentation of
a certificate of insurance, for at least the required amount of coverage, which
indicates that, by endorsement thereto, the City, its officers, and employees
have been added as additional insureds. Such certificates shall additionally
provide that the required insurance will not be modified, changed, or
terminated unless prior written notice thereof has been transmitted to the City
Cerk.
   B.   A bond/cash deposit may also be required for purposes of repairing any
damage and restoring the City’s facilities to their original condition. The
amount shall be determined by the City Manager. In the event of such damage,
the City shall provide written notice to the permittee specifying the damage to
be repaired and/or City facilities to be restored within seven (7) days of
receipt of the notice. If, after providing permittee with such written notice,
the requested repairs and/or restoration of City facilities have not been
commenced or completed, the City may draw upon the bond/cash deposit to effect
the repairs and/or restoration of City facilities. In the event of damage
requiring emergency repairs and/or restoration of City facilities by the City,
the permittee shall be required to reimburse the City in full for all costs
incurred within thirty (30) days receipt of an invoice from the City.
   C.   It shall be a condition of the issuance of any film permit granted
pursuant to this Chapter that the permittee shall agree to defend and to hold
the City, and its officers and employees, free and harmless from and against
any and all claims and liability of any kind whatsoever resulting from or
arising out of the issuance of such film permit.
13.45.150 Suspension.
Any film permit issued pursuant to the terms of this Chapter may be subject to
immediate suspension if it is found necessary for the protection of public
health, safety or general welfare. Such suspension shall only be instituted
upon the determination of the City that immediate protective action is
necessary. In the event of such a suspension, the City Manager shall, within
twenty-four (24) hours after the suspension: (1) cause to be served upon the
film permit holder a written statement containing the grounds for suspension
and a notice of hearing to show cause before the City Manager as to why the
film permit should not be suspended pending revocation hearings; and (2) cause
to be served upon the film permit holder a notice of revocation hearing before
the City Council as provided in Section
13.45.160. The hearing before the City Manager shall be held not later than
five (5) days following the service of the notice to the film permit holder.
13.45.160 Revocation.
   A.   Any film permit granted or issued pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter may be revoked after a public hearing before the City Council. A film
permit may be revoked under the following circumstances:
      1.   Where it has been determined that the permittee has violated or has
failed to comply with any of the terms or conditions of the film permit;
      2.   Where it has been determined that the permittee has violated or has
failed to comply with any of the ordinances, resolutions or applicable
regulations of the City;
      3.   Where it has been determined that the film permit has been granted
pursuant to false or fraudulent information contained in the film permit
application;
      4.   Where it has subsequently been determined that the filming activity
will fail to meet the criteria enumerated in this Chapter for granting a film
permit; or
      5.   Where it has been determined that the preservation of the public
health, safety and general welfare demand revocation of the film permit.
   B.   A notice of the revocation shall be mailed to the permittee, by
certified mail, stating the grounds for the revocation and providing a date
within thirty (30) days of the mailing of such notice for a public hearing
before the City Council. Upon the conclusion of the public hearing, the City
Council may, by resolution with findings, revoke or modify the film permit; and
the decision of the City Council shall be final and conclusive as to all
matters in controversy.
13.45.170 Violation as a Nuisance.
Any filming, video taping or related activities conducted contrary to the
provisions of this Chapter shall be and is declared to be an unlawful action
and a public nuisance. The City may commence an action at law or in equity in
the name of the City in any court of competent jurisdiction against the permit
holder to ensure compliance with the terms and provisions of this Chapter. All
remedies prescribed herein will be cumulative and the use of any one (1) or
more remedies by the City shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the
purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Chapter.
Chapter 13.50
MOVING PERMIT REGULATIONS
Sections:
   
13.50.010   Scope of Chapter
   
13.50.020   Application
   
13.50.030   Approval by Building and Safety Department
   
13.50.040   Time Limit City Engineer to Act on Permit Application
   
13.50.050   Trees
   
13.50.060   Classification of Buildings and Structures
   
13.50.070   Compliance of Permit with the State Weight Limits
   
13.50.080   Amount of Deposit
   
13.50.090   Display of Permit
   
13.50.100   Appointment of a Supervising Moving Inspector
   
13.50.110   Construction of Runways
   
13.50.120   Restoration of Street
   
13.50.130   Warning Lights for Moving of Buildings or Structures
   
13.50.140   Deductions from Deposits and Refund of Deposits
   
13.50.150   Maintenance of General Deposit or Undertaking in Lieu of Deductions
   
13.50.160   Issuance of Moving Permit - Specific Types of Equipment
13.50.010 Scope of Chapter.
The provisions of this Chapter apply to the making of applications for and
granting and control of permits for the moving of buildings and structures.
13.50.020 Application.
An applicant for a moving permit shall complete and file with the City Engineer
an application in duplicate conforming with the provisions of Section
13.25.070, which shall contain, in addition thereto, the following:
   A.   The kind of building or structure to be moved;
   B.   The approximate weight thereof, as nearly as may be ascertained;
   C.   The present location of the building or structure;
   D.   The location to which said building or structure is to be moved;
   E.   The proposed route over or along which such building or structure is to
be moved;
   F.   The number of sections in which the building or structure will be
moved;
   G.   The type and number of conveyances upon which the building or structure
is to be moved;
   H.   The proposed date and time of day when the removal of said building,
structure, or portion thereof, is to be commenced;
   I.   The proposed date and time of day when said removal will be completed.
13.50.030 Approval by Building and Safety Department.
If the building or structure to be moved is subject to regulation by the
Building and Safety Department, the applicant shall obtain and file with his
application a Building and Safety Department approval for the moving of the
building or structure.
13.50.040 Time Limit City Engineer to Act on Permit Application.
Within fifteen (15) working days after receipt of the application for a moving
permit, the City Engineer shall:
   A.   Determine whether or not the moving of any building or structure as
proposed in the application can be accomplished without excessive or damaging
tree trimming;
   B.   Alter or prescribe the route over or along which the building or
structure or portion thereof is to be moved;
   C.   Determine the number of sections in which such building or structure
shall be moved;
   D.   Elect to do or not to do any or all of the tree trimming rendered
necessary by the moving of the building or structure;
   E.   Determine the total estimated cost of such trimming.
13.50.050 Trees.
   A.   City Engineer’s Authority. A permit granted under this Chapter does not
permit, license or allow any person, firm or corporation whatever, except the
City Engineer to trim, prune, cut or deface in any manner any tree upon any
grounds or property belonging to the City or upon any road or street.
   B.   Supervision of Cutting Trees. At the written request of a roving
contractor holding an unrevoked permit granted pursuant to the provisions of
this Chapter, the City Engineer, subject to his election to so do, as provided
in Section
13.50.040, within a reasonable time after such request, shall, where it will
not harm the trees, trim such trees under his supervision, only to the extent
necessary to move the building or structure to the location specified in the
permit.
13.50.060 Classification of Buildings and Structures.
All buildings and structures are classified as follows:
   A.   Class “A” is any building or structure or any portion thereof which is
moved on a motor truck or other vehicle propelled by its own power;
   B.   Class “B” is any building or structure or any portion thereof, not of
Class “A” which is not more than sixteen (16) feet in width;
   C.   Class “C” is any building or structure or any portion thereof, not of
Class “A” which is more than sixteen (16) feet and not more than twenty-two
(22) feet in width;
   D.   Class “D” is any building or structure or any portion thereof, not of
Class “A” which is more than twenty-two (22) feet and not more than twenty-
eight (28) feet in width;
   E.   Class “E” is any building or structure or any portion thereof, not of
Class “A” which is more than twenty-eight (28) feet and not more than forty
(40) feet in width;
   F.   Class “F” is any building or structure or any portion thereof, not of
Class “A” which is more than forty (40) feet in width.
13.50.070 Compliance of Permit with the State Weight Limits.
The City Engineer shall not issue a permit to move any building or structure
when the weight of such building or structure, plus the weight of the vehicle
or other equipment, exceeds the weight permitted by the California Vehicle
Code; except, that if it appears to the City Engineer that the size, shape or
physical characteristics of the building or structure or portion thereof, to be
moved, or of the street over which such building or structure is to be moved,
makes it impossible or impracticable to keep within such weight limits, the
City Engineer may issue a permit to move a building or structure on a vehicle
every wheel of which is equipped with pneumatic tires.
13.50.080 Amount of Deposit.
Before any permittee moves any building, structure or portion thereof, of a
class higher than the class for which he has made any general or special
deposit, he shall increase such deposit in an amount sufficient to cover the
class sought to be moved.
13.50.090 Display of Permit.
   A.   The moving contractor shall affix and maintain at all times while it is
on the street, in a conspicuous place on the building or structure to be moved,
the permit for such moving.
   B.   Where a building or structure is moved in more than one (1) section,
and more than one (1) of such sections is moved at the same time, the moving
contractor shall affix and maintain at all times while they are on the street,
in conspicuous places on each section on which the original permit is not
affixed, true copies of such permit.
13.50.100 Appointment of a Supervising Moving Inspector.
The City Engineer may require that the moving of any building or structure be
under the supervision of an inspector to be appointed by the City Engineer. The
permittee shall pay to the City Engineer an amount equal to the compensation
and cost of transportation of such inspector during the time he is assigned to
such inspection.
13.50.110 Construction of Runways.
When so required by the City Engineer, a moving contractor shall place under
each dolly or wheel used in moving the building or structure, boards or planks
of adequate width and strength to carry the load without being broken, to serve
as a runway for such dolly or wheel during such moving along any portion of any
street which has a surface other than natural soil. The moving contractor shall
prevent such dolly or wheel from ever revolving on or resting on such surface
except upon such board, plank or runway.
13.50.120 Restoration of Street.
The City Engineer may restore, or cause to be restored, every street damaged by
the moving of any building or structure thereon, to a condition equivalent to
that prior to such damage, and may require the posting of a bond to secure the
restoration. The moving contractor who caused such damage shall pay the cost of
the repair thereof to the City Engineer.
13.50.130 Warning Lights for Moving of Buildings or Structures.
When a building or structure while being moved is located on any street, at all
times between sunset and sunrise, the moving contractor shall keep and maintain
burning a red warning light not over six (6) feet above the surface of such
street at each corner of such building or structure, and unless the City
Engineer otherwise directs, on all sides and projections thereof at intervals
of not more than five (5) feet.
13.50.140 Deductions from Deposits and Refund of Deposits.
   A.   The City Engineer shall deduct from the deposit made or maintained by
each permittee:
      1.   The permit issuance fee if that has not otherwise been paid;
      2.   The cost of the services and transportation of any inspector
appointed pursuant to Section
13.50.100;
      3.   The cost of any repairs made necessary because of the moving of the
building or structure;
      4.   The total cost of all tree trimming done by the City Engineer made
necessary in order to move the building or structure as specified in the
permit, including all such trimming after the moving of the building or
structure to correct trimming done when the structure was moved.
   B.   The remainder of any such special deposit, if there is any remainder,
shall be refunded to the person, firm or corporation making such deposit, or to
his or its assigns. In the event the deposit made pursuant hereto is
insufficient to pay all fees and deductions provided for herein, the person,
firm or corporation to whom such permit is issued, shall, upon demand pay to
the City Engineer a sufficient sum to fully cover the same. Such unpaid sums
may be recovered by the City Engineer in any court of competent jurisdiction,
and until paid, no further permit under the provisions of this division shall
be issued to such moving contractor.
13.50.150 Maintenance of General Deposit or Undertaking in Lieu of Deductions.
If a moving contractor makes and maintains either a general deposit with the
City Engineer or an undertaking as provided in this Chapter, the deductions
provided for in Section
13.50.140 need not be made. In lieu of such deductions, the City Engineer may
bill the moving contractor for the amount due from him to the City under the
provisions of this Chapter. If, fifteen (15) days after such bill has been
sent, the moving contractor does not pay the same in full, then such amount may
be deducted from his general deposit and the provisions of Section
13.50.140 shall apply, or the City Engineer shall recover upon such
undertaking.
13.50.160 Issuance of Moving Permit - Specific Types of Equipment.
   A.   The City Engineer may, in his discretion, upon application in writing
and if good cause appear, issue a permit authorizing the applicant to operate
or move over and along streets, specific pieces of mobile mechanical equipment
or specific vehicles or specific pieces of mechanical equipment on specific
vehicles, or emergency public utility equipment on specific vehicles. Any such
permit shall be subject to the following conditions:
      1.   The permit shall be limited to specified streets or a specified area
of the City and shall specifically describe the streets or the area of the City
to which it is limited. This limitation shall be fixed by the City Engineer so
as to afford protection to streets and the traveling public.
      2.   The granting of the permit shall in no way relieve the permittee
from liability for damage to the streets or to persons or property.
      3.   The permit shall be issued for a specific period of time designated
by the City Engineer and set forth in the permit, which period shall not exceed
one (1) year.
      4.   The permit may be issued subject to such other conditions as the
City Engineer deems necessary for the protection of the streets and the
traveling public.
   B.   The application for a permit pursuant to this Section shall be made on
a form furnished by the City Engineer and shall contain the information
required by California Vehicle Code Section 35781 and such other information as
may be required by the City Engineer. The application shall be accompanied by
payment of a fee pursuant to the City fee schedule. Prior to the issuance of
any permit, the applicant shall file with the City Engineer, a surety bond
satisfactory to the City Engineer, for the protection of streets from injury
and to provide indemnity for any damage resulting from the operation or
movement under the permit. The filing of such bond shall, for the purpose of
this Section, constitute compliance with the requirements contained in this
Chapter relating to the deposit of money with the City Engineer. A single bond
may, in the discretion of the City Engineer, be deemed sufficient security for
the issuance of one (1) or more permits to the same applicant pursuant to this
Section.
Chapter 13.55
BLINKER LIGHTS REGULATIONS
Sections:
   
13.55.010   Definitions
   
13.55.020   Permit for the Use of Blinker Lights
   
13.55.030   Application for Permit
13.55.010 Definitions.
The following words and phrases used in this Chapter shall have the meanings
herein ascribed to them:
   A.   “Blinker Light” means a light whether colored or uncolored which emits
an intermittent light.
   B.   “Person” means every natural person, firm, copartnership, association
or corporation.
   C.   “Street” means every public street, alley, lane, court, place, drive,
bridge, viaduct or trestle intended for use or used by the general public.
13.55.020 Permit for the Use of Blinker Lights.
   A.   No person shall erect or maintain or cause or permit to be erected or
maintained, any blinker light upon or adjacent to any street within the City
whether on public or private property, which emits a light the same as or
similar to highway warning, danger or signal lights, and which blinker light is
so located as to be visible from any public street unless under and in
accordance with the terms of a permit in writing first obtained from the City
Engineer.
   B.   The provisions of this Chapter shall not be deemed to apply to
advertising signs upon private property consisting of continuous or
intermittent lights in the form of illuminated words, letters or figures or
portraying any advertising scene, figure or emblem and so constructed, arranged
and located as to be clearly distinguishable from a highway warning, danger or
signal light.
   C.   Nor shall this Chapter be deemed to apply to any government lighthouse
nor to any warning, danger or signal light heretofore or hereafter erected or
maintained as required by law or under orders of any board or commission of the
State of California.
13.55.030 Application for Permit.
Any person desiring to erect or maintain any blinker light or lights upon or
adjacent to any street so located as to be visible from any street shall first
make application in writing so to do to the City Engineer, which application
shall state the proposed location of such light or lights, and a brief
description of the proposed light or lights. The City Engineer shall consider
every such application, and if it finds that the blinker light or lights
proposed to be erected will serve as a warning to persons using the street and
will tend to increase the safety of the traveling public, shall issue a permit
in writing authorizing the erection and maintenance of such blinker lights.
Such permit shall be valid until revoked and no charge shall be made for any
such permit.
Chapter 13.60
NEWSRACKS
Sections:
   
13.60.010   Purpose
   
13.60.015   Definitions
   
13.60.020   Prohibition
   
13.60.025   Standards for Newsracks Placed on Sidewalks
   
13.60.030   Location of Newsracks
   
13.60.035   Display and Sale of Harmful Matter to Minors
   
13.60.040   Encroachment Permit Requirement
   
13.60.045   Impoundment of Newsracks - Corrections or Other Disposal Authorized
   
13.60.050   Return of Impounded Newsracks
   
13.60.055   Appeal
   
13.60.060   Abandonment
   
13.60.065   Insurance
   
13.60.070   Violations
   
13.60.075   Severability
13.60.010 Purpose.
   A.   The uncontrolled placement of newsracks in public rights-of-way
presents an inconvenience and danger to the safety of persons using such
rights-of-way, including pedestrians, persons entering and leaving vehicles and
buildings, and persons performing essential utility, traffic control and
emergency services.
   B.   Newsracks located as to cause on inconvenience or danger to persons
using public rights-of-way, and unsightly newsracks located therein, constitute
public nuisances.
   C.   The uncontrolled proliferation of newsracks detracts from the
appearance of streets, sidewalks and adjacent business.
   D.   The uncontrolled placement of newsracks may inhibit safe entry and
departure of vehicles, public and private.
   E.   The uncontrolled placement of newsracks impairs the vision and
distracts the attention of motorists and pedestrians, particularly small
children, and may cause injury to the person or property of such persons.
   F.   The placement of newsracks without a permit based on the detailed
findings in public rights-of-way adjacent to residential areas detracts from
and reduces neighborhood aesthetics and increases the exposure of residents to
noise, traffic volume and hazards and congestion.
   G.   The uncontrolled placement of newsracks increases the civil exposure of
the City to personal injury and property damages claims.
   H.   City-controlled placement of newsracks provides for and maintains the
freedom of speech and press for newspapers and news periodicals using
dispensing devices for distribution devices.
   I.   This Chapter is enacted in pursuance of and for the purpose of securing
and promoting the public safety and general welfare of persons in the City in
their use of public rights-of-way.
13.60.015 Definitions.
Whenever the following words and phrases are used in this Chapter, they shall
have the meaning ascribed to them in this Section:
   A.   “Distributor” means the person responsible for placing and maintaining
a newsrack in a public right-of-way.
   B.   “Newsrack” means any self-service or coin-operated box, container,
storage unit, or other dispenser installed, used or maintained for the display,
sale or distribution of publications.
   C.   “Parkway” means the area between the sidewalk and the curb of the
roadway, and where there is no sidewalk, that area between the edge of the
traveled roadway and the edge of a public right-of-way. Parkway also includes
any area within a roadway that is not open to vehicular travel.
   D.   “Public Right-of-Way” means any place of any nature which is dedicated
to use by the public for pedestrian and vehicular travel, and includes, but is
not limited to, a street, sidewalk, curb, gutter, crossing, intersection,
parkway, highway, alley, lane, mall, court, way, avenue, boulevard, road,
roadway, viaduct, subway, tunnel, bridge, thoroughfare, park square, and other
similar public way.
   E.   “Roadway” means that part of a public right-of-way that is designated
and used primarily for vehicular traffic.
   F.   “Sidewalk” means that part of a public right-of-way that is designated
and ordinarily used for pedestrian travel.
13.60.020 Prohibition.
No person shall place, install, use or maintain any newsrack which rests in
whole or in part upon, in or on any portion of a public right-of-way or that
projects onto, into, or over any part of a public right-of-way except in
compliance with the provisions of this Chapter.
13.60.025 Standards for Newsracks Placed on Sidewalks.
Any newsrack which rests in whole or in part upon, in or on any portion of a
public right-of-way or which projects onto, into or over any part of a public
right-of-way shall comply with the standards set forth in this Section.
   A.   No newsrack shall exceed fifty (50) inches in height, twenty-seven (27)
inches in width, or twenty (20) inches in thickness.
   B.   Newsracks shall be painted black, brown, gray, blue or white.
   C.   No advertising signs or material, other than those dealing with the
name of the publication contained within the newsrack, shall be displayed on
the outside of the newsrack.
   D.   Each newsrack shall be equipped with a coin-return mechanism to permit
a person using the machine to secure an immediate refund in the event he/she is
unable to receive the publication paid for. The coin-return mechanisms shall be
maintained in good working order. Newsracks dispensing free publications are
exempt from this requirement.
   E.   Each newsrack shall have affixed to it in a readily visible place so as
to be seen by anyone using the newsrack, a notice setting forth the name and
address of the distributor and the telephone number of a working telephone
service to call to report a malfunction, or to secure a refund in the event of
a malfunction of the coin-return mechanism, or to give the notices provided for
in this Chapter.
   F.   Each newsrack shall be maintained in a neat and clean condition and in
good repair at all times. Specifically, but without limiting the generality of
the foregoing, each newsrack shall be services and maintained so that:
      1.   It is reasonably free of dirt and grease;
      2.   It is reasonably free of chipped, faded, peeling or cracked paint in
the visible painted areas thereof;
      3.   It is reasonably free of rust and corrosion in the visible unpainted
metal areas thereof;
      4.   The clear plastic or glass parts thereof, if any, through which the
publication(s) therein are viewed are unbroken and reasonably free of cracks,
dents, blemishes and discoloration;
      5.   The paper or cardboard parts or inserts thereof are reasonably free
of tears, peeling or fading; and
      6.   The structural parts thereof are not broken or unduly misshapen.
   G.   Newsracks lawfully in existence on April 26, 2006 [the effective date
of this regulation] shall be allowed to remain at the same location, provided
they are not determined to be a public nuisance or dangerous to the public
safety or general welfare, for a period of six (6) months following adoption of
the ordinance codified in this Chapter. In order to benefit from this
Subsection, a distributor must report the number and location of all newsracks
existing within the City as of April 26, 2006, to the Public Works Department
within sixty (60) days of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
Chapter which shall compile an inventory of such existing newsracks. Such
inventory list shall be conclusive as to the location and existence of such
newsracks. The distributor must submit an annual update report to the Public
Works Director, including all new locations of its newsracks. Thereafter, all
such newsracks shall be required to comply with all provisions of this Chapter.
13.60.030 Location of Newsracks.
Any newsrack which rests in whole or in part upon, in or on any portion of a
public right-of-way or which projects onto, into or over any part of a public
right-of-way shall be located in accordance with the provisions of this
Section:
   A.   No newsrack shall be located in whole or in part in any roadway.
   B.   Newsracks shall be located only near the curb (or, if there is no curb,
the edge of the roadway) or the wall of a building. Newsracks located near the
curb shall be located no less than eighteen (18) inches nor more than twenty-
four (24) inches from the roadway edge of the curb. Newsracks located adjacent
to a building shall be located parallel to and not more than six (6) inches
from the wall thereof. No newsrack shall be located directly in front of any
display window of any building abutting a sidewalk or parkway, except near the
curb, without the written consent of the person or entity legally in occupancy
or otherwise in control of the premises on which the display window is located.
If such consent is withdrawn, any newsrack placed in front of a display window
shall be removed within fourteen (14) days of the date of written notice from
the City to the owner of such newsrack. No newsrack shall be located on the
sidewalk or parkway directly opposite a newsstand or another newsrack.
   C.   Existing newsracks shall be bolted or safely secured to the sidewalk or
concrete slab or other alternate technique approved by the Public Works
Director. After one (1) year from the date of adoption of the ordinance
codified in this Chapter, all newsracks must be bolted to the sidewalk or
concrete slab.
   D.   Newsracks may be placed next to each other, provided that no cluster of
newsracks shall exceed a distance of more than ten (10) feet. A cluster shall
include no more than six (6) newsracks. There shall be a limit of two (2)
newsracks per publication at any given location per cluster.
   E.   No newsrack shall be placed, installed, used or maintained:
      1.   Within one hundred (100) feet of any other cluster of newsracks
whether or not containing the same issue or edition of the same publication;
      2.   Where placement unreasonably interferes with the use of utility
poles, traffic signs or signals, mailboxes, and mechanical sidewalk cleaning
machinery.
13.60.035 Display and Sale of Harmful Matter to Minors.
California Penal Code (CPC) Section 313.1 shall govern the display, offer for
sale or selling of harmful matter as defined in CPC Section 313(a), to minors
in vending machines selling such matter, unattended by an adult at the time of
such sale, located in and upon public places.
13.60.040 Encroachment Permit Requirement.
Any person who desires to install or place a newsrack within the public right-
of-way must first obtain an encroachment permit. The submittal of the list by
the distributor or publisher shall constitute the application for the
encroachment permit. No fee will be charged for the permit and annual update
reports.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, newsracks shall be
permitted in the public right-of-way of a public street adjoining land zoned
for residential use only if the street is a major arterial as shown in the
transportation element of the General Plan. The Public Works Director or his
authorized representative shall keep a current registration of all encroachment
permits, including name of permit holder, address, telephone number, date of
issued permit and location of nuisance.
The applicant must submit a copy of a current business license certificate
issued by the City pursuant to Title 5 of this Code before an encroachment
permit may be issued.
13.60.045 Impoundment of Newsracks - Corrections or Other Disposal Authorized.
   A.   The Public Works Director or his/her designee may:
      1.   Immediately correct any violation of this Chapter and shall do so
without impounding if such correction can be accomplished simply, easily,
quickly and without City expense;
      2.   Notify the person, if known, maintaining a newsrack found in
violation of this Chapter, either in person, by telephone or by mail, in his/
her discretion, and/or by affixing a notice to the newsrack, that unless the
violation is corrected or a hearing requested within ten (10) working days if
the notice is in person or by telephone, within ten (10) working days if the
notice is by mail, or within ten (10) working days if the notice is by affixing
a notice to the newsrack, of the date of the notice, the newsrack will be
impounded; or
      3.   Impound any newsrack in accordance with the decision of any hearing
requested pursuant to this Chapter.
   B.   If a hearing on the impounding of the newsrack is not timely requested
or if the newsrack is not returned in accordance with the provisions of this
Chapter, the City Manager or his designee may sell or otherwise dispose of the
newsrack, and its contents, and deposit the proceeds, if any, from any such
sale or other disposition, any moneys contained in said newsrack, into the
City’s General Fund.
13.60.050 Return of Impounded Newsracks.
   A.   Unless the newsrack and its contents are being held as evidence in a
criminal prosecution, the person maintaining the newsrack, or if there is no
such known person, a claimant who provides sufficient proof of ownership of an
impounded newsrack may, at any time up to and including the thirtieth (30th)
day after the impounding, and if a hearing pursuant to this Chapter is held
concerning the newsrack, may, at any time up to and including the thirtieth 
(30th) day after the decision at such hearing becomes final, obtain a return of
the newsrack and its contents, upon paying an impound fee of twenty-five
dollars ($25.00) plus the reasonable additional cost, if any, of impounding the
newsrack in excess of twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
   B.   The City Manager or his designee may, after a hearing in accordance
with this Chapter, order the newsrack returned without payment of any impound
fee, or if an impound fee has previously been paid, may order return of any
such impound fee.
   C.   A court before which criminal charges concerning an impounded newsrack
are pending, may, upon dismissal of the charges or a finding of acquittal, in
its discretion, order an impounded newsrack returned without payment of an
impound fee or the return of the impound fee paid.
13.60.055 Appeal.
Any person or entity aggrieved by a finding, determination, notice, order or
action taken under the provisions of this Chapter may appeal to the City
Manager. An appeal must be perfected within ten (10) working days after receipt
of the notice of any decision or action by filing with the City Manager a
notice of appeal briefly stating therein the basis for such appeal, identifying
the location of the newsrack, and the name, address and telephone number of the
appellant. The City Manager shall then appoint a hearing officer to hear the
appeal. The hearing must be held on a date within sixty (60) days after receipt
of the notice of appeal. Appellant shall be given at least ten (10) days’
notice of the time and place of the hearing. The hearing officer shall give the
appellant and any other interested party the reasonable opportunity to be
heard, in order to show cause why the determination of the City Manager or his
designee should not be upheld. Within five (5) days of the hearing, the hearing
officer shall make a written decision. His/her decision is final, with no
appeal to the City Council. Fees for filing an appeal shall be set by
resolution of the City Council.
13.60.060 Abandonment.
In the event a newsrack remains empty for a period of thirty (30) continuous
days, the same shall be deemed abandoned and may be treated in the manner
provided in Section
13.60.045 for newsracks in violation of the provisions of this Chapter.
13.60.065 Insurance.
The City requires every person, corporation, partnership or other entity which
places or maintains a newsrack on a public sidewalk or other public place in
the City to provide insurance as required by current City policy, rule and/or
regulation.
13.60.070 Violations.
Any person, corporation, partnership or other entity who violates any of the
provisions of this Chapter is subject to criminal prosecution as permitted in
Section
1.20.010 of this Code.
13.60.075 Severability.
If any Section, Subsection, subdivision, sentence, clause, phrase or part of
this Chapter or any part thereof is for any reason held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by the final decision of any court of competent jurisdiction,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
Chapter or any part thereof. The City Council declares that it would have
adopted this Chapter and each Section, Subsection subdivision, sentence,
clause, phrase or part thereof irrespective of the fact that any one (1) or
more Sections, Subsections, subdivisions, sentences, clauses, phrases or parts
be declared invalid or unconstitutional.
Chapter 13.65
PARADES AND PROCESSIONS
Sections:
   
13.65.010   Permit Required
   
13.65.020   Permit Fee
   
13.65.030   Exemptions - Permit Fee
   
13.65.035   Cost Reimbursement
   
13.65.050   Notification Along Parade Route
   
13.65.060   Appeals
13.65.010 Permit Required.
   A.   No person shall hold, conduct, participate in, or carry on any parade,
march or procession on any street in the City, or beat any drum, gong, triangle
or tambourine, or blow, use or play any wind or stringed instrument, or provide
amplified sound, upon any street in the City, unless the person has made
written application for an received from the City Engineer, a permit
authorizing the person to do so. All applications for the permit shall set
forth the following:
      1.   A map detailing the route along which the parade, march or
procession proposes to travel;
      2.   The date, time of the proposed parade, march or processing, starting
time and length of same;
      3.   The names and addresses of the persons in control of the same or
responsible therefor;
      4.   The purpose of the parade, march or procession; and
      5.   The number of people that will be participating in the activity.
   B.   All permits which include closing or blocking of any streets or
portions of streets, sidewalks or intersections shall be forwarded to the
Public Works Department for a cost estimate for traffic control/traffic control
devices for the parade, march or procession, and to the Police Department for a
cost estimate to provide an adequate level of public safety for the parade,
march or procession.
   C.   Any request for a parade, march or procession which will involve the
closure of any portion of a street designated as a major arterial or greater
shall be reviewed by an appropriate City commission or committee for a
determination as to whether the proposed parade, march or procession is of
general benefit or interest to the community, and for its recommendation to the
City Engineer. The City Engineer may refer any request for a parade, march or
procession which will involve the closure of any portion of a street designated
as an arterial to the appropriate commission or committee for its
recommendation.
13.65.020 Permit Fee.
Upon submission of an application for a parade, march or procession, the
applicant shall pay an application fee established by resolution of the City
Council. Upon approval of the application, the applicant shall pay a fee or
deposit established by the City Engineer estimated to cover the actual cost to
the City of providing traffic control, regulation and law enforcement services
determined by the City to be necessary for the parade, march or procession.
13.65.030 Exemptions - Permit Fee.
No application fee shall be required for, of or from any non-profit
organization providing a service, by contract or other arrangement, to the City
without remuneration or which otherwise is beneficial to the City.
13.65.035 Cost Reimbursement.
Applicants for a parade permit must agree in writing to pay or reimburse the
City for its costs incurred, on behalf of the organizers of the parade, march
or procession. Applicants will be required to post a deposit of at least one-
half (1/2) of the estimated costs, with the balance to be billed to the
responsible party following the event and the calculation and submittal of
actual costs incurred. The City may determine, in its sole discretion, the
manner and timing of payment.
13.65.050 Notification Along Parade Route.
If any parade, march or procession that is located on a street designated as a
major arterial or arterial, and that has been referred to a City commission or
committee, will block access to homes or businesses for any length of time, all
affected homes or businesses along the proposed route must be notified of the
time and place of the commission or committee meeting at which the permit is to
be considered. Notices of the meeting shall be mailed by the City at the
applicant’s expense, or the organizers of the activity may elect to notify
affected residents and businesses with proof that such notice has been given.
13.65.060 Appeals.
Any person aggrieved by any decision or determination of the City Engineer may
within ten (10) business days of the date of the decision or determination
appeal to the City Council, which shall hold a hearing on the appeal upon
giving at least ten (10) days’ notice to the appellant of the time and place of
the hearing. All costs of notice and hearing by the City Council shall be borne
by the appellant. The decision of the City Council and the subject of the
appeal at the hearing shall be final and conclusive.
Chapter 13.70
BANNERS
Sections:
   
13.70.010   Definition
   
13.70.020   Application for Banner Permit
   
13.70.030   Banners for Public Events
   
13.70.040   Duration of Permit
   
13.70.050   Special Banner Permit
   
13.70.060   Public Liability and Property Damage Coverage
   
13.70.070   Installation of Banners
   
13.70.080   Deposit, Deductions and Refunds
   
13.70.090   Removal of Material and Debris
13.70.010 Definition.
The provisions of this Chapter apply to the making of applications for and the
granting and control of permits for the placement, erection, maintenance and
removal of banners extending over, upon or along any highway or any portion
thereof.
13.70.020 Application for Banner Permit.
An applicant for a banner permit shall complete and file with the Public Works
Department an application which shall include the following:
   1.   The location, dimensions and purpose of the banner;
   2.   A facsimile of the proposed banner, including any legend or written
matter;
   3.   The proposed date and time of day when the banner will be installed;
   4.   The proposed date and time of day when the banner will be removed;
   5.   Such other information as the City Engineer may require.
13.70.030 Banners for Public Events.
Permits issued pursuant to this Chapter shall be granted only to civic
organizations or public bodies for the purpose of bringing to the attention of
the public events which are of general public interest in the community. No
permit shall be issued to further political, religious or private purposes.
13.70.040 Duration of Permit.
No permit shall be granted for a period in excess of forty (40) days.
13.70.050 Special Banner Permit.
Every applicant for a banner permit shall pay the application and any other
fees established by resolution of the City Council.
13.70.060 Public Liability and Property Damage Coverage.
An applicant shall submit proof of public liability and property damage
insurance to the City Engineer in the amounts and otherwise as required by the
City, as a condition of and prior to issuance of the banner permit.
13.70.070 Installation of Banners.
The City Engineer may require that the installation of any banner be under the
supervision of a City inspector, for which the permittee shall reimburse the
City’s costs.
13.70.080 Deposit, Deductions and Refunds.
The permittee shall, as a condition of any permit issued pursuant to this
Chapter, post any fee or deposit required by the City Engineer, to cover the
following:
   A.   The permit issuance fee;
   B.   The cost of any required City administration or inspection;
   C.   The cost of any repairs made necessary as a result of installation or
removal of the banner.
      The balance of any special deposit required, if any, shall be refunded to
the permittee upon satisfactory removal of the banner.
13.70.090 Removal of Material and Debris.
A permittee, upon the removal of any banner for which a permit under this
Chapter has been issued, shall remove all material and debris resulting from
the installation, maintenance or removal of any banner, within twenty-four (24)
hours after removal of the banner.
TITLE 14
BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
Chapters:
   
14.10   General
   
14.12   California Building Code
   
14.13   California Residential Code
   
14.14   California Administrative Code
   
14.16   California Electrical Code
   
14.18   California Plumbing Code
   
14.20   California Fire Code
   
14.22   Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings
   
14.23   California Existing Building Code
   
14.24   California Historical Building Code
   
14.25   California Referenced Standards Code
   
14.26   California Mechanical Code
   
14.27   California Green Building Code
   
14.28   California Energy Code
   
14.29   International Property Maintenance Code
   
14.30   Relocated Buildings or Structures
   
14.32   [Repealed]
   
14.34   Occupancy Survey Inspection
   
14.36   Development Impact Fees
   
14.38   Permitting Procedures for Small Residential Solar Energy Systems
Chapter 14.10
GENERAL
Sections:
   
14.10.010   Application of Title
   
14.10.020   Purpose
   
14.10.030   Scope
   
14.10.040   Fees
   
14.10.050   Substitution of References
   
14.10.060   Copies
   
14.10.070   Administration of Title
   
14.10.080   Validity of Permits
   
14.10.090   Remedies Cumulative
   
14.10.100   Penalty for Violation
   
14.10.110   Interpretation, Legal Procedure and Penalties
   
14.10.120   Adoption of Supplements
14.10.010 Application of Title.
The provisions of this Title 14 shall apply to all buildings, structures and
building service equipment within the City and to all parts thereof except as
specifically or by necessary implication provided otherwise in this Title.
14.10.020 Purpose.
The purpose of this Title is to provide minimum standards to safeguard life or
limb, health, property and public welfare by regulating the design,
construction, quality of materials, use and occupancy, location and maintenance
of buildings, equipment, structures and grading within the City; the
electrical, plumbing, heating, comfort cooling and certain other equipment
specifically regulated herein; and the moving of buildings within, into, from
and through the City.
14.10.030 Scope.
   A.   The provisions of this Title shall apply to the construction,
alteration, moving, demolition, repair and use of all buildings, equipment and
structures within the City, except such as is exempted by law from regulation
by the City.
   B.   Additions, alterations, repairs, moving and changes of use or occupancy
in all buildings and structures shall comply with the provisions for new
buildings and structures, except as otherwise provided in this Title.
   C.   Where in any specific case different Sections of this Title specify
different materials, methods of construction or installation, or other
requirements, those providing the greater safety to life or limb, property or
public welfare shall prevail. Where there is a conflict between a general
requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be
applicable.
14.10.040 Fees.
   A.   Fees authorized by this Title, or by a Code adopted by reference in
this Title, shall be established by ordinance or resolution of the City in
accordance with applicable law. The provisions of such resolution or ordinance
shall govern in the event of an inconsistency between the resolution or
ordinance and an adopted Code.
   B.   If a fee is authorized and established by a code adopted by this Title
but the amount thereof has not been separately established by ordinance or
resolution of the City Council, then the amount of the authorized fee set forth
in the incorporated code shall be assessed and collected.
   C.   A permit paid for by check or warrant which is dishonored for any
reason shall be automatically revoked.
14.10.050 Substitution of References.
Whenever in any of the Uniform California Codes adopted in this Title, or on or
in any other location there appears a reference to the following names or
terms, those names or terms shall be deemed and construed as follows, to wit:
   A.   "City" or any other similar reference to a political entity shall mean
the incorporated territory of the City of Adelanto.
   B.   "Director of Building and Safety," "Electrical Safety Engineer,"
"Administrative Authority" or any other similar term which makes reference to
the individual official, board, department or agency created by law to
administer and enforce the provisions of the Codes adopted herein shall mean
the Building Official and his or her Authorized Assistants.
   C.   "City Council" shall mean the City Council of the City.
14.10.060 Copies.
One copy of each Uniform Code adopted by this Title shall be kept on file in
the office of the City Clerk for reference use by the public.
14.10.070 Administration of Title.
The Building Official shall administer the provisions of this Title.
14.10.080 Validity of Permits.
Permits required by this Title shall be issued only in accordance with the
provisions hereof. Any permit issued contrary to the provisions of this Title
shall be void and of no effect.
14.10.090 Remedies Cumulative.
Remedies provided to the City for violations of this Title are cumulative with
other remedies available to the City, whether set forth in this Title or
elsewhere. The conviction and punishment of a person for violating any
provision of this Title shall not relieve such person of the obligation to
comply herewith in all respects.
14.10.100 Penalty for Violation.
Where work for which a permit is required by the Codes herein adopted is
started or proceeded without first obtaining the required permit, a permit
shall not be issued until all past due enforcement costs are paid. The
enforcement costs are the actual costs, as specified in the City's Fee
Schedule, or other applicable City enactment, and must be paid on demand. The
Building Official may use any legal means available to collect enforcement
fees. The payment of such enforcement fees shall not relieve any person from
fully complying with the requirements of these Codes in the execution of the
work nor from any other penalties prescribed herein. Any section in any of the
Codes herein adopted which is in conflict with this Section is hereby repealed.
14.10.110 Interpretation, Legal Procedure and Penalties.
   A.   Interpretation. In interpreting and applying the provisions of this
Title, said provisions shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   Penalties.
      1.   Any buildings or structures erected or maintained, or any use of
property contrary to the provisions of this Title shall be and the same is
hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance and the City Attorney may,
upon request of the Building Official, immediately commence an action or
actions, proceeding or proceedings, for the abatement, removal and enjoinment
thereof in the manner provided by law and shall take such steps and shall apply
to such court or courts as may have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will
abate or remove such building, structure, or use, and restrain and enjoin any
person from erecting or maintaining such building or structure or using any
property contrary to the provisions of this Section.
      2.   All remedies provided for herein shall be cumulative and not
exclusive. The conviction and punishment of any person hereunder shall not
relieve such person from the responsibility of correcting prohibited conditions
or removing prohibited buildings, structures or improvements, nor prevent the
enforced correction or removal thereof.
      3.   All other provisions of the Municipal Code notwithstanding, any
person violating or causing or permitting the violation of any of the
provisions of this Title, or of any permit or exception granted hereunder,
shall be guilty of an infraction or misdemeanor as hereinafter specified, and
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 1.20 of this Code.
      Notwithstanding the above, a first or second offense may be charged and
prosecuted as a misdemeanor. Payment of any penalty herein provided shall not
relieve a person from the responsibility of correcting the condition resulting
from the violation. In addition to the above penalties, the court may order
that the guilty person reimburse the City for all of its costs for
investigation, analysis and prosecution of the enforcement action against the
guilty person. The court shall fix the amount of any such reimbursements upon
submission of proof of such costs by the City.
      4.   A Notice of Pendency of Administrative Action or Proceeding may be
filed in the County Recorder's Office at the time of commencement of action or
proceeding or at any time before final judgment or order. The County Clerk
shall record and index the pendency of action in the name of each person
specified in the action or proceedings. After all required work has been
completed and approved, the Building Official shall cause to be recorded in the
Office of the County Recorder a document terminating the above Notice.
      5.   In the event that any person, firm or corporation shall fail,
neglect or refuse to demolish, remove, abate or correct a structure or
condition existing in violation of this Title upon his or her or its property
after a civil court order or criminal conviction obtained pursuant to this
Section, the City Manager may order the Building Official to demolish, remove,
abate or correct the offending structure or condition. Pursuant to the
procedures set forth in
Chapter 1.22 of this Code, the City is entitled to recovery of all nuisance
abatement costs incurred by the City under this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 568, Section 18, 5/10/17.]
14.10.120 Adoption of Supplements.
All supplements to the California Building Code, the Uniform Administrative
Code, the California Electrical Code, the California Plumbing Code, the Uniform
Fire Code, the California Mechanical Code, the Uniform Solar Energy Code, the
Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, and the Uniform Housing
Code are hereby adopted and shall be applied to all development within the
jurisdiction of the City except that provisions which are inconsistent with
this Title, or as to which the underlying provisions have been deleted by this
Title, shall not be enforced or applied.
Chapter 14.12
CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE
Section:
   
14.12.010   Adoption and Amendment
14.12.010 Adoption and Amendment
   A.   The Adelanto Municipal Code hereby adopts and incorporates by reference
the 2022 California Building Code published by the California Building
Standards Commission and to be codified in California Code of Regulations Title
24, Part 2, as modified and amended in this Section and including Appendices A
(Employee Qualifications), C (Agricultural Buildings), G (Flood-Resistant
Construction), H (Signs), I (Patio Covers), and J (Grading).
   B.   Section 105.2 of Chapter 1, Division II of the 2022 California Building
Code is hereby amended by deleting items 1 through 13 under "Building" and
replacing them with the following items:
      1.   One-story detached accessory buildings used as tool and storage
sheds, playhouses and similar uses and structures such as portable shade cloth
structures, provided the floor area does not exceed 120 square feet (11 m2).
      2.   Oil derricks.
      3.   Sidewalks and driveways not more than 30 inches (762mm) above
adjacent grade, and not over any basement or story below and are not part of an
accessible route.
      4.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, counter tops and
similar finish work that does not involve electrical, mechanical or plumbing
work.
      5.   Temporary motion picture, television and theater stage sets and
scenery.
      6.   Prefabricated swimming pools accessory to a Group R-3 occupancy that
are less than 25 inches (610 mm) deep, do not exceed 5,000 gallons (18,925 L)
and are installed entirely above ground.
      7.   Shade cloth structures constructed for nursery or agricultural
purposes, not including service systems.
      8.   Swings and other playground equipment accessory to detached one and
two-family dwellings.
      9.   Window awnings supported by an exterior wall that do not project
more than 54 inches from the exterior wall and do not require additional
support of Group R-3 and U occupancies.
      10.   Non-fixed and movable fixtures, cases, racks, counters and
partitions not over 5 feet 9 inches (1753 mm) in height.
   C.   Section 113.3 of the California Building Code is amended to read as
follows:
      113.3 Qualifications. (Board of Appeals) The City Council shall act as
the board of appeals,
   D.   Section 903.2 of the California Building Code is amended to read as
follows:
      903.2 Where required. Approved automatic fire sprinkler systems in new
building and structures shall be provided in the locations described in this
section. However, in all events, an approved automatic fire sprinkler system
shall be provided in all newly constructed buildings of any occupancy group,
except Group R, Division 3 (one and two family dwellings) and accessory Group U
occupancies, shall be provide with approved automatic fire sprinklers as
required in the 2022 California Residential Code.
      In existing structures, other than Group R, Division 3 (one and two
family dwellings) and Group U occupancies, not equipped with an automatic fire
sprinkler system, the following requirements shall apply:
      1.   For existing buildings smaller than 5,000 square feet (465m2) in
gross floor area, when an addition causes the structure to exceed 5,000 square
feet (465m2) and such addition is equal to or greater than 50% of the existing
square footage, the entire structure shall be provided with an automatic
sprinkler system.
      2.   For existing buildings larger than 5,000 square feet (465m2) in
gross floor area, when an addition is equal to or greater than 10% of the
existing square footage, the entire structure shall be provided with an
automatic sprinkler system.
      3.   For existing buildings larger than 5,000 square feet (465m2) in
gross floor area, when a change of use occurs that, in the opinion of the fire
code official using the guidance of the California Building Code, increases the
likelihood of, or increases the danger to occupants in a fire incident, the
entire fire area shall be provided with an automatic sprinkler system.
   Exceptions:
      1.   Spaces or areas in telecommunications buildings used exclusively for
telecommunications equipment, associated electrical power distribution
equipment, batteries and standby engines, provided those spaces or areas are
equipped throughout with an automatic fire alarm system and are separated from
the remainder of the building by fire barriers consisting of not less than 1-
hour fire-resistance-rated walls and 2-hour fire-resistance-rated floor/ceiling
assemblies.
      2.   Automatic fire sprinkler protection for Fixed Guideway Transit
Systems shall be as per Section 903 2.17.
[Ord. No. 501, Section 2, 10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 2, 11/13/13; Ord. No.
554, Section 2, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 608, Section 2, 11/13/19; Ord. No. 636,
Section 2, 10/26/22.]
Chapter 14.13
CALIFORNIA RESIDENTIAL CODE
Section:
   
14.13.010   Adoption and Amendment
14.13.010   Adoption and Amendment
The Adelanto Municipal Code hereby adopts and incorporates by reference the
2019 California Residential Code published by the California Building Standards
Commission and to be codified in California Code of Regulations Title 24, Part
2.5.
[Ord. No. 501, Section 3, 10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 3, 11/13/13; Ord. No.
554, Section 5, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 608, Section 5, 11/13/19.]
Chapter 14.14
CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
Section:
   
14.14.010   Adoption
14.14.010 Adoption.
The Adelanto Municipal Code hereby adopts and incorporates by reference the
2022 California Administrative Code published by the California Building
Standards Commission and to be codified in California Code of Regulations Title
24, Part 1.
[Ord. No. 501, Section 4, 10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 4, 11/13/13; Ord. No.
554, Section 6, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 608, Section 6, 11/13/19; Ord. No. 636,
Section 6, 10/26/22.]
Chapter 14.16
CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE
Section:
   
14.16.010   Adoption
14.16.010 Adoption.
The Adelanto Municipal Code hereby adopts and incorporates by reference the
2022 California Electrical Code published by the California Building Standards
Commission and to be codified in California Code of Regulations Title 24, Part
3.
[Ord. No. 501, Section 5, 10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 5, 11/13/13; Ord. No.
554, Section 7, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 608, Section 7, 11/13/19; Ord. No. 636,
Section 7, 10/26/22.]
Chapter 14.18
CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE
Section:
   
14.18.010   Adoption
14.18.010 Adoption.
The Adelanto Municipal Code hereby adopts and incorporates by reference the
2022 California Plumbing Code published by the California Building Standards
Commission and to be codified in California Code of Regulations Title 24, Part
5, including Appendices A (Recommended Rules for Sizing the Water Supply
System), B (Explanatory Notes on Combination Waste and Vent Systems), D (Sizing
Storm Water Drainage Systems), F (Firefighter Breathing Air Replenishment
Systems), H (Private Sewage Disposal Systems), and I (Installation Standard For
PEX Tubing Systems).
[Ord. No. 501, Section 6, 10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 6, 11/13/13; Ord. No.
554, Section 8, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 608, Section 8, 11/13/19; Ord. No. 636,
Section 8, 10/26/22.]
Chapter 14.20
CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE
Sections:
   
14.20.010   Adoption
14.20.010 Adoption.
The Adelanto Municipal Code hereby adopts and incorporates by reference the
2022 California Fire Code, published by the California Building Standards
Commission and to be codified in California Code of Regulations Title 24, Part
9, together with Appendices B (Fire-Flow Requirements For Buildings), C (Fire
Hydrant Locations And Distribution), E (Hazard Categories), F (Hazard Ranking),
G (Cryogenic Fluids-Weight And Volume Equivalents), and H (Hazardous Materials
Management Plans And Hazardous Materials Inventory Statements). Pursuant to
California Fire Code sections 102.9, 103 and 104.1, the Adelanto Municipal Code
further adopts and incorporates the Fire Safety Standards and the Fire
Prevention Standards published by the San Bernardino County Fire Department.
[Ord. No. 501, Section 7, 10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 7, 11/13/13; Ord. No.
554, Section 9, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 608, Section 9, 11/13/19; Ord. No. 636,
Section 9, 10/26/22.]
Chapter 14.22
UNIFORM CODE FOR THE ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
Section:
   
14.22.010   Adoption; Amendment
14.22.010 Adoption; Amendment.
   A.   Pursuant to Government Code Section 50022.2, the 1997 Edition of the
Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, and appendices thereto,
prepared and published by the International Conference of Building Officials,
is adopted and made a part of this Chapter by reference, subject to the
amendments set forth below. A copy of this Code is on file in the office of the
City Building Official and available for public inspection.
[Ord. No. 404, Section 6, adopted 11/13/02.]
   B.   A new Subsection 3 is added to Chapter 4 of Section 403 to read as
follows:
      “3.   If the building or structure is in condition which constitutes an
immediate hazard or threat of harm and the situation calls for abatement sooner
than the abatement procedures herein otherwise allow, the Building Official or
Code Enforcement Supervisor may take or cause emergency abatement of such
nuisance with such notice to parties concerned, or without notice, as
particular circumstances reasonably allow.”
Chapter 14.23
CALIFORNIA EXISTING BUILDING CODE
Section:
   
14.23.010   Adoption
14.23.010 Adoption.
The Adelanto Municipal Code hereby adopts and incorporates by reference the
2022 California Existing Building Code published by the California Building
Standards Commission and to be codified in California Code of Regulations Title
24, Part 10.
[Ord. No. 501, Section 9, 10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 9, 11/13/13; Ord. No.
554, Section 11, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 608, Section 11, 11/13/19; Ord. No. 636,
Section 10, 10/26/22.]
Chapter 14.24
CALIFORNIA HISTORICAL BUILDING CODE
Section:
   
14.24.010   Adoption
14.24.010 Adoption.
The Adelanto Municipal Code hereby adopts and incorporates by reference the
2022 California Historical Building Code published by the California Building
Standards Commission and to be codified in California Code of Regulations Title
24, Part 8.
[Ord. No. 501, Section 10, 10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 10, 11/13/13; Ord.
No. 554, Section 12, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 608, Section 12, 11/13/19; Ord. No.
636, Section 11, 10/26/22.]
Chapter 14.25
CALIFORNIA REFERENCED STANDARDS CODE
Section:
   
14.25.010   Adoption
14.25.010 Adoption.
The Adelanto Municipal Code hereby adopts and incorporates by reference the
2022 California Referenced Standards Code published by the California Building
Standards Commission and to be codified in California Code of Regulations Title
24, Part 12.
[Ord. No. 501, Section 11, 10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 11, 11/13/13 11/13/
13; Ord. No. 554, Section 13, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 608, Section 13, 11/13/19;
Ord. No. 636, Section 12, 10/26/22.]
Chapter 14.26
CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE
Section:
   
14.26.010   Adoption
14.26.010 Adoption.
The Adelanto Municipal Code hereby adopts and incorporates by reference the
2022 California Mechanical Code published by the California Building Standards
Commission and to be codified in California Code of Regulations Title 24, Part
4, including appendices B (Gas equipment procedures) and F (Venting Systems &
Outdoor Combustion Sizing).
[Ord. No. 501, Section 12, 10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 12, 11/13/13; Ord.
No. 554, Section 14, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 608, Section 14, 11/13/19; Ord. No.
636, Section 13, 10/26/22.]
Chapter 14.27
CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING CODE
Section:
   
14.27.010   Adoption
14.27.010   Adoption.
The Adelanto Municipal Code hereby adopts and incorporates by reference the
2022 California Green Building Code published by the California Building
Standards Commission and to be codified in California Code of Regulations Title
24, Part 11.
[Ord. No. 501, Section 13, 10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 13, 11/13/13; Ord.
No. 554, Section 15, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 608, Section 15, 11/13/19; Ord. No.
636, Section 14, 10/26/22.]
Chapter 14.28
CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE
Section:
   
14.28.010   Adoption
14.28.010 Adoption.
The Adelanto Municipal Code hereby adopts and incorporates by reference the
2022 California Energy Code published by the California Building Standards
Commission and to be codified in California Code of Regulations Title 24, Part
6.
[Ord. No. 501, Section 14, 10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 14, 11/13/13; Ord.
No. 554, Section 16, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 608, Section 16, 11/13/19; Ord. No.
636, Section 15, 10/26/22.]
Chapter 14.29
INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section:
   
14.29.010   Adoption
14.29.010 Adoption.
The Adelanto Municipal Code hereby adopts and incorporates by reference the
2021 International Property Maintenance Code published by the International
Code Council.
[Ord. No. 501, Section 15, 10/27/10; Ord. No. 519, Section 15, 11/13/13; Ord.
No. 554, Section 17, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 608, Section 17, 11/13/19; Ord. No.
636, Section 16, 10/26/22.]
Chapter 14.30
RELOCATED BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES
Sections:
   
14.30.010   Relocation Building Permit Required
   
14.30.020   Application
   
14.30.030   Inspection Fee
   
14.30.040   Building and Relocation Site Inspection Report
   
14.30.050   Report Validity
   
14.30.060   Changes
   
14.30.070   Manufactured Homes on Residential Lots
   
14.30.080   Declaration of Public Nuisance
14.30.010 Relocation Building Permit Required.
A person shall not move onto any premises, other than a commercial storage yard
authorized for such use, any building or structure, except a contractor's tool
house, construction building or similar structure which is moved as
construction requires, until he/she first secures a relocation building permit
as hereinafter provided.
14.30.020 Application.
Applicants for relocation permits shall submit photographs of at least two (2)
separate elevations, one (1) of which shall be the front, and a certificate
from a pest control agency or operator licensed under the Structural Pest
Control Act of California, showing freedom from termite infestation, for each
building or structure to be moved, when application for a relocation permit is
filed.
14.30.030 Inspection Fee.
The applicant shall pay an inspection fee upon application for a permit to move
a building or structure in accordance with the Fee Schedule or other applicable
City enactment. There shall be no inspection or inspection fee on a building or
structure to be moved out of the City.
14.30.040 Building and Relocation Site Inspection Report.
Upon receipt of an application for a permit to relocate a building or structure
and receipt of payment of the prescribed inspection fee, the Building Official
shall inspect the building or structure to be moved and the proposed relocation
site, and prepare a written report which shall be forwarded to the applicant.
This report shall contain the approval or disapproval of the Building Official
and, if approved for moving, shall contain the requirements necessary to make
the building or structure conform to the requirements of the Municipal Code,
and Title 14 thereof, for new buildings and any other applicable ordinances and
any additional requirements necessary to assure that such relocation shall not
have detrimental effect by size, design or age, on the living environment and
property values in the area into which the building or structure is to be
moved.
14.30.050 Report Validity.
Additional corrections may be added to the report whenever the structure has
been vandalized, damaged during transportation, or altered in any manner after
the on-site inspection. Otherwise, the inspection report shall remain valid for
a period of ninety (90) days after the building or structure has been
inspected. At the end of such time, if the building or structure has not been
relocated, a new report and inspection fee will be required.
14.30.060 Changes.
The applicant shall make all required changes within one hundred eighty (180)
days and shall agree in writing to do so. This time limitation may be extended
by the Building Official upon receipt of evidence of just and proper cause,
provided, however, that no such extension shall be granted when, in his/her
judgment, such an extension would be detrimental to the public welfare for any
cause or reason.
14.30.070 Manufactured Homes on Residential Lots.
   A.   Nothing in this Chapter shall be interpreted or is intended to conflict
with the requirements of Government Code Section 65852.3 with respect to the
installation of a manufactured home certified under the National Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. Sections 5401
et seq.), on a foundation system, pursuant to Section 18551 of the Health and
Safety Code, and on a lot zoned for a conventional single-family residential
dwelling, and which otherwise complies with established building setback
standards, side and rear yard requirements, standards for enclosures, access
and vehicle parking, aesthetic requirements, and minimum square footage
requirements and other development standards applicable to a conventional
single-family residential dwelling on the same lot.
   B.   The installation of manufactured homes on a lot zoned for conventional
single-family dwellings is prohibited if more than ten (10) years have elapsed
between the date of manufacture of the manufactured home and the date of the
application for the issuance of a permit to install the manufactured home in
the affected zone.
14.30.080 Declaration of Public Nuisance.
When any relocated building or structure or portion thereof remains unfinished
or unfit for occupancy after expiration of the time limit herein specified, any
and all permits pertaining thereto shall expire by limitation and such building
or structure or portion thereof is hereby declared a public nuisance and shall
be abated as provided for in Title 8 of the Municipal Code.
Chapter 14.32
[REPEALED]
Chapter 14.34
OCCUPANCY SURVEY INSPECTION
Section:
   
14.34.010   Change in Use
14.34.010 Change in Use.
When a business license application is received by the City for a location or
structure that has previously housed a business of a different nature, a permit
must be obtained for an inspection by the Department of Building and Safety.
The inspection permit fee shall be in accordance with the schedule as
established by the City of Adelanto. This fee may be amended by resolution of
the City Council.
[Ord. No. 404, Section 8, adopted 11/13/02; Ord. No. 501, Section 18, 10/27/10;
Ord. No. 519, Section 18, 11/13/13.]
Chapter 14.36
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
Sections:
   
14.36.010   Intent and Purpose
   
14.36.020   Applicability
   
14.36.030   Park and Recreation Facilities Development Impact Fees
   
14.36.040   Master Drainage Plan Development Impact Fees
   
14.36.050   Establishment and Administration of Funds
   
14.36.060   Drainage Reimbursements and Credits
14.36.010 Intent and Purpose.
The intent of this Chapter is to establish development impact fees to be
applicable to development in order to offset the direct, cumulative,
incremental, and indirect impacts of development on public facilities and
services. It is further intended that a system of development impact fees can
more equitably account and distribute the costs of providing and maintaining
adequate levels of public facilities and services as established in the General
Plan of the City.
[Ord. No. 425, adopted 2/23/05; Ord. No. 440, adopted 10/26/05.]
14.36.020 Applicability.
Development impact fees shall be required as a condition of issuance of a
building permit for construction of all new buildings, or where a building
permit is not required for any development or use of private property, other
than permitted as a temporary use in
Chapter 17.155 of the Zoning Code. Fees shall be paid prior to the final
inspection of a building or certificate of occupancy. Where a building permit
is not required, fees shall be paid prior to initiation of use of the property.
No occupancy of a new building or use of private property other than temporary
use as specified above shall be considered permitted until applicable
development impact fees have been paid to the City.
[Ord. No. 425, adopted 2/23/05; Ord. No. 440, adopted 10/26/05.]
14.36.030 Park and Recreation Facilities Development Impact Fees.
A development impact fee of two thousand eight hundred ninety dollars
($2,890.00) per dwelling unit for the provision of park and recreation
facilities shall be paid for all new dwelling units in the City, including
second dwelling units, for which permits are issued after the effective date of
Ordinance No. 425. However, for the period between the effective date of
Ordinance No. 425 and January 1, 2006, a reduction of fifty (50) percent shall
be allowed for permits issued prior to January 1, 2006, so that the development
impact fee for park and recreation facilities for permits issued prior to
January 1, 2006, shall be one thousand four hundred forty-five dollars
($1,445).
[Ord. No. 425, adopted 2/23/05; Ord. No. 440, adopted 10/26/05.]
14.36.040 Master Drainage Plan Development Impact Fees.
Development impact fees for the implementation of Master Drainage Plan
facilities shall be paid for all new development in the City, for which permits
are issued after the effective date of Ordinance No. 425 as specified below:
   Non-Residential Development:               $ 11,900 per gross acre
   Residential Development
      Detached Single Family Residential             $ 3,132 per dwelling unit
       Development (not including
       second units
      Attached Single Family Residential             $ 1,566 per dwelling unit
       Development and Multi-Family Residential Development
However, for the period between the effective date of Ordinance No. 425 and
January 1, 2006, a reduction of fifty (50) percent shall be allowed for permits
issued prior to January 1, 2006, so that the development impact fee for Master
Drainage Plan facilities for permits issued prior to January 1, 2006, shall be
as follows:
   Non-Residential Development:               $ 5,950 per gross acre
   Residential Development
      Detached Single Family Residential             $ 1,566 per dwelling unit
       Development (not including
       second units
      Attached Single Family Residential             $ 778 per dwelling unit
       Development and Multi-Family Residential Development
[Ord. No. 425, adopted 2/23/05; Ord. No. 440, adopted 10/26/05.]
14.36.050 Establishment and Administration of Funds.
The Finance Director shall establish a Special Fund for each category of
development impact fee established by this Chapter. All fees collected pursuant
to this Chapter shall be deposited in the respective Special Fund established
for that particular fee, and shall be expended solely to finance the planning,
environmental review, design, construction, and development of facilities and
related infrastructure necessary to support those facilities. Excess funds may
be loaned from one Special Fund to another, or to the General Fund, as long as
the loan (“Inter-Fund Loan “) complies with State law, does not interfere with
the purpose for which the Special Fund was established, and is paid back in
full within two years of the effective date of the loan agreement. If an Inter-
Fund Loan remains outstanding at any given time, an additional Inter-Fund Loan
shall only be permitted upon specific approval of the City Council.
[Ord. No. 425, adopted 2/23/05; Ord. No. 440, adopted 10/26/05; Ord. No. 566,
Section 2, adopted 4/26/17.]
14.36.060 Drainage Reimbursements and Credits.
   A.   Facilities built by developers shall be built to ultimate capacity,
including lining the sides of the facilities as described in the Master Plan of
Drainage, unless specifically conditioned otherwise. Where approved by the City
Engineer and the Community Development Director, partial improvements may be
constructed that are consistent with the ultimate improvements but can be
reasonably further improved at a later date. (Master Plan facilities are
intended as "soft-bottom" facilities to allow for percolation.) Facilities
shall also be designed with vehicular access structures downstream of each road
crossing to allow for access for maintenance.
   B.   Credits against fees and Reimbursement Agreements for capital
expenditures consistent with the Master Plan of Drainage and this Chapter shall
be subject to the review and approval of the City Engineer and Community
Development Director and may be considered up to one hundred (100) percent of
the eligible cost for construction of Master Plan Facilities. This would
include "dry", all weather, one hundred (100)-year crossings built to ultimate
capacity which are included in the Background Report for Fees. Reimbursement
Agreements shall require City Council approval.
   C.   Credits and reimbursements shall be limited to costs as defined in the
Background Report for Fees. Credits and reimbursements for "crossings" shall be
limited to "dry", all weather, one hundred (100)-year crossings identified in
the Background Report and shall not exceed amounts determined by the City
Engineer based on amounts included in the Background Report for Fees.
   D.   The City will consider Reimbursement Agreements for construction of
Master Plan Facilities, including "dry", all weather, one hundred (100)-year
crossings identified in the Background Report, subject to the following:
      1.   Reimbursement Agreements for projects subject to the fifty (50)
percent fees between April 25, 2005 and January 1, 2006 shall be limited to
fifty (50) percent of the construction costs in excess of any credits.
      2.   Reimbursement Agreements shall require approval of the City Council.
      3.   Reimbursement Agreements shall not exceed a period of ten (10)
years, after which they shall expire, even if all expenditures have not been
reimbursed.
   E.   Development fees collected for Master Drainage Plan facilities shall be
apportioned as follows:
      1.   Fifty (50) percent shall be reserved for critical facilities as
determined by the City Council.
      2.   Fifty (50) percent may be allocated for reimbursements within the
"watershed" of the specific channel in which the project is located.
      3.   Priority for reimbursements shall be at the discretion of the City
Council. Reimbursements typically will be apportioned on a pro-rata basis
within each "watershed" for each project which has a Reimbursement Agreement.
   F.   All design and construction must be approved by the City Engineer. The
City reserves the right to collect fees and design and construct facilities
under City supervision rather than allowing the developer to construct
facilities.
   G.   The City Council may authorize alternative facilities that achieve the
same purpose as a Master Plan facility that would be eligible for credits,
reimbursements, and expenditure of fees for Master Plan Drainage facilities.
[Ord. No. 440, adopted 10/26/05.]
Chapter 14.38
PERMITTING PROCEDURES FOR SMALL RESIDENTIAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
Sections:
   
14.38.010   Purpose and Intent
   
14.38.020   Definitions
   
14.38.030   Small Residential Rooftop Solar System Requirements
   
14.38.040   Application Review
   
14.38.050   Electronic Access to Permit Information and Submittals
   
14.38.060   Inspection
   
14.38.070   Fees
14.38.010   Purpose and Intent.
   The purpose and intent of this Chapter is to adopt an expedited, streamlined
solar permitting process that complies with the Solar Rights Act, as amended by
Assembly Bill 2188 (Chapter 521, Statutes 2014) to achieve timely and cost-
effective installations of small residential rooftop solar energy systems. This
Chapter will increase the deployment of residential solar distributed
generation, provide solar customers greater installation ease, improve the City
and state's ability to reach its clean energy goals, and generate much needed
jobs in the City and state. The Chapter allows the City to achieve these goals
while protecting public health and safety.
(Ord. No. 538, Section 1, 8/26/15)
14.38.020   Definitions.
   The following definitions shall be applicable to the provisions in this
Chapter.
   A.   "A feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific,
adverse impact" means a method that includes, but is not limited to, any cost-
effective method, condition, or mitigation imposed by the City on another
similarly situated application in a prior successful application for a permit.
The City shall use its best efforts to ensure that the selected method,
condition, or mitigation meets the conditions of subparagraphs (A) and (B) of
paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Section 714 of the Civil Code.
   B.   "Reasonable restrictions" means on a solar energy system are those
restrictions that do not significantly increase the cost of the system or
significantly decrease its efficiency or specified performance, or that allow
for an alternative system of comparable cost, efficiency, and energy
conservation benefits.
   C.   "Restrictions that do not significantly increase the cost of the system
or decrease its efficiency or specified performance" means:
      1.   For water heater systems or solar swimming pool hearing systems: An
amount exceeding ten (10) percent of the cost of the system, but in no case
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000), or decreasing the efficiency of the
solar energy system by an amount exceeding ten (10) percent, as originally
specified and proposed.
      2.   For photovoltaic systems: An amount not to exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000) over the system cost as originally specified and proposed, or
a decrease in system efficiency of an amount exceeding ten (10) percent as
originally specified and proposed.
   D.   "Solar energy system" means a solar energy system as defined in
California Code of Regulations, Title 24, including but not limited to:
      1.   Any solar collector or other solar energy device whose primary
purpose is to provide for the collection, storage, and distribution of solar
energy for space hearing, space cooling, electric generation, or water heating.
      2.   Any structural design feature of a building, whose primary purpose
is to provide for the collection, storage, and distribution of solar energy for
electricity generation, space heating or cooling or for water heating.
   E.   "Small residential rooftop solar energy system"" means a solar energy
system which meets all of the following:
      1.   A solar energy system that is no larger than ten (10) kilowatts
alternating current nameplate rating or thirty (30) kilowatts thermal.
      2.   A solar energy system that conforms to all applicable state fire,
structural, electrical, and other building codes as adopted or amended by the
City; all state, local health and safety standards; and all applicable safety
and performance standards established by the California Electrical Code, the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, and accredited testing
laboratories such as Underwriters Laboratories and, where applicable, rules of
the Public Utilities Commission regarding safety and reliability.
      3.   A solar energy system that is installed on a single or duplex family
dwelling.
      4.   A solar panel or module array that does not exceed the maximum legal
building height as defined by the City of Adelanto Development Code.
      5.   A solar energy system that conforms to all applicable state fire,
structural, electrical, and other building codes as adopted or amended by the
City, all state and City health and safety standards, and paragraph (3) of
subdivision (c) of section 714 of the California Civil Code.
   F.   "Specific, adverse impact" means a significant, quantifiable, direct,
and unavoidable impact, based on objective, identified, and written public
health or safety standards, policies, or conditions as they existed on the date
the application was deemed complete.
   G.   "Electronic submittal" means the utilization of one (1) or more of the
following:
      1.   Email;
      2.   Internet;
      3.   Facsimile.
(Ord. No. 538, Section 1, 8/26/15)
14.38.030   Small Residential Rooftop Solar System Requirements.
   A.   All small residential rooftop solar energy systems shall comply with
the applicable standards and requirements for solar energy systems as set forth
in the California Code of Regulations, Title 24.
   B.   The small residential rooftop solar system permit process, standard
plan(s), and checklist(s), shall substantially conform to the recommendations
for expedited permitting, including the checklists and standard plans,
contained in the most current version of the California Solar Permitting
Guidebook adopted by the Governor's Office of Planning and Research.
(Ord. No. 538, Section 1, 8/26/15)
14.38.040   Application Review.
   A.   Upon confirmation that the application is complete, staff shall review
the application to ensure that the small residential rooftop solar energy
system meets local, state, and federal health and safety requirements. Upon
receipt of an incomplete application, the Building Official shall issue a
written correction notice detailing all deficiencies in the application and any
additional information required to be eligible for expedited permit issuance.
The Building Official may require an applicant to apply for a use permit
pursuant to the City of Adelanto Development Code, if the Building Official
finds, based on substantial evidence, that the small residential rooftop solar
energy system could have a specific, adverse impact upon the public health and
safety.
   B.   Upon confirmation by the Building Official of the application and
supporting documentation being complete and meeting the requirements of the
checklist, the Building Official shall administratively approve the application
and issue all required permits or authorizations within a reasonable time
following receipt of a complete application that meets the requirements of the
approved checklist, standard plans and this Chapter. Such approval shall not
include any necessary approval or permission by a local utility provider to
connect the small residential rooftop energy system to the provider's
electricity grid. The applicant is responsible for obtaining such approval or
permission from the local utility provider.
   C.   Staff's approval of an application shall not be based or conditioned on
the approval of an association, as defined in California Civil Code section
4080.
   D.   All documents required for the submission of a small residential
rooftop solar energy system application shall be made available on the
publically accessible City website.
   E.   Prior to submitting an application, the applicant shall:
      1.   Verify to the applicant's reasonable satisfaction through the use of
standard engineering evaluation techniques that the support structure for the
small residential rooftop solar energy system is stable and adequate to
transfer all wind, seismic, and dead and live loads associated with the system
to the building foundation; and
      2.   At the applicant's cost, verify to the applicant's reasonable
satisfaction using standard electrical inspection techniques that the existing
electrical system including existing line, load ground and bonding wiring as
well as main panel and subpanel sizes are adequately sized, based upon the
existing electrical system's current use, to carry all new photovoltaic
electrical loads.
(Ord. No. 538, Section 1, 8/26/15)
14.38.050   Electronic Access to Permit Information and Submittals.
   A.   The Building Official shall make the checklist and all permitting
documentation required for a small residential rooftop solar energy system
available on a publicly accessible website. The Building Official is authorized
to modify the checklist consistent with state law, local regulations, and with
changes in industry standards and technology.
   B.   Pending software installation, adaptation and security testing, an
applicant may submit the application and related documentation for a small
residential rooftop solar energy system by electronic submittal, as specified
on the City website. Electronic signatures shall be accepted by the City on all
electronic submittals in lieu of a wet signature, in conformance with
California Government Code section 16.5 and California Code of Regulations
sections 22000 et seq.
(Ord. No. 538, Section 1, 8/26/15)
14.38.060   Inspections.
   A.   One (1) inspection shall be required and performed by staff for small
residential rooftop solar energy systems eligible for expedited review, which
shall be done in a timely manner and may include a consolidated inspection by
the building official and fire marshal. If a small residential rooftop solar
energy system fails inspection, a subsequent inspection is authorized; however,
the subsequent inspection need not conform to the requirements of this Section.
   B.   The inspection shall be done in a timely manner.
   C.   If a small residential rooftop solar energy system fails inspection, a
subsequent inspection is authorized but need not conform to the requirements of
this Section.
(Ord. No. 538, Section 1, 8/26/15)
14.38.070   Fees.
   All fees prescribed for the permitting of small residential rooftop solar
energy systems must comply with Government Code sections 65950.55, 66015, and
66016, and Health and Safety Code Section 17951.
(Ord. No. 538, Section 1, 8/26/15)
TITLE 15
RESERVED
TITLE 16
SUBDIVISIONS
Chapters:
   
16.04   General Provisions
   
16.08   Tentative and Final Maps
   
16.12   Minor Subdivisions
   
16.16   Vesting Tentative Maps
   
16.20   Composite Development Plan
   
16.24   Lot Line Adjustments
   
16.28   Lot Mergers
   
16.32   Reversion to Acreage
   
16.36   Certificates of Compliance
   
16.40   Official Maps
   
16.44   Resident Initiated Mobile Home Park Conversions
   
16.48   Lot Requirements
   
16.52   Dedication of Land and/or Payment of Fees for Park and Recreation
Purposes
Chapter 16.04
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sections:
   
16.04.010   Declaration of Purpose
   
16.04.020   General Provisions
   
16.04.030   Filing Criteria
   
16.04.040   Map Procedures
   
16.04.050   General Requirements
   
16.04.060   Subdivision Design and Improvement Standards
   
16.04.070   Improvement Security
   
16.04.080   Prohibition and Penalty
   
16.04.090   Remedies
16.04.010 Declaration of Purpose.
   A.   It is the purpose of this Title to ensure implementation of the City’s
General Plan through attainment of its stated goals and objectives regarding
the regulation and control of the creation, adjustment and deletion of property
lines through subdivision or other procedures.
   B.   It is also the intent of this Title to provide, in conjunction with
Titles 13, 14, and 17 of this Code, for proper grading and erosion control,
including the prevention of sedimentation on, or damage to, off-site property,
and to specifically apply those regulations.
   C.   In addition, it is the intent of this Title to implement those
provisions of the California Solar Rights Act of 1978 relating to the design of
subdivisions for future passive or natural heating or cooling opportunities.
16.04.020 General Provisions.
The provisions defining and regulating the review and approval of tentative,
final and parcel maps; lot line adjustments; lot mergers; reversions to
acreage; certificates of compliance; and official maps shall be governed by
this Title, except as otherwise indicated by this Section.
   A.   Authority for Local Regulations. Pursuant to the provisions of
California Government Code, Title 7, Division 2, referred to herein as the
“Subdivision Map Act,” and in addition to any regulations otherwise provided by
law, the regulations contained in this Title shall apply to all subdivisions,
parts of subdivisions, lot line adjustments, lot mergers, reversions to
acreage, certificates of compliance and official maps hereafter made entirely
or partially within the City.
   B.   The designation, establishment, duties and meeting dates of the
reviewing authorities shall be governed by Titles 2 and
Chapter 17.03.
   C.   Review procedures and findings for approval shall be as specified by
this Title 16 and the permits and procedures provisions of Title 17 (the
“Development Code”).
   D.   Terms used within this Title are defined as specified in
Chapter 17.200 of the Development Code.
16.04.030 Filing Criteria.
   A.   Maps of Condominium or Community Apartment Projects. A map of a
condominium project, a community apartment project or of the conversion of five
(5) or more existing dwelling units into a stock cooperative project need not
show the buildings or the manner in which the buildings or the airspace above
the property shown on the map are to be divided, nor will the City refuse
approval of a parcel, tentative or final map of such a project on account of
design or location of buildings on the property shown on the map. However, the
City may regulate the design and location of a condominium project or a
community apartment project through the provisions of its General Plan or
Development Code. The City may refuse approval of such a project if the design
and locations of buildings violate provisions of the General Plan or
Development Code.
   B.   Filing Maps with County Recorder. Of the maps required by this Title
and the Subdivision Map Act, only final and parcel maps may be filed for record
in the office of the County Recorder.
      1.   No final map required by this Chapter and the Subdivision Map Act
which creates a subdivision shall be filed with the County Recorder without the
written consent of all parties having any record title interest in the real
property proposed to be subdivided, except as otherwise provided in this Title.
      2.   No parcel map required by this Title and the Subdivision Map Act
which creates a subdivision shall be filed with the County Recorder without the
consent of the legal owner of record in the real property proposed to be
subdivided, except as otherwise provided in this Title.
16.04.040 Map Procedures.
The procedures set forth in this Section shall govern the filing, processing,
approval, conditional approval or disapproval of tentative, final and parcel
maps and the modification thereof, in addition to the requirements in previous
provisions.
   A.   Extension of Time Limits. The time limits specified in this Title for
reporting and acting on maps may be extended by mutual consent of the
subdivider and the planning agency or City Council.
   B.   Fees for Processing. Fees for the processing of tentative, vesting
tentative, minor subdivision plot plan, final and parcel maps, lot line
adjustments, lot mergers, reversion to acreage, certificates of compliance and
official maps, and for other procedures required or authorized by this Title
16, shall be established in the City’s fee resolution.
   C.   Parcel Maps. The Planning Director may grant approval for the creation
of two (2), three (3) or four (4) lots and a remainder parcel as shown on an
approved tentative subdivision map for the purpose of obtaining building
permits for model homes or units. As a condition of this approval, a parcel map
may be required. Prior to the issuance of building permits for said model
homes, a surety bond or cash deposit shall be posted with the City Engineer for
the street improvements abutting said lots as required for the approved
tentative subdivision. The surety bond or cash deposit shall be in an amount
equal to a contractor’s construction estimate, plus ten percent (10%).
   D.   Filing Maps with County Recorder. After the approval by the City of a
final or parcel map of a subdivision within the unincorporated territory, the
map shall be transmitted ultimately to the County Recorder in accordance with
Sections 66464 et seq. of the Subdivision Map Act, or as the Subdivision Map
Act may be subsequently amended.
   E.   Correction and Amendment to Maps. The purpose of this Subsection is to
provide a means to correct errors which may be found in final or parcel maps.
      1.   Amendment to a Final or Parcel Map. After a final map or parcel map
is filed in the office of the County Recorder, it may be amended by a
certificate of correction or an amending map in the following circumstances:
         a.   To correct an error in any course or distance shown thereon;
         b.   To show any course or distance that was omitted therefrom;
         c.   To correct an error in the description of the real property shown
on the map;
         d.   To indicate monuments set after the death, disability or
retirement from practice of the engineer or surveyor charged with the
responsibilities for setting monuments;
         e.   To show the proper location or character of any monument which
has been changed in location or character or originally was shown at the wrong
location or incorrectly as to its character; or
         f.   To correct any other type of map error or omission as approved by
the County Surveyor which does not affect any property right. Such errors and
omissions may include, but are not limited to: lot numbers, acreage, street
names and identification of adjacent record maps.
            As used in this Section, “error” does not include change in courses
or distances from which an error is not ascertainable from the data shown on
the final or parcel map.
      2.   Preparation of Amending Map. The amending map or certificate of
correction shall be prepared by a registered civil engineer licensed to
practice land surveying or licensed land surveyor. An amending map shall
conform to the requirements of the chapter governing final map form and
content, if a final map, or the chapter governing parcel map form and content,
if a parcel map. The amending map or certificate of correction shall set forth
in detail the corrections made and show the names of the present fee owners of
the property affected by the correction or omission.
      3.   Map Amendment Examined by City Engineer. The City Engineer shall
examine the amending map or certificate of correction; and if the only changes
made are those set forth in this Subsection, the City Engineer shall certify to
this fact on the amending map or certificate of correction.
      4.   Filing of Map Amendment with County Recorder. The amending map or
certificate of correction certified by the City Engineer shall be filed in the
office of the County Recorder in which the original map was filed. Upon such
filing, the County Recorder shall index the names of the fee owners and the
appropriate tract designation shown on the amending map or certificate of
correction in the general index and map index respectively. Thereupon, the
original map shall be deemed to have been conclusively so corrected, and
thereafter shall impart constructive notice of all such corrections in the same
manner as though set forth upon the original map.
      5.   Upon recordation of an amending map or certificate of correction,
the County Recorder shall, within sixty (60) days of recording, transmit a
certified copy to the City Engineer who shall maintain an index of recorded
certificates of correction. The amending map shall contain a certificate of
preparation that is signed by the registered civil engineer licensed to
practice land surveying or licensed land surveyor who prepared the map and a
prominently displayed note on the map which briefly lists the changes to the
satisfaction of the County Surveyor.
   F.   Further Modifications of Final Maps. In addition to the amendments
authorized by Section
16.04.040.E., after a final map or parcel map is filed in the office of the
County Recorder, such a recorded final map may be modified by a certificate of
correction or an amending map if the City Council makes each of the following
findings:
      1.   That there are changes in circumstances which make one (1) or all of
the conditions of such a map no longer appropriate or necessary; and
      2.   That the modifications do not impose any additional burden on the
present fee owner of the property; and
      3.   That the present fee owner of the property has consented in writing
to the modifications; and
      4.   That the modifications do not alter any right, title or interest in
the real property reflected on the recorded map; and
      5.   That the map, as modified, conforms with each of the following
findings:
         a.   The site is physically suitable for the proposed type of
development;
         b.   The site is physically suitable for the proposed density of
development;
         c.   The design of the subdivision and the proposed improvements are
not likely to cause substantial environmental damage or substantially and
avoidably injure fish or wildlife or their habitat;
         d.   The design of the subdivision and any related types of proposed
improvements are not likely to cause serious public health problems or cause a
threat to life and property from a wildland conflagration;
         e.   The proposed subdivision together with the provisions for its
design and improvements are consistent with the General Plan, and any
applicable community plan or specific plan;
         f.   The proposed subdivision, its design, density and type of
development and improvements conform to the regulations of the Development
Code, and the regulations of any public agency having jurisdiction by law;
         g.   The proposed subdivision is not deemed to be a land project, or
an adopted specific plan covering the area proposed to be included within the
project has been adopted by the City Council; and the proposed land project
subdivision together with the provisions for its design and improvement are
consistent with the adopted specific plan;
         h.   The design of the subdivision provides to the extent feasible,
passive or natural heating and cooling opportunities to each of the proposed
lots. Such opportunities may include, but are not limited to: siting of
structures to take optimum advantage of passive cooling and heating
opportunities, providing additional opportunities through land use controls for
the use of solar energy systems, adjusting lot depth and width to provide for
the future use of solar energy systems, and adjusting building setback lines to
promote the optimum spacing of structures to create adequate solar access; and
         i.   Where applicable, in the event that the proposed subdivision is a
conversion of residential real property into a condominium project, a community
apartment project or a stock cooperative project, that the proposed subdivision
has complied with the requirements of Government Code Sections 66427.1(a) and
66452.10.
            Any such modification shall be set for a noticed public hearing as
is required for any other Planning Commission or City Council action in which
the reviewing authority hears public testimony for and against the land use
proposal, reviews evidence and renders its decision in connection with a land
use approval. The City Council shall confine the hearing to consideration of
and action on the proposed modification. These map modifications shall also be
subject to the preparation, review and recordation requirements of Section
16.04.040.E. where applicable.
16.04.050 General Requirements.
The procedures set forth in this Section shall govern the requirements for
soils report, special map requirement, environmental review, dedications,
monument, and improvement requirements.
   A.   Soils Report Requirement. The requirements set forth in this Subsection
shall apply to the soils report.
      1.   A preliminary soils report may be required as part of the tentative
map approval, providing the planning director makes a finding, based upon
existing knowledge of soil qualities, that a preliminary analysis is necessary.
The findings shall be based upon evidence, information and recommendations of
the development review committee or development review committee member acting
within the departmental area of expertise.
      2.   If the City has knowledge of, or the preliminary soils report
indicates, the presence of critically expansive soils or other soils problems
which, if not corrected, would lead to structural defects, a soils
investigation of each lot in the subdivision may be required. Such soils
investigation shall be done by a civil engineer registered in this state, who
shall recommend the corrective action which is likely to prevent structural
damage to each structure proposed to be constructed in the area where such
soils problems exist.
         If the planning agency has knowledge of areas of districts which are
characterized by such expansive soils or other soils problems, upon the
recommendation of the planning officer, development review committee, or
environmental review board, the planning agency may require that a soils
investigation be prepared for each lot of any subdivision proposed within said
areas or districts.
      3.   The planning agency may approve the subdivision or portion thereof
where such soils problems exist if it determines that the development review
committee’s recommended action is likely to prevent structural damage to each
structure to be constructed. As a condition to the issuance of any building
permit, it shall be required that the approved recommended action be
incorporated in the construction of each structure.
      4.   Each report shall be kept on file at the Building and Safety
Department for public inspection. The location of these reports shall be
referenced on the composite development plan.
   B.   Special Map Requirement. Prior to tentative or parcel map approval, the
planning director may require that the following information be reflected on
the tentative map or minor subdivision plot plan:
      1.   Submittal of a map showing any or all existing easements and
locations of rock outcrops, high groundwater and spring discharge.
      2.   Delineation of the portions of lots allocated for the subsurface
disposal of sewage effluent.
      3.   The approximate size of irregularly shaped lots where it is deemed
necessary in order to accomplish the objectives of this Chapter and of the
General Plan.
      4.   A plan may be required where watercourses, significant drainage
channels or bodies of water traverse or adjoin a lot, showing how sewage
disposal systems will be installed and maintained.
         Lines depicting the required setbacks from such watercourses, drainage
channels or bodies of water shall be indicated on a copy of the tentative map.
The map shall be reviewed by the development review committee and
recommendations shall be forwarded to the planning agency. When subsurface
waste-disposal systems are proposed, a preliminary soils report shall be
provided by the subdivider which shall ascertain the acceptability of
subsurface sewage-disposal systems where such will be the method for waste
disposal.
         This information shall be incorporated into the composite development
plan to be filed with the building and safety department. The location of any
special maps shall be referenced on the composite development plan.
   C.   Environmental Review Requirements. The requirements set forth in this
Subsection shall apply to the procedures related to environmental review.
      1.   No tentative map or parcel map shall be approved or disapproved
until there has been compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act,
the State CEQA guidelines and the adopted environmental review guidelines for
the City. On tentative maps or parcel maps for which an environmental impact
report has been prepared, the planning agency shall take the following actions:
         a.   Respond to the significant environmental points raised in the
review and consultation process. The response shall describe the disposition of
significant environmental issues raised (e.g., revisions to the proposed
tentative map to mitigate anticipated impacts or objections). In particular,
the major issues raised when the planning agency’s position is at a variance
with recommendations and objections raised in the comments must be addressed in
detail giving reasons why specific comments and suggestions are not accepted,
and factors of importance warranting override of the suggestions.
         b.   Identify the ultimate choice from alternatives presented in the
environmental impact report and indicate why other alternatives were rejected
in favor of the ultimate choice.
         c.   If the planning agency decides to approve a tentative map or
parcel map for which significant adverse environmental consequences have been
identified in an environmental impact report, the planning agency shall make a
statement identifying the other interests that warrant approval in its point of
view.
   D.   Dedications.
      1.   Streets, Highways and Flood Control Rights-of-Way. As a condition of
approval of a map, the subdivider shall dedicate or make an irrevocable offer
of dedication of all parcels of land within the subdivision that are needed
for:
         a.   Streets;
         b.   Alleys;
         c.   Access rights and abutters’ rights;
         d.   Drainage easements;
         e.   Public utility easements;
         f.   Other public easements.
            In addition, the subdivider shall improve or agree to improve all
streets, alleys, including access rights and abutters’ rights, drainage, public
utility easements and other public easements. The subdivider may also be
required to dedicate such additional land as may be necessary and feasible to
provide bicycle paths for the use and safety of residents of the subdivision.
      2.   Drainage Rights-of-Way. When, in the opinion of the planning agency,
drainage rights-of-way are necessary, the subdivider shall offer to dedicate
upon the final map of the subdivision the necessary rights-of-way for such
drainage facilities.
      3.   Flood Control Dedication. Where dedication is offered for Flood
Control District rights-of-way, such rights-of-way shall be shown as lots
lettered alphabetically on the final map. Such offer of dedication shall be
made by an appropriate certificate on the title sheet of the final map, and, in
addition, an executed deed conveying fee title to said right-of-way to the
Flood Control District shall be delivered to said District.
      4.   Certification of City Council Action. At the time the Council
approves a final map, it shall also accept, subject to improvement, or reject
any offer of dedication. The City Clerk shall certify on the map the action of
the City Council.
      5.   Resolution of Acceptance. The City Clerk shall cause a resolution of
acceptance of dedications by the Council, to be filed with the County Recorder.
      6.   If at the time the final map is approved, any streets, paths,
alleys, public utility easements, rights-of-way for local transit facilities
such as bus turnouts, benches, shelters, landing pads and similar items, which
directly benefit the residents of a subdivision, or storm drainage easements
are rejected, subject to Code of Civil Procedure Section 771.010, the offer of
dedication shall remain open in accordance with State law; and the City Council
may by resolution at any later date, and without further action by the
subdivider, rescind its action and accept and open the streets, paths, alleys,
rights-of-way for local transit facilities such as bus turnouts, benches,
shelters, landing pads, and similar items, which directly benefit the residents
of a subdivision, or storm drainage easements for public use. Such acceptance
shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
   E.   Monuments. The provisions of this Subsection shall govern the placement
of monuments for a subdivision.
      1.   Boundary Monuments. At the time of making the survey for the parcel
map or the final map, the engineer or surveyor shall set sufficient durable
monuments to conform with the City’s engineering standards and standards
described in Business and Professions Code Section 8771, so that another
engineer or surveyor may readily retrace the survey. The parcel map or the
final map shall show said monuments found or set at or near each boundary
corner and at intermediate points approximately one thousand (1,000) feet apart
or at such lesser distances as may be made necessary by topography or contour
to ensure accuracy in reestablishment of any point or line without unreasonable
difficulty. The precise position and character of each monument shall be shown
on the final map, together with the relative heights of the top of each such
monument with respect to the surface of the ground.
      2.   Deferment, Final Map or Parcel Map Monuments. Interior monuments
need not be set at the time the final map is filed if the engineer or surveyor
certifies on the map that the monuments will be set on or before a specified
later date. All monuments so deferred and the furnishing of notes thereon as
required in the City’s engineering standards, shall be agreed to be set and
furnished by the subdivider. Such agreement shall be included and guaranteed in
the “Agreement in Lieu of Improvements” as provided by this Title 16, and
accompanied by a cash deposit.
      3.   Monument Inspection. All monuments shall be subject to inspection
and approval by the City Engineer.
      4.   Centerline Monuments. Durable monuments as described in the City’s
engineering standards shall be set.
   F.   Improvement Plans.
      1.   Submission of Improvement Plans. All improvement plans shall be
submitted to the appropriate department, checked and approved prior to
presentation of the final map to the City Council for acceptance. If requesting
a vesting map, the city may require submission of improvement plans prior to
tentative map approval.
      2.   Preparation of Plans and Specifications. All plans and
specifications in connection with improvements shall be prepared by or under
the supervision of a registered professional engineer.
      3.   Street and Drainage Plans and Profiles. Plans, profiles and
specifications of proposed street and drainage improvements shall be submitted
to the City Engineer, checked and approved prior to presentation of the final
map to the City Council for acceptance. These plans and profiles shall show
full details of the proposed improvements which shall be according to the
standards of the City.
      4.   Water Systems Plans. Plans, specifications and all necessary details
of the proposed water system to be installed shall be submitted to the City
Engineer for review, provided that the City Water Department or other
authorized water supplier has certified that it is willing and able to supply
water upon request.
      5.   Sanitary Sewer Plans. Plans, profiles, specifications and all
necessary details of the sanitary sewers to be installed shall be submitted to
the City Engineer and Adelanto Public Utility Authority for review, or if a
private sewage disposal company is to service the subdivision, pursuant to the
City’s authorization, the plans shall have been approved by the City Engineer.
16.04.060 Subdivision Design and Improvement Standards.
The design and improvement standards found in this Section shall be considered
requirements for map approval.
   A.   Land-Use Standards. The land-use standards in this Subsection shall be
applied as requirements for map approval.
      1.   The minimum areas and dimensions of lots shall be as required for
the particular land use district classification in which the property is
classified by the Development Code; provided, however, that:
         a.   Lot or parcel side lines shall be approximately normal to street
lines.
         b.   Each lot or parcel on a dead-end street where the side lines
thereof are converging from front to the rear of such lot or parcel, shall have
an average width of not less than sixty (60) feet, or that width required by
the Development Code, whichever is greater, measured along the front building
setback line.
         c.   Each lot or parcel on a curved street where the side lines
thereof are converging from the front to the rear of such lot or parcel, shall
have an average width of not less than sixty (60) feet, or that width required
by the Development Code, whichever is greater.
         d.   Double frontage lots shall be discouraged except where essential
to provide separation of residential developments from major or secondary
highways or due to topographical conditions. When double frontage lots are
permitted, vehicular access rights shall be dedicated to the City along the
street designated by the planning agency.
         e.   The planning agency may require lots larger than the above
minimum sizes specified in multiple-residential, commercial and industrial
subdivisions.
            When lots or parcels twice or more the required area or width are
shown as part of a subdivision of land, the planning agency may require such
lots or parcels to be so established as to make practical a further division
into allowable building sites, without injury to adjoining property.
         f.   In desert areas or in hilly or mountainous land, the planning
agency may require lots larger than required minimums. Larger lots shall be
required if it is deemed necessary in order to conform to the land-use element
of the General Plan.
         g.   Modification of the lot design standards may be allowed under the
following circumstances:
            (1)   Pursuant to the lot area regulations of
Chapter 16.48;
            (2)   Pursuant to any planned development regulations of the
Development Code.
         h.   This Subsection does not apply to any lot or parcel which the
subdivider offers to dedicate to the County or any public agency or district.
         i.   When a land use district classification line established by the
Development Code divides a lot or parcel, such lot or parcel shall have the
area and frontage required for that land use district classification within the
lot or parcel which has the greater area and frontage requirements.
   B.   Circulation Standards. The circulation standards in this Subsection
shall be applied as requirements for map approval.
      1.   If the General Plan designates a general location of a proposed
highway and any portion thereof may be wholly or partially within any proposed
subdivision or may be affected by a proposed subdivision prior to the approval
of the proposed subdivision, a specific alignment plan shall be prepared and
adopted. Each such roadway shall conform in width and alignment with that shown
or indicated on the general or specific plan or any standards adopted pursuant
thereto. As a condition of approval of said subdivision, the subdivider shall
be required to make dedications and construct such reasonable improvements
required by the specific alignment plan. Such requirements may be waived by the
planning agency upon recommendation of the City Engineer, if the proposed
highway is located upon a section line or its precise alignment can be
otherwise determined.
      2.   The following provisions shall apply as standards governing
circulation design and shall be required for map approval:
         a.   The circulation design of all subdivisions shall be compatible
and coordinate with the General Plan and the existing street and land-use
pattern in the surrounding area.
         b.   Any part-width highway lying along and adjacent to any boundary
of a subdivision shall have such a part-width and alignment as will conform to
the route lines shown on the master plan of highways covering the same portion
of such subdivision.
         c.   Each street intended to be extended into adjoining property shall
be terminated by a one (1) foot parcel of land extending across the end of the
street and, in the case of a part-width street, a one (1) foot parcel of land
shall extend along the entire side of the street. The parcels shall be
designated alphabetically as a lot, labeled as a future street and offered for
dedication by appropriate certificate on the final or parcel map. The offer of
dedication of the future street shall include a restriction against the use of
same for access purposes until such time as it is accepted as a public street.
            Where it is determined by the planning agency that to protect the
public health, safety and general welfare, it is necessary to extend a street
beyond the boundaries of the subdivision for adequate traffic needs, the
subdivider shall provide separate deeds for the necessary easements or rights-
of-way to accommodate such traffic facilities. Such rights-of-way shall be
improved in accordance with City standards or as required by the planning
agency.
         d.   Cul-de-sacs shall not exceed six hundred (600) feet in length,
except as provided below and shall terminate with a turn-around as specified in
the adopted County road standards. The planning agency may approve a cul-de-sac
which exceeds six hundred (600) feet if the planning agency finds that the cul-
de-sac will not be injurious to the public health, safety and welfare.
         e.   Road grades shall not exceed twelve percent (12%) unless it can
be demonstrated that in order to accomplish the objectives of the General Plan
a road grade in excess of twelve percent (12%) is necessary. In such
circumstances, the planning agency may approve a road grade not to exceed
fourteen percent (14%) grade for a distance not to exceed five hundred (500)
feet if a finding is made, based upon the recommendations of the City Engineer
and the Fire Marshal, that the roadway will not create an unacceptable
hazardous risk to the public health, safety or welfare.
         f.   Access to a Subdivision. The subdivision and each phase thereof
shall have two (2) points of vehicular ingress and egress from existing and
surrounding streets, one (1) of which may be emergency only. Where it can be
shown that this requirement is a physical impossibility or a cul-de-sac is
proposed, this requirement may be waived.
   C.   Public Services and Facilities. The public services and facilities
standards in this Subsection shall be applied as requirements for map approval.
      1.   These standards shall regulate the placement of utilities within the
subdivision.
         a.   Utility lines, including but not limited to electric, telephone,
communications, street lighting and cable television, within or directly
serving each subdivision, shall be placed underground. The subdivider is
responsible for complying with the requirements of this Subsection without
expense to the City, and he shall make necessary arrangements with the utility
company for the installation of such facilities. Appurtenances and associated
equipment such as boxes and meter cabinets and concealed ducts in an
underground system may be placed above ground. Waiver of the requirements for
underground utilities shall be made through the Public Utilities Commission.
This Subsection shall not apply to existing utility or common carrier routes in
use at the time the subdivision is completed which do not provide service to
the area subdivided. Aerial routes still in existence at the time the
subdivision is completed may be reinforced from time to time as conditions
dictate; however, all provisions of this Subsection shall be subject to the
requirements of any underground district created pursuant to City ordinance or
regulation and in existence prior to the subdivision of the land or created
subsequent thereto.
         b.   Overhead utility lines, where permitted, shall be located at the
rear of lots or parcels where practical, and along the sides of lots or parcels
where necessary.
         c.   If a local cable television system is available to serve the
project, any subdivision for which a tentative map is required pursuant to
Section 
16.08.010.A. shall be designed to provide the appropriate cable television
system an opportunity to construct, install and maintain on land as reserved
for cable television service or by separate instrument, any equipment necessary
to extend cable television services to each residential parcel in the
subdivision.
            “Appropriate cable television systems,” as used in this Subsection,
means those franchised or licensed to serve the geographical area in which the
subdivision is located.
            This Subsection shall not apply to the conversion of existing
dwelling units to condominiums, community apartments, or stock cooperatives.
         d.   Whenever the City imposes as a condition to its approval of a
tentative map or a parcel map a requirement that necessitates replacing,
undergrounding or permanently or temporarily relocating existing facilities of
a telephone corporation, cable television system, common carrier or other
public utility, the developer or subdivider shall reimburse the appropriate
facility provider for all costs for the replacement, undergrounding or
relocation. All these costs shall be billed after they are incurred and shall
include a credit for any required advance payments and for the salvage value of
any facilities replaced. In no event shall the telephone corporation or cable
television system be reimbursed for costs incurred in excess of the cost to
replace the facilities with substantially similar facilities.
   D.   The standards herein are determined to be related to public safety.
      1.   The standards herein shall govern drainage works.
         a.   When a subdivision lies in the path of existing watercourses or
overflows therefrom or natural drainage from upstream properties, it shall not
be approved unless adequate dedicated rights-of-way or improvements are
provided in a manner satisfactory to the planning agency.
         b.   When, in the opinion of the planning agency, a subdivision may
cause an unnatural increase or concentration of surface waters onto downstream
property, said subdivision shall not be approved by the planning agency unless
drainage outlets are provided which will be adequate to render the City and the
County Flood Control District harmless from any damages caused therefrom.
         c.   The location, type and size of watercourses or drainage works,
and all drainage of streets and other drainage works between streets, shall be
in accordance with City standards or as required by the planning agency.
         d.   When, in the opinion of the planning agency, drainage rights-of-
way are necessary, the subdivider shall offer to dedicate upon the final map of
the subdivision the necessary rights-of-way for such drainage facilities.
         e.   Where dedication is offered or granted for Flood Control District
rights-of-way, such rights-of-way shall be shown as lots lettered
alphabetically on the final map. Such offer of dedication or grant shall be
made by an appropriate certificate on the title sheet of the final map.
      2.   The standards contained herein related to fire protection measures
shall be considered as requirements for map approval.
         a.   Subdivision design shall provide for safe and ready access for
fire and other emergency equipment and for routes of escape to safely handle
evacuations.
         b.   The subdivision shall be served by water supplies for community
fire protection in accordance with the standards set by the Fire Marshal.
         c.   In hazardous fire areas, all flammable or combustible vegetation
shall be removed from around all structures, in accordance with the
requirements of the Uniform Fire Code. Where erosion is probable, the slopes
shall be planted with fire resistive ground cover.
      3.   The standards contained herein related to sewage disposal systems
shall be considered as requirements for map approval.
         a.   Subsurface sewage disposal systems shall be located as far as
practical from a perennial or intermittent stream pursuant to Uniform Building
Code and the requirements of the County Department of Environmental Health
Services and the Regional Water Quality Control Board.
         b.   When a soils or a geologic hazards report for a subdivision is
prepared (either at the developer’s volition or as a requirement of any
governmental agency), it shall include findings and recommendations concerning
probable adverse effects of such hazards to the integrity of water supply and
sewage disposal facilities and structures.
   E.   Environmental and Public Health. Lands to be subdivided for
residential, park, playground or land recreation purposes may be subject to
environmental quality standards as established by ordinances and regulations of
the different departments and agencies within the City.
16.04.070 Improvement Security.
The necessity for improvement security and the related requirements shall be
governed by the following regulations:
   A.   Requirement for Improvement Security. If all required improvements,
engineering and inspection are not satisfactorily completed before the final
map is approved, the owner or owners of the subdivision shall, prior to the
approval of the final map, enter as contractor into an agreement with the City
Council whereby in consideration of the acceptance by the City Council of the
streets, easements and any other land offered for dedication, the contractor
agrees to furnish the equipment, labor and material necessary to complete the
work within the time specified in the agreement.
   B.   Amount of Improvement Security Required. To assure the City that the
work will be completed, improvement security shall be furnished to guarantee
the performance of any act or agreement in the following amounts for the
following purposes:
      1.   An amount, not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the total
estimated cost of the improvement or of the act to be performed, conditioned
upon the faithful performance of the act or agreement.
      2.   An additional amount, not less than fifty percent (50%) nor more
than one hundred percent (100%) of the total estimated cost of the improvement
or the performance of the required act, securing payment to the contractor, to
the subcontractors, and to persons furnishing labor, materials or equipment to
them for the improvement or the performance of the required act.
      3.   Whenever an entity required to furnish security in accordance with
this Section is a California non-profit corporation, funded by the United
States of America or one of its agencies, or funded by this State or one of its
agencies, the entity shall not be required to comply with Subsections B.1. and
B.2. of this Section, if the following conditions are met:
         a.   The contractor installing the improvements has bonded to the non-
profit corporation and the City as co-obligee the amount of one hundred percent
(100%) of the contract for the faithful performance of the work, and has
further bonded to the non-profit corporation and the City as co-obligee an
amount of not less than fifty percent (50%) of the contract for the payment of
labor and materials, and those bonds comply with the provisions of this
Chapter.
         b.   All moneys payable to the contractor by the non-profit
corporation are deposited in a depository complying with the provisions of
Subdivision Map Act and out of which moneys progress payments are conditioned
upon:
            (1)   The contractor’s certification to the non-profit corporation
that all labor performed in the work, and all materials furnished to and
installed in the work, have been paid for in full to the date of the
certification.
            (2)   The written approval of the non-profit corporation.
            (3)   Final payment to the contractor not being made until thirty-
five (35) days shall have expired after the filing and recording of the notice
of completion of the work acceptance of the work by the City in writing.
         c.   All certifications as to progress payments shall be delivered
through the United States mail to the non-profit corporation. The term
“progress payments” means payments made in compliance with the schedule of
partial payments agreed upon in the contract for the work. No less than ten
percent (10%) of the total contract price shall be retained for the thirty-five
(35) days following the filing of the notice of completion.
         d.   An amount as determined by the City Engineer, but not more than
twenty-five percent (25%) of the total estimated cost of improvements or
performance of the required act necessary for the guarantee and warranty of the
improvement for a period of one (1) year following the completion and
acceptance thereof, against any defective work or labor done, or defective
materials furnished.
            As part of the obligation guaranteed by the security and in
addition to the face amount of the security, there shall be included costs and
reasonable expenses and fees, including reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by
the City in successfully enforcing the obligation secured.
   C.   Type of Security Required. The furnishing of security in connection
with the performance of any act or agreement shall be one (1) of the following,
at the option of and subject to the approval of the City Council:
      1.   Bond or bonds by one (1) or more duly authorized corporate sureties.
      2.   A deposit, either with the City, responsible bank or trust company,
at the option of the City, of money or negotiable bonds of the kind approved
for securing deposits of public monies.
      3.   An instrument of credit from one (1) or more financial institutions
subject to regulation by the state or federal government, and pledging that the
funds necessary to carry out the act or agreement are on deposit and guaranteed
for payment, or a letter of credit issued by such a financial institution.
      4.   Bonds to secure faithful performance and for the benefit of laborers
and material men of any agreement, shall be in substantially the forms as shown
in the Subdivision Map Act.
      5.   Such money, negotiable bond or instrument of credit shall be a trust
fund to guarantee performance and shall not be subject to enforcement of a
money judgment by any creditors of the depositor until the obligation secured
thereby is performed to the satisfaction of the City.
   D.   Forfeiture on Failure to Complete. Upon the failure of a subdivider to
complete any improvements and work within two (2) years of date agreement is
executed, the City Council may, upon notice in writing served by registered
mail addressed to the last known address of the person, firm or corporation
signing such contract, determine that the improvement work or any part thereof
is uncompleted and may cause to be forfeited to the City, such sum of money or
bonds given for the faithful performance of the work as may be necessary to
complete such work.
   E.   Exoneration of Improvement Security. For projects involving flood
control or drainage works constructed within San Bernardino County drainage
easements, it shall be the duty of the City Engineer and/or the County Director
of Transportation/Flood Control/Airports to inspect or receive certificate of
completion of all improvements installed as to their compliance with this
Chapter and the City/County standards.
      The security furnished by the subdivider may be released in the following
manner:
      1.   Security given for faithful performance of any act or agreement may
be released upon the performance of the act or final completion and acceptance
of the required work.
      2.   Security securing the payment to the contractor, subcontractors and
to persons furnishing labor, materials or equipment shall, after passage of the
time within which claims of lien are required to be recorded pursuant to
Article 3 (commencing with Section 3114) of Chapter 2 of Title 15 of Part 4 of
Division 3 of the Civil Code and other acceptance of the work, be reduced to an
amount equal to the total claimed by all claimants for whom claims of lien have
been recorded and notice thereof given in writing to the Council or board, and
if no such claims have been recorded, the security shall be released in full.
         Such release shall not apply to any required guarantee and warranty
period, nor to the amount of the security deemed necessary by the City or
County for such guarantee and warranty period, nor to cost and reasonable
expenses and fees, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys’ fees
and costs of enforcement.
      3.   Maintenance security necessary for guarantee and warranty of the
work for a period of one (1) year following completion and acceptance thereof
against any defective work or labor completed, or defective materials furnished
shall be released should no claims of such defective work be filed with the
City or board of supervisors. In the event of such defective work, the security
shall be held until all work is considered satisfactory and acceptable by the
City or County.
   F.   Reimbursement for (Oversized) Supplemental Improvements. The planning
agency may, at the request of a public agency (including the City, the Adelanto
Public Utility Authority or other City departments or agencies), require that
the improvements installed for the benefit of the subdivision contain
supplemental size, capacity or number for the benefit of property not within
the subdivision as a condition precedent to the approval of a subdivision or
parcel map, and thereafter dedication of such improvements to the said public
agency or authority. However, the subdivider shall be reimbursed by said public
agency or authority for that portion of the cost of such improvements equal to
the difference between actual cost and the amount it would have cost the
subdivider to install such improvements pursuant to the provisions of the
Subdivision Map Act. Standards and procedures for requiring such improvements
and for reimbursement shall be contained in the operating rules and regulations
of said public agencies and shall be made a public record.
   G.   Lien Agreements Permitted Only as Substitution for Existing Securities.
A Lien Agreement which shall be recorded against all of the undeveloped lots in
a subdivision, may be substituted only for an existing security which was
furnished under Subsections 16.04.070(A) and (C) for required improvements
under a subdivision improvement agreement, if: no activity for the subdivision
has transpired, no inspections have occurred, and no permits for construction
of improvements have been issued within one (1) year of the recordation of the
subdivision map, and upon a finding by the City Council that it would not be in
the public interest to require the installation of the required improvements
sooner than two (2) years after the recordation of the map. The use of a Lien
Agreement shall be at the sole discretion of the City. For the purposes of this
subsection, "undeveloped lots" shall be defined as lots that have not passed a
final inspection and for which all required associated improvements, as
determined by the City Engineer, have not been completed.
      1.   The City will not accept a Lien Agreement if any of the properties
against which the lien agreement is to be recorded are subject to any
mortgages, deeds of trust, or liens as evidenced by a title insurance policy
and title report issued forty-five (45) days prior to the execution of the Lien
Agreement. The lien shall have priority of a judgment lien in an amount
necessary to complete the required improvements. Under no circumstances shall
the City be obligated to agree to subordinate the lien.
      2.   The City will not accept a Lien Agreement if the estimated costs for
the remaining required improvements, as determined by the City Engineer,
including, but not limited to, master planned or "missing link" streets,
drainage and sewer improvements, community facilities, off-site improvements,
fire access, fire flow and traffic signals, originally required by conditions
of approval, exceeds the fair market value of the property based on a recent
opinion of an independent, licensed real estate appraiser which appraisal shall
be furnished to the City not fewer than forty-five (45) days prior to entering
into any Lien Agreement.
      3.   Once the Lien Agreement is recorded, the City shall not issue any
development or construction permits for the subdivided land until the Lien
Agreement is substituted with acceptable security authorized by Subsections
16.04.070(A) and (C) and approved by the City Council.
      4.   The City will not accept a Lien Agreement as a substitute for
existing security if any individual lots have been sold; if any construction
permits, including but not limited to, any grading or building permits; have
been issued for any of the property, or if construction of any of the required
public improvements has begun.
      5.   Notwithstanding Subsection 4. above, the City may accept a Lien
Agreement from the owner of the subdivision as a substitute for existing
security if: any individual lots have been sold, grading has commenced or if
construction of any of the required public improvements has begun on the
subdivided land; provided that the grading is in strict accordance with a valid
grading permit, the construction of required improvements is in strict
accordance with plans approved by the City Engineer, the required improvements
have been accepted by the City, and all the following conditions are met:
         a.   There is no need for the City to construct the required
improvements if the owner's project is abandoned or delayed for any period of
time;
         b.   The grading has no effect on the use, operation and maintenance
of existing streets or highways, public or private;
         c.   The grading has not caused the modification or closure of any
public access points, existing streets or highways, public or private;
         d.   Additional drainage improvement and/or erosion controls are not
necessary and/or installed in the road right-of-way due to the grading;
         e.   Delay of the construction of the owner's required improvements do
not affect or delay the improvements of an adjacent owner who has already
commenced work on his or her required improvements;
         f.   The completion of any public improvements are not required by the
City's General Plan Circulation Element, Master Plan of Drainage, Master Sewer
Plan or Master Water Plan or for any other reason for the purposes of
preserving public health, safety or welfare;
         g.   The owner provides a separate security as specified by Subsection
16.04.070(C)(2) for the maintenance of the graded land, including without
limitation, dust control, erosion control, fencing, and any other maintenance
as required by the City;
         h.   In the case that any individual lots have been sold, at the
discretion of the City and only after the City has performed a comprehensive
review of the development which may include approval of a construction phasing
plan, completion of required improvements to serve the individual lots as
determined by the City Engineer and other requirements and conditions to be met
prior to acceptance of the Lien Agreement.
      6.   The Lien Agreement shall:
         a.   Be in a form acceptable to and approved by City Council, the City
Attorney and the City's Risk Manager.
         b.   Be executed by the Mayor on behalf of the City, and by all
current record owner(s) of the properties against which the lien agreement is
be recorded as evidenced by a title insurance policy and title report issued
within forty-five (45) days prior to the execution of the Lien Agreement.
         c.   Be recorded with the San Bernardino County Recorder against the
entire subdivided property that is subject to the substituted security.
         d.   Contain a detailed itemization of the remaining required
improvements and an estimate of costs approved by the City Engineer and shall
specify that the obligation of the owner or the owner's successors in interest
shall extend to the actual cost of construction of the required improvements if
such costs exceed the estimate.
         e.   Be attached to all of the undeveloped lots set forth in the lien
agreement and shall be indexed in the Grantor index to the names of all record
owners of the real property as specified above and on the map, and in the
Grantee Index to the City.
         f.   Contain a legal description of the entire subdivided property
which is the subject of the Lien Agreement.
         g.   State that the applicant must pay a fee, pursuant to Section
3.60.030 for all costs reasonable born for the processing of the Lien
Agreement.
      7.   The owner shall agree that no individual lots shall be sold while
the Lien Agreement is in effect. However, fee title to the entire property
encumbered by the Lien Agreement or to all lots designated on any individual
final map which is encumbered by the Lien Agreement, may be sold in the
aggregate to a single purchaser, provided that the proposed purchaser must,
prior to or concurrent with assuming title to the property, either:
         a.   Execute a new Lien Agreement in a form acceptable to the City
which will encumber the property to be conveyed, specifying the respective
obligations of the owners of property subject to the original and new Lien
Agreement, or
         b.   Provide acceptable alternative security in one of the forms set
forth in Subsections
16.04.070(A) and (C) for the required improvements to be constructed as a
condition to development of the property conveyed.
      8.   The owner shall also be required to provide a cash deposit in the
amount of twelve thousand dollars ($12,000.00) to the City for the purpose of
reverting the property to acreage if the owner breaches or is in default of the
terms of the Lien Agreement. Any unused portion of any such deposit shall be
refunded to the owner, which deposited the amount of twele thousand dollars
($12,000.00), following completion of such reversion. If the cost of the
reversion to acreage exceeds twelve thousand dollars ($12,000.00), the owner
shall pay such additional costs to the City prior to recordation of the
reversion to acreage map.
      9.   The owner shall substitute a security as provided for by Subsections
16.04.070(A) and (C) prior to the issuance of any development or construction
permit to construct the improvements required pursuant to this
Chapter 16.04.
      10.   The Lien Agreement shall only be released upon substitution of
acceptable security for the Lien Agreement under Subsections
16.04.070(A) and (C) in order to begin construction of the required
improvements, to facilitate subsection 7., or upon recordation of a reversion
to acreage map.
      11.   Under no circumstances shall the Lien Agreement compel the City to
construct the required improvements.
[Ord. No. 506, Section 2, 10/12/11.]
16.04.080 Prohibition and Penalty.
This Section shall provide the prohibition and penalty provisions of this
Title.
   A.   Prohibition on Transfers. No person shall sell, lease or finance any
parcel or portion of parcels of real property, or commence construction of any
building for sale, lease or financing thereon, except for model homes, or allow
occupancy thereof, for which a final map or parcel map is required by this
Title and the Subdivision Map Act, until such map thereof in full compliance
with the provisions of this Title has been filed for record by the County
Recorder.
      1.   Conveyance of any part of a division of real property for which a
final or parcel map is required by this Title shall not be made by parcel or
block number, initial or other designation, unless and until such map has been
filed for record by the County Recorder.
      2.   A parcel created prior to March 4, 1972, in violation of the
provisions of this Title for which a permit or other grant of approval for
development has not been issued, shall be conclusively presumed to be a legal
parcel for purposes of sale by other than the owner of record at the time the
violation occurred, if each of the following conditions are met:
         a.   The seller gives written notice to the buyer as follows:
      NOTICE: This parcel has been created in violation of the Subdivision Map
Act. You must obtain a certificate of compliance or conditional certificate of
compliance prior to obtaining a permit or other grant of approval for
development of the parcel. The conditions imposed may significantly restrict
your ability to develop the parcel.
         b.   At the time of sale, the seller causes to be filed for record
with the County Recorder the notice required by Section
16.04.080.A.2.a., including a detailed description of the real property, the
name of the seller and the name of the buyer. If the seller fails to give the
notice required by Section
16.04.080.A.2.a., the buyer shall have those remedies provided by Sections
16.04.090.A. and B.
      3.   Buyers of land affected by the provisions of this Subsection shall
obtain a certificate of compliance or a conditional certificate of compliance
pursuant to
Chapter 16.36 prior to obtaining a permit or other grant of approval for
development of the parcel or unit of land.
   B.   Prohibition on Issuance of Permits. No officer, board, commission,
agency, department, special district or authority of the City shall issue any
permit or grant any approval necessary to develop any real property which has
been divided, or which has resulted from a division, in violation of the
provisions of this Title if it finds or is informed by the planning director
that development of such real property is contrary to the public health and
safety. Prior to making such a finding that the development of such real
property is contrary to the public health and safety, the planning director
shall conduct a review.
      1.   At the review, the planning director shall consider all information
and evidence submitted. The decision of the planning director may be appealed
therefrom, within thirty (30) days, to the Planning Commission by any person
aggrieved, or by an officer, board, department or agency of the City. The
authority to deny such a permit or such approval shall apply whether the
applicant therefore was the owner of the real property at the time of such
violation, or whether the applicant therefor, if the current owner of the real
property, was with or without actual or constructive knowledge of the violation
at the time of such violation, at the time of the acquisition of his interest
in such real property. If any officer, board, commission, agency, department,
special district or authority of the City issues any permit or grants approval
for the development of any such real property, it may request a report from the
planning director and impose any additional conditions as would have been
applicable to the division of the property at the time the current owner of
record acquired the property.
      2.   For parcels created before March 4, 1972, notice of the review shall
be given, by registered mail, to the owner of such real property as shown on
the latest equalized assessment roll book. The review shall be held not less
than fourteen (14) days nor more than thirty (30) days after receipt by the
owner of the notice of review.
   C.   Statement of Limitations. This Section does not apply to any parcel or
parcels of a subdivision offered for sale or lease, contract for sale or lease,
or sold or leased in compliance with or exempt from any law regulating the
design and improvement of subdivisions in effect at the time the subdivision
was established.
16.04.090 Remedies.
The following remedies are available pursuant to the provisions of this
Subsection.
   A.   Voiding of Sale by Grantee. Any deed of conveyance, sale or contract to
sell real property which has been divided, or which has resulted from a
division, in violation of the provisions of this Title is voidable at the sole
option of the grantee, buyer or person contracting to purchase, heirs, personal
representative or trustee in insolvency or bankruptcy within one (1) year after
the date of discovery of the violation of the provisions of this Subsection but
the deed of conveyance, sale or contract to sell is binding upon any successor
in interest of the grantee, buyer or person contracting to purchase, other than
those above enumerated, and upon the grantor, vendor or person contracting to
sell, or any assignee, heir or devisee.
   B.   Superior Court Action by Grantee. Any grantee, or his successor in
interest, of real property which has been divided, or which has resulted from a
division, in violation of the provisions of this Title may, within one (1) year
of the date of discovery of such, violation bring an action in the superior
court to recover any damages he has suffered by reason of such division of
property. The action may be brought against the person who divided the property
in violation of the provisions of this Title and against any successors in
interest who have actual or constructive knowledge of such a division of
property.
   C.   Statement of Limitations. The provisions of this Section shall not
apply to the conveyance of any parcel of real property identified in a
certificate of compliance filed pursuant to
Chapter 16.36, or identified in a recorded final subdivision map, parcel map or
official map and after the date of recording. The provisions of this Section
shall not limit or affect in any way the rights of a grantee or his successor
in interest under any other provision of law.
      This Section does not bar any legal, equitable or summary remedy to which
any aggrieved local agency or other public agency, or any person, firm or
corporation may otherwise be entitled. Any such local agency or other public
agency, or such person, firm or corporation may file a suit regarding any real
property attempted to be subdivided or sold, leased or financed in violation of
this Title, or to restrain or enjoin any attempted or proposed subdivision or
sale, lease or financing in violation of this Title, in the Superior Court of
the County of San Bernardino.
   D.   Request for Certificate of Compliance. Any person owning real property
may request a certificate of compliance in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 16.36.
   E.   Notice of Violation. Whenever the planning director has knowledge that
real property has been divided in violation of the provisions of this
Subsection then within the guidelines set forth by the City Attorney, the
planning director shall cause to be mailed by certified mail to the then
current owner of record of the property a notice of intention to record a
notice of violation, describing the real property in detail, naming the owners
thereof, and stating that an opportunity will be given to the owner to present
evidence. The notice shall specify a time, date and place at which the owner
may present evidence to the planning agency why such notice should not be
recorded. The notice shall also contain a description of the violation(s) and
an explanation as to why the subject parcel is not lawful under the subdivision
(a) or (b) of Government Code Section 66412.6. Evidence shall be presented by
the owner to the planning agency no sooner than thirty (30) days and no later
than sixty (60) days from the date of mailing. If, after the owner has
presented evidence, it is determined that there has been no violation, the
planning director shall cause to be filed for record with the County Recorder a
release of the notice of intention to record a notice of violation. If,
however, after the owner has presented evidence, the planning agency determines
that the property has in fact been illegally divided, or if within fifteen (15)
days of receipt of such copy the owner of such real property fails to inform
the planning agency of his objection to recording the notice of violation, the
planning agency shall cause to be filed for record with the County Recorder the
notice of violation. The notice of intention to record a notice of violation
and the notice of violation, when recorded, shall be deemed to be constructive
notice of the violation to all successors in interest in such property. The
County Recorder shall index the names of the fee owners in the general index.
Chapter 16.08
TENTATIVE AND FINAL MAPS
Sections:
   
16.08.010   Filing Criteria for Tentative and Final Maps
   
16.08.020   Tentative Map Format
   
16.08.030   Final Map Format
   
16.08.040   Tentative Maps
   
16.08.050   Final Maps
   
16.08.060   Conditions of Map Approval
16.08.010 Filing Criteria for Tentative and Final Maps.
The provisions of this Section and the Subdivision Map Act shall govern the
necessity for tentative and final maps.
   A.   Tentative and final maps shall be required for all subdivisions
creating five (5) or more parcels, five (5) or more condominiums as defined in
Civil Code Section 783, a community apartment project containing five (5) or
more parcels or for the conversion of a multiple dwelling containing five (5)
or more dwelling units to a stock cooperative except where:
      1.   A condominium is constructed or an existing structure is converted
to a condominium on a single parcel shown on a final map or parcel map recorded
after January 1, 1960; provided, however, that the planning officer may require
that a tentative and final map be required for the purposes of obtaining
improvements, additional easements and dedications or for other circumstances
which warrant the filing of a new map; or
      2.   The land before division contains less than five (5) acres, each
parcel created by the division abuts upon a maintained public street or
highway; and no dedications or improvements are required by the legislative
body; or
      3.   Each lot created by the division has a gross area of twenty (20)
acres or more and has an approved access to a maintained public street or
highway, consisting of one of the following:
         a.   A dedicated right-of-way;
         b.   An offer to dedicate to the City a width as established by the
circulation element of the General Plan or the City’s right-of-way standards
and an easement of a strip of land at least twenty (20) feet in width which
expressly grants to the owner of the subdivision and any successor(s) in
interest the right to use the easement without limit as to the quantity of
vehicular traffic from each lot created by the owners or successor(s) in
interest to improved roadways in the City street system, both of which abut or
connect to a publicly maintained roadway or connect to an existing traveled
road where a prescriptive right by user has been established for public use;
         c.   An offer to dedicate to the City and to the public in general, an
easement for public road, highway and public utility purposes, of a width as
established by the circulation element of the General Plan or to the public in
general can be accepted by public use, but the easement or road constructed
thereon shall not become a City street until and unless the City Council, by
appropriate resolution, has caused said road to be accepted into the City
street system;
         d.   An existing traveled way where a prescriptive right by user has
been established for public use by a court decree;
            Approved access shall not be approved by the City Engineer unless
the access substantially conforms to the alignment shown in the circulation
element where applicable and may practically and feasibly applied to road use.
      4.   The land consists of a parcel or parcels of land having approved
access, as defined in Subsection 3. above, to a public street or highway which
comprises part of a tract of land zoned for industrial or commercial
development and which has the approval of the governing body as to street
alignments and widths; or
      5.   Each lot created by the division has a gross area of forty (40)
acres or more or each of which is a quarter of a quarter section or larger.
   B.   A parcel map shall be required for those subdivisions described in this
Title as being excepted from the requirement for tentative and final maps.
   C.   Should a subdivider wish to file multiple final maps for a development
project that will be phased, then one of the following shall be completed:
      1.   The subdivider, at the time the tentative map is filed, shall inform
the planning agency of the subdivider’s intention to file multiple final maps
on such tentative map; or
      2.   After filing of the tentative map, the planning agency and the
subdivider concur in the filing of multiple final maps.
         A subdivider filing multiple final maps shall show the boundary limits
of each phase and designate the sequence of filing to the satisfaction of the
development review committee.
   D.   A final map shall be required for a cemetery and shall be recorded only
with the approval of the County Surveyor, subject to the requirements imposed
by Title 17 of this Code and Division 8 of the State of California Health and
Safety Code.
   E.   Notices of intention to convert residential real property into a
condominium project, a community apartment project or a stock cooperative
project shall be made as required by Government Code Section 66427.1 prior to
the filing of such map.
   F.   At the time of filing a map for a subdivision to be created from the
conversion of a mobile home park to another use, the subdivider shall also file
a report on the impact of the mobile home park conversion pursuant to
Government Code Section 66427.4. At least thirty (30) days prior to public
hearing for such a conversion, the County shall inform the applicant in writing
of the provisions of California Civil Code Section 798.56 and all applicable
local requirements which impose upon the applicant a duty to notify residents
and mobile home owners of the mobile home park of the proposed change in use.
   G.   At the time of filing a map for the conversion of a stock cooperative
or a community apartment project to a condominium, the subdivider shall submit
documents showing that the requirements of Government Code Section 66452.10
have been met.
16.08.020 Tentative Map Format.
The content and form of tentative maps shall be governed by the provisions of
this Section.
   A.   Standards and Preparation. The tentative map shall be prepared by or
under the direction of a registered civil engineer licensed to practice
surveying or licensed land surveyor in accordance with the Subdivision Map Act,
the Adelanto Municipal Code, and any other ordinances, statutes or laws, or any
amendments thereto, pertaining to the use, sale or lease of land. The tentative
map shall be prepared in compliance with the officially adopted general,
community or specific plans or any amendments thereto, adopted pursuant to the
State planning and zoning law and in accordance with the standard streets and
highways plan adopted by the City Council, as amended. The tentative map shall
show the location of streets and property lines bounding the property and shall
conform to all of the following provisions and the standards found on record as
prescribed by the planning agency.
      1.   Each tentative map shall be drawn to an engineer’s scale and clearly
show the details of the plan thereon. Wherever practicable, such scale shall be
one (1) inch to one hundred (100) feet or less; and in no case shall the scale
be smaller than one (1) inch to two hundred (200) feet.
      2.   The tentative maps shall show or be accompanied by the following
information:
         a.   Development proposed on the subdivision (lot sale or building
program);
         b.   Source, name of supplier, quality and an estimate of available
quantity of water, or, if to be served by an established mutual water company
or an established public utility, a letter shall be furnished to indicate that
satisfactory arrangements have been made or can be made for water supply;
         c.   Type of street improvements, utilities and streetlights which are
proposed to be installed. Pursuant to Government Code Section 66473.3 and
Section
16.04.060.C.1.c. of this Code, this information shall include the type of cable
television systems to be installed, if any cable television system is
available;
         d.   Proposed Method of Sewage Disposal. If by sewers, the applicant
must furnish a letter from an authorized representative of the entity or agency
which will provide such sanitary sewer service, assuring that such entity or
agency can and will accept for disposal sewage generated on the land under
consideration after its improvement. The planning agency shall give written
notice to the entity or agency which owns the related sewage treatment plant
prior to issuance of the written determination of filing of the proposed
subdivision. This filing requirement has not been met when, within fourteen
(14) days from the date of providing of the above required notice, the entity
or agency which owns the related sewage treatment plant has submitted an
independently certified engineering report to the office of planning which
demonstrates that adequate sewage treatment plan capacity is not available;
         e.   The drainage area tributary to the subdivision and a statement
setting forth in detail the manner in which storm runoff will enter the
subdivision, the manner in which it will be carried through the subdivision,
and the manner in which disposal beyond the subdivision boundaries will be
accomplished;
         f.   Topographical and contour data shall be shown pursuant to adopted
County standards;
         g.   The widths and locations of all recorded easements which are to
remain;
         h.   Names, addresses and telephone numbers of utilities, school
districts, fire protection agencies, and cable television services required in
Section
16.04.060.C.1.c., serving the tract;
         i.   Remainder parcels shall be indicated as a “remainder parcel” and
shall be subject to review for design access, water and sewer availability and
other such improvements as may be necessary to protect the public health,
safety and welfare and are consistent with the intent of this Title. Waiver of
improvements may be granted for remainder parcels where the size exceeds five
(5) acres;
         j.   When any change is made by the subdivider in the statement given
in pursuance of this Section, such change or changes shall be submitted in
writing to the planning agency and approved prior to the recording of the final
map;
         k.   In the case of a subdivision to convert a mobile home park to
another use, the subdivider shall file a report on the impact of the conversion
upon the displaced residents of the mobile home park to be converted. The
report shall discuss the availability of adequate replacement space in mobile
home parks in determining the impact of the conversion on displaced mobile home
park residents. The subdivider shall make a copy of the report available to
each resident of the planning agency is to take action upon the tentative map.
         l.   In the case of a vesting tentative map, at the time it is filed
it shall have printed conspicuously on its face the words “Vesting Tentative
Map.”
   B.   Tract Number. Prior to filing a tentative map of a subdivision or
reversion to acreage, a licensed engineer or surveyor shall obtain a tract
number or numbers from the County Recorder. When a number has been assigned by
the County Recorder for the subdivision of a particular parcel of land, the
subdivider shall place this same number upon each tentative map of the
subdivision; and the number issued shall not thereafter be changed or altered
in any manner upon the tentative map of the subdivision unless and until a new
number shall have been assigned by the County Recorder.
16.08.030 Final Map Format.
The content and form of final maps shall be governed by the provisions of this
Section.
   A.   Standards and Preparation. The final map shall be prepared by, or under
the direction of, a registered civil engineer licensed to practice surveying or
a licensed land surveyor; shall be based upon a survey; and shall conform to
all of the following provisions, the California Subdivision Map Act and the
County Surveyor’s standards as adopted by the Board of Supervisors, including,
but not limited to, the following:
      1.   It shall be legibly drawn, printed or reproduced by a process
guaranteeing a permanent record in black on tracing cloth or polyester-base
film. Certificates, affidavits and acknowledgments shall be legibly stamped or
printed upon the map with opaque ink. If ink is used on a polyester-base film,
the ink surface shall be coated with a suitable substance to assure permanent
legibility;
      2.   The size of each sheet shall be eighteen (18) inches by twenty-six 
(26) inches. A marginal line shall be drawn completely around each sheet,
leaving an entirely blank margin of one (1) inch. The scale of the map shall be
large enough to show all details clearly, and enough sheets shall be used to
accomplish this end. The particular number of the sheet and the total number of
sheets comprising the map shall be stated on each of the sheets, and its
relation to each adjoining sheet shall be clearly shown;
      3.   All survey and mathematical information and data necessary to locate
all monuments and to locate and retrace any and all interior and exterior
boundary lines appearing thereon shall be shown, including bearings and
distances of straight lines, and radii and arc length or chord bearings and
length of all curves, and such information as may be necessary to determine the
location of the centers of curves and ties to existing monuments used to
establish the subdivision boundaries;
      4.   Each lot shall be numbered and each street shall be named;
      5.   The exterior boundary of the land included within the subdivision
shall be indicated by an opaque ink line three (3) times as wide as the widest
line on the map, excluding the border line. The map shall show the definite
location of the subdivision and particularly its relation to surrounding
surveys;
      6.   If the map includes a remainder parcel and the gross area of the
remainder parcel or similar named parcel is five (5) acres or less, it shall be
surveyed and mapped. If the remainder parcel or similar named parcel is more
than five (5) gross acres, that parcel shall show record information and parcel
size only;
      7.   Proposed public areas and drainage easements shall be shown;
      8.   Additional notes which do not affect record title interests shall
not be shown on the final map. Where a composite development plan has been
required, a prominent note shall be placed below the surveyor’s notes on the
final map in one-quarter (1/4) inch high, bolded block letters, stating:
 
COMPOSITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN NOTE:
A Composite Development Plan (C.D.P.) affecting this map is on file in the
Building and Safety Department.
 
   B.   Title Sheets. Prior to filing, those certificates and acknowledgments
set forth in this Title shall appear on the title sheet of the final map and
may be combined where appropriate. The title sheet shall also contain a
certificate, signed and acknowledged by all parties having any record title
interests in real property subdivided, consenting to the preparation and
recordation of the final map, and is required except as provided by the
Subdivision Map Act.
      Each sheet of final map shall also contain a title, consisting of the
number of the subdivision and a subtitle consisting of a description of all
property being subdivided by reference to such map or maps of the property
shown thereon, as shall have been previously recorded or filed with the County
Clerk pursuant to a final judgment in any action in partition, or shall have
been previously filed in the office of the County Recorder, or by reference to
the plat of any United States Survey. The title sheet shall also show, in a
form acceptable to the City Engineer, such appropriate certificates and
acknowledgments as required in the Subdivision Map Act, or any additional
certificates as required by the City standards.
   C.   Certificates on Final Maps. The certificates on final maps shall be
governed by the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act and the final and parcel
map standards established by the City Engineer’s office and as adopted and
amended by the City Council.
      1.   Dedications of, or offers to dedicate interests in real property for
specified public purposes, shall be made by a certificate on the title page of
the final map, signed and acknowledged by those parties having any record title
interest in the real property being subdivided, subject to the provisions of
the Subdivision Map Act.
         a.   In the event that any street shown on a subdivision map is not
offered for dedication, the certificate may contain a statement to this effect.
If such statement appears on the map and if the map is approved by the Council,
the use of any such street or streets by the public shall be permissive only.
         b.   Any offer of dedication of real property for street or public
utility easement purposes shall be deemed not to include any public utility
facilities located on or under such real property unless an intent to dedicate
such facilities is expressly stated in the certificate, and then only to the
extent so stated.
         c.   Any dedication or agreements required within the remainder parcel
of a final map shall be executed by the legal owners of record and any holder
in a beneficial interest in a trust deed.
      2.   The final map shall contain a certificate for execution by the City
Clerk, stating that the board approved the map and accepted, subject to
improvement, or rejected on behalf of the public, any real property offered for
dedication or public use in conformity with the terms of the offer of
dedication.
      3.   A certificate is required indicating the engineer or surveyor
responsible for the survey and final map. This certificate shall give the date
of the survey, state that the survey and final map were made by the engineer or
surveyor and indicate that the survey is true and complete as shown.
         a.   The certificate shall also state that all the monuments are of
the character and occupy the positions indicated or that they will be set in
such positions on or before a specified later date. The certificate shall also
state that the monuments are, or will be, sufficient to enable the survey to be
retraced.
         b.   At least one (1) exterior boundary line of the land being
subdivided shall be adequately monumented or referenced before the map may be
recorded.
      4.   A certificate by the City Engineer shall be provided, stating that:
         a.   The City Engineer has examined the map;
         b.   The subdivision as shown is substantially the same as it appeared
on the tentative map and any approved alterations thereof;
         c.   All provisions of this Title and any local ordinances applicable
at the time of approval of the tentative map have been complied with;
         d.   The City Engineer is satisfied that the map is technically
correct.
      5.   The City Engineer shall complete and file with the City Clerk, the
certificate as required by this Section within twenty (20) days from the time
the final map is submitted to the City Engineer by the subdivider for approval.
      6.   At the time the subdivider presents the final map, there shall be
presented releases executed by the various public utilities, including cable
television services identified in Section
16.08.020.A.2.c., as to location of their facilities and that satisfactory
arrangements have been made for the establishment of any easements required for
such facilities. The failure of any public utility to notify the City Engineer
of the need for such easements within twenty (20) days of receipt of the
advance copy of the final map shall be deemed notice that said provisions and
arrangements have been made, and no further release shall be required.
16.08.040 Tentative Maps.
The following provisions shall govern the review of tentative and vesting
tentative maps.
   A.   Action on Tentative Map.
      1.   The planning agency shall approve, conditionally approve, extend, or
disapprove the map or maps of the proposed subdivision within fifty (50) days
after an application for a tentative map has been deemed complete and accepted
for filing except as otherwise provided by the Subdivision Map Act. An official
copy of the planning agency’s action shall be filed with the tentative map and
be reported directly to the subdivider and to the Real Estate Commission of the
State of California. If no action is taken upon a tentative map by the planning
agency within the time limits specified in this Title or any authorized
extension thereof, the tentative map as filed shall be deemed to be approved
insofar as it complies with other applicable requirements of this Title, other
applicable ordinances and all applicable state laws; and it shall be the duty
of the City Clerk or the secretary of the planning agency to certify such
approval. This Section shall be inapplicable to extensions of time which are
reasonable and required in order to comply with any provision of state law,
including the requirements for compliance with the California Environmental
Quality Act of 1970, provided, however, if an environmental impact report (EIR)
is prepared, the fifty (50) day period specified in this Section shall not be
applicable; and the planning agency shall take action upon the tentative map
within forty-five (45) days after certification of the EIR. Any revised
tentative map or portion thereof filed with the planning agency shall comply
with the requirements in effect at the time such revised map is considered by
the planning agency.
      2.   A tentative map shall not be approved in the following cases:
         a.   In the case of a conversion of residential real property to a
condominium project, community apartment project or stock cooperative, the
planning agency shall not approve the tentative map unless evidence is provided
by the subdivider that proper notification has been given to each of the
tenants of the proposed conversion notifying of the subdivider's intent to
convert.
         b.   In the case of a conversion of a stock cooperative or a community
apartment project to a condominium, the planning agency shall not approve a
tentative map unless evidence is provided by the subdivider, as required by
Government Code Section 66452.10, that the required number of owners in the
cooperative or project, as specified in the bylaws or other organizational
documents, have voted in favor of such conversion.
         c.   The planning agency shall not approve a tentative map or a parcel
map for which a tentative map was not required, if it finds that the land is
subject to a contract entered into pursuant to the California Land Conservation
Act of 1965 (Chapter 7 [commencing with Government Code Section 51200] of
Division 1 of Title 5) and that the resulting parcels following a subdivision
of that land would be too small to sustain their agricultural use. For purposes
of this Section, land shall be presumed to be in parcels too small to sustain
their agricultural use if the land is: (1) less than ten (10) acres in size in
the case of prime agricultural land, or (2) less than forty (40) acres in size
in the case of land which is not prime agriculture land. For purposes of this
Section, agricultural land shall be presumed to be in parcels large enough to
sustain their agricultural use if the land is: (1) at least ten (1) acres in
size in the case of prime agricultural land, or (2) at least forty (40) acres
in size in the case of land which is not prime agricultural. The planning
agency may approve a subdivision with parcels smaller than those listed above
if the findings in Section 16.12.405.D., along with the other applicable
findings, are made or the land within the subdivision is subject to a contract
when one of the following has occurred:
            (1)   The Local Agency Formation Commission has approved the
annexation of the land to a City, and the City will not succeed to the contract
as provided in Government Code Sections 51243 and 51243.5;
            (2)   Written notice of non-renewal of the contract has been served
prior to March 7, 1985, as provided in Government Code Section 51245;
            (3)   Written notice of non-renewal of the contract has been served
on or after March 7,1985, as provided in Government Code Section 51245, and, as
a result of that notice, there are no more than three (3) years remaining in
the term of the contract;
            (4)   The City Council has granted tentative approval for
cancellation of the contract as provided in Government Code Section 51282.
      3.   The approval or conditional approval by the planning agency of any
revised or new tentative map shall annul all previous designs and approvals
thereof.
      4.   When modifications in design are conditions of approval of a
tentative map, the subdivider shall, at least thirty (30) days prior to the
submission of final maps, submit ten (10) copies of the tentative map as
modified to the planning agency for distribution to the development review
committee representatives.
   B.   Planning Director Referral. When acting as the planning agency for
subdivisions where a tentative and final map are required, the planning officer
shall determine, prior to taking an action to approve, conditionally approve,
extend or deny the application, that the project is noncontroversial. For the
purpose of this Section, “noncontroversial” shall mean: (1) that no member of
the development review committee objects to the project or any portion thereof;
(2) no specific written request has been received requesting public hearing
review of the project from person(s) notified in accordance with the provisions
of
Chapter 16.12; and (3) in the opinion of the planning director, there has been
no substantial objection to the proposed project from members of the public. If
the planning director determines the project to be controversial, the project
shall be referred to the Planning Commission for action, pursuant to
Chapter 16.12.
   C.   Review of Tentative Maps by Other Agencies. When a tentative map has
been properly filed and the subdivider has furnished the required number of
copies, the office of planning shall, within three (3) County business days of
the filing and review cycle deadline (Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excluded)
forward a copy or copies thereof to the following:
      1.   Fire Marshal, who shall distribute to the appropriate fire
jurisdiction;
      2.   Building Official;
      3.   District Engineer of the California Department of Transportation and
Business and Transportation Agency, State of California, if a federal or state
highway is involved;
      4.   Other public agencies or officers who, as determined by the planning
agency, have an interest in the proposed subdivision;
      5.   Any appropriate public utilities and cable television system.
   D.   Reports on Tentative Map. Any report or recommendation on a tentative
map by the staff of the planning agency or the development review committee to
the planning agency shall be in writing and a copy thereof sent to the
subdivider, or any tenant of the subject property in the case of a proposed
conversion of residential real property to a condominium project, community
apartment project or stock cooperative project, at least three (3) days prior
to any hearing or action on such map by such planning agency. In the event of
failure of any officer, department, municipality, district or agency to report
to the planning agency in writing within twenty (20) days after the filing
deadline of the tentative map, it shall be deemed that said officer,
department, municipality, district or agency has no objections to the proposed
map.
      1.   Wherever possible, the reports and recommendations of reviewing
departments shall be uniform in content and form and shall be presented to the
planning agency by the chairperson of the development review committee or
designee.
      2.   Required Action in the Case of Waste Discharge Violations. The
development review committee shall report to the planning agency as to whether
the discharge of waste from the proposed subdivision into an existing community
sewer system will result in the violation of existing requirements prescribed
by a California Regional Water Quality Control Board pursuant to Division 7
(commencing with Section 13000) of the Water Code. In the event that the
planning agency finds that the proposed waste discharge would result in or add
to violation of the requirements of such board, it may disapprove the tentative
map or maps of the subdivision or take such other action as may be permitted by
the policies of the City.
   E.   Expiration of Approval. The initial approval period of an approved or
conditionally approved tentative map and any associated development application
shall expire twenty-four (24) months after its approval or conditional approval
unless an extension is granted as hereinafter provided or as otherwise provided
by the Development Code. The expiration of the approved or conditionally
approved tentative map shall terminate all proceedings, and no final or parcel
map of all or any portion of the real property included within such tentative
map shall be filed without first processing a new tentative map.
      This initial approval period may be extended in the following
circumstances:
      1.   If the subdivider is subject to a requirement of one hundred
thousand dollars ($125,000.00), subject to an inflation adjustment, or more to
construct or improve or finance the construction or improvement of public
improvements outside the boundaries of the tentative map in order to obtain a
final map, each filing of a final map that is part of a series of multiple
final maps authorized by Section
16.08.040.C. of this Code and Government Code Section 66456.1 shall extend the
expiration of the approved or conditionally approved tentative map and any
associated development project by thirty-six (36) months from the date of its
expiration as provided in this Section, or the date of the previously filed
final map, whichever is later. Such extensions shall not extend the tentative
map more than ten (10) years from its approval or conditional approval.
However, a tentative map on property subject to a development agreement
authorized by Article 2.5 (commencing with Section 65864) of Chapter 4 of
Division 1 of the Government Code may be extended for the period of time
provided for in the agreement, but not beyond the duration of the agreement.
The number of phased final maps which may be filed shall be determined by the
planning agency at the time of the approval or conditional approval of the
tentative map. It shall be the responsibility of the developer to notify the
office of planning of the filing of the final map so that appropriate
arrangements may be made to document such extension.
         “Public improvements,” as used in this Section, includes traffic
controls, streets, roads, highways, freeways, bridges, overcrossings, street
interchanges, flood control or storm drain facilities, sewer facilities, water
facilities and lighting facilities.
      2.   This period of time shall not include any period of time during
which a moratorium, imposed after approval of the tentative map, is in
existence, provided however that the length of the moratorium does not exceed
five (5) years.
         Once a moratorium is terminated, the map shall be valid for the same
period of time as that which remained of the map approval period at the time
that the moratorium was imposed. However, if the remaining time is less than
one hundred twenty (120) days, the map shall be valid for one hundred twenty
(120) days following the termination of the moratorium.
      3.   In addition, this period of time, including any extension granted
pursuant to Subsection F. of this Section, shall not include any period of time
during which a lawsuit has been filed and is pending in a court of competent
jurisdiction involving the approval or conditional approval of a tentative map
if a stay of the time period is approved by the County pursuant to this
Section. Within ten (10) days of the service of the initial petition or
complaint in the lawsuit upon the County, the subdivider may apply to the
County for a stay pursuant to the County’s adopted procedures. Within forty
(40) days after receiving the application, the County shall either stay the
time period for up to five (5) years or deny the requested stay.
   F.   Time Extensions on Approved Tentative Maps and/or any Related
Development Applications. The planning director may approve extensions of time
for a period or periods not exceeding a total of thirty-six (36) additional
months unless otherwise provided by the Development Code. Any application of a
subdivider for such extension of time shall be made in writing to the planning
director not less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date. Such
extension of time is subject to an extension fee as found in the City fees
resolution. If the final map is not recorded within the approved extension,
then the subdivision must be refiled in accordance with all provisions of this
Title.
   G.   Withdrawal of Tentative Maps. Any subdivider or record owner of
property upon which a tentative map has been filed may withdraw such map at any
time period prior to the recordation of the final map thereof. Notice of such
withdrawal shall be made in writing to the planning agency. Refund in filing
fees for any such map withdrawn shall be made in accordance with the City fee
resolution.
   H.   Appeal by Subdivider.
      1.   The subdivider, or any tenant of the subject property in the case of
a proposed conversion of residential real property to a condominium project,
community apartment project, or stock cooperative project or any interested
person, may appeal any action of the planning department with respect to a
tentative map. Any such appeal shall be filed with the planning department for
an action taken by the planning director, or with the City Clerk for an action
taken by the Planning Commission in accordance with
Chapter 16.12. Such appeal shall be filed within ten (10) days after the action
of the planning agency from which the appeal is being taken.
      2.   After the filing of an appeal, the appeal body shall set the matter
for public hearing. Such hearing shall be held within thirty (30) days after
the date of a request filed by the subdivider or the appellant. Notice of the
public hearing shall be as required for any other Planning Commission or City
Council action in which the reviewing authority hears public testimony for and
against the land use proposal, reviews evidence and renders its decision in
connection with a land use approval. Within ten (10) days following the
conclusion of the hearing, the appeal hearing body shall render its decision.
The decision of the appeal hearing body shall comply with the provisions of
this Title and shall include all findings required by this Title. If the appeal
hearing body fails to act upon an appeal within the time limit specified in
this Title, the action of the planning agency shall be deemed to be upheld; and
it shall be the duty of the secretary of the Planning Commission or the City
Clerk, whichever body has heard the appeal, to certify such action. The fee for
filing of an appeal shall be established in the City’s fee schedule.
16.08.050 Final Maps.
The following provisions shall govern the filing and recording of the final
map:
   A.   Filing the Advance Copy of the Final Map. After receipt of the report
of the planning agency approving or conditionally approving the tentative map,
and at least fifty (50) days prior to the expiration of the approval or
conditional approval or any approved extension of time as provided by this
Title, the subdivider may cause the real property included within the map, or
any part thereof, to be surveyed and a final map thereof prepared in accordance
with the approved or conditionally approved tentative map, and an advance copy
of the final map to be submitted to the City Engineer. The advance copy of the
final map shall be accompanied by the following information:
      1.   Traverse sheets showing closures with allowable limits of exterior
boundary and of irregular blocks and lots in subdivision;
      2.   Preliminary title report;
      3.   Fees for examining final map in amount specified in the City’s fee
schedule adopted by the City Council;
      4.   In the case of the conversion of residential property to a
condominium, community apartment or stock cooperative, evidence shall be
submitted that the notices of intention to convert to prospective tenants, as
required by Government Code Section 66427.1, have been given;
      5.   Composite development plan as subject to the provisions of
Chapter 16.20;
      6.   Any additional information as maybe required by the planning agency
or City standards shall be submitted to the appropriate City department.
         The City Engineer shall be the primary coordinator in seeing that the
conditions of approval of the tentative map have been fulfilled. The City
Engineer shall transmit maps to and request written reports from the City
departments and public utilities, including any cable television systems, which
have submitted recommendations on the tentative map. Within twenty (20) days
after receipt of such an advance copy of the final map, said department or
utility shall issue a preliminary written report as to the compliance or
noncompliance of the advance final map as to the matters under its
jurisdiction.
   B.   Filing Official Copy of the Final Map. If the advance copy of the final
map has been found satisfactory by the City Engineer, the subdivider shall
cause the final map to be officially filed with the City Engineer at least
twenty (20) days prior to expiration of the approval or conditional approval or
any approved extension of time as provided by this Title. The final map shall
not be officially filed until the engineer has received notification from the
City Engineer that all provisions of the tentative map approval, the
Subdivision Map Act, City Code and City standards have been complied with. The
official filing of the final map with the City Engineer will constitute the
final map filing date.
   C.   Checking and Reports to the City Council.
      1.   After the issuance of a receipt for the official filing of the final
map, the City Engineer shall examine it as to sufficiency of affidavits and
acknowledgments, correctness of surveying data, mathematical data and
computations, and other matters which may require checking to ensure compliance
with the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act and this Title.
      2.   If the final map is found to be in substantial compliance with the
tentative map and is in correct form and the matters shown thereon are
sufficient and the City Engineer is satisfied that all of the conditions of
approval have been met, City Engineer shall endorse approval thereon. The City
Engineer shall combine with the final map the agreements, easements and
securities as required by this Title. Such material shall be transmitted to the
City Council for its consideration of the final map.
   D.   Approval of Final Map by the City Council.
      1.   The City Council shall, within a period of ten (10) days after the
filing of the final map for approval or at its next regular meeting after the
meeting at which it receives the map, whichever is later, approve the map if it
conforms to all the requirements of the Subdivision Map Act and this Title
applicable at the time of approval or conditional approval of the tentative map
and any rulings made thereunder or, if it does not so conform, disapprove the
map.
      2.   If the City Council does not approve or disapprove the map within
the prescribed time, or any authorized extension thereof, and the map conforms
to all said requirements and rulings, it shall be deemed approved, and the City
Clerk shall certify its approval thereon.
   E.   Time Limit for Filing Final Map. If the subdivider fails to file the
final map with the County Recorder and the required accompanying data with the
appropriate City or County departments within twenty-four (24) months after the
date of first approval by the planning agency or within any authorized
extension of time, the tentative map approval or conditional approval shall
become void. In such a case, a new filing fee shall be paid; and a new
tentative map approval shall be obtained.
   F.   Improvement Agreement. If at the time of approval of the final map by
the Council, any improvements required by local ordinance or as a condition of
the approval of the tentative tract map have not been completed in accordance
with City standards applicable at the time of the approval or conditional
approval of the tentative map, the Council, as a condition precedent to
approval of the final map, shall require the subdivider to enter into an
agreement with the Council upon mutually agreeable terms to thereafter complete
such improvements at the subdivider’s expense. The Council shall require that
performance of such agreement is guaranteed by appropriate securities.
   G.   If sixty (60) days prior to the submittal of a final or parcel map, the
subdivider has failed to comply with the tentative map or minor subdivision
plot plan conditions which require the subdivider to construct or install off-
site improvements on land in which neither the subdivider nor the City has
sufficient title or interest, including an easement or license, then at the
time the parcel or final map is filed with the local agency, to permit the
improvements to be made, the subdivider shall enter into an agreement with the
City through its department of engineering contract services to pay all costs
of the City in acquiring such property. The City shall have one hundred twenty 
(120) days from the filing of the final map or parcel map, pursuant to
Section 66457 of the Subdivision Map Actt, to obtain interest in the land to
permit the improvement to be made by negotiation or proceedings pursuant to
Title 7 (commencing with Section 1230.010) of Part 3 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, including proceedings for immediate possession of the property under
Article 3 (commencing with Section 1255.410) of Chapter 6 of such Title. In the
event the City fails to meet the one hundred twenty (120) day time limitation,
the condition for construction of off-site improvements shall be conclusively
deemed to be waived. Prior to approval of the final map, the City may require
the subdivider to enter into an agreement to complete the improvements pursuant
to Subsection F. of this Section above at such time as the City acquires an
interest in the land which will permit the improvements to be made.
      “Off-site improvements,” as used in this Subsection, do not include
improvements which are necessary to assure replacement or construction of
housing for persons and families of low or moderate income, as defined in
Health and Safety Code Section 50093.
16.08.060 Conditions of Map Approval.
The conditions of map approval shall be as follows:
   A.   Subdivisions for Which a Tentative and Final Map is Required. As a
condition of approval of a map of five (5) or more parcels, the planning agency
may require such dedications and improvements as are necessary to ensure that
the lots to be created are provided with adequate public services and
utilities, possibly including any appropriate cable television services, to
meet the needs of future residents or users; are of adequate design in all
respects; act to mitigate any potential environmental impacts identified in the
environmental impact report or by other means; and provide for proper grading
and erosion control, including the prevention of sedimentation or damage to
off-site property.
      All improvements shall be in accordance with adopted City standards.
   B.   Access.
      1.   Except as provided below, lots created by a subdivision of land
shall abut upon a recorded dedicated public right-of-way of a width as
established by the circulation element or shall be assured of access to the
City road system by an approved access which connects a lot or lots to a
maintained public street or state highway.
      2.   The planning agency may waive the requirements for approved access
to subdivisions having lot sizes of forty (40) gross acres or more when all of
the following findings are made:
         a.   The applicant is or will be subject to severe hardship unless the
waiver is approved; and
         b.   There is an existing traveled roadway which has been in existence
for at least five (5) years which roadway is at least twenty (20) feet in width
at all points; and
         c.   The roadway has capability for normal passenger car use to each
lot in the subdivision.
      3.   Private road easements may be approved for access to each lot if it
is determined that public street access cannot be provided due to certain title
limitations or topographical conditions.
      4.   Road easements of record established prior to the effective date of
this Chapter shall be recognized as legal access to each lot of the
subdivision.
      5.   Existing traveled roads for which a court has determined that a
prescriptive right by users exists for public use shall be recognized as legal
access to each lot of the subdivision.
   C.   In determining whether to approve or disapprove an application for a
tentative map, the City shall apply only those ordinances, policies and
standards in effect at the date the proposal for the subdivision was accepted
as complete, as provided in Government Code Section 66474.2.
Chapter 16.12
MINOR SUBDIVISIONS
Sections:
   
16.12.010   Filing Criteria for Minor Subdivisions Plot Plan, Tentative and
Parcel Maps
   
16.12.020   Minor Subdivision Plot Plan Content
   
16.12.030   Parcel Map Content
   
16.12.040   Minor Subdivision Procedures
   
16.12.050   Parcel Map Procedures
   
16.12.060   Conditions of Approval
16.12.010 Filing Criteria for Minor Subdivisions Plot Plan, Tentative and
Parcel Maps.
The provisions of this Section and the Subdivision Map Act shall govern the
necessity for minor subdivision plot plan, tentative and parcel maps.
   A.   A tentative map may be required and a parcel map shall be required for
subdivisions where a final map is not otherwise required by this Title, unless
waived pursuant to this Title, and further provided that a parcel map shall not
be required for subdivisions created, pursuant to Government Code 66428, by
short-term leases (terminable by either party on not more than thirty (30) days
notice in writing) of a portion of the operating right-of-way of a railroad
corporation defined as such by Public Utilities Code Section 230, or land
conveyed to or from a governmental agency, public entity, common carrier,
public utility, or for land conveyed to a subsidiary of a public utility for
conveyance to such public utility for rights-of-way, unless a showing is made
in individual cases, upon substantial evidence, that public policy necessitates
such a parcel map.
   B.   A parcel map shall not be required for the construction of a
condominium project or for the conversion of an existing structure to a
condominium on a single parcel shown on a final map or parcel map recorded
after January 1, 1960, provided, however, the planning officer may require that
a parcel map be filed for the purposes of obtaining improvements, additional
easements and dedications, or other circumstances which warrant the filing of a
new map.
   C.   The planning director except as otherwise provided may waive the
requirement for a parcel map, where two (2), three (3), or four (4) parcels and
any remainder parcel are involved, and the smallest parcel created is two and
one-half (2-1/2) gross acres or a two and one-half (2-1/2) one-half (1/2) acre
aliquot part of a section or greater; provided said director has made a finding
that the proposed division of land complies with the requirements as to: (1)
area, (2) improvement and design, (3) flood water drainage control, (4)
appropriate improved public roads, (5) sanitary disposal facilities, (6)
potable water supply availability, (7) environmental protection, (8) other
requirements of Title, (9) the Subdivision Map Act, (10) other applicable
ordinances of the City, and (11) adequate survey data exists to properly
identify the property as determined by the City Engineer. A record of survey
recorded after January 1, 1983, shall not constitute adequate survey data to
permit a waiver of the requirement for a parcel map. The finding shall be based
upon evidence, information and recommendations of the development review
committee or individual development review committee member acting within the
departmental area of expertise.
   D.   The planning director shall not waive a parcel map as a condition of
approval of a vesting tentative parcel map.
   E.   Where the requirement for a parcel map is waived pursuant to provisions
of this Section, a tentative map may be required by the planning director. The
planning director may establish application procedures for subdivisions which
are not subject to the requirement for tentative and final maps.
   F.   When a parcel map rather than a final map is required by this Title,
the subdivider has the option of submitting a tentative map.
   G.   The subdivider shall submit a tentative map in place of a minor
subdivision plot plan to obtain the rights conferred by the Subdivision Map Act
and this Title, for a vesting tentative map.
   H.   The requirements of Section
16.08.010.E., F. and G. shall apply to the filing of parcel maps for the
conversion of residential real property to another use.
16.12.020 Minor Subdivision Plot Plan Content.
The content and form of the minor subdivision plot plan and applications shall
be governed by the provisions of this Section.
   A.   Standards and Preparation. The plot plan shall be prepared in
conformance with the Subdivision Map Act and any procedures established by the
City and/or the County Land Management Department as adopted by the Board of
Supervisors.
16.12.030 Parcel Map Content.
The content and form of parcel maps shall be governed by the provisions of this
Section.
   A.   Standards and Preparation. The parcel map shall be prepared by, or
under the direction of, a registered civil engineer licensed to practice land
surveying or licensed land surveyor; shall show the location of streets and
property lines bounding the property; and shall conform to all of the following
provisions and adopted City standards.
      1.   The parcel map shall be legibly drawn, printed or reproduced by a
process guaranteeing a permanent record in black on tracing cloth or polyester-
base film. Certificates, affidavits and acknowledgments shall be legibly
stamped or printed upon the map with opaque ink. If ink is used on polyester-
base film, the ink surface shall be coated with a suitable substance to assure
permanent legibility.
      2.   The size of each sheet shall be eighteen (18) inches by twenty-six 
(26) inches. A marginal line shall be drawn completely around each sheet,
leaving an entirely blank margin of one (1) inch. The scale of the map shall be
large enough to show all details clearly and enough sheets shall be used to
accomplish this end. The particular number of the sheet and the total number of
sheets comprising the map shall be stated on each of the sheets, and its
relation to each adjoining sheet shall be clearly shown.
      3.   Each lot shall be numbered and each street shall be named.
      4.   The exterior boundary of the land included within the subdivision
shall be indicated as an opaque ink line three (3) times as wide as the widest
line on the map excluding the border line. The map shall show the location of
each parcel and its relation to surrounding surveys.
      5.   If the map includes a remainder parcel and the gross area of the
remainder parcel or similar named parcel is five (5) acres or less, it shall be
surveyed and mapped. If the remainder parcel or similar named parcel is more
than five (5) acres, that parcel shall show record information and parcel size
only.
      6.   Existing natural drainage courses and proposed drainage easements,
as necessary, shall be shown on the parcel map.
      7.   Additional notes which do not affect record title interests shall
not be shown on the parcel map. Where a composite development plan has been
required, a prominent note shall be placed below the surveyor’s notes on the
parcel map in one-quarter (1/4) inch high, bold block letters, stating:
 
COMPOSITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN NOTE:
A Composite Development Plan (C.D.P.) affecting this map is on file in the
Building and Safety Department.
 
      8.   In the case of a vesting tentative map for a parcel map, at the time
it is filed it shall have printed conspicuously on its face “Vesting Tentative
Parcel Map.”
   B.   Parcel Number. Prior to filing a parcel map, a licensed engineer or
surveyor shall obtain a number or numbers from the County Recorder.
   C.   Certificates on Parcel Maps. The certificates on parcel maps shall be
as required by the City Engineer’s standards and adopted by the City Council.
      1.   Subject to the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act, a certificate,
signed and acknowledged by the legal owner of record in the real property
subdivided, consenting to the preparation and recordation of the parcel map is
required.
      2.   Offers to dedicate interest in real property for specified public
purposes shall be made by a certificate on the parcel map, signed and
acknowledged by the legal owner of record in the real property being
subdivided, subject to the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act. The signature
of either the holder of beneficial interests under trust deeds or the trustee
under such trust deeds, but not both, may be omitted. The signature of either
shall constitute a full and complete subordination of the lien of the deed of
trust to the map and any interest created by the map.
         However, with respect to a division of land into four (4) or fewer
parcels, where dedications or offers of dedications are not required, the
certificate shall be signed and acknowledged by the legal owner of record only.
      3.   In all cases where a parcel map is required, such map shall be based
upon a field survey made in conformity with the Land Surveyors Act, except in
the case of reversion to acreage.
      4.   The parcel map shall contain a certificate for execution by the City
Engineer, stating that the City Engineer approved the map and accepted, subject
to improvement, or rejected on behalf of the public, any real property offered
for dedication for public use in conformity with the terms of the offer of
dedication. The City Engineer is empowered to accept such dedications on behalf
of the City and County Flood Control District.
16.12.040 Minor Subdivision Procedures.
The provisions for the review of minor subdivision, plot plans, tentative and
parcel maps shall be as required in Section
16.08.040 of this Code, unless otherwise indicated in that Section.
16.12.050 Parcel Map Procedures.
This Section shall govern the procedures for the processing, approval,
conditional approval, and disapproval of an application to subdivide land into
four (4) lots or less with or without a remainder parcel, or more when a parcel
map has been required in lieu of a final map and filing parcel maps.
   A.   Filing Advance Copy of Parcel Map. Where the filing of a parcel map is
required pursuant to this Title 16 after the approval or conditional approval
of the tentative parcel map or minor subdivision plot plan application as
provided by this Title 16, the subdivider may cause the real property included
within the map to be surveyed and a parcel map thereof shall be prepared in
accordance with the approved tentative parcel map or minor subdivision plot
plan application, and an advance copy of said parcel map to be filed with the
City Engineer.
      The advance copy of the parcel map shall be accompanied by the following
information:
      1.   Preliminary title report;
      2.   Fees in the amount specified in the City fee schedule;
      3.   Composite development plan;
      4.   Such additional information as required by the planning agency or
approved City standards.
   B.   Filing Official Copy of Parcel Map. The parcel map shall not be
officially filed until the engineer or surveyor has received notification that
all provisions of the tentative parcel map or minor subdivision plot plan
approval, the Subdivision Map Act, and City standards have been complied with
and an advance copy of the parcel map has been approved by the City Engineer in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
   C.   Appeal. Any decision of the planning agency can be appealed as provided
in Section
16.08.040.H.
   D.   Expiration of Approval and Time Extensions on Approved Minor
Subdivision Plot Plans and Vesting Tentative Parcel Maps. An approved or
conditionally approved minor subdivision plot plan and vesting tentative parcel
maps shall expire and may be extended within the time periods as provided in
Sections
16.08.040.E. and F.
   E.   The filing and recording of a parcel map shall be subject to the
requirements of Section
16.08.050.G. where applicable.
16.12.060 Conditions of Approval.
The conditions for subdivisions for which a tentative and final map are not
required shall be as follows:
   A.   Improvements Consistent with Established Pattern. Improvements shall be
limited to the dedication of flood control right-of-way easements and the
construction of reasonable off-site and on-site improvements for the parcels
being created. Requirements for the construction of such off-site and on-site
improvements shall be noticed by certificate on the parcel map, on the
instrument evidencing the waiver of such parcel map, or by separate instrument
and shall be recorded on, concurrently with, or prior to the parcel map or
instrument of waiver of parcel map being filed for record. However, such
improvements shall be consistent with the pattern established in the area, and
further provided that in no case shall the required improvements be greater
than required for subdivisions requiring a final map.
      Fulfillment of such construction requirements shall not be required until
such time as a permit or other grant of approval for the development of the
parcel is issued by the County or until such time as the construction of such
improvements is required pursuant to an agreement between the subdivider and
the County except that, in the absence of such an agreement, the County may
require fulfillment of such construction requirements within a reasonable time
following approval of the parcel map and prior to the issuance of a permit or
other grant of approval for the development of a parcel upon a finding by the
County that fulfillment of the construction requirements is necessary for
reasons of:
      1.   The public health and safety; or,
      2.   The required construction is a necessary prerequisite to the orderly
development of the surrounding area.
   B.   Subdivision with Lot Sizes of Less Than Two and One-half (2-1/2) Acres.
Improvements, consistent with the pattern established in the area, may be
required as a condition of approval for a subdivision containing any lot less
than two and one-half (2-1/2) gross acres. Improvements may include paving,
curbs, gutters, sidewalks, water supply, approved sewage disposal and drainage
works, provided, however, that in no case shall the required improvements be
greater than required for subdivisions with comparable lot sizes. If
improvements have not been installed at the time final approval is requested, a
bond in an amount equal to the estimated cost of the improvements plus ten
percent (10%) shall be posted with the County Land Management Department.
   C.   The conditions of approval regarding access that are referenced in
Section
16.08.060 shall apply to subdivisions for which a final map is not required.
Chapter 16.16
VESTING TENTATIVE MAPS
Sections:
   
16.16.010   Filing Criteria for Vesting Tentative Maps
   
16.16.020   Content
   
16.16.030   Procedures
   
16.16.040   Development Rights
16.16.010 Filing Criteria for Vesting Tentative Maps.
   A.   Whenever a provision of the Subdivision Map Act, as implemented and
supplemented by this Title, requires the filing of a tentative map or tentative
parcel map for a residential development, a vesting tentative map may instead
be filed in accordance with the provisions hereof.
   B.   If a subdivider does not seek the rights conferred by the Vesting
Tentative Map Statute, the filing of a vesting tentative map shall not be a
prerequisite to any approval for any proposed subdivision permit for
construction or work preparatory to construction.
   C.   Except as otherwise set forth, the provisions of this Title shall apply
to vesting tentative maps.
16.16.020 Content.
The content and form of vesting tentative maps shall be governed by the
provisions of this Section.
   A.   At the time a vesting tentative map is filed, it shall have printed
conspicuously on its face the words “Vesting Tentative Map.”
   B.   A vesting tentative map shall be filed in the same form and have the
same contents, accompanying data and reports as set forth in this Title for a
tentative map except as hereinafter provided.
16.16.030 Procedures.
The following provisions shall govern the filing, processing and review of
vesting tentative maps.
   A.   A vesting tentative map shall be processed and reviewed in the same
manner as set forth in this Title 16 for a tentative map, except as hereinafter
provided.
      1.   Development Review. Prior to filing a vesting tentative map, the
subdivider shall have a preapplication conference with the development review
committee to determine if any additional information should be filed with the
vesting tentative map application. The applicant shall submit to the
development review committee prior to the preapplication conference all
information that is required of a tentative map application. This information
will be reviewed by the committee and additional information may be required by
the committee to be submitted with the vesting tentative map application.
         The minutes of the preapplication conference shall dictate the filing
requirements for the vesting tentative map, and shall accompany the filing of
the map. The information required by the development review committee for
formal submission of the proposed project may include, but is not limited to
the following:
         a.   Drainage plan for control of both on-site and off-site storm
runoff, water courses, channels, existing culverts and drainpipes including
existing and proposed facilities for control of storm waters, data as to the
amount of runoff and the approximate grade and dimension of proposed facilities
for control of storm waters;
         b.   Building envelopes;
         c.   Proposed land use and types of structures;
         d.   Detailed circulation information (existing and proposed),
including proposed street improvement plans. This information may include area-
wide traffic data sufficient for the City to determine future needs;
         e.   Detailed grading plans;
         f.   Geological studies;
         g.   Water and sewer improvement plans.
            Any information required by the development review committee shall
be clearly detailed and listed with anticipated review periods so it can be
acted on within reasonable time. The department office which requires any
additional information shall approve the acceptability of this information from
the applicant prior to the filing of the vesting tentative map.
            The development review committee may require the filing and
concurrent review of other related development applications where it is
necessary for the review and implementation of the vesting tentative map.
      2.   An approving action on a vesting tentative map shall not occur prior
to the effective date of approval of the associated discretionary permit or
action.
      3.   Upon filing a vesting tentative map, the subdivider shall pay the
fees required as established in the City’s fee resolution for the filing and
processing of a vesting tentative map.
      4.   The approval or conditional approval of a vesting tentative map
shall expire at the end of the same time period, and shall be subject to the
same extensions, established by this Title 16 for the expiration of the
approval or conditional approval of a tentative map.
      5.   Any time prior to the expiration of a vesting tentative map, the
subdivider or assignee may apply for an amendment to the vesting tentative map.
No application for amendment shall be required where the reviewing authority
finds that such amendment is a minor modification that is in substantial
compliance with the original approval and no new conditions of approval are
required.
      6.   For a subdivision whose intended development is inconsistent with
the zoning ordinance or General Plan in existence at that time, that
inconsistency shall be noted on the map. The planning agency may deny such a
vesting tentative map or approve it conditioned on the subdivider, or his or
her designee, obtaining the necessary change in the zoning ordinance or General
Plan to eliminate the inconsistency. If the change in the pertinent ordinance
is obtained, the approved or conditionally approved vesting tentative map shall
confer the right to proceed with the development as approved.
      7.   Fees for development permits (e.g., building and grading permits)
filed per an approved vesting tentative map or a recorded vesting final/parcel
map shall be the fees in effect at the time of issuance of such permit.
16.16.040 Development Rights.
   A.   When the planning agency approves or conditionally approves a vesting
tentative map, that approval shall confer a vested right to proceed with the
development in substantial compliance with the ordinances, policies and
standards in effect at the date the application for the subdivision has been
determined to be complete and pursuant to Government Code Section 66474.2. If
Section 66474.2 is repealed, that approval shall confer a vested right to
proceed with development in substantial compliance with the ordinances,
policies and standards in effect at the time the vesting tentative map is
approved or conditionally approved.
   B.   Notwithstanding Subsection A. of this Section, the planning agency may
condition or deny a permit, approval, extension, entitlement or require an
amendment to the map if it determines any of the following:
      1.   A failure to do so would place the residents of the subdivision or
the immediate community, or both, in a condition dangerous to their health or
safety, or both;
      2.   The condition or denial is required in order to comply with state or
federal law.
   C.   The planning agency may alter any condition of a vesting tentative map
through an amendment pursuant to Sections
16.04.040.E. and F. in order to protect against conditions dangerous to public
health and safety or to comply with state or federal law.
   D.   The rights conferred by this Section shall expire if a final or parcel
map is not recorded prior to the expiration of the vesting tentative map as
provided in Section 
16.16.030.A.4. If the final or parcel map is recorded, these rights shall last
for the following periods of time:
      1.   An Initial Time Period of One (1) Year. Where several final maps are
recorded on various phases of a project covered by a single vesting tentative
map, this initial time period shall begin for each phase when the final map for
that phase is recorded.
      2.   The initial time period set forth in Section
16.16.040.D.1. shall be automatically extended by any time used for processing
a complete application for a grading permit or for design or architectural
review, if such processing exceeds thirty (30) days from the date a complete
application is filed.
      3.   A subdivider may apply for a one-year extension at any time before
the initial time period set forth in Section
16.16.040.D.1. expires. If the extension is denied, the subdivider may appeal
that denial to the City Council within fifteen (15) days.
      4.   If the subdivider submits a complete application for a building
permit during the periods of time specified in this Section, the rights
referred to herein shall continue until the expiration of that permit, or any
extension of that permit.
Chapter 16.20
COMPOSITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN
Sections:
   
16.20.010   Filing Criteria for Composite Development Plans
   
16.20.020   Content
   
16.20.030   Perimeter Walls
   
16.20.040   Review Process
   
16.20.050   Amendment to Composite Development Plan
16.20.010 Filing Criteria for Composite Development Plans.
   A.   The planning agency may require the filing of a composite development
plan at the time a final or parcel map is accepted for recordation. These maps
will reflect the information required by the planning agency and shall be filed
with the building and safety department concurrent with the recordation of the
final or parcel map.
   B.   Wherever a composite development plan is required, these plans shall be
submitted prior to recordation of the final or parcel map.
16.20.020 Content.
The content and form of composite development plans shall be governed by the
provisions of this Section and composite development plan standards established
by the City Engineer and adopted by the City Council.
   A.   Standards and Preparation. A reproduction shall be made on linen or
mylar of the map sheets of the final or parcel map which shall conform to the
following provisions and adopted City standards.
   B.   In the top margin of all the map sheets, there shall be prominently
labeled “Composite Development Plan.” Advance copies shall be submitted for
approval by the City Engineer and building official prior to submittal of the
linen or mylar of the final or parcel map.
   C.   Notes on Composite Development Plans.
      1.   The plan shall contain a section titled “Composite Development Plan
Notes.” The City may list here any conditions or mitigating measures stipulated
for the development of the subject property. Any explanatory notes related to
criteria delineated on the map shall also be listed within this section. In
addition any related reports regarding development criteria shall be listed,
including the following information:
         a.   Title and date of the report;
         b.   Name and credentials of person or firm preparing report;
         c.   The location where the reports are on file.
      2.   The plan may delineate and note applicable criteria to the
development of the subject property. These criteria are limited to:
         a.   Building Criteria (e.g., Building Setback Lines). Any yard
setback lines that are delineated on composite development plans shall be the
street and yard setback distances required on the property within the composite
development plan;
         b.   Geological and seismic criteria;
         c.   Grading criteria;
         d.   Flood control criteria (e.g., setbacks);
         e.   Environmental criteria;
         f.   Incorporation of any special map requirements;
         g.   All easements of record shall be delineated on the plan. Where
the only information to be detailed by the composite development plan are the
minimum yard setbacks established by either a community plan or zone district,
then a composite development plan will not be required.
      3.   The following statement shall be prominently displayed on each map
sheet:
 
COMPOSITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN
NOTES ON THIS PLAN ARE FOR INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES, TO INDICATE CONDITIONS AND
CRITERIA THAT EXIST ON THIS PROPERTY THAT WERE KNOWN AND IDENTIFIED AS OF THE
DATE THIS PLAN WAS FILED. THIS INFORMATION IS DERIVED FROM PUBLIC RECORDS OR
REPORTS AND IS NOT INTENDED TO AFFECT RECORD TITLE INTEREST.
 
16.20.030 Perimeter Walls.
The plan shall delineate and note all perimeter walls required for all
subdivisions in accordance with the following:
   A.   Perimeter walls shall be required for all tentative maps in accordance
with the following standards:
      1.   The wall shall be six (6) feet in height and be constructed of
noncombustible materials such as concrete block, brick or woodcrete.
      2.   Walls shall be required to be constructed along the perimeter where
the project boundary is adjacent to undeveloped wildland areas. A wall will not
be required where the project boundary is a local street used for individual
residential driveway access.
      3.   Walls may be designed with openings to facilitate pedestrian access
and shall be reduced in height to avoid conflicts with required clear sight
triangles or standard setback requirements.
      4.   Perimeter walls shall utilize materials with colors that generally
blend with the surrounding natural area and the exterior sides treated with a
coating to facilitate the removal of graffiti.
      5.   This requirement shall not apply to parcel maps or tentative parcel
maps consisting of four (4) lots or less.
      6.   All required walls shall be constructed prior to occupancy of the
first unit within the applicable phase of the tentative map.
16.20.040 Review Process.
This Subsection shall govern the procedures for the processing, approval or
disapproval of a composite development plan.
   A.   Filing Advance Copy. At least three (3) weeks prior to the recordation
of the final or parcel map, the composite development plan shall be submitted
for coordination of review to the City Engineer.
   B.   Filing Official Copy of Composite Development Plan. Concurrent with the
filing for recordation of the final or parcel map, the composite development
plan, as approved by the planning department and City Engineer in accordance
with the provisions of this Title, shall be filed with the Building and Safety
Department.
16.20.050 Amendment to Composite Development Plan.
   A.   Should any correction and amendment to a final or parcel map be made
that affects the composite development plan as authorized by Sections
16.04.040.E. and F., then the applicant shall file with the building and safety
department a corrected composite development plan that is approved by the City
Engineer and Planning Department. The building official is authorized to
approve amended maps when they do not adversely impact the conditions of other
departments and the amendment is in substantial compliance with the conditions
of approval of the tentative or parcel map.
   B.   Any request to modify or deviate from the standards that are shown on a
composite development plan shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Section 16.12.210, except as otherwise provided by this Section.
Chapter 16.24
LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS
Sections:
   
16.24.010   Filing Criteria
   
16.24.020   Procedures
   
16.24.030   Conditions of Approval
16.24.010 Filing Criteria.
   A.   “Lot Line Adjustment” means the adjustment of a lot line between two
(2) or more adjacent parcels, where the land taken from one (1) parcel is added
to an adjacent parcel, and where no additional parcels are thereby created or
the number of parcels reduced.
   B.   Filing criteria shall be as established by City policy.
16.24.020 Procedures.
   A.   The planning director or designee may approve lot line adjustments as
herein provided. A current preliminary title report shall be required to
accompany a lot line adjustment request. This report is required in order to
ensure that the properties or portions thereof are not encumbered with liens,
delinquent taxes, trust deeds and/or utility easements on the property which
would conflict with the requested lot line adjustment. If the boundaries
described within a recorded encumbering document do conflict with the
boundaries as described in the requested lot line adjustment, the planning
director shall require that such a conflict be eliminated. In addition, if any
of the lots are improved, the planning director shall refer the proposed lot
line adjustment to the City Engineer for review of possible encroachments.
   B.   The planning officer or designee shall make the following findings
prior to approval of a lot line adjustment:
      1.   The proposed lot line adjustment is consistent with the General
Plan, Development Code, and any applicable community and specific plans.
      2.   The proposed lot line adjustment will not adversely affect public
health and safety.
16.24.030 Conditions of Approval.
   A.   No tentative map, parcel map or final map shall be required as a
condition to the approval of a lot line adjustment.
   B.   A record of survey may be required to facilitate the preparation of the
legal description to ensure the accuracy of the description or the elimination
of the encroachments.
   C.   A recorded certificate of compliance shall be required of all lot line
adjustments. Any certificate of compliance with parcels that are tax delinquent
shall not record. The lot line adjustments will be voided if the following are
not completed within ninety (90) days after the recordation of the certificate
of compliance.
      1.   Grant deeds which describe the new boundaries of the parcels shall
be recorded.
      2.   Appropriate trust deeds or partial reconveyance documents which
describe the new boundaries shall be recorded.
Chapter 16.28
LOT MERGERS
Sections:
   
16.28.010   Mandatory Merger of Substandard Lots
   
16.28.020   Voluntary Merger of Contiguous Lots
   
16.28.030   Findings
16.28.010 Mandatory Merger of Substandard Lots.
   A.   A mandatory merger of substandard lots may be initiated by the City. A
lot may be merged with a contiguous lot held by the same owner if any one (1)
of the contiguous lots or units held by the same owner does not conform to
standards for minimum lot size or dimension specified by the applicable zone/
land use district if all of the following requirements are satisfied:
      1.   At least one of the affected lots is not developed with any
structure for which a building permit was issued or for which a building permit
was not required at the time of construction, or is developed only with an
accessory structure or accessory structures, or is developed with a single
structure, other than an accessory structure, that is also partially sited on a
contiguous lot involved in the proposed merger; and
      2.   At least one (1) of the affected lots must have one (1) or more of
the following conditions:
         a.   The lot comprises less than five thousand (5,000) square feet in
area at the time of the determination of merger;
         b.   The lot was not created in compliance with applicable laws and
ordinances in effect at the time of its creation;
         c.   The lot does not meet current standards for sewage disposal and/
or domestic water supply;
         d.   The lot does not meet slope stability and/or density standards,
as specified by this Code, community plan or the General Plan;
         e.   The lot has no legal access which is adequate for vehicular and
emergency equipment access and maneuverability;
         f.   The development of the lot would create health or safety hazards:
         g.   The lot is inconsistent with the applicable General Plan and any
applicable community plan or specific plan, other than minimum lot size or
density standards.
            For purposes of determining whether contiguous lots are held by the
same owner, the ownership of record shall be determined as of the date that
notice of intention to determine status is recorded. Ownership of record shall
be determined by the verification of the property ownership as recorded with
the County Recorder in the official County records.
   B.   A lot merger becomes effective when the City causes to be filed for
record with the County Recorder a notice of merger specifying the names of the
record owners and a description of the real property to be merged. This notice
shall be transmitted to the County Recorder with any certificates for taxes as
referenced in Section
16.04.040.D.1.
   C.   When a notice of merger has been recorded, the resultant parcel so
merged shall be developed as a single unit of land.
   D.   When the City initiates a merger of substandard lots, noticing shall be
done in compliance with the following provisions:
      1.   Unless otherwise specified in Section
16.28.020, for all lots proposed to be merged, the City shall cause to be
mailed by certified mail to the current record owner of the property a notice
of intention to determine status, notifying the owner that the affected lots
may be merged pursuant to provisions and standards specified by this Section,
and advising the owner of the opportunity to request a determination of status
hearing and to present evidence at the hearing that the property does not meet
the criteria for merger. This hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the
staff review without notice procedures by the office of planning, as provided
in
Chapter 16.12. The notice of intention to determine status shall be filed for
record with the Recorder of the County of San Bernardino on the date that
notice is mailed to the property owner.
   E.   At any time within thirty (30) days after recording of the notice of
intention to determine status pursuant to Subsection D.1. of this Section, the
owner of the affected property may file with the planning department a request
for a determination of status hearing.
   F.   Upon receiving a request for a determination of status hearing from the
owner of the affected property pursuant to Subsection E. of this Section, the
planning director shall fix a time, date and place to conduct a hearing and
shall notify the property owner of the time, date and place of the hearing by
certified mail. The hearing shall be conducted not more than sixty (60) days
following the City’s receipt of the property owner’s request for a hearing, but
may be postponed or continued with the mutual consent of the City and the
property owner.
   G.   At a determination of status hearing, the property owner shall be given
the opportunity to present any evidence that the affected property does not
meet the standards for merger specified in this Section and Section
16.28.020. At the conclusion of the hearing, the planning department shall make
a determination that the affected lots are to be merged or are not to be merged
and shall so notify the owner of this determination. A determination of merger
shall be recorded within thirty (30) days after conclusion of the hearing.
   H.   If within the thirty (30) day period specified in Subsection E. of this
Section, the owner does not file a request for hearing in accordance with
Subsection F of this Section, the planning department may, at anytime
thereafter, make a determination that the affected lots are to be merged or are
not to be merged. A notice of merger shall be recorded as provided in
Subsection B. of this Section, no later than ninety (90) days following the
mailing of notice required by Subsection E. of this Section.
      If, in accordance with Subsection G. or H. of this Section, the planning
department determines that the subject property shall not be merged, it shall
cause to be recorded in the manner specified in Subsection B. of this Section,
a release of the notice of intention to determine status, recorded pursuant to
Subsection D.1. of this Section and shall mail a clearance letter to the
current owner of record.
   I.   Any decisions made by the planning director in accordance with this
Section may be appealed prior to recordation of the notice of merger in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 16.12.
16.28.020 Voluntary Merger of Contiguous Lots.
   A.   Description and Purpose. It is the purpose of this Section to allow
property owners to request a voluntary merger of contiguous lots that are under
the same ownership.
   B.   Process. The property owner shall file an application for a lot merger.
The reviewing authority shall be the planning director and review of the
application shall be subject to the provisions for staff review without notice
pursuant to Section 16.12.005(3) of the Development Code and in accordance with
the provisions of Subsection C. of this Section. The merger of the subject lots
becomes effective when the planning director causes a notice of merger
specifying the names of the record owners and a description of the real
property to be filed for record with the County Recorder.
   C.   Requirements. A voluntary merger of lots maybe requested by an
applicant. A lot may be merged with one (1) or more contiguous lots held by the
same owner if any one (1) of the contiguous lots held by the same owner does
not conform to standards for minimum lot size or dimension specified by the
applicable zone/land use district or if at least one (1) such lot meets one (1)
or more of the requirements specified in Section 16.30.010.A.2.
16.28.030 Findings.
The planning agency shall find and justify the following to be true, prior to
recording any notice of merger:
   A.   The lots to be merged at the time of merger are under common ownership;
   B.   The lots as merged will be consistent with or be more closely
compatible with the applicable zone/land use district regulations and any other
planning policies relating to the subject property and lot configuration;
   C.   The lot as merged will not be deprived of legal access as a result of
the merger and access to the adjoining lots will not be restricted by the
merger;
   D.   All current and any delinquent taxes have been paid on all affected
lots.
Chapter 16.32
REVERSION TO ACREAGE
Sections:
   
16.32.010   Filing Criteria
   
16.32.020   Reversion to Acreage by Final Map or Parcel Map
   
16.32.030   Data for Reversion to Acreage by Final Map or Parcel Map
   
16.32.040   Fee
   
16.32.050   Proceedings
   
16.32.060   Conditions for Reversion to Acreage by Final Map
   
16.32.070   Conditions for Reversion to Acreage by Parcel Map
   
16.32.080   Return of Deposits and Release of Securities
   
16.32.090   Delivery of Final Map or Parcel Map
   
16.32.100   Effect of Filing Revision Map with the County Recorder
16.32.010 Filing Criteria.
Requirement for Reversion to Acreage. Reversions to acreage may be required as
a condition of approval for a land use application or allowed upon review and
approval of a subdividers request pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter.
16.32.020 Reversion to Acreage by Final Map or Parcel Map.
Subdivided real property may be reverted to acreage by a final map or parcel
map pursuant to the provisions of this Section.
   A.   Initiation of Proceedings.
      1.   Proceedings shall be initiated by petition by the owner of the
property. The petition shall be on a form prescribed by the planning department
and shall be accompanied by:
         a.   Evidence of ownership;
         b.   Evidence of nonuse or lack of necessity of any streets or
easements to be vacated or abandoned;
         c.   Submittal of a tentative map or other application procedure which
may be established by the planning director which delineates any streets or
easements which are to be left in effect, provided, however, that the planning
director may require a tentative tract map prepared to the standard prescribed
in this Chapter;
         d.   Such other information as required by the planning department.
      2.   The City Council, at the request of any person or on its own motion,
may by resolution initiate proceedings to revert property to acreage. The City
Council shall direct the Planning Department to obtain the necessary
information to initiate and conduct the proceedings.
   B.   Previously subdivided land consisting of four (4) or less contiguous
parcels under the same ownership may be reverted to acreage by parcel map;
previously subdivided land consisting of five (5) or more parcels under the
same ownership shall be reverted to acreage by final map.
16.32.030 Data for Reversion to Acreage by Final Map or Parcel Map.
Petitioners shall file the following:
   A.   Evidence of title to the real property; and
   B.   Evidence of the consent of all of the owners of interest(s) in the
property; or
   C.   Evidence that none of the improvements required to be made have been
made within two (2) years from the date the final map or parcel map was filed
for record, or within the time allowed by agreement for completion of the
improvements, whichever is later; or
   D.   Evidence that no lots shown on the final or parcel map have been sold
within five (5) years from the date such final or parcel map was filed for
record;
   E.   A minor subdivision plot plan or tentative map in the form prescribed
by this Title;
   F.   A parcel map or a final map in the form prescribed by this Title. The
parcel map or final map shall delineate dedications which will not be vacated
and dedications required as a condition to reversion.
16.32.040 Fee.
The petition shall be accompanied by a fee as required by the City’s fee
schedule.
16.32.050 Proceedings.
   A.   The Planning Commission shall hold a noticed public hearing on all
petitions for, and Council initiations of, reversions to acreage, as is
required for any other Planning Commission action in which the reviewing
authority hears public testimony for and against the land use proposal, reviews
evidence and renders its decision in connection with a land use approval.
   B.   In the case of a reversion to acreage by parcel map, the Planning
Commission may approve the reversion to acreage only if it finds and records in
writing the findings required by this Section.
   C.   For a reversion to acreage by final map, the Planning Commission shall
render its decision in the form of a written recommendation to the City
Council. Such recommendation shall include the reasons for the recommendation
and shall be transmitted to the City Council in such form and manner as may be
specified by the City Council. Upon receipt of the recommendation of the
Planning Commission, the City Council shall hold a public hearing. Notice of
the time and place of such hearing shall be given in the same time and manner
provided for the giving of notice of the hearing by the Planning Commission.
The City Council may approve a reversion to acreage only if it finds and
records in writing the findings required by this Section.
   D.   Findings. Prior to approval, the reviewing authority shall find and
justify the following to be true:
      1.   Dedications or offers of dedication to be vacated or abandoned by
the reversion to acreage are unnecessary for present or prospective public
purposes; and
      2.   Either:
         a.   All owners of an interest in the real property within the
subdivision have consented to reversion;
         b.   None of the improvements required to be made have been made
within two (2) years from the date the final or parcel map was filed for
record, or within the time allowed by agreement for the completion of the
improvements, whichever is later; or
         c.   No lots shown on the final or parcel map have been sold within
five (5) years from the date such map was filed for record.
16.32.060 Conditions for Reversion to Acreage by Final Map.
The City Council may require as conditions for the reversion the following:
   A.   The owners dedicate or offer to dedicate streets or easements;
   B.   The retention of all or a portion of previously paid subdivision fees,
deposits or improvement security, if the same are necessary to accomplish any
of the provisions of this Title;
   C.   The retention of drainage easements for drainage and flood control.
16.32.070 Conditions for Reversion to Acreage by Parcel Map.
After approval of the petition, a parcel map shall be prepared in accordance
with this Title; provided, however, that said parcel map may be compiled from
recorded data if all the following conditions exist:
   A.   New division lines are not created;
   B.   The complete parcel boundary has been monumented and shown on a
recorded subdivision map or parcel map;
   C.   When at least one (1) of these boundary lines can be established from
an existing monumented line.
      The parcel map shall contain those certificates as required by Section 
16.32.030.C.
16.32.080 Return of Deposits and Release of Securities.
Except as provided in this Chapter, upon filing of the final map for reversion
to acreage with the County Recorder, deposits shall be returned to the
subdivider; and all improvement securities shall be released by the City
Council.
16.32.090 Delivery of Final Map or Parcel Map.
After the hearing before the City Council and approval of the reversion, the
final map or parcel map shall be delivered to the County Recorder.
16.32.100 Effect of Filing Reversion Map with the County Recorder.
Reversion shall be effective upon the parcel map or final map being filed for
record by the County Recorder. Upon filing, all dedications and offers of
dedication not shown on the parcel map or final map for reversion shall be of
no further force or effect.
Chapter 16.36
CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE
Sections:
   
16.36.010   Filing Criteria
   
16.36.020   Content and Form
   
16.36.030   Procedures
   
16.36.040   Conditions of Approval
16.36.010 Filing Criteria.
   A.   A recorded certificate of compliance may be requested by any person
owning real property to have the planning director determine whether such
property complies with the provisions of this Code.
   B.   A certificate of compliance may be required by the planning department
prior to recordation of a merger.
   C.   A recorded certificate of compliance shall be required of all lot line
adjustments pursuant to Section
16.24.030.
   D.   When an agreement is reached and a deed is recorded regarding the
ambiguities of the location of a lot line(s), a certificate of compliance shall
be recorded.
   E.   When determined by the City Engineer, certificates of compliance may be
required for the remainder parcels on final/parcel maps.
16.36.020 Content and Form.
The content and form of an application for a certificate of compliance shall be
as required by City policy.
16.36.030 Procedures.
Upon making a determination that real property complies with this Title 16, the
planning director shall cause a certificate of compliance to be filed for
record with the County Recorder. The certificate of compliance shall identify
the real property and shall state the division thereof complies with applicable
provisions of this Title 16 and the Subdivision Map Act.
16.36.040 Conditions of Approval.
   A.   When granting a certificate of compliance for the purpose of
determining whether real property is in compliance with this Code.
      1.   The requirements of a condition of the granting of a certificate of
compliance shall be limited to dedications of flood control and road or street
right-of-way easement for lots created before March 4, 1972.
      2.   When a certificate of compliance is requested for a parcel of land
created prior to March 4, 1972, the following shall apply:
         a.   If the parcel is less than five (5) acres in size, access,
improvement and map requirements consistent with land division requirements at
the time the parcel was created shall be required.
         b.   If the parcel is five (5) acres or greater in size, no parcel or
record of survey map shall be required, unless the planning director finds
that, due to topographical, geologic or drainage concerns, delineation of such
areas is necessary to assure adequate building sites. Access shall be provided
pursuant to Subsection A.2. of this Section.
         c.   Access requirements across lands not in the ownership of the
applicant may be deferred until development is requested on the property. A
statement of disclosure relating to such lack of access shall be placed on the
certificate of compliance advising of this requirement to future buyers of the
parcel.
      3.   If the planning director determines that such real property does not
comply with the provisions of this Title 16, the planning director shall impose
all the access requirements of this Title 16 before issuing a certificate of
compliance. The planning director may, as a condition to granting a certificate
of compliance, impose those additional improvement requirements and tentative
or parcel map requirements provided in this Title. Such conditions may be
fulfilled and implemented by the property owner who has applied for a
certificate of compliance pursuant to this Section or by a grantee of such
property owner. If such conditions are not fulfilled or implemented by the
applicant, property owner or the grantee, the certificate of compliance shall
have no force or effect upon any subsequent transfer of the property; and any
subsequent transferee or assignee shall make a new application for a
certificate of compliance pursuant to this Chapter, and the planning director
may impose such conditions as would have been applicable at the time such
assignee or transferee acquired the property.
   B.   All certificates of compliance shall be reviewed and approved by the
City Engineer prior to recordation. A record of survey may be required by the
City Engineer in order to facilitate the preparation of new legal descriptions
or to ensure the elimination of any encroachment.
   C.   A certificate of compliance shall be issued for any real property which
has been approved for development pursuant to Section
16.04.090.D.
   D.   A recorded final subdivision map, or parcel map, or recorded lot merger
shall constitute a certificate of compliance with respect to the parcels of
real property described therein.
   E.   An official map prepared pursuant to subdivision (b) of Government Code
Section 66499.52 and
Chapter 16.40 of this Code, shall constitute a certificate of compliance or a
conditional certificate of compliance with respect to the parcels of real
property described therein and may be filed for record, whether or not the
parcels are contiguous, so long as the parcels are within the same section or,
with the approval of the City Engineer, within contiguous sections of land.
Chapter 16.40
OFFICIAL MAPS
Sections:
   
16.40.010   Filing Criteria
   
16.40.020   Procedure
   
16.40.030   Recording Requirements
16.40.010 Filing Criteria.
   A.   Whenever any subdivision of land is platted or divided into lots or
blocks, and whenever any addition to any subdivision is laid out into lots or
blocks for the purpose of sale or transfer, the City Engineer, under the
direction and with the approval of the City Council, may make an official map
of the subdivision, giving to each block on the map a number, and to each lot
or subdivision in the block a separate number or letter, and giving names to
such streets, avenues, lanes, courts, commons or parks as may be delineated on
the official map.
   B.   Any surveyor or engineer under the review of the City Engineer may
prepare an official map to be filed for record as a certificate of compliance,
pursuant to subdivisions (d) and (e) of the Government Code Section 66499.35
and Section 
16.36.040.E. of this Code. The map shall be prepared in accordance with the map
format specifications of subdivisions A to F, inclusive, of Section 66434 of
the Subdivision Map Act and Section
16.08.030 of this Code except where noted otherwise in this Chapter.
16.40.020 Procedure.
   A.   A tentative map application shall be filed with the City. Filing, map
form and content, and procedure requirements for review and approval of
official maps shall be as required by City Engineer standards as adopted by the
City Council. This tentative map may be approved if it is consistent with the
General Plan and zoning or land use district subject to the following
requirements:
      1.   Submit proof of approved access;
      2.   Engineer or surveyor shall prepare and file an official map under
the review of the City Engineer. The map shall contain the following:
         a.   Private road easements or offers of dedication to each lot by
separate instrument or a note placed on the map that dedication will be
required prior to building permits,
         b.   Locate and delineate the natural drainage courses,
         c.   Ground height for building pads to preclude flooding,
         d.   Surveyed, mapped and monumented per City Engineer’s standards,
         e.   Legal description for each lot,
         f.   City Council certificate,
         g.   Engineer or surveyor’s certificate,
         h.   City Engineer’s certificate,
         i.   City Engineer’s official map checking deposit based upon current
final map fee schedule,
         j.   Improvements and improvement plans on future roads may be
deferred if not needed at this time or access to developed properties,
         k.   Any additional information as required by City Engineer
standards.
   B.   Each and every map made and adopted under this Title shall be presented
to the City Council by the City Engineer and be certified under the hands of a
majority of the members of the City Council, the presiding officer, secretary
and official seal of the City Council. The certificate shall set forth in full
the resolution adopting the map, with the date of adoption.
   C.   Fees established for processing of official maps shall be as required
in the City’s fee schedule.
16.40.030 Recording Requirements.
   A.   The certified map shall be forthwith filed in the office of the County
Recorder. The Recorder shall immediately securely fasten and bind each map so
filed in one of a series of firmly bound books to be provided, together with
the proper indexes thereof, and appropriately marked for the reception of maps
provided for in this Title. Official maps shall be filed and processed in
accordance with provisions for final maps in
Chapter 16.04 of this Code, unless otherwise indicated in City Engineer’s
standards for official maps.
   B.   The map shall become an official map for the purposes of this Title
when certified, filed and bound, but not before.
   C.   Whenever the City Council adopts an official map, it shall be lawful
and sufficient to describe the lots or blocks in any deeds, conveyances,
contracts or obligations affecting any of the lots or blocks as designated on
the official map.
Chapter 16.44
RESIDENT INITIATED MOBILE HOME PARK CONVERSIONS
Sections:
   
16.44.010   Intent
   
16.44.020   Exclusions
   
16.44.030   Waiver of Tentative and Final Map Requirements
   
16.44.040   Fees
16.44.010 Intent.
   A.   The intent of this Chapter is to facilitate resident purchase of mobile
home parks. This Chapter allows the waiver of certain subdivision requirements
and expedites local government processing for mobile home park conversions to
condominiums or stock cooperatives. Such conversions will preserve an important
source of affordable housing.
   B.   For the purposes of this Chapter, an application for subdivision shall
be considered “resident initiated” when signed by a resident organization
formed by the tenants of the subject mobile home park for the purpose of
purchasing the mobile home park. The proposed conversion shall be supported by
a minimum of two-thirds (2/3) of the current residents of the park. The
resident organization shall have a legally binding contract, which, if the
conditions of the contract are met, would result in the acquisition of an
interest in the mobile home park. A preapplication conference may be requested
by the applicant(s) prior to formation of the resident organization or prior to
entering into a legally binding contract provided the planning agency
determines in writing that it is reasonable to believe that such contract may
be entered into within a year.
16.44.020 Exclusions.
The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to the following:
   A.   The purchase of mobile home park by a non-profit corporation which is
subject to the provisions of California Business and Professions Code Section
11010.8.
   B.   Special occupancy parks (e.g., recreation vehicle parks) as defined in
Section 2008 of the Mobile Home Parks Act, Title 25 of the State Administrative
Code.
   C.   Mobile Home Planned Unit Developments. Such developments shall be
governed by the following: Sections
16.32.010 through
16.32.050 and
Chapter 16.12 of this Code, and any land development guidelines for planned
developments adopted by the City.
16.44.030 Waiver of Tentative and Final Map Requirements.
Notwithstanding other provisions of this Title, the requirement for the filing
of a tentative subdivision map and the preparation, filing and recordation of a
final map, for a mobile home park conversion to a condominium or stock
cooperative on a single parcel, may be waived by the planning agency, provided,
that the following procedures are followed by a resident organization desiring
to convert its park and the necessary findings are made by the planning agency.
   A.   Preapplication Conference. Prior to filing an application for mobile
home park conversion, the resident association shall have a preapplication
conference with the development review committee. This conference shall be
scheduled in accordance with the policy established by the City for the housing
incentive program. The purpose of this conference is to determine that the
proposal qualifies under the provisions of this Chapter. The following
information shall be submitted with the application for this conference:
      1.   Previously Approved Plot Plan for the Mobile Home Park. If none
exists, a plot plan shall be filed in accordance with the requirements
established by the City reviewing authority and available at the information
counter of City Hall.
      2.   A supplemental report to include the following information:
         a.   Name of consultant(s), if any;
         b.   Disclosure of all known fees and costs for the conversion
process.
         c.   Documentation demonstrating that two-thirds (2/3) of the
residents of the mobile home park support the proposed conversion;
         d.   Declarations from those residents supporting the conversion that
their principal place of residence is within the subject mobile home park;
         e.   The location of the park and results of a field inspection done
by the applicant(s) or consultant regarding the status of, the compliance of
the park with health and safety standards in effect at the time the park was
created. Any on-site dedications or public improvements to be required, if any,
shall be identified by the committee;
         f.   Proposed tentative schedules to expedite meeting and coordinating
any requirements of the City planning agency and the department of real estate,
including but not limited to the public report. Such schedule shall include an
outline of the permits and noticing required to allow this conversion and the
estimated time at which such permits are obtained;
         g.   Evidence showing that the sixty (60) day notice of intent to file
the conversion application (as required by Section 66427.1(a) of the
Subdivision Map Act) has been met;
         h.   Initial report on the impact of the conversion on the residents
of the mobile home park. This report is needed to determine whether an impact
report as required in Section 66427.4 of the Subdivision Map Act is needed. The
report shall specify whether any residents of the park are to be involuntarily
displaced and any proposed measures to mitigate such displacement. A resident
who is offered an opportunity to remain in the park after the conversion
through continuation of the tenancy at generally the same terms as existed
prior to proposed conversion, shall not be considered involuntarily displaced.
At the preapplication conference, the development review committee shall
indicate whether an impact report needs to be filed with the formal application
for the conversion. If it is required, the development review committee shall
identify in detail any additional items to be required as mitigation measures
to assist any displaced residents. No current resident shall be involuntarily
displaced without proper notice, assistance or compensation, to be worked out
on a case-by-case basis. Such noticing, assistance or compensation may include,
but is not limited to, the following:
            (1)   The project shall comply with the Mobile Home Residency Law,
Sections 798 et seq., of the Civil Code,
            (2)   The project applicant(s) may be required to provide
relocation assistance pursuant to federal, state or local laws.
   B.   Development Review. The development review committee shall field check
the park prior to the scheduled meeting. The development review committee shall
establish if the proposed mobile home park conversion meets the intent and is
capable of meeting the provisions of this Chapter. The planning director shall
attempt to inform the applicant(s) at the earliest opportunity if a public
hearing is to be required. If the proposed mobile home park conversion is
acceptable, the development review committee shall identify the information the
applicant needs to file to proceed with the proposal. Such information shall
include the following:
      1.   Development review committee preapplication conference minutes.
These minutes shall include the proposed tentative schedules required by
Section
16.44.030.A.2.f.
      2.   If the parcel upon which the park lies was created prior to
January 1, 1960, a parcel map application shall be required. Such application
shall be processed concurrently with any other information filed pursuant to
the preapplication conference;
      3.   Mobile home park conversion impact report, if required at the
preapplication conference to meet the requirements of Section 66427.4 of the
Subdivision Map Act. Such report shall be given to each resident within the
mobile home park;
      4.   Mobile home park plot plan if no plot plan was previously approved;
      5.   Any special information which was identified by the committee. Among
such information may be information to assist in the environmental review of
the proposal;
      6.   Certificate of Compliance Application. The review and processing of
any application pursuant to this Section shall be subject to the same review
and time requirements and appeal procedures as are provided in this Title for
tentative subdivision maps. In any case where waiver of the tentative and final
map is granted, the planning director shall cause to be filed for record with
the County Recorder a certificate of compliance pursuant to
Chapter 16.36. The planning director may require a public hearing pursuant to
the provisions of Section
16.08.040.B. of this Code. Should a public hearing be required, the noticing
provisions of Section 66451.3 of the Subdivision Map Act shall be met.
   C.   Findings of Approval. A mobile home park conversion shall be approved
or conditionally approved only if the following are found and justified as
being true:
      1.   The mobile home park complies with the requirements established by
State law and City ordinance for such uses at the time the mobile home park was
constructed. Such regulations shall include those regarding to area,
improvement and design, flood water drainage control, public roads, sanitary
disposal facilities, water supply and distribution system environmental
protection and other requirements of the Subdivision Map Act or this Title;
      2.   Any measures necessary to mitigate the impact of the conversion on
current residents of the park have been required as conditions of approval;
      3.   Applicable noticing requirements of the Subdivision Map Act have
been, or will be, met.
   D.   Conditions of Approval. The following conditions may be required by the
planning agency as conditions of approval for the proposed conversion.
      1.   Subdivisions permitted by this Chapter may include conditions
requiring a compliance survey inspection to the satisfaction of the planning
agency. However, such survey shall be limited to require improvements relating
only to items of a health and safety nature;
      2.   The mobile home condominiums or stock cooperatives shall be subject
to Title 25 of the State Administrative Code;
      3.   Only additional on-site improvements or development standards which
were applicable at the time the mobile home park was originally developed may
be required;
      4.   Off-site public improvements for qualifying mobile home parks shall
be waived, except as follows:
         a.   Any off-site improvements shall be financed with appropriate
assessment bonds,
         b.   The certificate of compliance shall not be delayed or contingent
upon completion of the off-site improvements;
      5.   Any requirements and/or documents required by the State Common
Interest Development Act, Title 6 (commencing with Section 1350), Part 4,
Division 2 of the State Civil Code;
      6.   Conditions of approval necessary to ensure any noticing requirements
that are required by Section 66427.1 of the Subdivision Map Act are met;
      7.   Any plan or document required to be submitted to the Department of
Real Estate shall be reviewed for consistency with the approved project and
plot plan. Such plan shall reference the “waiver” notice requirement in
Subsection D.8. of this Section, to the satisfaction of the planning director;
      8.   Notice shall be placed on the certificate of compliance that
standard subdivision requirements for the creation of condominiums/stock
cooperatives have been waived by the City and only conditions applicable to the
original development of the mobile home park have been required;
      9.   The applicant(s) shall comply with the indemnification requirements
of Section
1.10.050 of this Code;
      10.   The planning agency may impose any conditions of approval to assure
any appropriate measures for relocation assistance are implemented.
   E.   Any conditions of approval required pursuant to this Chapter shall be
drafted in such a way so as to expedite the conversion process. No mobile home
shall be required to be placed on permanent functions as a result of the
conditional approval.
16.44.040 Fees.
Fees for the preapplication conference and formal application for a resident
initiated conversion of a mobile home park to condominiums or stock
cooperatives shall be as specified in the City’s fee schedule.
Chapter 16.48
LOT REQUIREMENTS
Sections:
   
16.48.010   Measurement of Lot Dimensions
   
16.48.020   Lot Area Applicability
   
16.48.030   Permitted Substandard Lots
   
16.48.040   Exceptions
   
16.48.050   Multiple-family Residential Density Limits
   
16.48.060   Aliquot Part or Metes and Bounds Subdivisions
16.48.010 Measurement of Lot Dimensions.
All required lot widths, whether on rectangular, pie-shaped or other irregular
lots, are measured at the required building setback line. On any irregularly
shaped lot, the required lot dimensions other than lot width must be satisfied
by the average dimensions of the lot.
16.48.020 Lot Area Applicability.
Except as provided in this Chapter, all parcels of land shall conform to the
area regulations of the zone district in which the parcel is located.
16.48.030 Permitted Substandard Lots.
Any legally created parcel having an area, width or depth less than that
required by an applicable standard set forth in the Development Code or
applicable community plan, may be used or built upon, provided the development
otherwise conforms to the requirements of this Code.
16.48.040 Exceptions.
   A.   If two (2) or more legally created parcels of land or portions thereof
are being combined in order to create a building site which will more nearly
meet the lot area requirements set forth in the Development Code or applicable
community plan, the resulting parcel shall be deemed to have met the applicable
area requirements.
   B.   Where a lot area or yard width or depth has been reduced by any
government agency to not more than twenty-five percent (25%) below the minimum
requirements of the Development Code or applicable community plan by
condemnation, acquisition or dedication for a road, drain or other public
purpose, including any dedication as a result of a redistricting, deviation or
site approval, the lot area existing before reduction shall be what counts for
meeting the requirements of the Development Code or applicable plan.
   C.   In computing the lot area of a lot which abuts upon one (1) or more
alleys, one-half (1/2) the width of such alley(s) may be assumed to be a
portion of the lot.
   D.   The subdivision of multiple-family dwellings and mobile home parks that
are the subject of an approved site approval shall not be held to the minimum
area requirements of the district.
   E.   Lots to be used for the preservation of historic structures or land
uses may have less than the minimum lot size for the district provided that:
      1.   The lot’s structure(s) or use(s) has been or may be deemed historic
by an incorporated, non-profit historic preservation organization;
      2.   The site will not be used for human habitation nor generate sewage
effluent unless it is served by common sewage facilities or contains at least
forty thousand (40,000) square feet, and the facilities meet the approval of
the building and safety department;
      3.   The lot owner will grant an easement in perpetuity to the City or
other governmental body empowered to accept such easement, restricting further
development of the site to non-historic preservation purposes.
16.48.050 Multiple-family Residential Density Limits.
The number of units allowed on a parcel located in a multiple-family land use
or zone district which specifies the total net lot area per dwelling unit shall
be calculated by dividing the total net area of the lot in square feet by the
figure before the district designation. Fractional units of fifty percent (50%)
or greater shall be rounded to the next highest number.
16.48.060 Aliquot Part or Metes and Bounds Subdivisions.
Metes and bounds divisions may have actual parcel areas that are ten percent
(10%) less than those required by the applicable zone/land use district, where
the parcels have topographical constraints or where the parcels of land are
created by aliquot part division.
Chapter 16.52
DEDICATION OF LAND AND/OR PAYMENT OF FEES FOR PARK AND RECREATION PURPOSES
Sections:
   
16.52.010   Required
   
16.52.020   Definitions
   
16.52.030   Dedication of Land
   
16.52.040   In-Lieu Fee
   
16.52.050   Procedure
   
16.52.060   Exemptions
16.52.010 Required.
As a condition of approval of any tentative map and prior to the approval of
every final map, the City shall require dedication of a portion of such land,
payment of a fee in lieu thereof, or a combination of both, as set forth in
this Chapter, for the purpose of establishing and developing park and
recreational facilities to serve the future residents of such subdivided
property.
16.52.020 Definitions.
As used in this Chapter, the following terms are defined in this Section:
   A.   “Average Population per Dwelling Unit” means 3.70 residents per
dwelling unit as based on the most recent data available in the form of the
federal and state census and study on the population density in the City.
   B.   “Fair Market Value” means the market value of the land as determined by
staff of the City, and approved by the Planning Commission or City Council,
prior to the approval of the tentative map. If the subdivider objects to such a
valuation, the subdivider, at its own expense, may obtain an appraisal of the
property by a qualified real estate appraiser approved by the City, whose
appraisal may be accepted by the City if found reasonable. Fair market value
may be determined by mutual agreement of City and subdivider; however, any and
all decisions of the City as to fair market value shall be final and
conclusive;
   C.   “Number of Dwelling Units” means the number of dwelling units as
determined by the City based upon the number of units allowed pursuant to the
standards of the Development Code of the City or as otherwise specified by the
City on the property included in the subdivision at the time the tentative map
is filed with the City Council for approval;
   D.   “Planned Park Land Density per One Thousand (1,000) Population” shall
be equal to three (3) acres of park property per one thousand (1,000)
population of persons residing within the City, as determined by the standards
of the recreation element of the General Plan of the City.
16.52.030 Dedication of Land.
Whenever required by the terms of this Chapter, land for park and recreation
purposes shall be dedicated in the amount of three (3) acres of land for each
one thousand (1,000) persons residing within the subdivision.
16.52.040 In-Lieu Fee.
When the payment of in-lieu fees are required under the terms of this Chapter,
such fees shall be calculated, on a per residential unit basis, as follows:
 
   NSPF = minimum fee per unit 1,000
      N    = number of proposed dwelling units
      S    = planned park acreage per 1,000 population
      P    = average population per dwelling unit
      F    = fair market value
 
   B.   If a proposed subdivision contains fifty (50) parcels or less, only the
payment of fees, as provided herein, shall be required, unless otherwise agreed
by the City and the developer. However, when a condominium project, stock
cooperative or community apartment project exceeds fifty (50) dwelling units,
dedication or payment of fees shall be required notwithstanding that the number
of dwelling units may be less than fifty (50).
16.52.050 Procedure.
The requirements of this Chapter shall be complied with prior to the approval
of the final map or parcel map by the provision of park land in whole or in
part, the payment of a park fee, or by a combination of both as required by
City.
   A.   Subdivider. At the time of filing a tentative map application, the
subdivider shall, as part of such filing, state in writing whether it is
desired to dedicate property for park and recreational purposes or to pay a fee
in lieu thereof. If the subdivider desires to dedicate land for this purpose,
the area shall be designated on the tentative tract map as submitted.
   B.   Action of City. At the time of the tentative tract map approval, the
City shall determine as part of such approval, whether to require a dedication
of the land within the subdivision, payment of a fee in lieu thereof or a
combination of both.
   C.   Prerequisites for Approval of Final Maps. Where dedication is offered
and accepted, it shall be accomplished in accordance with the provisions of the
Subdivision Map Act. Where fees are required, the same shall be deposited with
the City prior to the approval of the final tract map.
   D.   Determination. The City shall determine whether to require land
dedication, require payment of a fee in lieu thereof or a combination of both,
by consideration of the following:
      1.   Recreation element of the General Plan;
      2.   Topography, geology, access and location of land in the subdivision
available for dedication; and
      3.   Size and shape of the subdivision and land available for dedication.
   E.   Credit for Private Open Space. Where private open space for park and
recreation purposes is provided in a proposed subdivision and such space is to
be privately owned and maintained by the future residents of the subdivision,
such areas shall be credited up to seventy-five percent (75%) against the
requirement of a dedication for park and recreation purposes, or the payment of
fees in lieu thereof, provided the City finds it is in the public interest to
do so, and that the following standards are met:
      1.   That yards, court areas, setbacks and other open area required to be
maintained by the zoning, land use district and building regulations shall not
be included in the computation of such private open space;
      2.   That the private ownership and maintenance of the open space is
adequately provided for by written agreement;
      3.   That the use of the private open space is restricted for park and
recreational purposes by recorded covenants which run with the land in favor of
the future owners of the property within the tract;
      4.   That the proposed private open space is reasonably adaptable for use
for park and recreational purposes, taking into consideration such factors as
size, shape, topography, geology, access and location of the private open space
land; and
      5.   That facilities proposed for the open space are in substantial
accordance with the provisions of the General Plan and are approved by the
Planning Commission and/or City Council.
16.52.060 Exemptions.
   A.   The provisions of this Chapter do not apply to commercial or industrial
subdivisions or to condominium projects which consist of the subdivision
airspace in an existing apartment building which is more than five (5) years
old, when no new dwelling units are added.
   B.   Subdivisions containing less than five (5) parcels and not used for
residential purposes shall be exempt from the requirements of this Chapter,
provided, however, that a condition shall be placed on the approval of such
parcel map that if a building permit is requested for construction of a
residential structure or structures on one (1) or more of the parcels within
four (4) years, the fee shall be required to be paid by the owner of each such
parcel as a condition of the issuance of such permit.
TITLE 17
ADELANTO ZONING ORDINANCE
Chapters:
   
17.01   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
17.03   ESTABLISHMENT OF PLANNING COMMISSION
   
17.05   ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS
   
17.10   GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
   
17.20   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
   
17.22   AIRPORT PARK
   
17.25   COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
   
17.30   BUSINESS AND MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS
   
17.35   PUBLIC FACILITIES AND PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
   
17.40   OPEN SPACE, PUBLIC LAND AND SCHOOLS AND GREENBELT CORRIDOR DISTRICTS
   
17.45   AIRPORT PARK OVERLAY DISTRICT (APO)
   
17.46   AFFORDABLE HOUSING OVERLAY DISTRICT (AHO)
   
17.50   MIXED USE DISTRICT
   
17.57   BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES
   
17.60   LANDSCAPING/WATER CONSERVATION
   
17.65   PARKING AND LOADING
   
17.67   TRIP REDUCTION
   
17.70   SIGNS
   
17.75   TEMPORARY USES AND STRUCTURES
   
17.80   SPECIAL USE STANDARDS
   
17.83   SURFACE MINING AND LAND RECLAMATION
   
17.85   ADULT BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   
17.90   PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
   
17.91   GRADING REGULATIONS
   
17.92   CONDITIONAL GRADING COMPLIANCE
   
17.93   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
   
17.95   HOME OCCUPATION PERMITS
   
17.100   ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
   
17.110   GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENTS
   
17.115   ZONING CODE AND ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
   
17.120   SPECIFIC PLAN ADOPTION AND AMENDMENT
   
17.130   CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
   
17.135   VARIANCES - MAJOR
   
17.140   VARIANCES - MINOR
   
17.150   LOCATION AND DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPROVAL
   
17.155   TEMPORARY USE PERMIT
   
17.165   NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES
   
17.170   COVENANTS OF EASEMENTS
   
17.180   SUBDIVISION OF LAND
   
17.190   ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
   
17.195    REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION IN HOUSING
   
17.200   DEFINITIONS AND ILLUSTRATIONS OF TERMS
CHAPTER 17.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
17.01.010   Authority for this Zoning Code
   
17.01.020   Short Title
   
17.01.030   Purpose
   
17.01.040   Relationship to General Plan
   
17.01.050   Relationship to the California Environmental Quality Act
   
17.01.060   Relationship to Other Regulations
   
17.01.070   Effect of Zoning Code
   
17.01.080   Terminology Used in the Zoning Code
   
17.01.090   Minimum Requirements of this Zoning Code
   
17.01.100   Reference to Any Portion of this Zoning Code
   
17.01.110   Severability of Any Portion of this Zoning Code
   
17.01.120   Violations of the Zoning Code
17.01.010 Authority for this Zoning Code
   This Zoning Code is adopted pursuant to Article XI, Section 7, of the
Constitution of the State of California and in compliance with the requirements
of Title 7 of the Government Code, Planning and Zoning Law, for the purpose of
promoting the health, safety, and general welfare.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit D, 9/10/14.]
17.01.020 Short Title
   This Zoning Code shall be known as the “Adelanto Zoning Code.”
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit D, 9/10/14.]
17.01.030 Purpose
   The purposes of this Zoning Code are:
   (a)   To implement the Adelanto General Plan and Adelanto North 2035
Comprehensive Sustainable Plan;
   (b)   To classify, segregate, restrict, designate, regulate, and encourage
the best type, location, and use of buildings, structures, and land;
   (c)   To limit the intensity, height, number of stories, and size of
buildings and other structures hereafter designed, erected, or altered;
   (d)   To regulate and determine the size of yards and other open spaces;
   (e)   To regulate and limit the intensity of development;
   (f)   To facilitate adequate provisions for community facilities, such as
transportation, water, sewage, schools, and parks; and
   (g)   To provide the economic and social advantages resulting from an
orderly use of land and its resources.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit D, 9/10/14.]
17.01.040 Relationship to General Plan
   This Zoning Code is intended to provide the legislative framework to enhance
and implement the goals, policies, plans, principles, and standards of the
Adelanto General Plan and Adelanto North 2035 Comprehensive Sustainable Plan.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit D, 9/10/14.]
17.01.050 Relationship to the California Environmental Quality Act
   When projects are determined to be subject to the provisions of the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), applications shall be reviewed in
accordance with the provisions of this Zoning Code, the California
Environmental Quality Act, the CEQA Guidelines, and any environmental
guidelines adopted by the City of Adelanto.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit D, 9/10/14.]
17.01.060 Relationship to Other Regulations
   (a)   The provisions of this Zoning Code shall not be interpreted to repeal,
amend, modify, alter, or change any other code that is not specifically
repealed, amended, modified, altered, or changed.
   (b)   Nothing in this Zoning Code shall be interpreted to authorize the use
of a lot or parcel in any way that is in violation of any other applicable
statute, code, or regulation.
   (c)   When provisions of various adopted codes are different, the more
restrictive provisions shall apply, except as the same may be superseded by
resolution or ordinance.
   (d)   The rights granted by any permit, license, or other approval under any
ordinance repealed by this Zoning Code shall be continued, but in the future,
to the extent permitted by law, such rights shall be exercised in accordance
with the provisions of this Zoning Code.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit D, 9/10/14.]
17.01.070 Effect of Zoning Code
   No person shall use any premises except as specifically permitted by and
subject to the regulations and conditions of this Zoning Code. Except as
otherwise provided herein, wherever this Zoning Code prohibits the use of
premises for a particular purpose, those premises and any improvements on those
premises shall not be used for that purpose, and no structure or improvement
shall be constructed, altered, or moved onto the premises which is designed,
arranged, or intended to be occupied or used for that purpose.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit D, 9/10/14.]
17.01.080 Terminology Used in the Zoning Code
   For the purposes of carrying out the intent of this Zoning Code, and unless
the context clearly indicates another meaning, the following words, phrases,
and terms shall have the meaning ascribed to them as follows:
   (a)   References in the masculine and feminine genders are interchangeable.
   (b)   Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, words in the
present and future are interchangeable, and words in the singular and plural
are interchangeable.
   (c)   Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary the following
conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows:
      (1)   “And” indicates that all connected items or provisions apply.
      (2)   “Or” indicates that the connected items or provisions may apply
singularly or in any combination.
      (3)   “Either..or” indicates that the connected items or provisions shall
apply singularly but not in combination.
   (d)   Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, other words and
phrases shall be construed as set forth in this Chapter.
   (e)   The word “City” shall mean the City of Adelanto.
   (f)   The word “Council” shall mean the City of Adelanto City Council, the
governing body of the City.
   (g)   The word “County” shall mean the County of San Bernardino.
   (h)   The word “Director” shall mean the Planning Director of the City of
Adelanto.
   (i)   The word “Planning Commission” shall mean the City of Adelanto
Planning Commission.
   (j)   The word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary. The word “may” is
permissive and discretionary.
   (k)   The word “State” shall mean the State of California.
   (l)   The word “use” shall include arrange, design, construct, alter,
convert, rent, lease, occupy, or intend to utilize.
   (m)   The words “Zoning Code” or “Code” shall be Title 17 of the Municipal
Code of the City of Adelanto.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit D, 9/10/14.]
17.01.090 Minimum Requirements of this Zoning Code
   The provisions of this Zoning Code shall be interpreted and applied as the
minimum requirements and the maximum potential limits for the protection of the
public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit D, 9/10/14.]
17.01.100 Reference to Any Portion of this Zoning Code
   Wherever reference is made to any provision of this Zoning Code, or to any
other law or ordinance, the reference shall apply to that law or ordinance and
any amendments or additions made thereto.\
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit D, 9/10/14.]
17.01.110 Severability of Any Portion of this Zoning Code
   If any section, subsection, subdivision, sentence, clause, phrase, or
portion of this Zoning Code is for any reason held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Zoning
Code. The City Council hereby declares that it would have adopted this Zoning
Code and each section, subsection, subdivision, sentence, clause, phrase, or
portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions thereof be
declared invalid or unconstitutional.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit D, 9/10/14.]
17.01.120 Violations of the Zoning Code
   Unless a violation of this Zoning Code is designated as an infraction, any
violation of any provision hereof is declared to be a misdemeanor subjecting
the violator to punishment in accordance with the Municipal Code.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit D, 9/10/14.]
CHAPTER 17.03
ESTABLISHMENT OF PLANNING COMMISSION
   
17.03.010   Planning Commission Established
   
17.03.020   Time and Place of Meetings
   
17.03.030   Special Meetings
   
17.03.040   Adjourned Meetings
   
17.03.050   Officers
   
17.03.060   Conduct at Planning Commission Meetings
   
17.03.070   Public Hearing Procedures
17.03.010 Planning Commission Established
Pursuant to the Adelanto Municipal Code, there is hereby established the
"Adelanto Planning Commission." The appointment and service of the members of
the Commission shall be as set forth in the Municipal Code.
17.03.020 Time and Place of Meetings
The regular meetings of the Planning Commission shall be held on the first and
third Wednesday of each month. However, if the date of any such regular meeting
falls on a holiday, the regular meeting shall be held on the next succeeding
day that is not a holiday. Unless and until changed by Resolution of the
Planning Commission, the regular meetings shall be held at the hour of 3:30
p.m. and shall be held at:
   City Hall Council Chambers
   11600 Air Base Road
   Adelanto, California
The Planning Commission may, by Resolution, change the location of its regular
meetings. In the event the location designated by this Chapter or subsequent
Planning Commission Resolution is unavailable for a regular meeting, the
Planning Commission Secretary shall cause notice of the same to be provided to
the Commission, the press, applicants having items scheduled on the agenda, and
any member of the public requesting the same. The Planning Commission Secretary
shall further cause notice of the change in meeting location to be posted on
the door of the regular meeting location at least four hours prior to the
meeting. Such notice shall include the address and directions to the location
where the meeting will be held.
[Ord. No. 657, Section 2, 6/11/25]
17.03.030 Special Meetings
A special meeting may be called at any time by the Chair or by three of the
members of the Planning Commission by written notice to each member and to each
person or entity entitled by law at least seventy two (72) hours before the
time of such special meeting, as required under Government Code Section 54956.
17.03.040 Adjourned Meetings
The Planning Commission may continue or adjourn any meeting and public hearing
to a time and place specified in the order of adjournment in accordance with
those provisions set forth in Government Code Section 54955.
17.03.050 Officers
The City Council shall select the Chair and Vice-Chair of the Commission in
accordance with the Municipal Code.
17.03.060 Conduct at Planning Commission Meetings
The Adelanto Municipal Code shall apply to all meetings of the Planning
Commission, excepting that references to the City Council, Council Member, or
legislative body shall be deemed to apply to the Planning Commission and/or the
Members thereof. All references to the Mayor or Presiding Officer shall be
deemed to apply to the Chair of the Planning Commission. All references to the
Mayor Pro-Tem shall be deemed to apply to the Commission's Vice-Chair.
17.03.070 Public Hearing Procedures
The Planning Commission shall follow the same procedures for the conduct of
public hearings as those adopted by the City Council or as the same may be
hereinafter amended or modified.
CHAPTER 17.05
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS
   
17.05.010   Zoning Districts Established
   
17.05.020   Adoption of Zoning Map
   
17.05.030   Uncertainty of Boundaries
17.05.010 Zoning Districts Established
   The following zoning districts and overlay districts are established to
carry out the purposes of this Code:
District Abbreviation
District                                                Abbreviation
Desert Living (9 Acre Net)                              DL-9
Desert Living (5 Acre Net) Desert Living (2.5 Acre Net) DL-5 DL-2.5
Single Family Residential (0.41 to 1 DU/AC)             R-S1
Single Family Residential (2 DU/AC)                     R1-.5
Single Family Residential (Up to 4 DU/AC)               R1
Single Family Residential (1.1 to 5 DU/AC)              R-S5
Medium Density Residential (Up to 8 DU/AC)              R3-8
Medium Density Residential (5 to 12 DU/AC)              R-M12
High Density Residential (Up to 30 DU/AC)               R3-30
Mixed Use (Residential Density 18 DU/AC)                MU
Airport Park (1 DU/AC Gross)                            AP
Affordable Housing Overlay (20 DU/Net AC to 30 DU/AC)   AHO
General Commercial                                      C
Business Park                                           BP
Light Manufacturing                                     LM
Manufacturing/Industrial                                MI
Airport Development District                            ADD
Airport Park Overlay                                    APO
Community Facility                                      CF
Open Space/Public Land/School                           OS
Public Facility                                         PF
Public Utilities                                        PU
Greenbelt Corridor: Drainage Easement                   DE
Greenbelt Corridor: Utility Easement                    UE
 
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit D, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit E, 9/10/14; Ord. No.
652, Exhibit 1, 7/24/24.]
17.05.020 Adoption of Zoning Map
   The General Plan, Land Use/Zoning Map of the City of Adelanto, approved by
voters of the City of Adelanto on November 8, 1994 or as subsequently amended
by the Adelanto City Council, and on file with the City Clerk, is adopted by
reference and shall hereafter exists pursuant to and is an integral part of
this Zoning Code.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit D, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit E, 9/10/14.]
17.05.030 Uncertainty of Boundaries
   Where uncertainty exists as to zone boundaries of any zone district shown
upon the Zoning Map, or any part thereof, the following provisions shall apply:
   (a)   Where zone boundaries are shown as approximately following legal lot
lines or the right-of-way lines of highways, streets, or alleys, such lines
shall be the zone boundaries. In all other cases where a district abuts a
highway, street, or alley, the zone boundaries shall extend to the centerline
of the highway, street, or alley.
   (b)   In the case of unsubdivided property where a zone boundary divides a
lot, the location of the boundary, unless the boundary is indicated by
dimensions or legal description, shall be determined by use of the scale
appearing on the Zoning Map.
   (c)   Where a public highway, street, or alley, or any portion thereof is
officially vacated or abandoned, the vacated or abandoned highway, street or
alley shall acquire the zone classification of the property to which the
vacated or abandoned portion reverts.
   (d)   Any submerged lands to be reclaimed by fill for use as a land area
shall be prezoned prior to City approval of the fill. The prezone shall be
consistent with the General Plan. Permitted fill activities required in an
emergency for the protection of public health or safety shall be exempt from
this requirement.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit D, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit E, 9/10/14.]
CHAPTER 17.10
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
   
17.10.010   Intent and Purpose
   
17.10.020   Maintenance of Properties
   
17.10.030   Nuisances
   
17.10.040   Identification of Front Lot Lines
   
17.10.050   Determination of Front Yards and Required Setbacks
   
17.10.060   Required Lot Standards Reduced by Public Use
   
17.10.070   Maximum Projections into Yards
   
17.10.080   Clear Areas
   
17.10.090   Right-of-Way Dedication
   
17.10.100   Measurement of Building Height
   
17.10.120   Fences, Walls, and Hedges
   
17.10.130   General Design Compatibility and Enhancement
   
17.10.140   Shielding of Roof Appurtenances
   
17.10.150    Land Use Intensity and Floor-Area Ratio
17.10.010 Intent and Purpose
   The development standards contained in this Chapter are general in nature
and apply to all zoning districts, unless otherwise indicated. These standards
are provided as minimum or maximum standards and may be modified by more
stringent standards in particular districts and/or due to specific situations.
The primary intent of this Chapter is to provide generally acceptable standards
of development for Adelanto.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]
17.10.020 Maintenance of Properties
   All properties within the City shall be kept and maintained in a clean,
neat, orderly, operable, and usable condition. This requirement applies to
buildings, paving, fences, walls, landscaping, water, earth, and any other
structures or natural features.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]
17.10.030 Nuisances
   Neither the provisions of this Zoning Code nor the granting of any permit
provided for in this Zoning Code shall authorize or legalize the creation or
maintenance of any public or private nuisance.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]
17.10.040 Identification of Front Lot Lines
   Occasionally, a lot is adjacent to more than one street. In such cases, the
following requirements shall be observed in identifying the front lot line.
   (a)   When a lot exists between two developed lots which both abut the same
street, the front lot line shall be on the same street as the existing
developed lots on either side.
   (b)   When a lot is adjacent to vacant lots or developed lots which abut
either street, the following criteria shall apply:
      (1)   Where one street is of a higher classification than the other, the
lot line fronting the street with the lower classification shall be the front
lot line.
      (2)   If the lot in question is a corner lot and both streets are of the
same classification, the narrower of the two frontages shall be designated the
front lot line.
      (3)   The Planning Director shall make the determination when the above
criteria cannot be clearly applied to the particular situation as a result of
topography or other factors.
   (c)   The front lot line for a corner lot or a reverse corner lot is the lot
line which fronts the street with the lower classification. If both streets are
of the same classification, the narrower of the two frontages shall be
designated the front lot line, except in those cases where the subdivision or
parcel map specifies another line as the front lot line.
   (d)   The front lot line for a cul-de-sac lot is that lot line which abuts
the cul-de-sac street.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]
17.10.050 Determination of Front Yards and Required Setbacks
   (a)   Through Lots
      Both frontages of a through lot shall have a minimum setback from both
streets of twenty feet (20'), unless the provisions of this Zoning Code allow
for reduced non-garage and rear setbacks for shallow lots.
   (b)   Key Lots
      The depth of the required front yard of a key lot shall not be less than
the average depth of the street-abutting yards of the adjoining interior and
reversed corner lots. The garage portion of the primary structure shall require
a minimum front yard setback of not less than twenty feet (20').
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]
17.10.060 Required Lot Standards Reduced by Public Use
   (a)   Area
      If a portion of a lot or parcel of land is acquired by any means
including dedication, purchase, or condemnation, or for any public use
including recreation, services, or utilities, that lot or parcel shall be
considered conforming as long as the area is reduced to no less than ninety
percent (90%) of the minimum required area for the zoning district in which the
lot or parcel is located. The Planning Commission shall have the authority to
reduce the ninety percent (90%) minimum required area pursuant to all the
conditions and procedures relating to Minor Variances found in
Chapter 17.140 of this Zoning Code.
   (b)   Width
      If a portion of a lot or parcel is acquired by any means, including
dedication, purchase, or condemnation, or for any public use which may include
recreation, services, or utilities, that lot or parcel shall be considered
conforming as long as the width is not reduced by more than thirty percent
(30%). In no case, however, shall a lot less than forty feet (40') in width be
considered conforming.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]
17.10.070 Maximum Projections into Yards
   All required yard areas shall be open and unobstructed from finished grade
to the sky, except that projections into yard areas shall be permitted as
indicated in
Table 10-1. The architectural projections listed in the table must be attached
to the principal building existing or planned on the lot.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]
17.10.080 Clear Areas
   (a)   In all zoning districts, a clear corner area for sight visibility
purposes shall be provided at the intersection of all streets, alley ways and
private driveways in accordance with the following:
      (1)   The following shall be prohibited within the clear sight triangle.
         A.   Monument signs.
         B.   Hedges or shrubbery.
      (2)   The following shall not be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to
grow over 30 inches in height above the nearest street curb elevation within a
clear sight triangle:
         A.   Fences and walls.
         B.   Signs.
         C.   Structures.
         D.   Mounds.
         E.   Other visual obstructions.
      (3)   The requirements for clear sight triangles shall not apply to:
         A.   Traffic safety devices.
         B.   Trees trimmed to eight feet above the adjoining curb.
         C.   Utility poles.
         D.   Other government/utility devices.
         E.   Freestanding signs where the lower edge of the sign is eight feet
or more above the adjoining curb and the supporting structures are no more the
12" in diameter.
      (4)   Clear sight triangles are right angles that shall be measured as
follows:
         A.   The 90 degree angle is formed by the intersection of either:
            1.   The intersection of the edges of two roadways as measured at
the edge of their ultimate planned right-of-way; or
            2.   The intersection of the edge of a private driveway or alley
and the edge of the ultimate planned right-of-way of an intersecting roadway.
         B.   The two 45-degree angles of a clear sight triangle shall each be
located as follows (See
Figure 10-1  and
10-2 ):
            1.   30 feet from roadway intersections.
            2.   10 feet from the intersections of alleys or driveways.
Figure 10-1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82242252ce6d54adb3244876d9e74fa1d0bd6515/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4503.jpg]
Figure 10-2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82242252ce6d54adb3244876d9e74fa1d0bd6515/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4505.jpg]
   (b)   No structure or projection shall be permitted within three (3) feet of
any lot line except as provided for in
Table 10-1 .
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]
TABLE 10-1
MAXIMUM PERMITTED PROJECTIONS INTO REQUIRED YARD AREAS
        Front and Street Rear            Interior Side
        Side Yards                       Yards and Courts   Maximum Projection
Feature Maximum          Maximum         Maximum Projection Above Height Limit
        Projection Into  Projection Into Into Side Yard
        Yard Area (a)    Rear Yard Area  Area (a)
                 Front and                                                                             Interior
                 Street     Rear                                                                       Side Yards Maximum
                 Side Yards                                                                            and Courts Projection
Feature          Maximum                                                                               Maximum    Above
                 Projection                                                                            Projection Height
                 Into Yard  Maximum Projection Into Rear Yard Area                                     Into Side  Limit
                 Area (a)                                                                              Yard Area
                                                                                                       (a)
Antenna/         Not        Allowed - see                                                              Not        See
Satellite Dishes permitted  Chapter 17.80                                                              permitted  Chapter
                                                                                                                  17.80
Awnings          4'0"       4'0"                                                                       2'0"       Not
                                                                                                                  permitted
Balconies or
Stairways and    2'6"       2'6"                                                                       2'0"       Not
Stairway                                                                                                          permitted
Landings
Bay Windows (b)  4'0"       4'0"                                                                       2'0"       N/A
                                                                                                                  Per minimum
                                                                                                                  height
Chimneys         4'0"       4'0"                                                                       2'0"       above roof
                                                                                                                  established
                                                                                                                  by the UBC
Architectural
Projections:
Cornices, Eaves, 2'0"       4'0"                                                                       2'0"       Not
Porte Cochere,                                                                                                    permitted
and Roof
Overhangs
Decks 30" Above
Grade, Not To    Not        4'0" (c)                                                                   2'0"       N/A
Exceed First     permitted
Story or 7'6"
                 Not
                 permitted
                 in Front
                 Yard;
Patios, Open (d) 4'0"                                                                                  Not        Not
Patios, Enclosed projection 15'0" and minimum 5' from rear lot line                                    allowed    permitted
(d)              permitted
                 into Side
                 Yard
                 Not
                 permitted
                 Not                                                                                   Not
Swimming Pools   permitted                                                                             permitted,
and Spas         in front   No closer than 5'0" to any property line                                   except in  N/A
(5,000+ gal.)    yard (e)                                                                              Street
                                                                                                       Side Yard
                                                                                                       No closer
                                                                                                       than 1'0"
                                                                                                       to any
Barbeque         Not                                                                                   property
Structures       permitted  No closer than 1'0" to any property line                                   line       N/A
• Without Sink Not        No closer than 3'0" to any property line                                   No closer  N/A
• With Sink    permitted                                                                             than 3'0"
                                                                                                       to any
                                                                                                       property
                                                                                                       line
                 Not        May project any distance into rear yard, provided the following distances
                 permitted  are maintained:
Pool Equipment   in Front   • If adjacent to open space, non-residential zoning district, or street,
(5,000+ gal.)    Yard; See  must be at least 5 feet from any property line                             2'0"       N/A
                 note (e)   • If adjacent to other residence(s), must be at least 10 feet from rear
                 for Street property line, 5 feet from side property line.
                 Side Yards
HVAC, Mech.
Equip., Window-  Not        3"0"                                                                       2'0"       Not
Mounted Air      permitted                                                                                        permitted
Conditioners
                                                                                                       No closer
Wind Energy      Not                                                                                   than 5'0"  40'0" in DL
Conversion       permitted  No closer than 5'0" to any property line (f)                               to any     Zone.
Systems                                                                                                property
                                                                                                       line (f)
                                                                                                       No closer
Solar Energy     Not                                                                                   than 5'0"  Not
Conversion       permitted  No closer than 5'0" to any property line                                   to any     permitted
Systems                                                                                                property
                                                                                                       line
 
Notes for Table 10-1:
(a)   On a corner lot, projections permitted in a front yard setback also apply
to a street side yard.
(b)   Bay windows shall have no livable area, except a bench seat, and shall
not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the length of the wall containing the window.
(c)   For decks in rear yards where the rear yard abuts public open space or
permanent private open space that is maintained by the City, a homeowners’
association, or similar entity, the deck may project to within five (5) feet of
the rear property line.
(d)   These projections apply to the patio structure itself, and not to any
paving or other “flatwork” less than thirty (30) inches above grade that does
not require a building permit.
(e)   Pool or spa and associated equipment may project into Street Side Yard,
but must maintain five (5) foot separation from side property line.
(f)   In accordance with
17.80.060  (c).
   (c)   Nothing shall be placed or allowed to grow in the clear corner area in
a manner which obstructs visibility or threatens vehicular or pedestrian
safety, as determined by the City Engineer.
   (d)   Traffic control devices, traffic signs, utility poles, transformers,
or pedestals or other traffic control devices or street furniture in excess of
thirty (30) inches in height may be located within the clear corner area.
   (e)   Due to roadway geometrics and traffic characteristics, a greater
visibility area may be required to minimize visual obstruction to motorist and
pedestrians, as determined by the City Engineer.
[Ord. No. 502, Section 5, 4/27/11; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]
17.10.090 Right-of-Way Dedication
   (a)   Dedication and Improvement
      (1)   A Certificate of Occupancy shall not be issued for any site,
building, or structure until all required dedications and improvements abutting
rights-of-way for the site, building, or structure have been made to the
ultimate right-of-way shown in the General Plan and as determined by the City
Engineer. Improvements shall include, but are not limited to curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, paving, street trees, traffic improvements and drainage. All
improvements shall be constructed to the specifications and in a manner
prescribed by the City Engineer. All on-site and off-site improvements shall be
approved and accepted by the City Engineer prior to issuance of a Certificate
of Occupancy.
      (2)   In lieu of dedication, the City Council may accept an irrevocable
offer to dedicate and improve. Such agreement shall be signed by all persons
having any right, title, interest, or lien in the property, or any portion
thereof, to be dedicated. The signatures on such offer shall be acknowledged,
and the agreement shall be recorded in the Office of the San Bernardino County
Recorder prior to certificate of occupancy.
   (b)   Exceptions
      In cases where the strict application of this Zoning Code fails to meet
community objectives as identified in the General Plan, modifications to right-
of-way dedication and improvement requirements may be authorized by the City
Council.
   (c)   Dedication Standards
      Highways, streets, and alleys to be dedicated shall be built to standards
as established by the City Engineer to qualify for dedication.
   (d)   Agreement to Improve
      (1)   In lieu of the required improvements and if in the best interest of
the City, the City Council may accept from any responsible party an agreement
to make the specified improvements within a specified time period.
      (2)   Such agreements shall be accompanied by security deposits which may
include cash, negotiable bonds, or savings and loan certificates, letters of
credit, or other security as authorized by the City Engineer. The security
deposit shall equal the cost of the agreed upon improvements. Where savings and
loan certificates or deposits are deposited, the owners thereof shall assign
the certificates to the City and administration adjusted for inflation as
determined by the City Engineer. Such deposit and assignment shall be subject
to and in compliance with the provisions and conditions of the Municipal Zoning
Code of the City.
      (3)   If the estimated cost of the improvements equals or exceeds $1,000,
the applicant may file a corporate surety bond (improvement bond) with the City
in lieu of the deposit. Such corporate surety bond shall guarantee the adequate
completion of all of the improvements in a penal sum equal to the estimated
cost.
      (4)   In cases where the stipulated time within which improvements were
to be made expires, the City Council may grant additional time as it considers
appropriate. Granting of additional time shall include recalculation of
improvement costs and security deposits. The extension must be granted prior to
expiration of the time limit.
      (5)   Should the responsible person fail to complete any improvement
within the agreed upon time, the City Council may determine that the agreed
upon improvement is incomplete and may cause a portion of the deposit or surety
bond to be forfeited to the City to complete or correct the work. Such
forfeiture shall not exceed the amount required to complete the agreed upon
work and expenses incurred by the City as a result of the default. Not less
than ten (10) days prior to such a determination, the City shall serve the
person with written notice. If the written notice is delivered by mail, it must
be sent by certified mail and shall be served not less than twenty (20) days
prior to the determination. If after ten (10) days the City has not received
the return receipt or the letter is returned to the City “refused,” the same
shall be sent by regular First-Class U.S. Mail and a declaration of mailing
completed and filed.
   (e)   Adequate Rights-of-Way
      The City Council may grant a modification to the provisions of this
section, thereby relieving the applicant from compliance with all or a portion
of the provisions thereof, subject to the following findings:
      (1)   That relieving or partially relieving the applicant’s development
from providing the required dedications and improvements is consistent with the
General Plan and the best interest of the City of Adelanto; and
      (2)   The required improvements are included in a budgeted City project
which will be complete prior to the start of the applicant’s development or
within an approved assessment district and the improvement can be more
effectively provided by the City; or
      (3)   The required construction would create a temporary drainage or
traffic problem that can be avoided by delaying the improvement to a later date
as part of comprehensive improvements to the area; or
      (4)   The City Engineer determines current improvements to be
satisfactory.
   All requests for modifications shall be made in the form of a Major Variance
application, as specified in
Chapter 17.135.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]
17.10.100 Measurement of Building Height
   The height limits for buildings are described in
Chapters 17.20 through
17.40 for each of the individual zoning districts. Building height shall be
defined and measured as prescribed in the Uniform Building Code.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]
17.10.120 Fences, Walls, and Hedges
   (a)   In residential districts, the maximum height of all fences, walls, and
hedges at all locations, except in the required front yard, is six feet (6'),
unless otherwise stated in this Chapter. In all other districts, the maximum
height at all locations, except the required front yard, is eight feet (8'),
unless otherwise stated in this Chapter. The height shall be measured from the
top of wall to finished grade.
   (b)   Retaining and Crib Walls
      The heights of any portion of wall or fence which retains earth or water,
except in the required front yard, shall be limited as follows. The height of
the wall shall not include any guard rail or open fence (defined in section
c.4, below) required by the Uniform Building Code or the City.
      (1)   Walls Built on Slopes of Less Than 15 Percent - For walls
constructed on slopes with a less than fifteen percent (15%) grade, the fence
and wall heights specified in subsection (a) above shall apply.
      (2)   Alternative to Height Limit of Retaining Walls - Stepping of
retaining walls is permitted subject to approval of a Planning Use Permit, as
described in
Chapter 17.150. Stepping is allowed, provided that the minimum horizontal
distance between the top of the downslope retaining wall, fence, and/or
landscaping, and the bottom of the up slope retaining wall, fence, and/or
landscaping, shall be equal to the vertical height of the downslope retaining
wall, fence, and/or landscaping. Approval shall be considered when the wall is
landscaped and does not create conditions or situations that may be detrimental
or incompatible with other permitted uses in the vicinity. Any guardrails
required by the Building Official shall be open-type guardrails, and the rail
shall be exempted from maximum required height measurements. Crib walls with a
vertical slope of at least one-half to one (½:1) are exempt from these stepping
requirements.
   (c)   Height Within the Required Front Yard
      (1)   The clear area requirements contained in Section
17.10.080  shall apply.
      (2)   Fences, whether solid, open, or transparent, with the exception of
subdivision (3) below, shall not exceed forty-eight inches (48") in height.
      (3)   Brick or concrete pilasters used in conjunction with wrought-iron
fencing shall not be greater than eighteen inches (18") by eighteen inches
(18") in width, and not greater than forty-eight inches (48") in height, and
not spaced closer than eight feet (8') apart. Wrought iron in a fence
constructed with pilasters shall not exceed forty-eight inches (48") in height.
      (4)   Open fence material, whether wood or wrought iron, shall not exceed
two inches (2") in width nor be spaced less than four inches (4") apart.
      (5)   The height of retaining walls in the front yard shall be equal to
or less than thirty inches (30"). The total height of any wall in a front yard,
including a retaining portion, shall be equal to or less than forty-eight
inches (48").
   (d)   Fences or walls shall provide a gate or other suitable opening no less
than thirty inches (30") in width to provide access to primary or accessory
structures.
   (e)   Fences, which were legally constructed prior to the adoption of this
Zoning Code, but made nonconforming as a result of the adoption of the Zoning
Code, are exempt from amortization.
   (f)   Chain link fencing shall not be permitted in any single-family
residential subdivision built after these standards are adopted and are not
permitted in any existing subdivision unless more than 50 percent of houses on
the same block have existing chain link fences.
      (1)   Chain link fencing may be approved by the Community Development
Director for individually built single-family residential units located in the
following zoning designations: DL-2.5, DL-5, DL-9, and AP.
      (2)   Chain link fencing may be approved by the Community Development
Director for use inside an existing solid fence as long as it is not visible
from the Right-of-way.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]
17.10.130 General Design Compatibility and Enhancement
   (a)   Any new building or structure, any addition to an existing building or
structure, and installation or construction of any site improvements shall be
designed to create a unified functional and comprehensive site plan. The
improvements shall have an integrated architectural theme that is compatible
with and will complement and enhance the subject and surrounding properties, as
determined by the Planning Director.
   (b)   For residential subdivisions which have been subdivided by a master
builder or developer for the purpose of constructing a unified subdivision, new
units constructed within that subdivision shall be compatible in design with
units constructed during earlier phases. This requirement shall not apply to
custom lot or custom home sales subdivisions.
   (c)   Additional design requirements can be found in
Chapter 17.15  Design Review of this Zoning Code.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]
17.10.140 Shielding of Roof Appurtenances
   All roof appurtenances including, but not limited to, air conditioning units
and mechanical equipment, shall be shielded and architecturally screened from
view from on-site parking areas, public streets from a point immediately
adjacent to the site, and adjacent residentially-zoned properties. Wind Energy
and Solar Energy Conversion Systems shall be exempt from this requirement.
[Ord. No. 502, Section 5, 4/27/11; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit E, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14.]
17.10.150 Land Use Intensity and Floor-Area Ratio
   The City of Adelanto uses a floor-area ratio (FAR) to measure the intensity
of non-residential development. The FAR defines the ratio of the total gross
floor area of all buildings on a lot to the total land area of the lot. As a
formula, FAR equals the total covered area on all floors of all buildings
proposed for a certain plot (gross floor area), divided by the total area of
the plot on which the development is proposed. It is useful to note that FAR
alone does not describe the form of buildings. For example, a FAR of 1.0 may
yield a one-story building that covers the entire lot, or a two story building
that covers half of the lot, or a number of other possible configurations.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit F, 9/10/14]
CHAPTER 17.15
DESIGN REVIEW
   
17.15.010   Purpose and Intent
   
17.15.020   Projects Requiring Design Review
   
17.15.030   Authority
   
17.15.040   Single-Family Residential Design Standards
   
17.15.050   Multi-Family Residential Design Standards
   
17.15.060   Commercial Design Standards
   
17.15.070   Industrial Design Standards
17.15.010   Purpose and Intent
   (a)   This section establishes the review procedures for residential,
commercial and industrial development proposals to facilitate project review by
local responsible agencies and the Design Review Committees in a timely and
efficient manner; to ensure that development projects comply with all
applicable local design guidelines, standards and ordinances; to minimize
adverse effects on surrounding properties and the environment; and are
consistent with the General Plan which promotes high aesthetic and functional
standards to complement and add to the physical, economic and social character
of Adelanto.
   (b)   In addition, the City finds that a Design Review process will support
the implementation of the General Plan as it stresses quality community design
standards. The City further finds that the quality of certain residential,
commercial and industrial uses have a substantial impact upon the visual
appeal, environmental soundness, economic stability, and property values of the
City. This section is not intended to restrict imagination, innovation or
variety, but rather to focus on community design principles which can result in
creative imaginative solutions for the project and a quality design for the
City. It is, therefore, the purpose of this section to:
      (1)   Recognize the interdependence of land values and aesthetics and
provide a method by which the City may implement this interdependence to its
benefit.
      (2)   Encourage the orderly and harmonious appearance of structures and
property within the City along with associated facilities, such as signs,
landscaping, parking and streets.
      (3)   Maintain the public health, safety and general welfare and property
throughout the City.
      (4)   Assist private and public developments to be more cognizant of
public concerns for the aesthetics of development.
      (5)   Encouraging the use of a variety of housing styles, varied lot
sizes, site design densities, maintenance of views and arrangement and spacing.
      (6)   To help insure that adequate levels of public services are provided
for existing and future development in the City.
      (7)   To encourage orderly development of residences within areas more
readily served by public services.
      (8)   To encourage the development of master planned projects, which
provide the service needs of the residents of these projects.
      (9)   To encourage use of sustainability principles in all new
development.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit A, 5/22/13.]
17.15.020   Projects Requiring Design Review
   A Design Review is required for all residential, commercial and industrial
projects involving the issuance of a building permit including the construction
or reconstruction of structures which meet the following criteria:
   (a)   New construction on vacant property.
   (b)   Structural additions or new buildings which are equal to fifty percent
(50%) of the floor area of existing on-site building(s), or have a minimum of
ten thousand (10,000) square feet of floor area.
   (c)   Reconstruction projects which are equal to fifty percent (50%) of the
floor area of existing on-site building(s), or have a minimum ten thousand
(10,000) square feet of floor area.
   (d)   Projects involving a substantial change or intensification of land
use, such as the conversion of an existing building to a restaurant, or the
conversion of a residential structure to an office or commercial use.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit A, 5/22/13.]
17.15.030   Authority
   The Planning Commission, Planning Director or Planning Director Designee
shall be the responsible decision making bodies for all Design Reviews in
accordance with
Chapter 17.100 (Administrative Procedures).
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit A, 5/22/13.]
17.15.040   Single-Family Residential Design Standards
   (a)   Purpose
      To promote high-quality single-family residential development within the
City of Adelanto.
   (b)   Site Planning
      The following design standards apply to the internal organization of new
single-family residential development. The intent of the design standards is to
ensure that the relationships of units to each other and to other on-site uses
are functional, attractive, and create visual variety along the project's
streets.
      (1)   Site Character - Existing natural amenities (views, mature trees,
and/or topographic features) and other amenities (structures of architectural
significance and cultural resources) unique to the site shall be preserved and
incorporated into the project's design whenever possible.
      (2)   Variation of Development Patterns - Variation of development
patterns shall be incorporated in new subdivisions to achieve visual diversity
and avoid a monotonous appearance by use of at least one (1) of the following
options:
         A.   Vary the front yard setback which will create different patterns
of open space along the street edge. (See Footnote C of
Table 20-1)
         B.   Vary the side setbacks of houses while maintaining fifteen feet
(15') between adjacent structures to result in different types of yards and
private patio areas and to create variety and interest.
         C.   Vary garage location to include the face of garages set more
forward and deeper on a lot. Variations can also include front or side entry
and attached and detached garages.
      (3)   Streets
         A.   New project streets shall connect with existing public streets to
form a continuous neighborhood network of streets whenever possible.
         B.   Blocks longer than six hundred feet (600') are discouraged, but
may be considered provided they incorporate at least one (1) of the following
options:
            i.   Significant differences shall be incorporated in the massing
and composition (not just finish materials) of each adjacent house. Varied
designs shall not be repeated within a group of four (4) houses in a row.
            ii.   Curvilinear streets shall be integrated into the block design
with radii to the centerline of the street in conformance with City standards
to minimize the risk of excessive speeding on long, straight streets.
Curvilinear is defined as streets with their center lines offset by a minimum
of five feet (5').
         C.   Private streets with gated entries shall provide a queuing
distance in front of the gate to accommodate a minimum of two (2) vehicles. A
call box shall be placed between opposing traffic lanes with bollards or other
compatibly designed call box protection. The Director may require a greater
distance for larger projects. In addition, a turnaround shall be provided for
vehicles denied access to the project.
         D.   All roads that cross drainage channels shall be built as a dry
crossing as required by the City Engineer.
         E.   All single-family residential projects shall provide one (1)
paved, all-weather path of vehicular access to the project site from the
existing City-maintained paved road system. All-weather access includes two (2)
lanes of travel a minimum of twenty-six feet (26') wide and shall not be
subject to 100-year storm event depths greater than seven-tenths feet (0.7')
deep.
         F.   All single-family residential projects shall provide additional
all-weather paths of vehicular travel to the project site from the existing
City-maintained paved road system, that does not cross or coincide with the
first paved all-weather path of vehicular travel, in accordance with current
San Bernardino County Fire Department Fire Prevention Standards. All-weather
access shall meet the requirements described in division E. above.
      (4)   Landscaping
         A.   A residential subdivision's landscaping shall be used to frame,
soften, and embellish the quality of the residential environment, to buffer
units from noise or undesirable views, to break up large expanses of parking
lots, and to separate frontage roads within a project from adjacent major
streets. This shall be accomplished in accordance with
Chapter 17.60 (Landscaping/Water Conservation) and the following:
            i.   All trees and shrubs shall be planted in non-uniform clusters
to achieve a more natural appearance.
            ii.   Landscaping along street frontages should coordinate with
adjacent properties to provide a consistent visual corridor.
            iii.   Landscaping shall be denser near entryways of residences in
order to define the entrance.
            iv.   A minimum of one (1) type of tree, two (2) types of shrubs
and two (2) types of non-living groundcover shall be provided for all
residential lots. All non-living groundcover shall be installed on a landscape
fabric or plastic that prohibits weed growth.
            v.   A minimum of two (2) textures, colors, or sizes of groundcover
is required in all new developments. This may be achieved through utilizing
rock and a few boulders, providing different colored rock in different areas of
landscaping, using different textures of rock throughout the landscaping, or
utilizing hardscape elements.
            vi.   Providing hedges or low decorative walls as well as varied
heights of trees and shrubs is strongly encouraged to provide visual interest
within the landscaping.
         B.   The plant palette for all front and street side yards of
developments shall be xeriscape or low water-use plantings. Landscape designs
shall have little to no turf areas per the City's Landscaping/Water
Conservation Ordinance.
         C.   Residential developments shall have a consistent theme along
continuous streets. This shall include the use of street trees along all public
and private interior streets, along perimeter roads, and along adjacent Major
Collectors and Arterials in compliance with current City standards.
      (5)   Walls/Fences
         A.   Walls are required along all public rights-of-way including the
interior of a subdivision. These walls shall be designed to complement the
architectural design of the homes within the neighborhood. Walls that face out
to public rights-of-way shall have a decorative treatment such as a stucco
finish, split face block, or slumpstone. Walls shall include additional
decorative treatment such as pilasters at regular intervals and caps.
         B.   Walls adjacent to streets shall not run in a continuous plane for
more than sixty feet (60') or the width of the adjoining residential lot
without incorporating at least two (2) of the following options:
            i.   A minimum two-foot (2') change in plane for at least ten feet
(10').
            ii.   A minimum eighteen inch (18") raised planter for at least ten
feet (10').
            iii.   A minimum eighteen inch (18") change in height for at least
ten feet (10').
            iv.   Use of pilasters at sixty foot (60') intervals and at changes
in wall planes and height.
            v.   A section of open grillwork (wrought iron or similar material
excluding chain link) a minimum four feet (4') in height for at least ten feet
(10').
         C.   The return from the side fence/wall to the house that separates
the front yard from the back yard shall be a block wall consistent with the
requirements of division A. above and consist of solid metal gates.
         D.   Solid fencing is required between individual houses in a
residential subdivision. These fences may be built of vinyl or similar material
and must be designed with finishing details and decorative treatments to
compliment the architectural design of the homes within the neighborhood.
         E.   Walls along drainage channels, utility corridors, and open space
corridors may consist of either solid block wall or a combination of a minimum
of two feet (2') of solid wall with wrought iron or other approved view fencing
on top.
         F.   Chain link fencing shall not be permitted in any single-family
residential subdivision built after these standards are adopted in accordance
with section
17.10.120(f) of this Zoning Code.
   (c)   Architectural Standards
      (1)   Building Design - There is no specific architectural style required
for residential structures. In general, residential structures should consider
compatibility with surrounding character, including building style, form, size,
color, material, and roof line.
         A.   The design of houses shall be varied in tract developments to
create variety and interest by use of at least one (1) of the following
options:
            i.   Provide a significant difference in the massing, orientation,
and composition (not just finish materials and colors) for each adjacent house.
            ii.   No elevation shall be repeated within a group of four (4)
houses in a row.
            iii.   Alternative garage orientations (front loading, side
loading, attached, detached, set closer to the street, set toward the rear of
the lot) shall be used on at least every fourth house.
         B.   If a side or rear elevation faces a street, it shall be designed
with the same care and attention to detail as the front elevation.
         C.   Vary the housing product, floor plan, and elevation designs per
the following ratios:
 
Number of Dwelling Units Minimum Number of        Minimum Number of Elevations
                         Footprints               per Footprint
1 - 4                    2                        1
5 - 15                   2                        2
16 - 40                  3                        3
41 - 80                  4                        3
81 - 120                 5                        4
121 and up               1 additional for each 40 4
                         units over 120
 
         D.   Exterior elevations shall be articulated and detailed to provide
visual interest and scale by use of at least three (3) of the following
options:
            i.   Offset building planes a minimum of two feet (2').
            ii.   Provide recessed entries and windows.
            iii.   Include projecting or recessed balconies.
            iv.   Substantial roof overhangs with detailed rafter ends.
            v.   Design front porches a minimum of five feet (5') deep.
            vi.   Dormer windows.
            vii.   Stepping back the second story.
            viii.   Use of different building materials with varying textures
and colors.
         E.   Fully sloped roofs and horizontal roof articulation shall be
incorporated in building designs by use of one (1) of the following options:
            i.   Offset roof planes by a minimum of two feet (2').
            ii.   Incorporate dormer windows.
            iii.   Include cross gables.
            iv.   Building materials.
               a.   All single-family residential units are required to include
tile roofing material.
               b.   Piecemeal embellishment and frequent changes in materials
shall be avoided.
               c.   Avoid material changes at the outside corners of structures
or where there is no change in the wall plane.
               d.   Design changes in materials shall occur at changes in plane
to ensure that materials appear substantial and integral to the structure.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit A, 5/22/13.]
17.15.050   Multi-Family Residential Design Standards
   (a)   Purpose
      Multi-family housing design standards are necessary to improve and
maintain the quality of multi-family housing for the safety and benefit of
residents and the preservation of property values in the vicinity of multi-
family neighborhoods. The design review is intended to eliminate undesirable
design features and promote a pleasant residential environment within the City
of Adelanto.
   (b)   Site Planning
      The following standards apply to the internal organization of new multi-
family residential development (apartments, condominiums, and townhouses). The
intent of the standards is to ensure that the relationships of units to each
other and to other on-site uses are functional, attractive, and create visual
variety along the project's streets.
      (1)   Site Character
         A.   Existing natural amenities (e.g., views, mature trees, and
topographic features) and other amenities (e.g., structures of architectural
significance and cultural resources) unique to the site shall be preserved and
incorporated into the project's design whenever possible.
         B.   Grading shall direct and provide for an adequate flow of surface
runoff to catch basins while contouring the land to blend with existing
conditions at the boundaries of the site.
      (2)   Neighborhood Compatibility - New multi-family residential
development shall relate to adjacent single-family residential districts by
doing the following:
         A.   Stepping down the scale, height, and density of buildings at the
edges of the development when surrounding neighborhoods are of lower density or
smaller scale. Step the building down at the ends or sides nearest the single-
family unit to a height approximately equal to that of the adjacent single-
family residence (or of typical single-family residences in the vicinity if
adjacent to an undeveloped single-family zoning district).
         B.   Incorporating architectural elements and materials that are
similar to those used in the neighborhood.
         C.   Front setbacks for new multi-family developments in existing
single-family neighborhoods shall be equal to or greater than the average front
setback for the two adjacent properties. If one (1) or both of the adjacent
properties are vacant, then the average front setback shall be calculated on
the next adjacent occupied properties.
         D.   By locating parking areas within the project interior or at the
side or back when necessary to achieve a "residential front yard" appearance.
         E.   Landscaping shall be used to maximize the privacy of adjacent
single-family residences.
      (3)   Building Placement
         A.   Buildings shall be placed with varying setbacks and/or
orientation to the street and interior private drives to provide visual
interest.
         B.   Clustering of multi-family units within the project site is
encouraged.
         C.   Minimum distances between buildings shall be in compliance with
the requirements of the Uniform Building Code. Whenever possible, buildings
shall be oriented to avoid instances where living spaces of one structure face
the living spaces of another.
         D.   Buildings shall be oriented to create common open space areas
such as:
            i.   Courtyards.
            ii.   Open space nodes.
            iii.   Recreation areas.
   (c)   Parking and Circulation
         (1)   Parking Areas
         A.   Parking areas shall not be a dominant site feature and shall be
divided into a series of connected smaller lots that are laid out in an
efficient and aesthetic manner. This can be accomplished by incorporating at
least one (1) of the following parameters:
            i.   There should be no more than an average of ten (10) spaces of
uninterrupted parking, whether in garages, carports, or open parking areas.
Each ten (10) spaces should be separated from additional spaces by a landscaped
planter or island equal to the width of one (1) parking stall.
            ii.   Parking areas should be separated from each other by
buildings or by landscaped buffers not less than thirty feet (30') wide.
         B.   Parking areas shall be treated as "landscape plazas" with
attention to landscape surfaces, softened edges, shade, and pedestrian
circulation. This can be accomplished by incorporating at least one (1) of the
following parameters:
            i.   Provide pedestrian connections to adjoining public rights-of-
way and commercial land uses when appropriate.
            ii.   Enhanced paving materials (not to exceed one- fourth inch (1/
4") deep), trellises, and landscaping to accentuate the pedestrian circulation
system.
            iii.   Landscaped planters in parking areas to align with
pedestrian access to buildings from a parking area. Planters should be at least
one (1) car space wide and include a walkway as well as a vertical landscape or
architectural element (e.g., a trellis or a tree).
         C.   In general, parking lots shall observe the following standards:
            i.   Locate required resident parking spaces convenient to the
units they serve.
            ii.   The location of parking and drives shall minimize the points
of conflict between pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
      (2)   Access
         A.   Access drives shall be located at least two hundred feet (200')
apart and at least one hundred feet (100') from property lines and street
intersections unless an approved shared drive is provided or the driveway
location does not create a traffic hazard to adjacent property.
         B.   Access drives shall be located off side streets whenever
possible. Access drives off Arterial and Major Collector streets are subject to
approval by the City Engineer.
         C.   Access drives on large residential projects (more than fifty (50)
units) shall include a minimum five foot (5') wide landscaped median including
curbs, color/textured paving, and other "gateway" elements (e.g., lights,
bollards, entry walls, etc.).
         D.   Gated entries shall provide a queuing distance in front of the
gate to accommodate a minimum of two (2) vehicles. A call box shall be placed
between opposing traffic lanes with bollards or other, compatibly designed,
call box protection. The director may require a greater distance for larger
projects. In addition, a turnaround shall be provided for vehicles denied
access to the project.
         E.   Projects with ten (10) or more units shall include vehicular and
pedestrian entry statements which shall be consistent with the following:
            i.   Provide one (1) visually dominant entry to the development
which conveys a sense of arrival.
            ii.   Provide an open view into the development with landscaping
and project directories.
            iii.   Special attention shall be given to hardscape and landscape
treatments at the entry to enhance the overall image of the development. An
entry statement shall consist of at least two (2) of the following:
               a.   Hardscape structure (trellis, decorative low garden wall
with berming, guardhouse, decorative gate).
               b.   Specimen landscaping (large, distinctive vegetation or
mature trees, either flowering or native trees, or twenty-four inch (24") box
trees).
               c.   Large boulder groupings.
               d.   Textured or stamped concrete.
               e.   Monument signage with accompanying landscape and berming.
               f.   Other comparable installations.
      (3)   Carports and Garages
         A.   Where carports or garages are utilized, they shall follow the
same criteria for spatial arrangement as parking areas above.
         B.   Carports and garages shall be architecturally compatible with the
adjacent buildings. They shall be similar in materials, color, structure,
roofline, and detail to the principal buildings of a development.
         C.   Carport support columns shall be set back a minimum of three feet
(3') from the carport face to increase maneuverability.
         D.   Carport and garage roofs visible from public streets shall
incorporate roof slope and materials to match adjacent buildings. Flat roofs
may be used in the interior of a project when not visible from public streets.
         E.   Garages with parking aprons less than twenty feet (20') in length
shall have an automatic garage door opener.
         F.   Provide landscaping on exposed sides of carport and garage
structures.
         G.   Garage doors shall be made to appear to be set into rather than
flush with exterior walls.
   (d)   Landscaping
      (1)   A multi-family residential project's landscaping shall be used to
frame, soften, and embellish the quality of the residential environment, to
buffer units from noise or undesirable views, to break up large expanses of
parking, and to separate frontage roads within a project from adjacent major
streets. This shall be accomplished in accordance with
Chapter 17.60 (Landscaping/Water Conservation) and the following:
         A.   All trees and shrubs shall be planted in non-uniform clusters to
achieve a more natural appearance.
         B.   Landscaping along street frontages should coordinate with
adjacent properties to provide a consistent visual corridor.
         C.   For projects less than one (1) acre, a minimum of two (2) types
of trees and two (2) types of shrubs, are required.
         D.   For projects one (1) acre to two and one-half (2.5) acres in
size, a minimum of two (2) types of trees and three (3) types of shrubs are
required.
         E.   For projects larger than two and one-half (2.5) acres in size, a
minimum of three (3) types of trees and four (4) types of shrubs are required.
         F.   Providing hedges or low decorative walls as well as varied
heights of trees and shrubs is strongly encouraged to provide visual interest
within the landscaping.
      (2)   The plant palette for all developments shall be xeriscape or low
water-use plantings. Landscape designs shall have little to no turf areas per
the City's Landscaping/Water Conservation Ordinance.
      (3)   Residential developments shall have a consistent theme along
continuous streets. This shall include the use of street trees along all
perimeter roads and along adjacent Major Collectors and Arterials in compliance
with current city standards.
      (4)   Landscape planters a minimum of ten feet (10') in width shall be
provided adjacent to the front and street side yard property line. This may
include the landscaped area within the public right-of-way.
      (5)   All required landscaped areas shall be a minimum of five feet (5')
in width.
      (6)   Trees within parking areas shall be planted at a total of one (1)
tree for every four (4) parking stalls. In addition, trees shall be planted in
areas of public view adjacent to and along structures at an equivalent of one
(1) tree per fifty (50) linear feet of building which has public exposure.
      (7)   When using landscaping to screen adjacent single-family residences,
a minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the trees used shall be twenty-four inch
(24") box size when installed.
      (8)   No landscaping shall block or obscure entry doors or windows of
individual units.
   (e)   Miscellaneous Subjects
      (1)   Solid waste and recyclable materials storage areas requirements are
specified in section
17.20.050(d) of this Zoning Code.
      (2)   Open Space
         A.   A minimum square footage of private open space (patio, balcony,
courtyard) shall be provided per unit in accordance with
Table 20-2 of this Zoning Code.
         B.   A minimum square footage of common open space (recreation
amenities, play areas, etc.) shall be provided per unit in accordance with
Table 20-2 of this Zoning Code.
         C.   The design and orientation of open space shall be oriented to
take advantage of available sunlight and should be sheltered from the noise and
traffic of adjacent streets.
         D.   Common open spaces and recreation areas shall be located in areas
accessible to and visible by as many units as possible.
         E.   Private open spaces shall be contiguous to the units they serve
and screened to a minimum height of four feet (4') by use of at least one (1)
of the following:
            i.   Plant materials and low walls.
            ii.   When possible, use the adjacent structure to enclose private
open space.
            iii.   Screening should not be completely comprised of solid
materials. Screening above four feet (4') should provide a maximum of sixty
percent (60%) opaqueness.
      (3)   Screening of Equipment
         A.   All mechanical equipment mounted on the roof shall be screened
from view in compliance with Section
17.10.140 (Shielding of Roof Appurtenances). All screening devices shall be
architecturally integrated and compatible with the architecture and color of
the adjacent buildings or sufficiently landscaped.
         B.   All mechanical equipment not mounted on the roof (including
utility meters) shall be located inside of a utility room or closet within the
building.
         C.   Television antennas shall be placed in attics or building
interiors. It is required that all units be pre-wired to accommodate cable
reception.
         D.   Solar panels shall be integrated into the roof design, flush with
the roof slope. Frames shall be colored to match roof colors. Any support
equipment shall be enclosed and screened from view.
         E.   When adding solar collectors to an existing building, coordinate
solar collectors with the building architecture to the maximum extent possible.
Coordinate any new structures not located on the roof with the building
architecture by using colors and materials similar to those used in the
existing building. Any support equipment shall be enclosed and screened from
view.
      (4)   Pedestrian Circulation/Pathways
         A.   In developments with two (2) or more buildings, pedestrian paths
shall be provided to connect buildings in the development with one another, on-
site amenities, and adjacent streets.
         B.   Paths shall be clearly defined with lighting, landscaping, or
contrasting paving materials.
      (5)   Lighting
         A.   All on-site lighting shall be stationary, directed away from
adjacent properties and public rights-of-way.
         B.   Lighting fixtures shall be of a type and shall be located such
that no light or reflected glare is directed offsite.
         C.   All garages, carports, walkways, and driveways shall be lighted
during the hours of darkness.
         D.   Use low-rise pedestrian scale lighting within common open space
areas. The maximum height should be fifteen feet (15').
      (6)   Mailboxes
         A.   Mailboxes shall be located close to the project entry near
recreational facilities. The architectural character of the mailbox structure
shall be the same in form, materials, and color as that of the primary
structures. Mailbox locations shall be approved by the U.S. Postal Service.
         B.   Mailboxes shall either be located within a locked building or in
some way secured to prevent theft of mail.
      (7)   Laundry Facilities
         A.   If not provided in individual units, laundry facilities shall be
located in a central location to provide accessibility.
         B.   If not provided in individual units, laundry facilities shall be
provided in the ratio of one (1) washer/dryer per every ten (10) units.
         C.   Laundry facilities, whether attached to the residential
structures or individual detached structures, shall be in the same
architectural form, materials, and color as that of the primary structures.
      (8)   Gutters, Downspouts, and Roof Vents
         A.   Gutters and downspouts shall be concealed unless they are
designed as a continuous architectural feature. Gutters and downspouts used as
architectural features shall be colored to match fascia or exterior wall
material.
         B.   Roof vents shall be colored to match the roof materials or the
dominant trim color of the structure.
   (f)    Building Architecture
      (1)   General
         A.   No particular architectural style is required for multi-family
residential structures. Desert appropriate architectural styles shall be used
to blend the development into the natural desert environment to the greatest
extent possible. In selecting an architectural style, compatibility with
surrounding character, including compatible building style, form, size, color,
materials, and roofline shall be considered.
         B.   Multi-family developments shall incorporate the following design
principles:
            i.   Building form, roofline, and primary materials shall represent
a common theme throughout the development.
            ii.   A similar architectural character shall be provided on all
sides of a building.
            iii.   Forms, colors, architectural details and landscape materials
shall be consistent throughout the development.
            iv.   Entries shall be integrated into the building architecture.
Upper decks, balconies, stair towers, utility closets, and mechanical screening
shall be integrated into the building architecture rather than add-on elements
to a finished facade or roof.
            v.   Interior and exterior storage areas shall be integrated into
the building design to make them compatible with the building architecture.
         C.   Exterior elevations shall be appropriately articulated and
detailed on all four (4) sides to avoid flat, monotonous wall planes and
uninteresting barracks-like structures. This can be accomplished by
incorporating at least three (3) of the following design parameters:
            i.   Provide at least one (1) architectural projection not less
than two feet (2') from the wall plane and not less than eight feet (8') wide.
Projections should extend the full height of single-story buildings, at least
one-half (1/2) the height of a two-story building, and two-thirds (2/3) the
height of a three-story building. Architectural projections shall comply with
Table 10.1 (Maximum Permitted Projections into Required Yard Areas) of the City
of Adelanto Development Code.
            ii.   Provide architectural projections such as balconies, porches,
arcades, dormers, and cross gables.
            iii.   Recess entries and windows to reveal the thickness of walls.
            iv.   Step back second and third stories.
            v.   Use different building materials with varying textures and
colors.
            vi.   Recess garages under units or provide open balconies above.
            vii.   Use combinations of one-story, one-and-a-half story, and
two-story units to create variation and visual interest.
            viii.   Use vertical elements (e.g., towers) to accent horizontal
massing and provide visual interest.
         D.   When adjacent to a single-family residential development, multi-
family residential projects shall have a maximum of two (2) stories.
         E.   Accessory structures such as laundry facilities, recreation
buildings, sales/lease offices, or temporary sales offices within multi-family
developments shall be consistent in architectural design, form, colors, and
materials with the residential structures.
      (2)   Building Materials
         A.   The building and its elements shall be unified in textures,
colors, and materials to provide an order and coherence within the project.
         B.   The composition of materials shall avoid giving the impression of
thinness. Veneers should turn corners, avoiding exposed edges.
         C.   The use of artificial materials (e.g., imitation brick, imitation
stone, and other simulated materials) is not allowed. When used, brick, stone,
and other facade treatments shall consist of the real material.
         D.   Materials shall be very durable, require low maintenance, and
relate a sense of permanence.
         E.   Frequent changes in materials shall be avoided.
         F.   Columns, trellises, porches, colonnades, and similar elements
shall use materials and colors that are compatible with the adjacent building.
         G.   The use of wood and chain link fencing along a project boundary
or adjacent to streets shall be prohibited.
      (3)   Roofs
         A.   Roofs shall reflect a residential appearance through pitch and
use of materials, by use of at least one (1) of the following design
parameters.
            i.   Hipped or gabled roofs covering the entire building are
preferable to mansard roofs and segments of pitched roofs applied at the
building's edge.
            ii.   Roof lines (i.e., ridges and plate heights) shall be broken
and varied within an overall horizontal context. The minimum vertical offset
should be two (2) feet.
            iii.   Use dormers and cross gables to break up large unarticulated
roof planes.
         B.   Roofs shall consist of cement tile, clay tile or other
architecturally compatible roofing material. Tile roofing materials shall
reflect the color of native earthen clay which was used in the manufacturing
process. Blue, green, and other artificially colored tiles are not allowed.
      (4)   Stairs
         A.   Stairwells shall be designed to minimize aesthetic impact to the
greatest extent feasible.
         B.   For public safety purposes, opportunities for natural
surveillance shall be provided in and out of stairwells.
         C.   Stairwells shall be illuminated to minimize shadows and
facilitate overall vision, but should not be overly bright.
         D.   Prefabricated metal stairs shall not be allowed.
         E.   Stair railings shall be either solid or open balusters made of
concrete or ornamental ironwork.
         (5)   Color - The predominant color of structures shall be muted tones
that are found in the natural environment by use of at least one (1) of the
following:
         A.   Neutral or light-colored walls should be contrasted with a
darker, more intense trim color, while dark-colored walls should be contrasted
with light-colored accents and details.
         B.   Materials such as brick, stone, copper, etc., should be left in
their natural colors.
      (6)   Walls/Fences
         A.   Where a project abuts a street, open fencing material (wrought
iron or tubular steel) shall be used. A low masonry wall may be integrated into
the design at the ratio of two feet (2') of wall and the remaining open fencing
on top. In addition, pilasters of solid masonry materials may be included into
the design at regular intervals.
         B.   Where a project does not abut a street, or where it is abutting
single family residential units, a six foot (6') solid masonry wall shall be
required. These walls shall be designed using masonry materials such as split
face and slump stone, with colors that complement the architectural design of
adjacent buildings.
         C.   Chain link fencing is prohibited in all multi-family residential
developments.
         D.   All walls and fences shall be constructed of decorative materials
such as split face, slump stone block, or other similar materials which
complement the materials used on the buildings. Decorative enhancements such as
caps or pilasters shall be incorporated into all walls and fences. Unadorned
solid wood or cinder block is not allowed.
         E.   Where any solid wall exceeds sixty feet (60') in length, the wall
shall be visibly articulated by pilasters or changes in the wall plane such as
insets for plantings.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit A, 5/22/13.]
17.15.060   Commercial Design Standards
   (a)   Purpose
      To assist the developer in understanding the City's goals and objectives
for high quality commercial development. The design review is provided to:
      (1)   Improve the site planning and appearance of commercial districts
through the application of modern and creative solutions to common and repeated
design problems found throughout the City.
      (2)   Provide a clear and consistent set of design standards to assist
the development community in comprehending the City's intent in regulating
design quality and ensuring that the long-term goals of the City are met.
      (3)   Create an identifiable community image through urban design and
planning excellence that will create a visually unified and coherent community.
      (4)   Promote commercial development capable of strengthening the local
economy and enhancing the quality of life for Adelanto residents.
      (5)   Protect the property values of existing business areas from
inappropriately designed or scaled projects and enhance the investment of
residents and business owners.
      (6)   Encourage and promote designs which relate to and are compatible
with the region's desert environment.
   (b)   Site Planning
      (1)   Site Character
         A.   Natural amenities (views, mature trees, creeks, drainage
channels, riparian corridors, and topographic features) unique to the site
shall be preserved and incorporated into the project's design whenever
possible.
         B.   Structures that are historic or are otherwise distinctive because
of their ruralness, age, cultural significance, or unique architectural style
shall be preserved and incorporated into development proposals.
         C.   Structures shall not face their back side or loading areas onto
existing or planned amenities (parks, open space, and water features).
         D.   Frontage roads or drives shall be provided adjacent to open space
areas unless the commercial project is designed to provide direct pedestrian
access to the open space and the road or drive is not otherwise necessary.
      (2)   Land Use Buffering
         A.   Buffers such as landscaping, earth berms, and decorative
architecturally treated walls, shall be used to define project boundaries and
minimize impacts on adjacent properties.
         B.   Noise, traffic, or odor-generating activities shall be located
adjacent to similar activities on adjacent properties whenever possible.
         C.   Loading areas, access and circulation driveways, trash, storage
areas, and mechanical equipment related to commercial uses shall be located as
far as possible from adjacent residences.
         D.   When adjoining residential and commercial uses can mutually
benefit from connection rather than separation, appropriate connective elements
(e.g., walkways, common landscape areas, building orientation, and unfenced
property lines) shall be provided between the uses.
         E.   Window orientation in nonresidential buildings shall preclude a
direct line of sight into adjacent residential units and private open spaces
within one hundred feet (100') of the property line.
         F.   When commercial buildings back up to open space areas of multi-
family residential projects, the rear setback area shall be landscaped and
combined with the residential open space where feasible.
         G.   Landscaping shall be required to screen parking lots and large
commercial building walls in order to provide a visual barrier between
commercial and residential uses.
      (3)   Building Placement
         A.   On multi-tenant commercial sites, buildings shall be placed close
to the street to create a more attractive streetscape and minimize the visual
impact of large areas of pavement and parking from public streets.
         B.   Corner buildings shall provide a strong tie to the setback lines
of each street. The primary mass of the building shall not be placed at an
angle to the corner. This does not preclude angled or sculpted building
corners, or an open plaza at the corner.
         C.   Multiple buildings in a single project shall provide a functional
relationship with one another to achieve a "village" scale by use of at least
two (2) of the following:
            i.   Cluster buildings around open plaza areas, not parking lots.
            ii.   Provide courtyards with landscaping and other pedestrian
amenities.
            iii.   Provide convenient pedestrian circulation between buildings
and between parking areas and building using enhanced paving materials (no more
than one-fourth inch (1/4") deep).
            iv.   Link buildings together visually using trellis structures,
arcades, and enhanced paving (no more than one-fourth inch (1/4") deep).
            v.   Avoid dated L-shaped shopping centers with parking located
adjacent to the street.
         D.   Whenever possible, buildings shall have their entrances oriented
towards transit stops for convenient access.
         E.   Arrangement of structures, landscaping, and hardscape shall
create view corridors into projects while still establishing a sense of arrival
and place.
         F.   Encroachment onto utility or other public or private easement is
prohibited. Buildings shall be sited or arranged so as not to encroach on any
utility, public, or private easements.
         G.   Coordinated site design (including shared parking, driveways and
circulation, sign facilities, landscaped areas, and garbage collection areas)
shall be encouraged on adjacent parcels with similar uses. Such coordination
will typically involve mutual access agreements over both properties.
      (4)   Trash/Loading/Storage Areas
         A.   Solid waste and recyclable materials storage areas shall be
enclosed and screened. Enclosures shall be constructed with masonry block and
finished using materials compatible with the surrounding architecture. Gates
shall be solid metal painted to match adjacent buildings.
         B.   All trash, loading, and service areas shall be screened from
public rights-of-way and adjacent residential uses or districts through a
combination of landscaping and walls.
         C.   Trash areas shall incorporate roof structures to screen the
contents of the enclosure from view.
         D.   Loading facilities shall not be located at the front of buildings
where it is difficult to adequately screen them from view. These facilities are
more appropriate at the side or rear of the building.
         E.   Screening for outdoor storage shall be a minimum of six feet (6')
and a maximum of eight feet (8') in height and shall consist of masonry block
or vinyl compatible with the surrounding architecture. Chain link fencing with
slats is not acceptable screening material.
      (5)   Utility and Mechanical Equipment
         A.   All mechanical equipment (e.g., compressors, air conditioners,
heating and ventilating equipment, chillers, stand pipes, solar collectors,
etc.) shall be concealed from view. Screening devices shall be compatible with
the architecture and color of the adjacent buildings.
         B.   Mechanical equipment shall not be located on the roof of a
structure unless the equipment can be screened by building elements that are
designed for that purpose and that are an integral part of the building design.
Otherwise, all mechanical equipment shall be located in equipment rooms within
the structure.
         C.   Utility equipment (e.g., electric and gas meters, electrical
panels, and junction boxes) shall be located in utility rooms within the
structure.
   (c)   Parking and Circulation
      (1)   General
         A.   Parking lot spaces shall be designed with a clear hierarchy of
circulation: major access drives with no parking; major circulation drives with
little or no parking; and parking aisles for direct access to parking spaces.
         B.   Parking lots shall be separated from buildings by a raised
walkway, landscape strip, or combination of the two (2) at least six feet (6')
wide, with a minimum four-foot (4') wide walkway. Mow strips are not required
in this situation. Situations where parking aisles or spaces directly abut the
building are prohibited.
         C.   No more than five percent (5%) of the required parking shall be
located in the rear service area of a project site.
         D.   Adequate visibility for vehicular and pedestrian traffic shall be
provided by clear sight triangles (as approved by the City Engineer) at all
ninety (90) degree and intersections of public rights-of-way and private
driveways.
         E.   All driveways and drive aisles within the development are
required by the San Bernardino County Fire Department to be a minimum of
twenty-six (26') feet wide for two (2) way traffic.
         F.   One-way driveways are not allowed except as part of drive-thru
facilities.
         G.   All parking spaces shall be clearly outlined on the surface of
the parking facility with painted white lines, stone, brick, or textured or
smooth concrete banding.
         H.   Parking within structures shall be considered whenever possible
in order to minimize asphalt pavement and maximize open areas.
      (2)   Project Entry
         A.   Parking lots with over one-hundred (100) parking stalls shall
provide a main entry drive from the public street for a minimum distance of
forty feet (40') and shall include a minimum four-foot (4') wide sidewalk from
the street to the first cross aisle on at least one (1) side, and at least one
(1) of the following:
            i.   A minimum seven-foot (7') wide landscaped center median from
the public street to the first cross aisle.
            ii.   Two (2) seven-foot (7') wide landscaped parkways flanking the
main entry drive. The parkway that abuts the sidewalk may be reduced in width
to four feet (4').
         B.   The first aisle juncture that intersects the main entry drive
shall be placed at least forty feet (40') back from the public street right-of-
way to provide adequate queuing distance off the street.
         C.   Entry drives shall be located a minimum of two hundred feet
(200') apart and at least one hundred feet (100') from any street intersection
property line to driveway centerline. Also, access drives shall be located a
minimum of twenty feet (20') from side properly lines unless a shared drive is
provided.
         D.   No entry points shall be located on a State Highway unless
approved in writing by the California Department of Transportation.
         E.   No entry points shall be located within six-hundred sixty feet
(660') of a State Highway, for any collector or arterial street that intersects
the highway, unless approved in writing by the California Department of
Transportation.
         F.   Bricks, pavers, or decorative stamped concrete (no more than one-
fourth inch (1/4') deep) shall be used to accent and highlight street entries.
         G.   Project entry crosswalks shall be highlighted by bricks, pavers,
or decorative stamped concrete (no more than one-fourth inch (1/4") deep) a
minimum of fifteen feet (15') wide.
      (3)   Site Access
         A.   Developments with more than one hundred (100) parking stalls that
are located on an arterial or larger road shall coordinate access points with
median openings and/or existing driveways on the opposite side of the roadway.
Final locations shall be subject to review and approval by the City.
         B.   Developments with more than two hundred (200) parking stalls that
are located on an arterial or larger street shall provide deceleration lanes
adjacent to their major entry per City standards.
         C.   Whenever possible, locate access drives on side streets to
maintain efficient traffic flow on major roadways.
         D.   All driveway radii shall be per City standards.
      (4)   Pedestrian Access
         A.   Drop-off points (i.e., wider aisles) shall be located near major
building entries and plaza areas for projects over fifty thousand (50,000)
square feet of building area.
         B.   Parking areas shall be designed so that pedestrians walk parallel
to moving cars in parking aisles. Minimize the need for the pedestrian to cross
parking aisles and landscape islands to reach building entries.
         C.   Pedestrian walkways shall be delineated through the use of
textured paving and or concrete pavers (no more than one-fourth inch (1/4")
deep), landscaping, trellises, and other hardscape features.
         D.   Pedestrian circulation areas shall include architectural and
hardscape treatments that are at human scale and which create a pleasant
environment which invites people to linger in commercial areas.
         E.   Clearly defined pedestrian access shall be provided from transit/
bus stops to primary building entrances. In projects with more than one hundred
(100) parking stalls, pedestrian walkways shall be provided through parking
areas from transit/bus stops.
         F.   All projects shall provide a connection of the on-site pedestrian
circulation system to the off-site public sidewalk.
         G.   Meandering sidewalks shall be provided in all commercial zoning
districts when required by the Community Development Director.
         H.   Parking lots with over one hundred (100) stalls shall provide a
separate pedestrian walkway from the public sidewalk to the on-site walkways.
At a minimum, this main entry sidewalk shall:
            i.   Be located on one side of the main entry drive aisle.
            ii.   Be a minimum of four feet (4') wide.
            iii.   Be raised and protected from the drive aisle by a six-inch
(6") high curb.
            iv.   Be constructed of concrete or an interlocking paving system.
Asphalt sidewalks are not allowed.
            v.   Emphasis at pedestrian crossings of driveways and major
circulation aisles shall be accentuated at building entries by extending the
sidewalk to the back edge of the parking spaces.
      (5)   Bus Turnouts
         A.   Recommendations of the local transit district shall be considered
to ensure that provisions of adequate opportunities for transit services and
facilities such as turnouts and bus shelters.
         B.   Bus turnouts shall be designed in accordance with the City
Engineer's standards.
   (d)   Landscaping
      (1)   General
         A.   Landscaping, earth berms, decorative walls, and other buffers
shall be used to define project boundaries and to reduce impacts on adjacent
properties.
         B.   Landscaping shall be provided around the entire base of
structures to soften the edge between the parking lot and the structure, except
at entrances, exists, loading and service areas, and zero foot side or rear
setbacks. Landscaping shall be accented at the building entrance.
         C.   Individual developments shall integrate on-site landscaping with
the streetscape landscaping in the project vicinity. A continuation of
streetscape grading, berms, and other landscape treatments used by adjacent
development shall be provided by new development with similar site conditions.
         D.   Landscaping shall consist of native or drought-tolerant plants
capable of surviving the desert environment and climate with a minimum of
maintenance and supplemental watering. A list of plants determined capable of
meeting this criterion is contained in Chapter 17.60 (Landscaping and Water
Conservation) of this Code.
         E.   Landscaping shall be used to break up uninterrupted building
mass, expanses of paved surfaces, frame views, and connect development on
adjacent pads.
         F.   Landscaping shall be provided in sufficient size and quantity to
adequately screen and soften the effect of new building planes within the first
year (typically a mix of twenty-four inch (24") box and fifteen (15) gallon
trees and five (5) gallon shrubs). Tree clusters shall be used to reduce the
linear appearance of building planes and to soften the otherwise harsh
appearance of the building height and mass.
         G.   A minimum of one (1) tree planting shall be provided for every
thirty (30) linear feet of street and access drive frontage with trees
informally clustered and grouped. Gaps between plantings should not exceed
fifty feet (50').
      (2)   Parking Areas
         A.   The visual impact of parking areas shall be reduced by
landscaping, hedges, berming, and/or planted islands and fingers.
         B.   Low walls, berms, or landscaping between thirty-six inches (36")
and forty-two inches (42") in height shall be used to screen automobile
headlights in parking areas along major roads and across from residential
areas. Such landscape walls shall also be used as edge treatments to define
private space and act as a border between the natural desert landscape or
public domain and intense use areas.
         C.   Trees shall be distributed throughout parking areas in islands
and fingers between parking spaces to shade parking areas and reduce the
accumulation and radiation of heat from large paved areas. A minimum of one (1)
landscape island or finger containing a tree or trees is required for every
seven (7) parking spaces.
         D.   Concrete curbs shall be provided in parking areas to keep
vehicles from disturbing landscape areas.
         E.   Driveways perpendicular to streets shall have triangular shaped
extended landscape areas, with one (1) side running along the driveway and one
side running along the street right-of-way corresponding with the required
clear sight triangle discussed above.
      (3)   Hardscape Elements
         A.   Project entry statements consisting of hardscape elements shall
be provided with all commercial developments. The entry statement may include
but shall not be limited to:
            i.   Enhanced landscaping treatment.
            ii.   Enhanced monument signage.
            iii.   Boulder groupings.
            iv.   Decorative entryway.
            v.   Exposed aggregate or stamped concrete.
            vi.   Berm/low decorative wall.
         B.   Commercial projects larger than five (5) acres in size shall
include a hardscape element which creates a focus for the development and
creates a usable public open space amenity such as a plaza or arbor facility.
Appropriate hardscape elements shall include but not be limited to plaza areas,
arbor or patio facilities, courtyards, atriums, and outdoor gathering and
eating areas.
         C.   Hardscape shall relate individual buildings to an overall theme
or style. Materials used in the construction of street furniture shall
complement architectural materials used on adjacent buildings and shall be of a
common design. Trash receptacles and other minor details shall also relate to
the architectural style of the buildings.
         D.   Enhanced paving treatments shall be used for major entries into
the site and intersections to highlight key areas of the streetscape. Such
treatments shall be located at building entryways, plaza areas and courtyards,
pedestrian approaches to buildings, and on-site crosswalks, driveways, and
passenger drop-off areas.
         E.   Water features, such as fountains, sculptures, or enhanced
landscaping shall be used at plazas and courtyards to create focal points along
pedestrian areas and to enhance views from building windows. All water features
shall use recycled water and follow water conservation precautions.
         F.   Materials used in the construction of street furniture shall
complement architectural materials used on adjacent buildings. Plastic and
materials such as fiberglass are not allowed.
      (4)   Major Intersections
         A.   Special landscaping shall be required adjacent to intersections
of designed major streets to reinforce the City image.
         B.   Accent vegetation shall be provided as identity plantings.
         C.   Native and desert appropriate trees shall be massed to enhance
these landscaping areas.
   (e)   Walls and Fences
      (1)   All on-site parking areas shall be screened from street view by a
landscape berm or decorative wall not less than three feet (3') in height. The
required height of the berm or wall shall be measured from the highest finished
grade of the adjacent on-site parking area or adjacent finished grade of the
street, whichever is greater.
      (2)   Screen wall design shall be decorative and incorporate the same
colors, materials, and/or accents as those used on project buildings. Plain
concrete block or painted block is not acceptable.
      (3)   Walls along a street frontage shall be staggered so that no wall
extends more than one-hundred feet (100') in a straight line. The change in
wall plane shall be a minimum of two feet (2'). Other means of breaking up
long, straight wall planes may be considered.
   (f)   Architectural Design
      (1)   Architectural Style - No specific architectural style or design
theme shall be required. A variety of architectural characteristics shall be
considered to add to the city's overall image. However, while variety in design
is generally encouraged, compatibility of new projects with their surroundings
shall also be a priority.
      (2)   Design Consistency
         A.   Designs shall demonstrate a consistent use of colors, materials,
and detailing throughout all elevations of the building.
         B.   Elevations that do not directly face a street shall not be
ignored or receive only minimal architectural treatment.
         C.   Each facade shall be designed for public view and shall be
appropriately landscaped in compliance with the landscaping standards in
Chapter 17.60 (Landscaping and Water Conservation).
      (3)   Form and Mass
         A.   Designs shall provide a sense of human scale and proportion.
Structures shall be designed to avoid a "box-like," impersonal appearance by
use of at least two (2) of the following design parameters:
            i.   Provide horizontal and vertical wall articulation through the
use of arcades, towers, wall recesses and projections, and setting back upper
floors. Facades should incorporate wall plane projections and recesses having a
depth of at least three percent (3%) of the length of the facade and extending
at least twenty percent (20%) of the length of the facade.
            ii.   Provide architectural detail through the use of columns,
three-dimensional decorative cornice bands, recessed entries and windows, and
awnings and canopies.
            iii.   Provide full roofs with substantial overhangs.
            iv.   Incorporate decorative parapets where roof overhangs are not
provided.
            v.   Use different, but compatible, building materials with varying
textures and colors.
         B.   Entries shall be protected from the elements and shall create a
focus and sense of entry for the building by use of at least two (2) of the
following design parameters:
            i.   Provide wall recesses.
            ii.   Use roof overhangs.
            iii.   Incorporate canopies and awnings.
            iv.   Include arcades.
            v.   Install pedestrian-oriented signs.
      (4)   Roofs
         A.   Variations in roof lines shall be used to add interest to, and
reduce the massive scale of large commercial buildings. Roofs shall incorporate
at least two (2) of the following:
            i.   Parapets concealing flat roofs and rooftop equipment. The
average height of a parapet shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the
height of the supporting wall and parapets shall not at any point exceed one-
third (1/3) of the height of the supporting wall. Parapets shall incorporate a
three-dimensional cornice.
            ii.   Overhanging eaves, extending at least three feet (3') past
the supporting walls.
            iii.   Sloping roofs that do not exceed the average height of the
supporting walls, with an average slope greater than or equal to one foot (1')
vertical rise for every three feet (3') of horizontal run and less than or
equal to one foot (1') vertical rise for every one foot (1') of horizontal run.
            iv.   Three (3) or more roof slope planes.
         B.   Parapet walls shall be treated as an integral part of the
structure design.
         C.   Parapet walls should receive architectural detailing consistent
with the rest of the facade design and should not appear as unrelated elements
intended only to screen the roof behind them.
         D.   Where a mansard roof is incorporated into the parapet design,
views from above the structure should also be considered relative to any
visible structural support elements.
      (5)   Building Materials
         A.   False or decorative facade treatments, wherein one (1) or more
unrelated materials appear "stuck on" a building shall not be allowed.
         B.   Fake products that attempt to imitate real materials (e.g., wood,
stone, brick, and etc.) are not allowed.
         C.   The composition of materials shall avoid giving the impression of
thinness and artificiality.
         D.   Veneers shall turn corners, avoiding exposed edges.
         E.   Stock, off-the-shelf metal buildings are prohibited as primary
structures.
      (6)   Colors
         A.   Facade colors shall be low reflectance, subtle, neutral, or earth
tone colors. The use of high-intensity colors, metallic colors, black, or
fluorescent colors is prohibited.
         B.   Building trim and accent areas may feature brighter colors,
including primary colors, but neon tubing shall not be an acceptable feature
for building trim or accent areas except for movie theaters.
         C.   The transition between base and accent colors shall relate to
changes in building materials or the change of building surface planes. Colors
should not meet or change without some physical change or definition to the
surface plane.
      (7)   Additions to Existing Structures
         A.   The design of an addition to an existing structure shall follow
the general scale, proportion, massing, and detailing of the original
structure. The addition shall be harmonious with the original structure, not a
stark contrast.
         B.   Additions shall be an interpretation of the existing building
wherein the main characteristics of the existing structure are incorporated
into the design of the addition by use of at least two (2) of the following:
            i.   Repeat window and door spacing.
            ii.   Use harmonizing colors and materials.
            iii.   Include similar, yet distinct, architectural details (e.g.,
window/door trim, lighting fixtures, tile/brick decoration, etc.).
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit A, 5/22/13.]
17.15.070   Industrial Design Standards
   (a)   Purpose
      To assist the developer in understanding the City's goals and objectives
for high quality industrial development. The design standards are provided to:
      (1)   Improve the site planning and appearance of industrial districts
through the application of modern and creative solutions to common and repeated
design problems found throughout the City.
      (2)   Provide a clear and consistent set of design standards to assist
the development community in comprehending the City's intent in regulating
design quality and ensuring that the long-term goals of the City are met.
      (3)   Create an identifiable community image through urban design and
planning excellence that will create a visually unified and coherent community.
      (4)   Promote industrial development capable of strengthening the local
economy and enhancing the quality of life for Adelanto residents.
      (5)   Protect the property values of existing business areas from
inappropriately designed or scaled projects and enhance the investment of
residents and business owners.
      (6)   Encourage and promote designs which relate to and are compatible
with the region's desert environment.
   (b)   Site Design
      The design of new development shall be sensitive to the characteristics
of the existing surrounding development and shall take into consideration the
existing natural constraints on the site.
      (1)   New development shall enhance the character of its surrounding area
through quality architecture, and landscaping, and appropriate site
arrangement.
      (2)   New development in an area with an established character shall be
compatible with its surrounding development in intensity, design, setback,
building form, scale, material, color and landscaping unless there are specific
planning goals to change the character of an area.
      (3)   Transition shall be developed between projects with different uses
and intensities on adjacent parcels to provide an effective visual and
functional shift. Transition may be created through appropriate building
setback, height and landscape buffers.
      (4)   New buildings shall present strong relationships to their site and
surrounding buildings on the same or adjacent parcels. Visual and functional
relationships between buildings and sites may be created by building
orientation and massing, and site organization.
      (5)   In multi-building complexes, a distinct visual link shall be
established among various buildings by using architectural or site design
elements such as courtyards, plazas, landscaping, and walkways to unify the
project.
      (6)   Project perimeter landscaping shall be integrated with the
landscaping of adjacent development for streetscape continuity.
      (7)   New sidewalks shall be integrated into the existing frontage
landscaping to maintain street continuity. Where new sidewalks are required,
mature trees and landscaping should be preserved as much as possible by
meandering sidewalks around them.
      (8)   Natural features on a site such as mature trees, creeks, views,
etc. should be preserved and incorporated into the site design of the project.
      (9)   Project sites, excluding secured areas, should have convenient and
safe pedestrian and automobile access to adjacent streets and service centers.
On-site walkways should be linked to the public sidewalk system outside the
project for ease of pedestrian access.
      (10)   Site components such as structures, parking, driveways, and out-
door functions shall be arranged and located to emphasize the aesthetically
pleasant components of the site such as existing mature trees and views, or
superior architectural features, and disguise its less attractive scenes such
as service facilities, outside storage and equipment areas, and trash
enclosures through placement and design of the structure and landscaping.
      (11)   Location of noise and odor generating functions on the site shall
not create a nuisance for the adjacent properties.
      (12)   When located adjacent to residential uses, all service areas such
as loading, trash enclosures, outside storage, and ground and roof equipment
shall be located away, or at a minimum, totally screened from residential uses.
      (13)   The on-site walkway system shall link public outdoor activity
areas to each other as well as to the building(s).
      (14)   Every project site shall be designed for maximum utility of open
space for ventilation, sunlight, recreation and views for both new and existing
buildings.
   (c)   Building Design
      (1)   Open space areas may be incorporated as a part of focal points.
      (2)   Incorporating benches, artwork, landscaping, water and hardscape
features into open space areas are encouraged.
      (3)   Convenient employee access to the nearby public parks and trail
systems should be provided when feasible.
      (4)   The scale, character and architectural design of new development
shall be compatible with and shall enhance surrounding development.
      (5)   Public entrances and primary building elevations should face public
streets.
      (6)   Adjacent buildings on the same or separate parcels shall be
compatible in height and scale. If different scale is required for functional
reasons, adequate transition shall be provided between the buildings.
      (7)   Whenever adjacent to residential uses, floors above the first level
shall be designed and windows located to provide maximum privacy for the
residences.
      (8)   Front facades of large buildings visible from a public street shall
include architectural features such as reveals, windows and openings, expansion
joints, changes in color, texture, and material to add interest to the building
elevation. Exceptions may be permitted only where a specific architectural
style offers other types of facade articulations, as determined by the planning
staff.
      (9)   Setback of new buildings shall compliment the setback pattern in
the area.
      (10)   New buildings shall maintain diversity and individuality in style
while improving the aesthetic character of their surrounding area.
      (11)   In multi-building complexes, a comprehensive architectural concept
shall be developed and maintained.
      (12)   Various site components should be unified through the use of
similar design, material and colors.
      (13)   New buildings shall have three (3) distinct components: base;
middle; and top. Define each component by horizontal and/or vertical
articulation. Facade articulation may consist of changes in the wall plane, use
of openings and projections, and material and color variations. Exceptions may
be permitted only where a specific architectural style offers other types of
building form and facade articulation, as determined by the planning staff.
      (14)   Where function necessitates a basic, box-like building form,
exterior articulation such as change in color, material, or plane shall be
introduced on an outer decorative shell encompassing facades which are visible
from public streets. Less architecturally interesting facades of buildings
shall be substantially setback and screened from public view by mature, dense
landscaping as an alternative to furnishing quality architecture. Landscaping
size and location shall be determined on a site-by-site basis and may exceed
the minimum required in the City Code.
      (15)   Main entrances to the buildings shall be well defined.
      (16)   New buildings shall have at least one (1) major focal point and
minor focal points. Focal points could be achieved through horizontal and
vertical lines, change in material, change in color, change in the form and
shape of a portion of the building, etc. Combining the main entrances and the
focal points is encouraged.
      (17)   Service doors shall be recessed and integrated into the overall
design of the building.
      (18)   The design of accessory buildings such as security kiosks,
maintenance and hazardous material buildings, and outdoor equipment enclosures
shall be incorporated into and be compatible in design concept with the overall
design of the project and the main buildings on the site.
      (19)   With the exception of security kiosks, accessory buildings shall
be located outside of the front setback area. Front setback area is defined as
the area between the main building and public right-of-way.
      (20)   Temporary buildings such as trailers should not be visible from
adjoining public streets. Temporary trailers shall be skirted with similar
material and color as the trailers.
      (21)   In new buildings, long horizontal roof lines shall be broken up by
providing articulations in the facade of buildings, change in the height of
portions of roofs, or change in color, material, forms, etc. Exceptions may be
permitted only where a specific architectural style offers other types of roof
forms and roof articulation, as determined by the planning staff.
      (22)   Roofs shall be an integral part of the building design. Proposed
parapets and roof screens shall be integrated into the roof design. The
material and color of roof screens shall appear identical to those in the roof
or building.
      (23)   Equipment wells are encouraged for sloped roofs.
      (24)   Roof style in new buildings or additions shall be compatible with
the existing roof designs on the same site.
      (25)   Depending on architectural style, industrial buildings (including
manufacturing) are encouraged to use decorative roof elements, such as
projecting cornices, to enhance roof edges.
      (26)   A comprehensive material and color scheme shall be developed for
each site. Material and color variations in multi-building complexes shall be
complementary and compatible among structures.
      (27)   Large expanses of smooth material such as concrete shall be broken
up with expansion joints, reveals, or changes in texture and color.
      (28)   Large expanses of highly reflective surface and mirror glass
exterior walls shall be avoided to prevent heat and glare impacts on the
adjacent public streets and properties.
      (29)   Exterior material and paint shall be durable and high quality to
prevent degradation and for ease of maintenance.
      (30)   Bright, contrasting colors shall be used for trims and accents
only.
      (31)   The color and material of building additions shall be coordinated
with those, of the principal buildings.
      (32)   Material and colors for wall and ground signs shall be compatible
with the principal buildings on the site.
      (33)   High quality metal may be used as exterior siding or in large
expanses only if approved by planning staff. It may be used for minor
architectural features and trims.
   (d)   Parking and Circulation
      (1)   The design of parking and circulation in industrial areas shall
provide maximum vehicle and pedestrian safety and shall be sensitive to the
surrounding non-industrial uses.
      (2)   To avoid large expanses of paved areas and to provide easy
accessibility to buildings, large parking lots should be divided into smaller
parking areas and dispersed around the site.
      (3)   Where large parking lots are needed, adequate landscaped pockets
shall be integrated into parking areas.
      (4)   Pedestrian and automobile traffic paths shall be separated and
conflict areas shall be minimized.
      (5)   Landscape buffers shall always be provided between parking lots and
public streets, and parking areas and buildings.
      (6)   Bicycle lockers and/or racks shall be located near building
entrances.
      (7)   Security kiosks and gates shall be located to allow queuing for at
least three (3) cars.
      (8)   Whenever security gates are provided, sufficient parking should be
provided outside of the gate area for visitors.
      (9)   Shared driveway access between adjoining properties is encouraged.
      (10)   Parking lots shall have adequate directional signs for visitors,
delivery vehicles and employees.
      (11)   Large parking structures should be located away from adjacent
single-family residences.
      (12)   Landscaping, horizontal, and vertical articulations shall be
incorporated into the design of parking structures to reduce the bulk of the
structures.
      (13)   Exterior design of parking structures shall maintain similar
architectural elements as those on principal buildings on the site to provide
architectural harmony.
   (e)   Landscaping
      (1)   Landscaping shall be designed to enhance the overall aesthetic
quality of each site. Landscape material shall be drought resistant.
      (2)   Landscape design shall follow an overall component together.
      (3)   All areas not in use by structures, driveways, and parking spaces
shall be properly landscaped.
      (4)   Landscaping shall consist of live plant materials. Rock and gravel
may be incorporated into the landscaping to enhance the design but shall not
replace live material.
      (5)   Landscape design and material shall adhere to the City's water wise
standards.
      (6)   Walls and fences shall be integrated into landscape design.
      (7)   When appropriate, landscaping shall be used to enhance focal
points, artwork, and visible areas.
      (8)   Site furniture and fixtures such as planters, light poles, tree
grates, newspaper racks, benches, transit shelters, mail boxes, etc. shall be
incorporated into the design landscape.
      (9)   Site furniture and light fixtures shall follow the same design
concept as the major structures on the site.
      (10)   Future phases of a project site already cleared and graded shall
be adequately treated (e.g. hydro mulch) to prevent erosion and reduce
aesthetic impacts.
      (11)   Sites adjacent to creeks and canals shall give special attention
to landscape, fence, and wall design in order to enhance natural features or
minimize development impacts.
      (12)   A minimum of a fifteen foot (15') wide landscape strip shall be
provided along all public street frontages of projects.
      (13)   To provide a visual transition between railroad tracks and
industrial buildings, a minimum ten foot (10') wide landscaping strip shall be
provided along the frontage on railroad tracks.
      (14)   When industrial buildings are located adjacent to residential
uses, a minimum ten foot (10') wide landscape strip with a minimum eight foot
(8') high masonry wall shall be provided.
      (15)   A minimum four foot (4') wide landscape strip shall be provided
along the sides and rear property line of all industrial sites.
      (16)   In designing the perimeter landscaping, street trees and sidewalks
shall be taken into consideration and incorporated into the design.
      (17)   A combination of trees, shrubs and ground cover shall be used
between the buildings and public right-of-way. Water wise ground covers are
highly encouraged in lieu of grass. Annuals or other non-drought tolerant plant
material shall be used minimally and shall be used in highly visible areas.
      (18)   Street trees shall be combined with onsite trees to provide a
double row of trees where possible.
      (19)   When perimeter landscaping is used to screen a development, fences
and berms shall be combined to reduce the apparent height of fencing that is
needed.
      (20)   Internal landscape areas should be clustered to provide maximum
open space for the site.
      (21)   In multi-building complexes, internal landscape areas shall be
designed to connect the buildings together and to take maximum advantage of
landscaping by providing outdoor dining and plazas between buildings.
      (22)   Landscape should be integrated with hardscape such as textured
paving, water fountains, trellises and walkways or art work to enhance the
overall design of the site.
      (23)   Landscaping shall be adequately distributed throughout parking
lots to reduce the effect of heat and glare from pavement.
      (24)   When parking lots are adjacent to public rights-of-way, parking
shall be screened by combining berms, thirty-six to forty-two foot (36'-42')
walls, shrubs and trees.
      (25)   When landscape pockets are provided between parking spaces facing
each other, the width of the islands shall be a minimum of six feet (6').
Landscaped pockets shall also be provided for every seven (7) parking spaces
and at the end of each row of parking spaces.
      (26)   When tree wells are provided, the wells shall be a minimum of five
feet (5') square. Interlocking pavement is encouraged around tree wells.
      (27)   When selecting landscape material for parking lots, trees with
deep roots shall be selected to avoid damaging the pavement.
      (28)   Buildings shall be separated from parking areas by landscaping and
walkways.
      (29)   Maximum landscaping is encouraged in parking areas, however, the
Municipal Code allows for two foot (2') overhang for standard spaces into
internal landscape areas over six feet (6') wide or perimeter landscaped area
over four feet (4') wide.
      (30)   Walkways and paths shall be provided in parking lots and provide a
safe pedestrian access to buildings.
      (31)   Separate all parking and landscape areas by a six inch (6") wide,
poured in place concrete curbs.
      (32)   Different color or textured material shall be used to define
primary pedestrian access ways on site.
      (33)   Wherever chain linked or cyclone fences are used for security
purposes or for screening areas from public view, landscaping shall be provided
to screen the fence.
      (34)   All fences shall be made of durable and weather resistant
materials.
      (35)   Fences and walls used for noise control shall be made of material
most suited for noise reduction, and which minimize reflective sound.
      (36)   For non-industrial uses in industrial areas such as retail uses,
fences other than cyclone or chain link fences shall be used.
   (f)   Mechanical Equipment
      (1)   Mechanical equipment shall not be located in the front setbacks
between building and public rights-of-way.
      (2)   Roof equipment shall be fully screened by parapets, roof screens or
equipment wells.
      (3)   Wherever possible, roof equipment shall be clustered and included
in one (1) screen. New buildings and new additions shall plan for roof
equipment screens and include them in the design of the building.
   (g)   Loading
      (1)   Loading areas shall be separated from pedestrian and automobile
traffic.
      (2)   Loading areas shall not be immediately adjacent to residential uses
or visible from public rights-of-way. Loading docks shall be screened from
residential uses by a minimum eight foot (8') high masonry wall with ten foot
(10') wide landscaped strip.
      (3)   Loading door design shall be integrated into the design of the
building. High quality material and non-bright colors shall be used for loading
doors.
      (4)   In multi building complexes, loading docks shall be either
internalized or located in the rear of the complex in a service yard.
      (5)   All outdoor storage and loading areas shall be located in the rear
of sites and screened from view by solid walls and landscaping.
   (h)   Lighting
      (1)   Exterior light fixture design shall be compatible with the design
and the use of the principal structure on the site.
      (2)   Exterior light fixtures shall be incorporated into the building
design and landscape scheme of the development.
      (3)   Height of the light poles shall be appropriate for the project and
the surrounding environment. Height of poles shall not exceed the height of the
main building. When adjacent to residential uses, height of poles along
perimeter of site adjacent to residences shall not exceed eight feet (8').
Light fixtures shall be equipped with appropriate reflectors and shielded to
prevent illumination of the adjacent residences.
      (4)   All exterior light bulbs shall be energy efficient type (high
pressure sodium vapor or equivalent).
      (5)   Wall packs shall not be located above the parapet.
      (6)   All exterior lights shall be equipped with photo cells,
   (i)   Trash Enclosures
      (1)   Trash enclosures shall be located so they are not visible from
public rights-of-way and are easily accessible by collection trucks.
      (2)   The design of the trash enclosures shall be compatible with the
design of main buildings on site.
      (3)   All trash enclosures shall be constructed in accordance with
Section
17.20.050(d)(3) of this code.
   (j)   Corporate and Professional Offices
      (1)   Corporate and professional office buildings shall have the highest
quality architecture and be oriented toward streets.
      (2)   For office buildings, a combination of hardscape such as textured
paving and water fountains and landscaping shall be used to provide strong
emphasis to focal points and entrances to the buildings.
      (3)   In multi-building complexes, buildings housing corporate offices
should be most visible from public rights-of-way and should be used as a focal
point in the development.
      (4)   When there are two (2) or more buildings located on-site, buildings
should be oriented toward public streets and provide view corridors into the
project site. View corridors may be provided by controlling the spacing and
angles of buildings on the site and by providing vistas and plazas.
      (5)   Building facades shall be lively with front entries facing public
streets.
      (6)   The site boundaries and main entrances shall be defined by both
landscaping and decorative paving.
      (7)   Consider energy efficiency in setting of buildings. Buildings
should be oriented and landscape material should be selected to provide maximum
energy efficiency for the buildings. For example deciduous trees should be
planted on the south side of buildings to shade the buildings in the summer and
allow sun inside during winter days.
   (k)   Warehouses
      (1)   Warehouse buildings shall be designed and oriented to locate the
shorter width of the building toward the public rights-of-way.
      (2)   Office portion of warehouse uses shall be located in the front
portion of buildings.
      (3)   Portions of buildings visible from public rights-of-way shall be
architecturally treated to break up the box like look of buildings.
      (4)   Self storage facilities in industrial areas shall be designed so
buildings are located around the perimeter of the site providing court yards in
the center.
      (5)   Office use and manager residences, when provided, shall be located
in the front of the sites.
   (l)   Industrial Parks
      (1)   A comprehensive master plan should be prepared for each project to
insure design harmony. Master plans should include arrangement; orientation;
location; approximate size; and the overall architectural design of structures,
landscape scheme, circulation patterns, and out-door facilities.
      (2)   Focal points and public site entrances should receive special
landscape or architectural treatment to enhance the streetscape.
      (3)   Over-sized or bulky structures should be located away from public
streets as much as possible to avoid corridor effect along public streets.
      (4)   In the absence of transitional elements due to functional
constraints, adjacent structures of substantially different scales visible from
public streets should locate the smaller structures in the front with larger
buildings behind them.
   (m)   Other
      (1)   Customer oriented businesses requiring visibility shall provide
adequate building articulation and landscaping treatment of focal points in new
projects.
      (2)   Exterior remodeling of older industrial buildings being occupied by
new tenants is strongly encouraged.
      (3)   Parking and service needs shall be a primary concern in full or
partial conversion of larger industrial buildings for use by several tenants.
Over-head doors and loading activities should not be visible from public
streets. Consider location of loading areas in the division of internal
building spaces.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit A, 5/22/13.]
CHAPTER 17.20
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
   
17.20.010   Intent and Purpose
   
17.20.020   Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Conditional Uses, and Temporary
Uses
   
17.20.030   Development Standards
   
17.20.040   Minimum Residential Design Standards
   
17.20.050   Attached Single-Family and Multi-Family Housing - Additional
Standards
   
17.20.060   Mobilehome Parks
   
17.20.070   Residential Condominium Conversions
   
17.20.080   Accessory Dwelling Units and Junior Accessory Dwelling Units
   
17.20.090   Outdoor Storage
   
17.20.100   Transitional and Supportive Housing
   
17.20.110   Emergency Shelters
17.20.010 Intent and Purpose
   The intent of this Chapter is to create, preserve, and enhance residential
areas for a wide range of housing types and lifestyles. These regulations are
directed toward encouraging quality development and integrated, attractive,
residential neighborhoods. Toward this end, eleven (11) residential districts
are established, which includes the Mixed Use (MU) discussed in
Chapter 17.50 and Airport Park (AP) discussed in
Chapter 17.22. The residential districts also include Desert Living 2.5 (DL-
2.5), Desert Living 5 (DL-5), Desert Living 9 (DL-9), Single Family Residential
(R1-.5), Single Family Residential (R1), Single Family Residential (R-S5),
Medium Density Residential (R3-8), Medium Density Residential (R-M12), High
Density Residential (R3-30). For each district, the City has established a
density limit, measured in gross acres. No entitlement for the maximum
allowable density is granted in this Zoning Code. The actual density achieved
on a development site will be based upon factors to include, but not be limited
to, topography, access, availability of utilities and other infrastructure,
proximity to sensitive environmental resources, availability of public
services, viewshed considerations, etc.
   The following residential land use districts are established in Adelanto:
   (a)   Desert Living (DL-2.5, DL-5, and DL-9)
      The Desert Living (DL) zone district provides for the preservation of
large lot residential uses. The minimum lot size is 2.5 acres. DL-2.5 permits a
parcel minimum of 2.5 acres, DL-5 permits a parcel minimum of 5 acres and DL-
9 permits a parcel minimum of 9 acres. In addition to the primary residential
use, accessory uses include equestrian facilities, agricultural uses, and the
raising of small animals. Both public and private stables, kennels, and related
uses are allowed with a Conditional Use Permit if approved by the Planning
Commission. Minimum lot sizes in this zoning district may be increased
depending on terrain, availability of services, or other factors; if modified,
the minimum lot size shall be shown on the Zoning Map.
   (b)   Single Family Residential (R1-.5)
      The Single Family Residential (R1-.5) zone district is a single-family
zone which permits residential development on very large lots, with a minimum
lot size of one half (1/20) acre [maximum density two (2) units per gross
acre]. Minimum lot sizes in this zoning district may be increased depending on
terrain, availability of services, or other factors; if modified, the minimum
lot size shall be shown on the Zoning Map.
   (c)   Single Family Residential (R1)
      The Single Family Residential (R1) zone district is a single-family zone
which permits detached residences at a density of up to four (4) units per
gross acre. Minimum lot size is 7,200 square feet. Development at this density
requires full urban levels of service and public improvements.
   (d)   Single Family Residential (R-S5)
      The Single Family Residential (R-S5) zone district is a single-family
zone which permits detached residences at a density of up to five (5) units per
gross acre. Minimum lot size is 5,000 square feet. Development at this density
requires full urban levels of service and public improvements.
   (e)   Medium Density Residential (R3-8)
      The Medium Density Residential (R3-8) zone district permits a variety of
residential development types, including single-family attached townhouses,
two-story townhouses, condominiums, and low-density garden apartments.
Densities may range up to eight (8) units per gross acre.
   (f)   Medium Density Residential (R-M12)
      The Medium Density Residential (R-M12) zone district permits a variety of
residential development types, including single-family attached townhouses,
two-story townhouses, condominiums, and low-density garden apartments.
Densities may range up to twelve (12) units per gross acre.
   (g)   High Density Residential (R3-30)
      The High Density Residential (R3-30) zone district permits higher density
residential developments that may include but is not limited to condominiums,
apartments, and multi-story stacked flats. This district is intended to be
located near commercial and/or services areas and transportation corridors, in
order to encourage pedestrian circulation and alternate modes of travel to
reduce vehicle trips. The allowable density is thirty (30) units per gross
acre.
[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No.
511, Exhibit A, 3/28/12; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit F, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528,
Exhibit G, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit B, 5/27/15.]
17.20.020 Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Conditional Uses, and Temporary Uses
   (a)   Appendix A: Regulation of Uses by Zone District of this Zoning Code
indicates the uses permitted in the residential zone districts. Residential
uses represent the primary permitted uses, although other uses are allowed as
accessory, conditionally permitted, and temporary uses, as indicated in
Appendix A.
   (b)   Uses listed as conditionally permitted uses are subject to the review
requirements and conditions contained in
Chapter 17.130 (Conditional Use Permits) of this Zoning Code. Temporary uses
are subject to the review requirements and conditions contained in
Chapter 17.155 (Temporary Use Permit). Also, certain other uses such as
churches may be subject to Special Use Standards outlined in
Chapter 17.80.
   (c)   A Second Unit is permitted as an accessory use pursuant to Subsection
17.20.080.
[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No.
511, Exhibit A, 3/28/12; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit F, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528,
Exhibit G, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit B, 5/27/15.]
17.20.030 Development Standards
   
Table 20-1 and
20-1a indicates the development standards for all residential zone districts.
TABLE 20-1
RESIDENTIAL ZONE DISTRICTS - DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Zoning Districts
Development Standard DL-9 DL-2.5/ & DL-5 R1-.5 R1 R-S5 R3-8 R-M12 R3-30
Zoning Districts
Development Standard                                 DL-9     DL-2.5/  R1-.5    R1       R-S5     R3-8     R-M12    R3-
                                                              & DL-5                                                30
A.   Minimum Lot Size (a)                         9.0 ac   2.5ac/   20,000   7,200 sf 5,000 sf 7,200 sf 3,500 sf 1.0
                                                              5ac      sf                                           ac
B.   Minimum Lot Width                            150 ft.  150 ft.  60 ft.   60 ft.   50 ft.   60 ft.   35 ft.   150
                                                                                                                    ft.
C.   Minimum Lot Depth                            200 ft.  150 ft.  100 ft.  100 ft.  100 ft.  100 ft.  100 ft.  200
                                                                                                                    ft.
D.   Maximum Lot Coverage by: Buildings           5%       10%      20%      40%      40%      60%      60%      60%
E.   Maximum Coverage In Front Yard by Impervious 10%      20%      50%      50%      50%      50%      50%      50%
Surfaces
                                                              1 du/2.5                                              30
F.   Maximum Density                              1 du/    ac       2 du/ac  4 du/ac  5 du/ac  8 du/ac  12 du/ac du/
                                                     9.0 ac   1 du/                                                 ac
                                                              5 ac
                                                     35 ft.   35 ft.   35 ft.   35 ft.   35 ft.   35 ft.   35 ft.   40
G.   Maximum Building Height (b) (h)              (2       (2       (2       (2       (2       (2       (2       ft.
                                                     stories) stories) stories) stories) stories) stories) stories) (e)
                                                                                                                    20
H.   Minimum Front Yard Setback (c)               20 ft.   20 ft.   20 ft.   20 ft.   20 ft.   20 ft.   20 ft.   ft.
                                                                                                                    (f)
                                                              5 ft. &  5 ft. &  5 ft. &  5 ft. &  5 ft. &  5 ft. &  10
I.   Minimum Side Yard Setback                    5 ft. &  10 ft.   10 ft.   10 ft.   10 ft.   10 ft.   10 ft.   ft.
                                                     10ft.(d) (d)      (d)      (d)      (d)      (d)      (d)      (f)
                                                                                                                    (g)
                                                                                                                    10
J.   Minimum Rear Yard Setback                    25 ft.   25 ft.   15 ft.   15 ft.   15 ft.   10 ft.   10 ft.   ft.
                                                                                                                    (f)
                                                                                                                    (g)
K.   Minimum Usable Private Open Space            N/A      N/A      N/A      2,000    2,000    150 sf/  150 sf/  N/A
                                                                                sf/unit  sf/unit  unit     unit
 
Abbreviations: sf = square feet; ft = feet; ac = acre; du = dwelling unit; N/
A = not applicable
   Notes:
   (a)   See Section
17.20.040(a) for further requirements.
   (b)   Exempt antennas as defined in this Zoning Code are exempt from height
requirements.
   (c)   “Average setback” shall be measured for each side of each block of a
street, or for all the homes on a cul-de-sac. No two (2) adjacent structures or
garages may have the same setback. Changes in setback of adjacent structures or
garages must be at least two (2) feet.
   (d)   Ten feet (10') shall be on street side where applicable, otherwise
driveway side is preferred.
   (e)   Within one hundred (100) feet of a single-family detached residential
zone, buildings shall not be more than two (2) stories and not more than
thirty-five (35) feet.
   (f)   Driveways and parking areas parallel to the streets or single-family
residential zones are allowed within ten (10) feet of the street or single-
family residential zone, with a hedge and landscaping, provided pursuant to
Section
17.60 and
17.20.050(f).
   (g)   Where adjacent to a single-family detached residential zone, minimum
street setbacks shall be twenty (20) feet, or the same as the adjacent
residential structures, whichever is less.
   (h)   Architectural elements for Churches, such as steeples, may exceed the
maximum height and shall not exceed seventy-five (75) feet.
TABLE 20-1a
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES SETBACKS
 
Zoning Districts
Development DL-9   DL-2.5/ R1-.5  R1     R3-8      R-S5   R-M12     R3-30
Standard           & DL-5
A. Maximum
Building    15 ft. 15 ft.  15 ft. 15 ft. 15 ft.    15 ft. 15 ft.    15 ft.
Height (a)
                                                                    0 ft./10
                                                                    ft.
B. Minimum                                                          adjacent to
Side        5 ft.  5 ft.   5 ft.  5 ft.  5 ft.     5 ft.  5 ft.     street or
Setback (b)                                                         single-
                                                                    family
                                                                    residential
                                                                    0 ft./10
                                                                    ft.
C. Minimum                                                          adjacent to
Rear        25 ft. 25 ft.  5 ft.  15 ft. 10 ft.    15 ft. 10ft.     street or
Setback                                                             single-
                                                                    family
                                                                    residential
D. Minimum
Distance    10 ft. 10 ft.  10 ft. 10 ft. 10 ft.(c) 10 ft. 10 ft.(c) 10 ft.(c)
Between
Buildings
 
   Abbreviations: sf = square feet; ft = feet; ac = acre; du = dwelling unit;
N/A = not applicable
   Notes:
   (a)   Additional height may be allowable provided a two (2) foot additional
setback is provided for each one (1) foot of increased height. A maximum
overall height of twenty-five (25) feet is permitted for an accessory
structure.
   (b)   The minimum street side setback is ten (10) feet. Residential
accessory structures are not allowed in the front yard setback. In the R3-30
Zoning District, where adjacent to a single-family detached residential zone,
minimum street setbacks shall be twenty (20) feet, or the same as the adjacent
residential structures, whichever is less.
   (c)   The minimum distance for primary buildings within multi-family
developments see
Table 20-4.
   (d)   Residential accessory structures less than one hundred twenty (120)
square feet in area shall be no closer than five (5) feet to an interior side
or rear property line.
[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No.
511, Exhibit A, 3/28/12; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit F, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528,
Exhibit G, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit B, 5/27/15.]
17.20.040 Minimum Residential Design Standards
   The following minimum standards shall apply to all residential construction
projects, including manufactured housing. Additional design requirements can be
found in
Chapter 17.15 Design Standards of this Zoning Code.
   (a)   Dwelling units in the DL-9, DL-2.5/5, R1-.5, R1, R3-8, RS-5 and RM-12
districts shall have a minimum gross floor area of seven hundred fifty (750)
square feet and dwelling units in the R3-30 district shall have a minimum gross
floor area of six hundred (600) square feet. The minimum dwelling unit width
and depth shall be twenty (20) feet measured from the exterior of the structure
and excluding garages, porches, patios, eaves, cabanas, and bay windows.
   (b)   Siding material shall consist of stucco, wood, brick, stone, or
decorative concrete block. Synthetic materials of a similar appearance and
equivalent durability shall be permitted. Exterior siding shall extend to a
point at or near grade. However, if an approved solid wood, metal, concrete, or
masonry perimeter foundation is used, the siding need not extend below the top
of the foundation.
   (c)   All single-family residential units are required to include tile
roofing material.
   (d)   Utility hookups and an area shall be provided to accommodate
installation of a clothes washer and dryer. The hookups and area shall be
provided within the primary structure or within an enclosed accessory
structure.
   (e)   Areas for trash receptacles and recycling containers shall be provided
as required by the City of Adelanto.
   (f)   Mobile homes or manufactured homes placed in residential subdivisions
shall be designed and built to have an appearance similar to or in conformance
with the predominating architectural style of homes on the street. This shall
include, but not be limited to:
      •   Massing            •   Building materials
      •   Roofing materials         •   Window and architectural treatments
      •   Compliance with Fire Overlay standards
[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No.
511, Exhibit A, 3/28/12; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit F, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528,
Exhibit G, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit B, 5/27/15.]
17.20.050 Attached Single-Family and Multi-Family Housing - Additional
Standards
   (a)   Open Space Requirements
      (1)   All attached single-family and multi-family developments with ten
(10) or more dwelling units shall provide a minimum of five hundred (500)
square feet of a combination of private and common usable open space per unit.
Table 20-2 indicates the minimum open space dimensions for usable common and
private open space areas. The City may, at its discretion, include private
patios, decks, or balconies in the calculation of open space provided within a
development. Required front and street side setback areas, driveways, parking
areas, and walkways shall not be used to satisfy any part of the common open
space requirement.
TABLE 20-2
USABLE OPEN SPACE DIMENSIONS
FOR MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENTS
 
Zone and Type of             Minimum Area Per Unit Minimum Length Minimum Width
Usable Open Space
R3-8                         350 sf                12 ft.         12 ft.
1. Common                    150 sf                10 ft.         10 ft.
2. Private
R-M12                        150 sf                10 ft.         10 ft.
Combined Common and Private
R3-30
Combined Common and Private  500 sf                5 ft.          5 ft.
(a)
 
    (a)   Where Private Open Space is provided, it shall have a minimum of
forty (40) square feet in area and a minimum dimension of five (5) feet.
      (2)   Required Amenities. All attached single-family and multi-family
housing developments shall provide recreational amenities within the common
open space. Common open space amenities shall include, but not be limited to
recreational amenities such as swimming pool, picnic/barbeque area, volleyball
court, passive sitting area, tot lot, children’s playground (combined age group
2-5 and age group 5-12) and indoor recreation/meeting room/fitness area.
Amenities shall be provided in accordance with the following:
TABLE 20-3
COMMON AREA AMENITY REQUIREMENTS
 
Number of Dwelling Units Number of Common Area Amenities Required
0 - 10                   0
10 - 50                  1
51 - 100                 2
101 -200                 3, including swimming pool or spa
200+                     4, including swimming pool and spa
      * Planning Director may determine additional amenities are required for
projects that consist of 400+ units.
   (b)   Laundry Facilities
      Laundry facilities shall be installed in each unit or a laundry room
shall be installed within each building or within an enclosed accessory
building located at a maximum walking distance of two hundred fifty (250) feet
from the units they serve, with an appropriate ratio of machines per dwelling
unit.
   (c)   Onsite Storage
      Each dwelling unit shall be provided a minimum of seventy-five cubic feet
of lockable storage space outside the unit such as at the entrance of the unit,
on the balcony, within a carport or garage or other similar location outside
the unit.
   (d)   Trash Enclosures
      Trash enclosures shall be provided for any attached single-family and
multi-family housing development for the temporary storage and collection of
trash, rubbish, and/or garbage in accordance with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   Trash enclosures shall be provided at a rate of 1 bin/24 units or a
double bin per 48 units.
      (2)   All trash enclosures shall be located for convenient access by
occupants of the site and vehicular access for pick-up and disposal. Trash
enclosures shall be located to provide a maximum walking distance of two
hundred fifty (250) feet from the units they serve.
      (3)   Trash enclosures shall be enclosed by a decorative masonry wall,
architecturally compatible with the main building(s). Such enclosure shall
include a solid gate for bin access and a separate view obstructing pedestrian
access. A trellis of non-flammable materials or heavy timbers, consistent with
Fire Department requirements, shall be provided over trash enclosures which are
not inside a structure.
      (4)   All trash enclosures visible from streets or public parking areas
shall be constructed and finished to be compatible with the architectural
details and decor of the primary structure(s).
      (5)   All trash enclosures shall be regularly cleaned and maintained.
      (6)   All trash containers and trash bins shall incorporate a tight-
fitting lid.
      (7)   Trash enclosures are prohibited in the front setback, or any
setback areas abutting residential zones, or properties used for residential
purposes.
   (e)   Professional Management Required
      Management by a professional management company providing full-time
services for the management of rental housing facilities is required for all
rental housing in a multi-family complex of ten units or more.
   (f)   Landscaping
      Landscaping is required as specified in Chapters 17.60 and 17.15 of this
Zoning Code. In addition to these requirements, multi-family developments whose
driveways (entry driveways and internal circulation driveways) are located
within any street-side setback and are not perpendicular to the street are
required to install a 36" high hedge or decorative wall adjacent to driveways,
for screening purposes.
   (g)   Parking Spaces
      (1)   Parking spaces shall be provided and located as specified in
Chapters 17.65 and 17.15 of this Zoning Code. Required parking spaces can be
reduced by thirty percent (30%) when seventy-five percent (75%) or more of the
units within a housing development are affordable to low or very-low income
levels, or as determined appropriate by the Planning Director.
      (2)   Where driveways and parking spaces are located adjacent to a
single-family detached residential zone, driveways and parking spaces shall
have a landscaped setback from the property line a minimum of ten (10) feet and
a block wall or solid fence, a minimum of six (6) feet in height, shall be
provided adjacent to the property line.
   (h)   Required Building Separation for Primary Buildings within Attached
Single-Family and Multi-Family Developments
      The building separation requirements outlined in
Table 20-3 shall apply to any lot containing two or more dwelling units located
in separate, detached structures. The required separations shall be between
opposite exterior walls of any buildings containing dwelling units. In the
event that more stringent requirements are imposed by the Uniform Building Code
or the Fire Department, the more stringent regulations shall apply.
TABLE 20-4
MINIMUM BUILDING SEPARATION
FOR PRIMARY BUILDINGS WITHIN ATTACHED SINGLE-FAMILY
AND MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENTS
 
Height of Building1 Minimum Required Separation
Less than 25 ft.    10 ft.
25 to 40 ft.        20 ft.
 
    1.   Where buildings of different heights are adjacent, the standard for
the taller building shall apply.
[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No.
511, Exhibit A, 3/28/12; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit F, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528,
Exhibit G, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit B, 5/27/15.]
17.20.060 Mobilehome Parks
   (a)   Purpose
      The purpose of this Section is to provide regulations for the location,
design, and improvement of mobilehome parks, as defined by Section 18214 of the
Health and Safety Code.
   (b)   Other Regulations
      The provisions of the Mobilehome Parks Act, California Health and Safety
Code, Division 13, Part 2.1 and the applicable regulations adopted pursuant
thereto by the State Department of Housing and Community Development are hereby
adopted as a part of this Section. It shall be the duty of the County
Department of Environmental Health Services to enforce all of the provisions of
said Act pertaining to the construction, alteration, or modification of all
manufactured dwelling units within mobile home parks. Construction only of all
other structures shall be subject to the review and approval of the Planning
Department and the Building and Safety Division. It shall be the duty of the
County Department of Environmental Health Services to enforce all the
provisions pertaining to permits for the operation, maintenance, use,
occupancy, sanitation, and safety of all mobilehome parks.
   (c)   Establishment of Mobilehome Parks
      (1)   A Conditional Use Permit (CUP) application shall be filed pursuant
to the requirements of
Chapter 17.130. Each CUP application filed pursuant to this Section shall be in
compliance with the General Plan, Specific Plan, and any adopted amendment(s)
thereto.
      (2)   Each map or plan completed for the CUP application shall be
prepared by an architect, professional engineer, or other person qualified to
do such work. The map shall be drawn at a scale of one inch (1") equals fifty
feet (50') or less. Information required shall be as specified by the CUP
application packet.
   (d)   Standards of Design and Improvements
      (1)   Minimum Areas - Manufactured housing parks shall be developed on a
parcel of land at least ten (10) acres in area.
      (2)   Drainage and Flood Hazard - The park shall be located on a well-
drained site, properly graded to provide for adequate runoff. The site shall be
free of flood hazard from external sources. The Planning Director may require
dedications and improvements which will ensure proper protection of the park in
accordance with this Section.
      (3)   Streets and Highways - Dedications and improvements on streets and
highways abutting the proposed park are required in accordance with the
Circulation Element of the General Plan and established widths of local and
collector streets.
      (4)   Lot/Space Area and Dimensions - Each lot or space shall contain a
minimum area of three thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet with a minimum
width of forty feet (40') fronting on a driveway and a minimum depth of seventy
feet (70'). However, the following exceptions shall apply:
         A.   Lots larger than the above minimum sizes may be required where it
is determined that increased lot size will be consistent with the general
pattern established by manufactured housing parks in the vicinity, or be
necessary to accommodate manufactured home sizes proposed by the CUP.
         B.   Lots on curved driveways or cul-de-sacs, where lot lines are
either converging or diverging from the front to the rear of the lot, shall
have an average width at least thirty feet (30'), but in no case shall the
frontage on a driveway be less than twenty-five feet (25').
      (5)   Distance Between Units - Mobilehomes shall be spaced in accordance
with the requirements of Title 25 of the California Code of Regulations.
      (6)   Lot Coverage - Maximum lot coverage shall be as specified in Title
25 of the California Code of Regulations.
      (7)   Required Perimeter Landscaping - A landscaped parkway of at least
twenty feet (20') in width shall be provided along the entire perimeter of each
mobilehome park where the park is adjacent to a public roadway.
      (8)   Private Roads Within a Park - Roads within parks shall be designed
to provide reasonable and convenient traffic circulation and shall meet the
following minimum standards:
         A.   No road shall be less than thirty-three feet (33') wide if car
parking is permitted on one side of the road, and not less than forty-one feet
(41') wide if car parking is permitted on both sides.
         B.   The entire width of the roads within manufactured housing parks
shall be surfaced with a minimum of two inch (2") thick asphalt, concrete,
plant mix, or other approved material.
      (9)   Parking - Parking shall be provided as specified in
Chapter 17.65 of this Zoning Code.
      (10)   Walkways - Walkways shall be provided to permit reasonably direct
access to all lots, service buildings, and other areas or buildings used by
occupants of the manufactured homes. Collector walkways serving utility
buildings, playgrounds, and other general areas shall be four feet (4') wide or
more, and individual entrance walks to each manufactured home site shall be at
least two feet (2') wide. All walkways shall be constructed of asphalt,
concrete, or other approved materials which will permit all-weather pedestrian
movement.
      (11)   Vehicle Storage - Common storage areas shall be provided for the
residents of the park for the storage of recreational vehicles, trailers,
travel trailers, and other licensed or unlicensed vehicles. This area shall
total not less than fifty (50) square feet for each lot. All storage on a lot
shall be in accordance with the provisions of Title 25 of the California Code
of Regulations.
   (e)   Subdivisions of Mobilehome Parks
      Subdivision of mobilehome parks shall comply with all appropriate design
standards established by this Section and all applicable State and City
subdivision requirements.
[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No.
515, Exhibit F, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit G, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535,
Exhibit B, 5/27/15.]
17.20.070 Residential Condominium Conversions
   (a)   Purpose and Intent
      This Section provides standards and criteria for converting multi-family
dwellings, including dwelling units in a rental manufactured housing park, to
residential condominium, stock cooperative, and community apartment types of
ownership. The standards and criteria promote the retention of affordable
housing and promote design quality.
   (b)   Standards
      The conversion shall be designed to comply with all applicable
development standards of the zoning district in which it is located. In
addition, the following standards shall apply:
      (1)   Conversion projects shall provide high quality urban design by the
provision of architectural enhancement, high quality landscaping, and high
quality construction.
      (2)   Privacy between residential units shall be enhanced through urban
design, insulation, and other means.
      (3)   An individual gas and/or electrical metering system shall be
provided for each dwelling unit.
      (4)   Where individual trash and recycling pick-up is not provided,
common trash and recycling storage shall be provided within a totally walled
structure six feet (6') in height. The enclosure or enclosures shall be located
within two hundred feet (200') of all dwelling units.
      (5)   Conversion requires approval of a Tentative Tract or Parcel Map
pursuant to the requirements of Adelanto Municipal Code. The application for
conversion must also include the following additional information:
         A.   A detailed report by licensed certified professionals describing
the condition of all structural, electrical, plumbing, and mechanical elements
of the existing development, including noise insulation, and the estimated cost
of repair or improvement, if any, in a form acceptable to the City.
         B.   A complete and current mailing list and two (2) sets of addressed
stamped envelopes of all tenants occupying the subject property as specified by
the Planning Department shall be submitted and utilized to provide notice of
the public hearing for consideration of the application for conversion.
   (c)   Tenant Provisions
      Each application for conversion shall include assurance that the
following provisions of the Government Code will be or have been satisfied:
Government Code Sections 66452.8, 66452.9, 66427.1, and any other requirements
of the applicable law requiring that tenants or potential tenants receive
notice regarding conversion.
[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit F, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit G, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit B, 5/27/15.]
17.20.080 Accessory Dwelling Units and Junior Accessory Dwelling Units
      (a)   Purpose
         The purpose of this section is to establish regulations and procedures
for reviewing permitting Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) and Junior Accessory
Dwelling Units (JADUs) consistent with California Government Code Sections
65852.2 and 65852.22, or any successor statute.
      (b)   Definitions
         Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) - A dwelling unit that is either
attached to, detached from, or contained within the principal dwelling unit
located or proposed on a site zoned for residential use.
         Accessory Structure - A structure that is located on the same lot as
the primary dwelling. An accessory structure may be either attached or detached
from the primary dwelling and must have a use that is incidental to the main
use. Examples of residential accessory uses include, but are not limited to,
storage sheds, garages, studios.
         Attached ADU - An accessory dwelling unit created by new construction
that is attached to the primary dwelling unit by a shared wall, floor, or
ceiling. Attached ADUs cannot be constructed in a multi-family project.
         By-right - Zoning allows development to proceed without the need for a
discretionary permit including but not limited to a conditional use permit,
variance, or zoning amendment.
         Car Share Vehicle - Car sharing organizations offer members use of
cars on a short-term basis.
         Converted ADU - An accessory dwelling unit created by the conversion
of existing floor area within either the primary dwelling unit or an accessory
structure or by total replacement of an existing accessory structure with an
ADU.
         Detached ADU - An accessory dwelling unit located on the same parcel
and is created by new construction that is detached, or separate from, the
primary dwelling unit. Detached ADUs may be constructed on single-family
parcels or multi-family properties.
         Efficiency Kitchen - For purposes of establishing a JADU, an
efficiency kitchen shall be defined as area that shall include a sink, food
preparation counter and food storage area. A plug-in food preparation, such as
a microwave or hot plate, may also be provided.
         Existing Building Envelope - The existing walls and roofs of a
dwelling that separate interior space for exterior space. A space enclosed by
at least two (2) walls and a roof is within the existing building envelope.
         Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit (JADU) - A dwelling unit accessory to
and entirely contained within an existing or proposed single-family dwelling. A
JADU may have a bathroom or may share a bathroom with the primary dwelling
unit.
         Kitchen - An area that includes a cooking appliance, sink,
refrigerator and food preparation and storage area.
         Minor Variance - Defined in Adelanto Municipal Code Section 17.140, a
minor variance to specific development standards may be approved by the
Development Services Director.
         Multi-family Dwelling - An existing building that contains more than
one dwelling unit and is located within a zoning district that allows multi-
family dwellings.
         Primary Dwelling Unit - May be any of the following: an existing
single-family dwelling, a proposed single-family dwelling, or an existing
multi-family structure.
         Proposed Dwelling - A dwelling that has applied for a permit and that
meets the requirements for permitting.
         Public Transit - A location, including, but not limited to, a bus stop
or train station, where the public may access buses, trains, subways, and other
forms of transportation that charge set fares, run on fixed routes and are
available to the public.
         Tandem Parking - When two (2) or more vehicles are parked lined up one
behind the other.
         Underlying Zoning - The zoning district in which a parcel is located
on the City of Adelanto Zoning Map or within a specific plan.
      (c)   Applicability
         Any construction, establishment, alteration, enlargement, or
modification of an ADU or a JADU shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter and the City’s building and fire codes. An ADU or JADU shall be deemed:
         (1)   Consistent with the general plan designation and zoning for the
parcel on which the ADU or JADU is located.
         (2)   Within the allowable density for the parcel on which the ADU or
JADU is located.
      (d)   Review Authority
         (1)   Building Permit Approval; Compliance with Underlying Zoning.
ADUs and JADUs that meet the applicable development standards described in this
chapter and the requirements of the underlying zoning shall be approved by
building permit review.
         (2)   Minor Variance Approval. An ADU that exceed the maximum height
standards may be permitted subject to approval of a minor variance if the
proposed unit meets the standards outlined in
Chapter 17.140 and it can be demonstrated that the proposed ADU is designed so
that it does not negatively impact the neighboring properties.
         (3)   Ministerial Review. A permit application for an ADU or a JADU
shall be considered and approved ministerially without discretionary review or
a hearing.
         (4)   Timelines. The City shall act on an application to create an ADU
or JADU within 60 days from the date the City receives a completed application
if there is an existing single-family or multi-family dwelling on the lot. If
the permit application to create an ADU unit or a JADU is submitted with a
permit application to create a new single-family dwelling on the lot, the City
may delay acting on the permit application for the ADU or the JADU until the
City acts on the permit application to create the new single-family dwelling,
but the application to create the ADU or Junior ADU shall be considered without
discretionary review or hearing. If the applicant requests a delay, the 60-day
time period shall be tolled for the period of the delay. If the City has not
acted upon the completed application within 60 days, the application shall be
deemed approved.
      (e)   Location
         (1)   ADUs and JADUs are permitted on sites that have a proposed or
existing primary dwelling unit and with underlying zoning that allow single-
family homes by-right or conditional use.
         (2)   ADUs are permitted on sites that have a proposed or existing
multi-family residences and with underlying zoning districts that allow multi-
family homes by-right.
         (3)   JADUs are not permitted on sites where a portion of the primary
dwelling has been converted to an ADU.
         (4)   JADUs are not permitted on sites with multi-family projects.
      (f)   Development Standards for All ADUs
         Except as modified by this Chapter, all ADUs shall conform to the
requirements of the underlying residential zoning district and the Zoning Code
in addition to the standards listed below. JADUs shall also be subject to these
standards.
         (1)   Minimum Lot Area. Shall be determined by the underlying zoning
as long as it does not prohibit construction of an ADU or JADU as described in
this Section
17.20.080.
         (2)   Building Height. Shall not exceed sixteen (16) feet unless the
proposed ADU is within the existing building envelope or permitted by minor
variance approval.
         (3)   Minimum Unit Size. Must have a minimum of one hundred fifty
(150) square feet floor area as provided in Health and Safety Code Section
17958.1.
         (4)   Setbacks.
            a.   Front yard. Determined by underlying zone.
            b.   Side and Rear yards. Minimum four (4) feet or underlying zone,
whichever is less.
            c.   When a property is adjacent to an alley, the side or rear yard
setback may be reduced with a minor variance approval.
         (5)   Architectural Design. The architectural design of the ADU shall
be compatible with the architectural style and materials used in the primary
dwelling.
         (6)   Exterior Entrance. All units must have an entrance separate from
the primary dwelling entrance.
         (7)   Garage Doors. When garages are converted to ADUs or JADUs the
garage door for vehicles must be replaced with a wall that matches the existing
architecture.
         (8)   Bathroom. A separate bathroom is required.
         (9)   Kitchen. A kitchen area is required.
         (10)   Fire Sprinklers. Fire sprinklers are required when the primary
dwelling unit has fire sprinklers.
         (11)   Underlying Zoning Standards. Lot coverage, distance
requirements between structures and other standards established by the
underlying zoning may be applied so long as the application of the requirements
do not prohibit construction of an ADU with a floor area that is eight hundred
(800) square feet or less, or a peak height above grade that is no more than
sixteen (16) feet, or with side and rear yard setbacks that are no less than
four (4) feet.
         (12)   No passageway shall be required between the primary dwelling
and the ADU or JADU.
      (g)   Specific Development Standards for Single-Family - Attached ADUs
         In addition to the development standards outlined in Section
17.20.080(f), attached ADUs shall comply with the following standards.
         (1)   Zoning. ADUs are allowed in any zoning that permits a single-
family residence by-right.
         (2)   Maximum Number of Units on a Site. No more than one (1) primary
dwelling unit and one (1) attached ADU are permitted.
         (3)   Maximum Unit Size. The attached ADU shall have an area no more
than fifty percent (50%) of the floor area in the primary dwelling.
            a.   Studios and one (1)-bedroom units - eight hundred fifty (850)
square feet.
            b.   More than one (1)-bedroom units - one thousand (1,000) square
feet.
         (4)   Parking Requirements. Except as provided in Section
17.20.080(l), one (1) parking space shall be required.
      (h)   Specific Development Standards for Single-Family - Detached ADUs
         In addition to the development standards outlined in Section
17.20.080(f), detached ADUs shall comply with the following standards.
         (1)   Zoning. ADUs are allowed in any zoning that permits a single-
family residence by-right.
         (2)   Maximum Number of Units on a Site. No more than one (1) primary
dwelling unit, one detached ADU and one JADU are permitted.
         (3)   Maximum Unit Size.
            a.   Studios and one (1)-bedroom units - eight hundred fifty (850)
square feet.
            b.   More than one (1)-bedroom units - one thousand (1,000) square
feet.
         (4)   Parking Requirements. Except as provided in Section
17.20.080(l), one (1) parking space shall be required.
      (i)   Specific Development Standards for Single-Family - Converted ADUs
         In addition to the development standards outlined in Section
17.20.080(f), converted ADUs shall comply with the following standards.
         (1)   Zoning. ADUs and JADUs are allowed in any zoning that permits a
single-family residence by-right.
         (2)   Maximum Number of Units on a Site. No more than one (1) primary
dwelling unit and one (1) converted ADU. No JADUs are permitted.
         (3)   Maximum Unit Size. The attached ADU shall have an area no more
than fifty percent (50%) of the floor area in the primary dwelling.
            a.   Studios and one (1)-bedroom units - eight hundred fifty (850)
square feet.
            b.   More than one (1)-bedroom units - one thousand (1,000) square
feet.
         (4)   Building Envelope. The converted ADU must be constructed within
the existing floor area of the primary dwelling.
         (5)   Additional Floor Area. Building envelope may be increased by up
to one hundred fifty (150) square feet to accommodate a new entrance to the
converted ADU.
         (6)   Parking Requirements
            a.   Primary Dwelling. When a garage is converted to an ADU, the
parking for the primary dwelling does not have to be replaced.
            b.   ADU. None.
      (j)   Specific Development Standards for JADUs
         In addition to the development standards outlined in Section
17.20.080(f), JADUs shall comply with the following standards.
         (1)   Zoning. JADUs are allowed in any zoning that permits a single-
family residence by-right.
         (2)   Maximum Number of JADUs on a Site. One (1).
         (3)   Maximum Unit Size. The maximum floor area of a JADU shall not
exceed five hundred (500) square feet.
         (4)   Building Envelope. The JADU must be constructed within the
existing building envelope of the primary dwelling.
         (5)   Additional Floor Area. Building envelope may be increased by up
to one hundred fifty (150) square feet to accommodate a new entrance to the
JADU.
         (6)   Exterior Entrance. JADU must have an entrance separate from the
primary dwelling entrance.
         (7)   Parking Requirements. None.
      (k)   Specific Development Standards for ADUs in Multi-Family Sites
         In addition to the development standards outlined in Section
17.20.080(f), multi-family ADUs shall comply with the following standards.
         (1)   Zoning. ADUs are allowed on residential and mixed use zoned
properties with existing or proposed multi-family dwellings.
         (2)   Maximum Number of Units
            a.   Converted units - at least one (1) and no more than twenty-
five percent (25%) of the existing number of units.
            b.   Detached units - two (2).
         (3)   Location
            a.   Site must have an existing or proposed multi-family structure;
and
            b.   ADUs must be located within portions of the structure that are
not used as livable space, including but not limited to storage rooms, boiler
rooms, passageways, attics, basements, and garages.
         (4)   Multi-Family Sites. The number of new multi-family units
permitted in a multi-family project shall not exceed twenty-five percent (25%)
of the existing multi-family units and shall be calculated in the following
manner:
            a.   Previously approved ADUs shall not count towards the existing
multi-family dwellings;
            b.   Fractions shall be rounded down to the next lower number of
dwelling units, except that at least one (1) ADU shall be permitted; and
            c.   Multi-family projects approved and built as a single complex
shall be considered one lot, regardless of the number of parcels or buildings.
         (5)   Maximum Unit Size.
            a.   Studios and one (1)-bedroom units - eight hundred fifty (850)
square feet.
            b.   More than one (1)-bedroom units - one thousand (1,000) square
feet.
         (6)   Type of ADUs
            a.   Permitted. Converted or detached ADUs.
            b.   Prohibited. Attached ADUs and JADUs.
         (7)   Parking Requirements. Except as provided in Section
17.20.080(l), the parking requirements shall be as follows:
            a.   Converted units - none.
            b.   Detached units - one (1) per ADU.
      (l)   Parking Standards
         (1)   Parking Requirements. Parking shall comply with Section
17.65.040, except as modified by the requirements of this Chapter.
            a.   Unless the requirement is exempted or waived by other
provisions of this Chapter, each ADU shall have one (1) designated off-street
parking space.
            b.   Tandem parking and parking within the rear and side yard
setbacks are permitted unless findings can be made by City staff demonstrating
that the design or location would create dangerous life or fire safety
conditions.
            c.   When a garage or carport is demolished or converted to an ADU,
replacement parking is not required.
         (2)   Parking Not Required. ADUs do not need to provide parking when
one (1) of the following standards is met.
            a.   The property is within one-half (1/2) mile walking distance of
public transit.
            b.   The ADU is within an architecturally and historically
significant historic district.
            c.   The ADU is part of the proposed or existing primary residence
or an accessory structure.
            d.   When on-street parking permits are required but not offered to
the occupant of the ADU.
            e.   When there is a carshare vehicle located within one (1) block
of the ADU.
      (m)   Operational Requirements for All ADUs and JADUs
         (1)   No Separate Conveyance
            a.   Single-Family ADUs and JADUs. Except as otherwise provided in
Government Code Section 65852.26, an ADU or JADU may be rented separate from
the primary dwelling, but may not be sold or otherwise conveyed separately from
the lot and the primary dwelling multi-family ADUs. Except as otherwise
provided in Government Code Section 65852.26, an ADU or JADU may be rented
separate from the primary dwelling, but may not be sold or otherwise conveyed
separately from the lot and the primary dwelling.
         (2)   Short-Term Lodging. An ADU or JADU permitted by this Chapter
shall not be rented for periods of thirty (30) days or less.
         (3)   Deed Restriction and Recordation. Prior to issuance of a
building and/or grading permit for an ADU, the property owner shall record a
deed restriction with the County Recorder’s office, the form and content of
which is satisfactory to the City Attorney. This deed restriction shall remain
in effect so long as the ADU and/or JADU remains on the lot. The deed
restriction document shall notify future owners of the following:
            a.   Prohibition on the separate conveyance of the property, except
as otherwise provided in Government Code Section 65852.26;
            b.   Approved size and attributes of the units or units; and
            c.   Restrictions on short-term rentals.
      (n)   Development Impact Fees
         (1)   Single-Family ADUs. ADUs up to seven hundred fifty (750) square
feet are exempt from impact fees. ADUs that are seven hundred fifty (750)
square feet or larger shall be subject to impact fees that are proportional in
size (by square foot) to those for the primary dwelling unit and in all cases
the impact fee must be less than the primary dwelling unit, per Government Code
Section 65852.2, subsection (f)(3) as may be amended. Proportionate in size
means the square foot amount that corresponds to the total square foot amount
of the primary dwelling unit (for example, a two thousand (2,000) square foot
primary dwelling with a proposed one thousand (1,000) square foot ADU would
result in fifty percent (50%) of the impact fee that would be charged for a new
primary dwelling on the same site).
         (2)   Multi-Family ADUs. For ADUs that are seven hundred fifty (750)
square foot or larger on a lot with a multi-family dwelling, the
proportionality share of impact fees shall be based on the average square
footage of the units within that multi-family dwelling structure.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit F, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit G, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit B, 5/27/15; Ord. No. 627,
Exhibit C, 6/22/22.]
17.20.090   Outdoor Storage
   The outdoor storage of boats, travel trailers, and other recreational
vehicles on residential lots shall be permitted subject to the following:
   (a)   The outdoor storage of boats, travel trailers, and other recreational
vehicles is permitted on residential lots provided that:
      (1)   Sufficient distance, as required by the Uniform Building Code, is
provided between the vehicle/object and any inhabited building,
      (2)   Vehicles are subject to the requirements contained in Section
17.65.040(b) of this Code.
   (b)   Portable, semi-permanent, or permanent covers used to protect boats,
travel trailers, or recreational vehicles from the sun and weather may be used,
provided that:
      (1)   Such structures are located entirely behind the front setback line
of the lot.
      (2)   They are located behind a solid type fence/wall concealing them
from view from the right-of-way.
      (3)   Sufficient distance, as required by the Uniform Building Code, is
provided between the structure and any inhabited building.
      (4)   The boat, trailer, or vehicle under the cover is parked consistent
with the requirements of Section
17.65.040(b) of this Zoning Code.
      (5)   The cover is maintained in good repair.
   (c)   One (1) such cover may be used for each 7,200 square feet of lot area,
with a maximum of two (2) covers per lot.
[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No.
515, Exhibit F, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit G, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535,
Exhibit B, 5/27/15.]
17.20.100   Supportive and Transitional Housing Facilities
   (a)   In accordance with section 65583 of the California Government Code,
transitional housing and supportive housing shall be considered a residential
use of property, and shall be subject only to those restrictions that apply to
other residential dwellings of the same type in the same zone.
[Ord. No. 535, Exhibit B, 5/27/15.]
17.20.110   Emergency Shelters
   (a)   An emergency shelter may include general office activities and provide
for services such as, donations, mail reception, referral services, job
placement services, worship, bible study, group meetings and clothing
assistance.
   (b)   The maximum length of stay for a resident of an emergency shelter
shall be six months.
   (c)   An emergency shelter shall be a minimum of 1,000 feet from a nursing
home, school, Public Park, assembly facility or another emergency shelter.
   (d)   Off-street parking shall be provided at the ratio of one on-site
parking space for every ten adult beds, plus one additional space for the on-
site manager. No client shall sleep or live within a motor vehicle on the
shelter property at any time.
   (e)   All shelters shall meet and comply with all Local, County and State
Health and Safety codes and laws such as, but not limited to, the California
Building Code, the California Fire Code and the San Bernardino County Division
of Environmental Health Services.
   (f)   Prior to occupancy, a shelter must be inspected to ensure all
standards are met. No facility may operate unless all requirements are
satisfied.
   (g)   Any outdoor or indoor event not specifically permitted with a shelter
shall require review and approval of a Temporary Use Permit by the Planning
Department Subject to the discretion of the Director or Designee.
   (h)   Yard sales are limited to three consecutive days and up to four times
per calendar year. Car washes are limited to one day and up to four times per
calendar year. Both events must have all applicable permits approved and all
fees paid.
   (i)   There shall be no outdoor storage permitted, including but not limited
to clothes lines and shopping carts.
   (j)   Loitering or panhandling at or near shelters is prohibited, including
but not limited to, businesses, sidewalks, parking lots, public parks, right-
of-way or other private properties.
   (k)   The intake or gathering of for meals, temporary uses or events shall
occur in an enclosed or screened area and the queuing of any individuals shall
not be visible from the right-of-way.
   (l)   On-site personnel shall be provided during all hours of operation and
a designated area shall be maintained for such personnel near the main entry of
the facility.
   (m)   Each shelter must designate and maintain set hours of operation for
intake and discharge and must clearly display the hours of operation at the
entrance.
   (n)   A shelter shall not admit any person who is wanted by the police or
has been convicted of a violent crime. The operator shall conduct a background
check using the Megan’s Law database and restrict client intake in accordance
with state sex offender residency restrictions.
   (o)   Each shelter shall submit, on a monthly basis, the names and number of
homeless personnel to the Sheriffs Department.
   (p)   Emergency shelters shall provide a detailed security plan for review
and approval to the Planning Department prior to operation. Any violation of
the approved security plan shall be grounds for the revocation of the business
and/or occupancy license.
   (q)   A restroom facility shall be provided for every twenty clients
residing at the shelter. Separate and secured areas shall be provided for both
men and women for sleeping, showering and restroom facilities. The shelter
manager shall be responsible for ensuring that all restroom and showering
facilities comply with City and State building Codes.
   (r)   All shelters must obtain a business license and an occupancy permit
from the Planning Department.
   (s)   Any food service or on-site meal preparation areas shall comply with
all applicable City of Adelanto and San Bernardino County Division of
Environmental Health Services requirements.
[Ord. No. 535, Exhibit B, 5/27/15.]
CHAPTER 17.21
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY BONUS
   
17.21.010   Purpose and Intent
   
17.21.020   Definitions
   
17.21.030   Implementation
   
17.21.040   Development Standards
   
17.21.050   Development Incentives
   
17.21.060   Application Requirements and Review
   
17.21.070    Density Bonus Housing Agreement
Section 17.21.010. Purpose and Intent.
This Density Bonus Ordinance is intended to provide incentives for the
production of housing for very low, lower income, or senior households in
accordance with Sections 65915 and 65917 of the California Government Code. In
enacting this Chapter, it is the intent of the City of Adelanto to facilitate
the development of affordable housing and to implement the goals, objectives,
and policies of the City’s Housing Element.
The regulations and procedures set forth in this Chapter shall be publicized by
the City and shall apply throughout the City. Sections of the California
Government Code referenced in this Chapter and application forms for complying
with this Chapter, shall be available to the public.
Section 17.21.020. Definitions.
Whenever the following terms are used in this Chapter, they shall have the
meaning established by this section:
"Additional Incentives" means such regulatory concessions as specified in
California Government Code Subsections 65915 (d) and (h) to include, but not be
limited to, the reduction of site development standards or zoning code
requirements, direct financial assistance, approval of mixed-use zoning in
conjunction with the Housing Development, or any other regulatory incentive
which would result in identifiable cost avoidance or reductions that are
offered in addition to a Density Bonus. See Section
17.21.050 of this Chapter.
"Affordable Rent" means monthly housing expenses, including a reasonable
allowance for utilities, for rental Target Units reserved for Very Low or Lower
Income Households, not exceeding the following calculations:
   (1)    Very Low Income: 50 percent of the area median income for San
Bernardino County, adjusted for household size, multiplied by 30 percent and
divided by 12.
   (2)    Lower Income: 60 percent of the area median income for San Bernardino
County, adjusted for household size, multiplied by 30 percent and divided by
12.
"Affordable Sales Price" means a sales price at which Lower or Very Low Income
Households can qualify for the purchase of Target Units, calculated on the
basis of underwriting standards of mortgage financing available for the
development.
"Density Bonus" means a minimum density increase of at least 25 percent over
the otherwise Maximum Residential Density.
"Density Bonus Housing Agreement" means a legally binding agreement between a
developer and the City to ensure that the requirements of this Chapter are
satisfied. The agreement, among other things, shall establish: the number of
Target Units, their size, location, terms and conditions of affordability, and
production schedule. See Section
17.21.070 of this Chapter.
"Density Bonus Units" means those residential units granted pursuant to the
provisions of this Chapter which exceed the otherwise Maximum Residential
Density for the development site.
"Equivalent Financial Incentive" means a monetary contribution, based upon a
land cost per dwelling unit value, equal to one of the following:
   (1)    A Density Bonus and an Additional Incentive(s); or
   (2)    A Density Bonus, where an Additional Incentive(s) is not requested or
is determined to be unnecessary. See Section
17.21.040 of this Chapter.
"Housing Cost" means the sum of actual or projected monthly payments for all of
the following associated with for-sale Target Units: principal and interest on
a mortgage loan, including any loan insurance fees, property taxes and
assessments, fire and casualty insurance, property maintenance and repairs,
homeowner association fees, and a reasonable allowance for utilities.
"Housing Development" means construction projects consisting of five or more
residential units, including single family, multifamily, and mobilehomes for
sale or rent, pursuant to this Chapter.
"Lower Income Household" means households whose income does not exceed the
lower income limits applicable to San Bernardino County, as published and
periodically updated by the State Department of Housing and Community
Development pursuant to Section 50079.5 of the California Health and Safety
Code.
"Maximum Residential Density" means the maximum number of residential units
permitted by the City's General Plan Land Use Element and Zoning Ordinance at
the time of application, excluding the provisions of this Chapter. If the
housing development is within a planned development overlay zone, the maximum
residential density shall be determined on the basis of the general plan and
the maximum density of the underlying zone.
"Non-Restricted Unit" means all units within a Housing Development excluding
the Target Units.
"Qualifying Resident" means senior citizens or other persons eligible to reside
in Senior Citizen Housing.
"Senior Citizen Housing" means a housing development consistent with the
California Fair Employment and Housing Act (Government Code Section 12900 et.
seq., including 12955.9 in particular), which has been "designed to meet the
physical and social needs of senior citizens," and which otherwise qualifies as
"housing for older persons" as that phrase is used in the federal Fair Housing
Amendments Act of 1988 (P.L. 100-430) and implementing regulations (24 CFR,
part 100, subpart E), and as that phrase is used in California Civil Code
Section 51.2 and 51.3.
"Target Unit" means a dwelling unit within a Housing Development which will be
reserved for sale or rent to, and affordable to, Very Low or Lower Income
Households, or Qualifying Residents.
"Very Low Income Household" means households whose income does not exceed the
very low income limits applicable to San Bernardino County, as published and
periodically updated by the State Department of Housing and Community
Development pursuant to Section 50105 of the California Health and Safety Code.
Section 17.21.030. Implementation.
The City shall grant either: a Density Bonus, or a Density Bonus with an
Additional Incentive(s),or Equivalent Financial Incentives, as set forth in
Section
17.21.050 of this Chapter, to an applicant or developer of a Housing
Development, who agrees to provide the following:
   (1)    At least 20 percent of the total units of the Housing Development as
Target Units affordable to Lower Income Households; or
   (2)    At least 10 percent of the total units of the Housing Development as
Target Units affordable to Very Low Income Households; or
   (3)    Senior citizen housing.
      In determining the minimum number of Density Bonus Units to be granted
pursuant to this Section, the Maximum Residential Density for the site shall be
multiplied by .25. When calculating the number of permitted Density Bonus
Units, any fractions of units shall be rounded to the next larger integer.
      In determining the number of Target Units to be provided pursuant to this
Section, the Maximum Residential Density shall be multiplied by .10 where Very
Low Income Households are targeted, or by .20 where Lower Income Households are
targeted. The Density Bonus Units shall not be included when determining the
total number of Target Units in the Housing Development. When calculating the
required number of Target Units, any resulting decimal fraction shall be
rounded to the next larger integer. In cases where a density increase of less
than 25 percent is requested, no reduction will be allowed inthe number of
Target Units required. In cases where a density increase of more than 25
percent is requested, the requested density increase, if granted, shall be
considered an Additional Incentive, as outlined in Section
17.21.050 of this Chapter.
      In cases where the developer agrees to construct more than 20 percent of
the total units for Lower Income Households, or more than 10 percent of the
total units for Very Low Income Households, the developer is entitled to only
one Density Bonus and an Additional Incentive(s) (or an Equivalent Financial
Incentive) pursuant to Section
17.21.050 of this Chapter. Similarly, a developer who agrees to construct
Senior Citizen Housing with 20 or 10 percent of the units reserved for Lower-
or Very Low-Income Households, respectively, is only entitled to one Density
Bonus and an Additional Incentive(s). The City may, however, grant multiple
Additional Incentives to facilitate the inclusion of more Target Units than are
required by this Chapter.
Section 17.21.040. Development Standards.
Target Units should be constructed concurrently with Non-Restricted Units
unless both the City/County and the developer/applicant agree within the
Density Bonus Housing Agreement to an alternative schedule for development.
Target Units shall remain restricted and affordable to the designated group for
a period of 30 years (or a longer period of time if required by the
construction or mortgage financing assistance program, mortgage insurance
program, or rental subsidy program), under the following circumstances:
   (1)    Both a Density Bonus and an Additional Incentive(s) is granted; or
   (2)    An Equivalent Financial Incentive equivalent to a Density Bonus and
an Additional Incentive(s) is granted.
      Target Units shall remain restricted and affordable to the designated
group for a period of 10 years under the following circumstances:
   (1)    Only a Density Bonus is granted and no Additional Incentives are
granted; or
   (2)    An Equivalent Financial Incentive equivalent to only a Density Bonus
is granted.
      In determining the maximum Affordable Rent or Affordable Sales Price of
Target Units the following household and unit size assumptions shall be used,
unless the Housing Development is subject to different assumptions imposed by
other governmental regulations:
 
SRO (residential hotel) unit 75% of 1 person
0 bedroom (studio)           1 person
1 bedroom                    2 person
2 bedroom                    3 person
3 bedroom                    4 person
4 bedroom                    6 person
 
      Target Units should be built on-site wherever possible and, when
practical, be dispersed within the Housing Development. Where feasible, the
number of bedrooms of the Target Units should be equivalent to the bedroom mix
of the non-Target units of the Housing Development; except that the Developer
may include a higher proportion of Target Units with more bedrooms. The design
and appearance of the Target Units shall be compatible with the design of the
total Housing Development. Housing Developments shall comply with all
applicable development standards, except those which may be modified as
provided by this Chapter.
      Circumstances may arise in which the public interest would be served by
allowing some or all of the Target Units associated with one Housing
Development to be produced and operated at an alternative development site.
Where the developer and the City form such an agreement, the resulting linked
developments shall be considered a single Housing Development for purposes of
this Chapter. Under these circumstances, the developer shall be subject to the
same requirements of this Chapter for the Target Units to be provided on the
alternative site.
      A Density Bonus Housing Agreement shall be made a condition of the
discretionary planning permits (e.g., tract maps, parcel maps, site plans,
planned development or conditional use permits, etc.) for all Housing
Developments pursuant to this Chapter. The Agreement shall be recorded as a
restriction on the parcel or parcels on which the Target Units will be
constructed. The Agreement shall be consistent with Section
17.21.070 of this Chapter.
Section 17.21.050. Development Incentives.
The City shall provide a Density Bonus and an Additional Incentive(s), for
qualified Housing Developments, upon the written request of a developer, unless
the City makes a written finding that the Additional Incentive(s) is not
necessary to make the Housing Development economically feasible and to
accommodate a Density Bonus.
The development incentives granted shall contribute significantly to the
economic feasibility of providing the Target Units. Applicants seeking a waiver
or modification of development or zoning standards shall show that such waivers
or modifications are necessary to make the Housing Development economically
feasible in accordance with Government Code Section 65915(e). This requirement
may be satisfied by reference to applicable sections of the City's general plan
Housing Element.
The need for incentives will vary for different Housing Developments.
Therefore, the allocation of Additional Incentives shall be determined on a
case-by-case basis. The Additional Incentives may include, but are not limited
to, any of the following:
   (1)   A reduction of site development standards or a modification of zoning
code or architectural design requirements which exceed the minimum building
standards provided in Part 2.5 (commencing with Section 18901) of Division 13
of the California Health and Safety Code. These may include, but are not
limited to, one or more of the following:
      (a)    Reduced minimum lot sizes and/or dimensions.
      (b)    Reduced minimum lot setbacks.
      (c)    Reduced minimum outdoor and/or private outdoor living area.
      (d)    Increased maximum lot coverage.
      (e)    Increased maximum building height and/or stories.
      (f)    Reduced on site parking standards, including the number or size of
spaces and garage requirements.
      (g)    Reduced minimum building separation requirements.
      (h)    Reduced street standards, e.g., reduced minimum street widths.
   (2)   Allow the Housing Development to include non-residential uses and/or
allow the Housing Development within a non-residential zone.
   (3)   Other regulatory incentives or concessions proposed by the developer
or the City/County which result in identifiable cost reductions or avoidance.
   (4)   A Density Bonus of more than 25 percent.
   (5)   Waived, reduced, or deferred planning, plan check, construction
permit, and/or development impact fees (e.g., capital facilities, park, or
traffic fees).
   (6)   Direct financial aid (e.g., redevelopment set-aside, Community
Development Block Grant funding) in the form of a loan or a grant to subsidize
or provide low interest financing for on or off site improvements, land or
construction costs.
      The City/County may offer an Equivalent Financial Incentive in lieu of
granting a Density Bonus and an Additional Incentive(s). The value of the
Equivalent Financial Incentive shall equal at least the land cost per dwelling
unit savings that would result from a Density Bonus and must contribute
significantly to the economic feasibility of providing the Target Units
pursuant to this Chapter.
Section 17.21.060. Application Requirements and Review.
An application pursuant to this Chapter shall be processed concurrently with
any other application(s) required for the Housing Development. Final approval
or disapproval of an application (with right of appeal to the City Council)
shall be made by the Planning Commission unless direct financial assistance is
requested. If direct financial assistance is requested, the Planning Commission
shall make a recommendation to the City Council who will have the authority to
make the final decision on the application.
An applicant/developer proposing a Housing Development pursuant to this
Chapter, may submit a preliminary application prior to the submittal of any
formal request for approval of a Housing Development. Applicants are encouraged
to schedule a pre-application conference with the Community Development
Director or designated staff to discuss and identify potential application
issues, including prospective Additional Incentives pursuant to Section
17.21.050 of this Chapter. No charge will be required for the pre-application
conference. A preliminary application shall include the following information:
   (1)   A brief description of the proposed Housing Development, including the
total number of units,Target Units, and Density Bonus Units proposed.
   (2)   The zoning and general plan designations and assessors parcel number
(s) of the project site.
   (3)   A vicinity map and preliminary site plan, drawn to scale, including
building footprints, driveway and parking layout.
   (4)   If an Additional Incentive(s) is requested, the application should
describe why the Additional Incentive(s) is necessary to provide the Target
Units, in accordance with Section
17.21.050 of this Chapter.
      Within 90 days of receipt of the preliminary application the City shall
provide to an applicant/developer, a letter which identifies project issues of
concern, (the maximum financial assistance that the Community Development
Director can support when making a recommendation to the City Council, and the
procedures for compliance with this Chapter.
      The Community Development Director shall inform the applicant/developer
that the requested Additional Incentives shall be recommended for consideration
with the proposed Housing Development, or that alternative or modified
Additional Incentives pursuant to Section
17.21.050 shall be recommended for consideration in lieu of the requested
Incentives. If alternative or modified Incentives are recommended by the
Community Development Director, the recommendation shall establish how the
alternative or modified Incentives can be expected to have an equivalent
affordability effect as the requested Incentives.
Section 17.21.070. Density Bonus Housing Agreement.
Applicants/Developers requesting a Density Bonus, shall (draft and) agree to
enter into a Density Bonus Housing Agreement with the City. The terms of the
draft agreement shall be reviewed and revised as appropriate by the Community
Development Director, who shall formulate a recommendation to the Planning
Commission for final approval.
Following execution of the agreement by all parties, the completed Density
Bonus Housing Agreement, or memorandum thereof, shall be recorded and the
conditions therefrom filed and recorded on the parcel or parcels designated for
the construction of Target Units. The approval and recordation shall take place
prior to final map approval, or, where a map is not being processed, prior to
issuance of building permits for such parcels or units. The Density Bonus
Housing Agreement shall be binding to all future owners and successors in
interest.
The Density Bonus Housing Agreement shall include at least the following:
   (1)   The total number of units approved for the Housing Development,
including the number of Target Units.
   (2)   A description of the household income group to be accommodated by the
Housing Development, as outlined in Section
17.21.030 of this Chapter, and the standards for determining the corresponding
Affordable Rent or Affordable Sales Price and Housing Cost.
   (3)   The location, unit sizes (square feet), and number of bedrooms of
Target Units.
   (4)   Tenure of use restrictions for Target Units of at least 10 or 30
years, in accordance with Section
17.21.040 of this Chapter.
   (5)   A schedule for completion and occupancy of Target Units.
   (6)   A description of the Additional Incentive(s) or Equivalent Financial
Incentives being provided by the City.
   (7)   A description of remedies for breach of the agreement by either party
(the City may identify tenants or qualified purchasers as third party
beneficiaries under the agreement).
   (8)   Other provisions to ensure implementation and compliance with this
Chapter.
      A.    In the case of for-sale Housing Developments, the Density Bonus
Housing Agreement shall provide for the following conditions governing the
initial sale and use of Target Units during the applicable use restriction
period:
         (1)   Target Units shall, upon initial sale, be sold to eligible Very
Low or Lower Income Households at an Affordable Sales Price and Housing Cost,
or to Qualified Residents (i.e., maintained as Senior citizen housing) as
defined by this Chapter.
         (2)   Target Units shall be initially owner-occupied by eligible Very
Low or Lower Income Households, or by Qualified Residents in the case of Senior
citizen housing.
         (3)   The initial purchaser of each Target Unit shall execute an
instrument or agreement approved by the City restricting the sale of the Target
Unit in accordance with this ordinance during the applicable use restriction
period. Such instrument or agreement shall be recorded against the parcel
containing the Target Unit and shall contain such provisions as the City may
require to ensure continued compliance with this ordinance and the state
Density Bonus Law.
      B.    In the case of rental Housing Developments, the Density Bonus
Housing Agreement shall provide for the following conditions governing the use
of Target Units during the use restriction period:
         (1)   The rules and procedures for qualifying tenants, establishing
Affordable Rent, filling vacancies, and maintaining Target Units for qualified
tenants;
         (2)   Provisions requiring owners to verify tenant incomes and
maintain books and records to demonstrate compliance with this Chapter.
         (3)   Provisions requiring owners to submit an annual report to the
City, which includes the name, address, and income of each person occupying
Target Units, and which identifies the bedroom size and monthly rent or cost of
each Target Unit.
CHAPTER 17.22
AIRPORT PARK (AP)
   
17.22.010   Intent
   
17.22.020   Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Conditional Uses, and Temporary
Uses
   
17.22.030   Administrative Development Plan Approval
   
17.22.040   Development Standards
   
17.22.050   Minimum Design Standards
   
17.22.060   Accessory Uses and Structures
   
17.22.070   Outdoor Storage
   
17.22.080   Parking Standards
   
17.22.090   Federal Aviation Administration Review
   
17.22.100   Additional Review and Requirements
17.22.010 Intent.
   The Airport Park designated herein by the symbol "AP", is intended to
protect the established, private Adelanto Airport and property in the immediate
vicinity and to provide for appropriate development of aviation uses and such
related uses. Uses in this zoning district are intended primarily for low
density single-family residential dwellings and accessory uses, personal
aircraft storage areas, mixed-use (residential and airport related commercial),
some limited aviation and aircraft related light industry/manufacturing
development, and limited commercial uses related to the airport. All uses are
intended to create minimal impacts on the surrounding development. The Adelanto
Airport is licensed by the State of California as a private Special-Use Airport
and is classified as a Utility Airport. A Utility Airport is designed,
constructed and maintained to serve airplanes with an aircraft approach
category of (A) speed less than ninety-one (91) knots.
[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit H, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit C, 5/27/15.]
17.22.020 Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Conditional Uses, and Temporary Uses.
   (a)   Appendix A: Regulation of Uses by Zone District of this Zoning Code
primarily permits Low Density residential uses and the hangars associated with
the Airport Park including but not limited to the following:
      •   General Manufacturing of aircraft and aircraft parts
      •   Aircraft painting
      •   Parts Assembly
      •   Aircraft restoration
      •   Aviation-related hardware stores
      •   Other accessory, conditionally permitted, and temporary uses as
indicated in Appendix A
   (b)   Uses listed as conditionally permitted uses are subject to the review
requirements and conditions contained in
Chapter 17.130 of this Zoning Code. Temporary uses are subject to the review
requirements and conditions contained in
Chapter 17.155. Also, certain other uses such as antennas may be subject to
Special Use Standards outlined in
Chapter 17.80, subject to the special height limitations contained in
Table 22-1, Section
17.22.040(a).
[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit H, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit C, 5/27/15.]
17.22.030 Administrative Development Plan Approval.
   The following development of properties within the Adelanto Airport District
may be administratively approved, subject to Section
17.22.100 and
Chapter 17.100, and staff review and approval as specified below:
   (a)   A single-family residential structure, with or without a second unit
as addressed in Section
17.20.080 Second Units, on a lot that complies with all the requirements of
this Zoning Code, including but not limited to the Minimum Design Standards
contained in Section
17.22.050.
   (b)   A hangar limited to personal (non-commercial) use as an accessory to a
primary residential use, that is up to 10,000 square feet, and that complies
with all requirements of this Zoning Code, including but not limited to the
Minimum Design Standards contained in Section
17.22.050.
   (c)   A single-family residence within an aircraft hangar for the storage of
personal (non-commercial) aircraft, which is limited to personal
(noncommercial) use and that complies with all the requirements of this Zoning
Code, including but not limited to the Minimum Design Standards contained in
Section
17.22.050. The floor area of the aircraft hangar shall be less than 10,000
square feet, not including the residential dwelling unit area.
   (d)   An aircraft hangar up to 10,000 square feet for the storage of
personal (noncommercial) aircraft, that complies with all the requirements of
this Zoning Code, including but not limited to the Minimum Design Standards
contained in Section
17.22.050 and the Parking Standards contained in Section
17.22.080. Hangars without permanent residences shall include a permanent
restroom.
   (e)   An accessory structure up to 2,500 square feet, or a combination of
accessory structures with a combined total floor area not to exceed 2,500
square feet, that is/are accessory to a primary single-family residential use,
not including an attached or detached aircraft hangar limited to personal (non-
commercial) use as described in part (b) above.
   All other new structures shall be subject to review and approval of a
Location and Development Plan, as described in
Chapter 17.150.
[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit H, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit C, 5/27/15.]
17.22.040 Development Standards.
   (a)   General Standards
      
Table 22-1 provides the development standards for the Airport Park District.
TABLE 22-1
AIRPORT PARK DISTRICT - DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Development Standard AP
Development Standard                                                              AP
A.   Minimum Lot Size (Gross lot area, including street dedications and runway 1 gross
and taxiway easements)                                                            acre*
B.   Minimum Lot Width                                                         100
                                                                                  feet
C.   Minimum Lot Depth                                                         100
                                                                                  feet
D.   Maximum Lot Coverage by Buildings                                         60
                                                                                  percent
E.   Maximum Density                                                           1 du/ac
F.   Maximum Height**                                                          35
                                                                                  feet**
G.   Minimum Front Yard Setback                                                25 feet
H.   Minimum Side Yard Setback: 5 feet on one side and 10 feet on the opposite 5 feet
side.                                                                             & 10
                                                                                  feet
I.   Minimum Rear Yard Setback                                                 15 feet
*1)   Minimum lot size is defined as 1 acre with the required rights of way and/or
easements are granted for roadways and taxiways.
**2)   Encroachment into the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) Part 77 Objects Affecting
Navigable Airspace shall comply with current State/Federal permits and/or regulations,
including FAR Part 77 when applicable.
**3)   All structural heights shall be in compliance with current State/Federal permits
and/or regulations, including FAR Part 77 when applicable.
Abbreviations: sf = square feet; ft = feet; ac = acre; du = dwelling unit;
Notes:
(i)   For further requirements, see Section
17.22.040(b) below.
(ii)   All setbacks shall be measured from the edge of roadways, property lines and any
easements for runways and taxiways.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82242252ce6d54adb3244876d9e74fa1d0bd6515/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4792.png]
Note: All measurements are to be defined by the Current State/Federal permits
and/or regulations, including FAR Part 77 when applicable.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82242252ce6d54adb3244876d9e74fa1d0bd6515/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4524.jpg]
 
Note: All measurements are to be defined by the Current State/Federal permits
and/or regulations, including FAR Part 77 when applicable.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82242252ce6d54adb3244876d9e74fa1d0bd6515/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4526.jpg]
 
Note: All measurements to be defined by the current State/Federal permits and/
or regulations including FAR Part 77 when applicable.
   (b)   Airport Park Special Standards
      1.   All development within the Airport Park District, unless otherwise
specified in this section, shall be in accordance with
Chapter 14.36 Development Impact Fees, or its successor, of the Municipal Code.
      2.   Once a building permit is issued, one 8' x 8' x 40' storage
container is permitted per parcel, but must be painted to match the primary
structure once completed, placed in the rear of the property, and also screened
by drought tolerant vegetation.
      3.   In order to limit glare and light pollution, all lights except
lights related to airport operations, shall be full cut-off fixtures, such that
light is directed downward and no light is emitted above the horizontal plane
of the bottom of the fixture, and light shall also be directed so as to not
cause glare on adjacent properties.
[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit H, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit C, 5/27/15.]
17.22.050 Minimum Design Standards.
   The following minimum design standards shall apply to all construction
projects, including manufactured housing, within the Airport Park District.
   (a)   All primary single family residences shall have a minimum gross floor
area of one thousand (1,000) square feet. The minimum dwelling unit width and
depth shall be twenty (20) feet, measured from the exterior of the structure
and excluding garages, porches, patios, eaves, cabanas, and bay windows.
   (b)   Utility hookups shall be provided along with a designated laundry
space, for residential structures, to accommodate installation of a clothes
washer and dryer. This laundry space and utility hookups shall be provided
within the primary residential structure or within an enclosed accessory
structure.
   (c)   Siding material shall consist of stucco, wood, brick, stone,
decorative concrete block, or powder coated (colored) architectural metal.
Synthetic materials of a similar appearance and equivalent durability shall be
permitted, subject to the approval of the Community Development Director.
Exterior siding shall extend to a point at or near grade. However, if an
approved solid wood, metal, concrete, or masonry perimeter foundation is used,
the siding need not extend below the top of the foundation.
   (d)   Roofing materials shall be a minimum Class "A" as defined by the
Uniform Building Code and shall be architectural metal, such as standing seam
metal, or concrete tile, or equivalent.
   (e)   Areas for trash receptacles and recycling containers shall be provided
as required by the City of Adelanto.
   (f)   Manufactured homes placed on a residential lot shall be designed and
constructed so as to have an appearance similar to, or consistent with, the
predominate architectural style of homes on the street. This shall include, but
is not be limited to:
      •   Massing
      •   Building Materials
      •   Replaceable Roofing materials
      •   Window and architectural treatments
      •   Compliance with Fire Overlay standards
      •   Minimum twelve (12)-inch eaves
   (g)   Architectural Design
      Any new building or structure, any addition to an existing building or
structure, and installation or construction of any site improvements shall be
designed to create a unified functional and comprehensive site plan. The
improvements shall have an integrated architectural theme that is compatible
with and will complement and enhance the subject and surrounding properties.
      1.   Residential Structures
         Residential structures shall include architectural features, such as
those listed below. Furthermore, hangars shall be architecturally compatible
with the residential structure.
         •   Low roof pitch
         •   Dormers
         •   Metal/tile roofs
         •   Wood columns
         •   Architectural and structural braces
         •   Recessed entries
         •   Balconies
         •   Awnings or shade elements
         •   Exposed beams and wood fascia
      2.   Commercial-Related Developments
         Commercial structures shall include architectural features, such as
those listed below:
         •   Integrated roof elements with parapets
         •   Covered outdoor pedestrian areas
         •   Landscaped parking island
         •   Uniform signs
         •   Covered recessed entrances
         •   Architectural elements to screen all mechanical equipment
      3.   Manufacturing/Industrial-Related Developments
         Industrial structures shall include architectural features, such as
those listed below:
         •   Integrated roof elements
         •   Covered entryways
         •   Shaded windows
   (h)   Walls and Fences
      1.   The maximum height at all locations, except the required front yard,
is eight (8) feet as measured from the top of the wall to finished grade.
      2.   Retaining and Crib walls shall comply with the requirements
contained in Section
17.10.120(b) of this Municipal Code.
      3.   The height of fences within the required front yard shall be as
described in Section
17.10.120(c).
      4.   All walls must be constructed of masonry, glass block, or a
combination thereof. All fences must be built with wood (weatherproofed),
decorative/wrought iron, chain link, or other similar materials. The use of
unsightly salvage materials is not permitted for fencing purposes.
[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit H, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit C, 5/27/15.]
17.22.060 Accessory Uses and Structure.
   Accessory structures are subject to the same height and setback requirements
described for primary buildings and structures in
Table 30-1 ADD, LM and MI Zone Districts - Development Standards, except as
modified by Section
17.10.070 Maximum Projections into Yard, and Section
17.22.030 (b).
   Temporary Hangars
   Temporary hangars shall be considered as accessory uses for a period of five
(5) years, even when such carports and temporary hangars are the only
structures on an empty lot. At the end of five (5) years, a permanent
residential structure shall be built. If after five (5) years, no permanent
residential structure is built, all applicable Development Impact Fees shall be
assessed and paid and all requirements for permanent hangars met.
   Such temporary hangars shall be exempt from applicable Development Impact
Fees at the time building permits are issued, for a non-commercial hangar and
be limited to one (1) per parcel. If no primary residence is in place, then
each temporary hangar shall be required to have a portable toilet in place at
the site and maintained in good service.
   Once a primary structure is added to the property, said temporary hangar
shall be color matched with the primary structure, and the requirement for a
portable toilet will no longer exist.
   Animals Allowed
   The regulations pertaining to what type of animals are allowed and the
standards for keeping them on a property are addressed in Title 7 of the
Adelanto Municipal Code.
[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit H, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit C, 5/27/15.]
17.22.070 Outdoor Storage.
   (a)   Storage is not allowed within the required front yard setback, except
for aircraft and operable vehicles on a designated driveway.
   (b)   All storage, except for operable vehicles and aircraft, shall be
screened from all public right-of-ways and adjacent residential properties.
Screening shall be the use of a decorative masonry block wall, solid fencing,
or other drought tolerant landscaping barrier.
   (c)   Recreational Vehicle Storage
      The storage of boats, travel trailers, and other recreational vehicles,
including personal aircraft for personal (non-commercial) use, on residential
lots within the Airport Park District shall be permitted subject to the
following:
      1.   The open storage of boats, travel trailers, and other recreational
vehicles, including personal aircraft for personal (non-commercial) use, is
permitted on residential lots subject to the requirements contained in Section
17.20.110 Storage of Recreation Vehicles of this Zoning Code.
      2.   Portable, semi-permanent, or permanent covers and temporary hangars,
used to protect boats, travel trailers, or recreational vehicles including
personal aircraft for personal (non-commercial) use, from the sun and weather
may be used, provided that:
         A.   Such structures are located entirely behind the front setback
line of the lot.
         B.   Sufficient distance, as required by the Uniform Building Code, is
provided between the structure and any habitable building.
         C.   The cover is maintained in good repair.
         D.   All structures shall be subject to Building Department review and
approval.
         E.   Portable or semi-portable carports shall be allowed one per acre,
and shall be removed when fabric cover becomes unserviceable.
   (d)   Fuel Storage
      All fuel storage tanks shall be subject to the review and approval of the
San Bernardino County Fire Department, prior to Planning Department approval.
   (e)   Water Storage
      All water storage reservoirs shall be designed and installed per the San
Bernardino County Fire Department standards and regulations, and require a
building permit per the Public Works Department.
[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit H, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit C, 5/27/15.]
17.22.080 Parking Standards.
   (a)   Parking standards for non-residential uses within the Airport Park
District shall comply with
Chapter 17.65 of this Zoning Code.
   (b)   For residential units within the Airport Park District, with or
without an attached or detached hanger for the storage of personal (non-
commercial) aircraft as described in Section
17.22.030(b), a minimum two (2) car garage or carport shall be provided per
residential unit.
   (c)   For aircraft hangars for non-commercial aircraft, a minimum of one
parking space shall be provided per 2,500 square feet of floor space.
   Location of parking and loading facilities within the Airport Park District
shall comply with
Chapter 17.65 of this Zoning Code.
[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit H, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit C, 5/27/15.]
17.22.090 Federal Aviation Administration Review.
   All properties identified on the City of Adelanto General Plan Land Use/
Zoning Map to be within the Airport Park District shall be subject to
applicable portions of Federal Aviation Regulation Part 77 prior to development
and placement of any structures on such property. Any properties subject to
Federal Aviation Regulation Part 77 shall submit to the State of California,
Department of Transportation, Aeronautics Division, an agent of the Federal
Aviation Administration any and all development applications to the City of
Adelanto.
[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit H, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit C, 5/27/15.]
17.22.100 Additional Review and Requirements.
   The properties in the Airport Park contain a number of public and private
facilities, which are integral to the airport and the uses in this district.
These facilities are operated, managed and maintained by the Adelanto Airport
Property Owner's Association. In order to assure the continued safe and
adequate operation and maintenance of the airport and these facilities, the
following additional special provisions and requirements shall apply in the
Airport Park District.
   (a)   Adelanto Airport Property Owner's Association Review. In addition to
all City application review processes, all new construction and development,
including any new subdivisions within the Airport Park and the Airport Park
Safety Overlay District shall be subject to the review of the Adelanto Airport
Property Owner's Association. Standards for Adelanto Airport Property Owner's
Association Review are as follows:
      1.   Each calendar year, it shall be the responsibility of the Adelanto
Airport Property Owner's Association to submit to the City a letter on official
letterhead listing all members of the association and those authorized to
provide comments for the group. Should this letter not be submitted on an
annual basis, the City shall correspond with the Adelanto Airport Property
Owner's Association with the most recent contact information provided.
      2.   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to submit any
proposed project to the Adelanto Airport Property Owner's Association (or its
successor). P.O. Box 1102, Adelanto, CA 92301. The Adelanto Airport Property
Owner's Association shall review, respond, and submit their written
recommendations to the City of Adelanto, Planning Division regarding any
submittals within thirty (30) calendar days.
      3.   Should an application for development be submitted without
consultation of the Adelanto Airport Property Owner's Association, the City
shall provide notification to the Adelanto Airport Property Owner's Association
for comments. The requirement for consultation with the Adelanto Airport
Property Owner's Association shall be defined as follows:
         a)   Comments on official letterhead from the Adelanto Airport
Property Owner's Association with authorized signature(s); or
         b)   A document responding to the City's request for comments with "No
Comments"; or
         c)   Verification that project information was sent to the Adelanto
Airport Property Owner's Association via certified mail. Should this method be
used, the City may not act on a project until 30 days after verified receipt of
the project materials.
      The City shall consider the recommendations of the Adelanto Airport
Property Owner's Association prior to granting any approvals for new
construction, subdivision, development, or permits. Any appeals shall be
directed to Planning Commission and subsequently to the City Council and
decided by majority.
   (b)   Avigation and Overflight Easements. A noise and avigation easement on
all subdivision parcels and roadways shall be granted and conveyed to the
Southern California Logistics Airport as required in the City adopted Land Use
Plan.
   (c)   Access, Utility, Runway, and Taxiway Easements/Agreements. In order to
ensure adequate vehicular access, as well as use and access of the airport,
prior to any development, subdivision, or issuance of building permits for any
new construction the following shall be addressed:
      1.   Vehicular Access and Utilities. Provide minimum roadways consistent
with the street classification system as described in the General Plan for
vehicular access and for proposed and future utilities.
      2.   Runway Object Free Area/Runway Safety Area. The Adelanto Airport
Owner's Association (AAPOA) shall provide for a Runway Object Free Area (ROFA)
as defined in the State FAA permits.
         The Runway Object Free Area (ROFA) also incorporates the Runway Safety
Area (RSA) required to enhance the safety of airplanes that overshoot, overrun,
or veer off the runway. The Runway Safety Area (RSA) is centered on the runway
centerline and is within the Runway Object Free Area (ROFA), see Figure 1
Runway Object Free Area/Runway Safety. All distances will be measured from the
centerline of each runway as defined by the State FAA permits.
      3.   Taxiways. Taxiway access shall be provided for all properties to the
runways. Taxiway easements shall have a minimum width of fifty (50) feet.
[Ord. No. 470, Section 5, 11/14/07; Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit H, 9/10/14; Ord. 535, Exhibit C, 5/27/15.]
CHAPTER 17.25
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
   
17.25.010   Intent and Purpose
   
17.25.020   Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Temporary Uses, and Conditional
Uses
   
17.25.030   Location and Development Plan
   
17.25.040   Development Standards
   
17.25.060   Alcoholic Beverage Establishments
   
17.25.070   Entertainment Establishments Providing Dancing, Music, and Similar
Activities
   
17.25.080   Outdoor Display and Storage
   
17.25.090   Recycling Facilities
   
17.25.100   Additional Requirements for Service Stations
   
17.25.110   Drive-Through Facilities
17.25.010 Intent and Purpose
   The commercial designation is intended to allow commercial development, to
provide maximum opportunity and flexibility for a broad array of commercial,
institutional, and business uses within walking distance to multiple land use
opportunities. Toward this end, the following district is established:
   General Commercial (C)
   The General Commercial (C) district provides for retail centers that serve
community-wide needs and neighborhood needs. The General Commercial district
provides for commercial areas that include, but are not limited to, large
retail uses such as “big box” stores, furniture stores, appliance and home
electronics retailers; movie theaters; service commercial businesses;
professional business offices; and restaurants. The district also provides for
a wide range of smaller-scale business activities which serve the needs of
residents who live nearby. Typical businesses include, but are not limited to,
food and drug stores, child care, clothing stores, neighborhood-serving
convenience stores, and professional and business offices. The regulations in
this Chapter are aimed toward ensuring that development within the General
Commercial zone is compatible with the surrounding area with respect to the
type of use, scale, intensity of development, architectural character, and
other impacts upon the community, and that the activities serve the needs of
the adjoining residential neighborhoods.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit G, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit I, 9/10/14.]
17.25.020 Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Temporary Uses, and Conditional Uses
   (a)   
Appendix A  of this Development Code indicates the uses permitted in the
commercial zone districts. Commercial uses represent the primary permitted
uses, although other uses are allowed as accessory, conditionally permitted,
and temporary uses, as indicated in
Appendix A.
   (b)   Uses listed as conditionally permitted uses are subject to the review
requirements and conditions contained in
Chapter 17.130  (Conditional Use Permits) of this Zoning Code. Temporary uses
and conditions are subject to the review requirements and conditions contained
in
Chapter 17.155  (Temporary Use Permit). Also, certain uses such as churches and
businesses involved in the sale of alcoholic beverages may be subject to
Special Use Standards outlined in
Chapter 17.80 .
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit G, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit I, 9/10/14.]
17.25.030 Location and Development Plan
   A Location and Development Plan approval, as described in
Chapter 17.150 (Location and Development Plan) and
Chapter 17.100 (Administrative Procedures), is required for all commercial
development projects, except as otherwise permitted by this code.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit G, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit I, 9/10/14.]
17.25.040 Development Standards
    (a)   Development Standards Table.
      
Table 25-1 sets forth minimum development standards for commercial development
projects. The site development criteria set forth in the following subsection
are intended to provide minimum standards for the development and use of land
within the commercial districts. These site development criteria should be used
in conjunction with the adopted Design Standards in
Chapter 17.15 of this Zoning Code. Use of the design standards in conjunction
with these criteria will assist the designer in determining the best design for
any given development project.
TABLE 25-1
COMMERCIAL DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Development Standard               Zone District
                                   C
A.   Minimum Project Size, GLA  10,000 sf
B.    Minimum Lot Dimensions    100 ft.
   • Width                    100 ft.
   • Depth
C.   Maximum Height (a)         45 ft.
                                   At least 5 % of the project area (exclusive
D.   Landscaping Required       of areas within a public right of way) must
                                   be landscaped.
                                   At least 5% of parking areas (exclusive of
                                   loading areas) must be landscaped. This
E.   Parking Lot Landscaping    landscaping may be counted toward the total
                                   site area landscaping required in item D
                                   above.
F.   Maximum Floor Area Ratio   No maximum floor-to-area ratio; FAR will be
(FAR)                              subject to meeting parking and landscaping
                                   standards
G.   Minimum Front Yard Setback 25 ft.
   • Setback to Building      10 ft.
   • Setback to Parking Area
H.   Minimum Side Yard Setback  25 ft.
   • All Street Sides         10 ft.
   • All others (b)
I.   Minimum Rear Yard Setback (20 ft.
Abbreviations: sf = square feet; ft. = feet; GLA = gross land area
Notes:   (a)   On lots located adjacent to a residential zone district, building
height shall be limited to thirty-five (35) feet.
   (b)   Only one side yard is required. If a site adjoins a property zoned for
residential, open space, or institutional uses, then the side yard must be
provided on that side. (c) Architectural elements for churches, such as
steeples, may exceed the maximum height and shall not to exceed seventy-five
(75) feet.
 
   (b)   Parking and Loading
      Parking and loading requirements are subject to
Chapters 17.65 (Parking and Loading) and
17.15 (Design Review) of this Zoning Code.
   (c)   Trash enclosures
      Trash enclosures shall be provided for any lot or parcel for the
temporary storage and collection of trash, rubbish, and/or garbage in
accordance with all of the following requirements:
      (1)   Trash enclosures may be located within a building, or if in the
open, shall be enclosed by a decorative masonry wall, architecturally
compatible with the main building. Such trash enclosure shall include a solid
gate for bin access and a separate view obscuring pedestrian access.
      (2)   All trash enclosures visible from streets or public parking areas
shall be constructed and finished to be compatible with the architectural
details and decor of the primary structure.
      (3)   All trash enclosures shall be regularly cleaned and maintained;
      (4)   All trash containers and trash bins shall incorporate a tight-
fitting lid;
      (5)   All trash enclosures shall be located for convenient access by
occupants of the site and vehicular access for pick-up and disposal.
      (6)   Trash enclosures are prohibited in the front setback, or any
setback areas abutting residential zones, or properties used for residential
purposes.
   (d)   Mechanical equipment, utilities, satellite dishes
      Mechanical equipment, utilities, or similar machinery located outside of
the exterior walls of any building, including roof-mounted equipment, shall be
completely screened from view from any public right-of-way or adjacent
residential uses by either view-obscuring landscaping, or architectural
features compatible with the main structure(s). All such mechanical equipment,
utilities, and satellite dishes shall be maintained to prevent collection of
trash and debris and to avoid any unnecessary noise or vibration.
   (e)   Signs
      Signs require separate review and approval and shall be in compliance
with
Chapter 17.70 (Signs).
   (f)   On-site Lighting
      (1)   All on-site lighting shall be energy efficient, stationary and
directed away from adjoining properties and public rights-of-way.
      (2)   Light fixtures shall be shielded so no light is emitted above the
horizontal plane of the bottom of the light fixture.
      (3)   Light fixtures shall be shielded so no light above 0.5 footcandle
spills over onto adjacent properties and rights-of-way. There shall be no
spillover (0.0 footcandle) onto adjacent residential used or zoned properties.
   (g)   Landscaping/Water Conservation
      All landscaping shall comply with the requirements of
Chapters 17.60, Landscaping/Water Conservation and
17.15 Design Review of this Zoning Code.
   (h)   Buffering and Screening
      (1)   A minimum eight (8) foot high masonry wall shall be provided
adjacent to any residentially zoned areas.
      (2)   A low wall, berm, or solid landscaped hedge shall be provided
between public streets and parking and driveway areas to screen parking areas,
per Chapter
17.60  (Landscaping/Water Conservation).
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit G, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit I, 9/10/14.]
17.25.060 Alcoholic Beverage Establishments
   The establishment, operation, and maintenance of any alcoholic beverage
establishment is subject to the following regulations:
   (a)   It is unlawful to establish an on-site alcoholic beverage
establishment for patrons of legal drinking age or older if the location is:
      (1)   Within one thousand feet (1,000') of any area zoned or used for any
church or park or any educational institution utilized by minors; or
      (2)   Within one thousand feet (1,000') of any area zoned or used for
residential purposes.
   (b)   Zoning districts in which on-site and off-site sales of alcoholic
beverages are permitted are shown in
Appendix A  of this Zoning Code.
   (c)   The establishment of any alcoholic beverage establishment includes the
opening of such a business as a new business, the relocation of such business,
the conversion of an existing use or premises to any alcoholic beverage
establishment, and/or the expansion or change of the type of alcoholic
beverages to be sold at an alcoholic beverage establishment (that is, a change
in the type of retail liquor license within a license classification).
   (d)   Notwithstanding the above provisions, any property owner or his/her/
its authorized agent may request exceptions or modifications of the location
provisions of this Section in conjunction with the required Conditional Use
Permit application. No application shall be approved unless the findings
required for a Conditional Use Permit contained in
Chapter 17.130  and the following findings are made:
      (1)   That the proposed use will not be contrary to the public interest
or injurious to nearby properties and that the spirit and intent of this
Section will be observed;
      (2)   That the proposed use will not enlarge or encourage the development
of a blighted area;
      (3)   That the establishment of an additional regulated use in the area
will not be contrary to any program of neighborhood conservation nor will it
interfere with any other city program; and
      (4)   That all applicable regulations of the zoning district in which the
use is permitted will be observed.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit G, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit I, 9/10/14.]
17.25.070 Entertainment Establishments Providing Dancing, Music, and Similar
Activities
   (a)   Noise levels shall not exceed the standards set forth in
Chapter 17.90  (Performance Standards) of this Zoning Code, when measured at
the nearest residential property line.
   (b)   Entertainment uses providing dancing, music, and similar activities
may be required to submit a Security Plan for review by the Planning
Department, the Police Department, and the Fire Department. This Security Plan,
which may be approved by the Planning Director or his/her designee, may include
information on the number and type of security personnel to be on duty during
hours of operation, the type of equipment provided to the security personnel,
and proposed methods of coordination with public safety personnel (police and
fire).
   (c)   Dancing, music, and similar entertainment uses shall not be permitted
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m.
   (d)   The City may apply additional requirements or limitations to ensure
compatibility with surrounding land uses where the use in question relies upon
a Conditional Use Permit, Temporary Use Permit, or other discretionary permit.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit G, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit I, 9/10/14.]
17.25.080 Outdoor Display and Storage
   The following restrictions apply to outdoor display of goods and materials:
   (a)   Only goods and materials sold or used on site may be stored or
displayed.
   (b)   No display shall exceed six feet (6') in height, except as approved by
a Location and Development Plan Approval, Conditional Use Permit, or Temporary
Use Permit as outlined in
Chapters 17.150  (Location and Development Plan),
17.130  (Conditional Use Permits), and
17.155 (Temporary Use Permit), respectively, of this Zoning Code.
   (c)   The outdoor display of garden equipment, supplies, and building
materials shall be permitted only within the side and rear yards.
   (d)   No outdoor display shall occupy any part of a required parking area
except by approval of a Temporary Use Permit.
   (e)   Outdoor display shall not violate clear corner area standards of
Section
17.10.080  (Clear Areas) of this Zoning Code.
   (f)   Outdoor display areas shall provide adequate security lighting.
   (g)   Goods and merchandise shall not be displayed or kept in any required
landscaped area unless approved as part of the Location and Development Plan
approval process.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit G, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit I, 9/10/14.]
17.25.090 Recycling Facilities
   (a)   General
      No person shall establish or operate a recycling facility without first
obtaining the Conditional Use Permit required by this Zoning Code. Permitted
recycling facilities shall comply with all applicable criteria and standards as
follows and any additional conditions which may be established by any
discretionary permit process.
   (b)   Reverse Vending Machines
      Reverse vending machines occupying up to but not more than fifty (50)
square feet of floor area within or directly adjacent to a commercial structure
shall:
      (1)   Be located within thirty feet (30') of the entrance to the primary
use and shall not obstruct pedestrian or vehicular circulation;
      (2)   Not occupy parking spaces required by the primary use;
      (3)   Not require additional parking spaces;
      (4)   Not be more than eight feet (8') in height;
      (5)   Be constructed and maintained with durable waterproof and rustproof
material;
      (6)   Be clearly marked with operating instructions and the telephone
number of a responsible person to call if the machine is out of order;
      (7)   Be maintained in a clean and litter- free condition on a daily
basis;
      (8)   Be illuminated to ensure comfortable and safe operation; and
      (9)   Be usable at least as long as the operating hours of the primary
use.
   (c)   Small Collection Recycling Facilities and Mobile Recycling Units
      Small collection facilities and mobile recycling units occupying less
than five hundred (500) square feet of floor area shall:
      (1)   Be established in conjunction with a primary use which is in
compliance with the zoning, building, fire, and health codes of the City;
      (2)   Occupy no more than three (3) of the parking spaces required for
the primary use, not including spaces required for the periodic removal of
containers or materials;
      (3)   Not obstruct pedestrian or vehicular circulation;
      (4)   Accept only glass, metals, plastic containers, and paper. Other
reusable materials may be permitted if reviewed and deemed appropriate by the
Planning Director;
      (5)   Use no power driven equipment other than that required to operate
reverse vending machines;
      (6)   Be constructed and maintained with durable waterproof and rustproof
material;
      (7)   Be secure when the site is not attended;
      (8)   Be of sufficient capacity to accommodate materials collected and
the proposed collection schedule;
      (9)   Be maintained in a clear and litter-free condition on a daily
basis;
      (10)   Be clearly marked with operating instructions and a telephone
number of a responsible person to call if the facility is out of order;
      (11)   Require no additional parking spaces; and
      (12)   Be attended during their hours of operation, which should be at
least as long as those of the primary use(s) to which they are appurtenant.
   (d)   Large Collection Recycling Facilities
      Large collection recycling facilities covering more than five hundred
(500) square feet of floor area or established independent shall:
      (1)   A lot proposed for a Large Collection Recycling Facility shall
maintain a three hundred foot (300') distance from a residential used or zoned
property;
      (2)   Be maintained free of litter and other undesirable materials;
      (3)   Provide covers and secure containers for the exterior storage of
material;
      (4)   Provide one parking space for each five hundred (500) square feet
of gross floor area, plus one space for each employee and one space for each
commercial vehicle operated by the facility;
      (5)   Be attended during hours of operation, which shall be limited to
the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. daily; and
      (6)   Be operated in a manner so as not to disrupt the activities of
adjacent uses.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit G, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit I, 9/10/14.]
17.25.100 Additional Requirements for Service Stations
   (a)   Conditional Use Permit
      A Conditional Use Permit (CUP) shall be required for the continued
operation, or establishment of a new or expanded service station if one, or
more, of the following circumstances apply:
      (1)   Any new service station.
      (2)   An alteration, expansion, or modification in the floor area of an
existing service station. Any such alteration, expansion, or modification shall
be subject to the requirements of this Section.
      (3)   Any alteration, expansion, or modification in the land area on
which the service station is located, whether by purchase, lease, business or
lot combination or acquisition, or similar method. Any such alteration,
expansion, or modification shall be subject to the requirements of this
Section.
      (4)   The introduction of any new accessory uses permitted under Section
17.25.020  (Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Temporary Uses and Conditional
Uses), and
Appendix A , or introduction of alcoholic beverage sales, per Section
17.25.060  (Alcoholic Beverage Establishments), or any similar change in the
operational characteristics of the service station shall be subject to the
requirements of this section.
      (5)   All Conditional Use Permit (CUP) applications shall comply with all
development standards for service stations identified in Section
17.25.100 , and all other applicable codes and regulations.
   (b)   Operational Regulations
      The following operational regulations shall apply to service stations and
accessory uses in conjunction with service stations:
      (1)   Location of Activities
         All activities and operations shall be conducted entirely within an
enclosed structure, except for the following, which shall be permitted unless
otherwise conditioned by the Conditional Use Permit (CUP):
         A.   Sales and dispensing of motor vehicle fuel;
         B.   Incidental, minor maintenance commonly conducted at service
islands, such as dispensing of air and water, replacement of windshield wipers,
fuses, and lamps, and replenishing motor vehicle fluids and lubricants.
      (2)   Parking and Vehicle Storage
         A.   Off-street parking shall be provided as specified in
Chapter 17.65  (Parking and Loading).
         B.   No vehicles or equipment may be stored outside. All vehicles
being serviced or waiting to be serviced shall be stored indoors. Vehicles
waiting for same day service may be parked only in parking spaces and may not
be left outdoors overnight.
         C.   The parking of vehicles and equipment for purposes of sale is
prohibited.
         D.   The storage of rental vehicles shall not occupy any parking space
provided to meet the parking requirements of the service station or any other
accessory use.
         E.   No vehicles shall be parked or stored in the public right-of-way.
         F.   Fuel and product delivery trucks shall not obstruct the public
right-of-way during delivery or create any vehicle stacking on the street. A
service station attendant shall be responsible for monitoring and directing
traffic during fuel or product deliveries to ensure that no adverse impacts are
created.
      (3)   Signs
         Signs shall be subject to the provisions of
Chapter 17.70 (Signs).
   (c)   Design and Development Regulations (also see
Chapter 17.15).
      (1)   The following design and development regulations shall apply to any
new service station and to any existing service station meeting any of the
criteria specified in
Chapter 17.130  (Conditional Use Permit).
      (2)   All service station sites shall front on streets designated as
Super Arterial, Major Arterial, or Major Collector on the Circulation Element
Map, Figure V-4 of the General Plan.
      (3)   The minimum lot size for service stations is 20,000 square feet.
      (4)   All service stations shall have a minimum street frontage of one-
hundred twenty-five (125) feet.
      (5)   The following setbacks shall be maintained:
 
Structure                Required Setback (Feet) Required Setback (Feet)
                         Interior                Abutting a Street
Pump Islands*            10                      20
Canopies**               5                       5
Air and water dispensers 5                       10
Automobile carwash,      Per                     Per
maintenance              Table 25-1              Table 25-1
and repair**
Retail and office**      Per                     Per
                         Table 25-1              Table 25-1
*   All pump islands shall be covered by a canopy.
**   All buildings and structures shall be set back twenty (20) feet from
Residentially zoned properties, or properties used for residential purposes.
 
      (6)   Access
         A.   Driveways shall be designed and located to ensure safe and
efficient movement of traffic on and off the site to and from the lane of
traffic nearest the curb. All driveways shall be located and constructed
according to the City standards.
         B.   Driveways for service stations which are developed as part of, or
in conjunction with adjacent uses shall be compatible with the overall
circulation of adjacent uses.
         C.   On-site driveways shall be a minimum of twenty-six (26) feet wide
for two-way traffic or twenty (20) feet wide for one-way traffic.
         D.   Provisions for on-site queuing lanes shall be made.
         E.   Queuing lanes shall not interfere with access to required parking
spaces and driveways.
      (7)   All drainage to the street shall be by underground structures to
avoid drainage across City walks or drive aprons, and shall be subject to
approval by the City Engineer. Drainage shall be handled in a manner that will
not allow fuel to drain into any city or public storm drain system (if
present). Fuel spill must be able to be contained on-site.
      (8)   The following use classifications shall be permitted as accessory
uses to a service station, subject to the approval of Conditional Use Permit
(CUP), or an amendment to an existing CUP, pursuant to
Chapter 17.130  (Conditional Use Permits).
         A.   Convenience markets
         B.   Automated or Hand Car Wash
         C.   Minor Auto Repair / Service (all work to be performed indoors)
         D.   Electronic equipment installation (all work to be performed
indoors)
         E.   Rental of Trailer, Trucks and Vehicles shall be permitted as an
accessory use subject to the following:
            i.   The rental equipment does not occupy or interfere with the
required parking for the service station.
            ii.   The rental operation is clearly incidental to and secondary
to the primary use; and
            iii.   Rental equipment shall not obstruct vehicle or pedestrian
access or line-of-sight
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit G, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit I, 9/10/14.]
17.25.110 Drive-Through Facilities
   The purpose of this subsection is to ensure that drive-through facilities do
not impose adverse impacts on adjacent uses or the surrounding neighborhood
because of customer or employee parking demand, traffic generation, noise,
light or litter. Review of proposed development plans shall check consistency
with the goals, objectives and policies of the General Plan and compliance with
the requirements of this Zoning Ordinance.
   (a)   Location Standards
      (1)   Drive-through businesses shall not disrupt the pedestrian activity
of adjacent or nearby commercial uses or commercially zoned property.
      (2)   The use shall not interfere with the normal activity of adjacent or
adjoining properties or potential for planned commercial development.
      (3)   Drive-through businesses shall not locate within 150 feet of
residential used property or residential zoning district, without issuance of a
Conditional Use Permit.
   (b)   Development Standards
      (1)   Access
         A.   Each developed site shall not have more than one (1) point of
access per street frontage.
         B.   Drive-through aisles shall not take direct access from a public
street or thoroughfare, but instead take access from a parking area or on-site
drive aisles.
      (2)   Hours
         A.   A drive-through located adjacent to any residential use or
district shall not open prior to 6:00 am or after 10:00 p.m.
         B.   The approval of administrative or discretionary permits may
further restrict the hours of operation for such use when adjacent to
residential uses or residential districts and where modified hours are
necessary to mitigate potential adverse impacts related to noise, traffic, or
lighting.
      (3)   Drive-through Lane/Stacking for food establishments
         A.   Drive-through lanes shall have a minimum length of 120 feet from
entry to pick-up window, accommodating six (6) vehicles.
         B.   The lane shall have a minimum width of ten (10) feet on the
straight section and twelve (12) feet on curved sections.
         C.   Design of drive-through lanes shall incorporate a combination of
landscaping, low screen walls, and trellises.
         D.   Drive-through lanes shall be situated to best separate pedestrian
and vehicular uses, including avoidance of walkways and designated pedestrian
pathways.
         E.   A physical barrier with a low wall or solid landscaped hedge 36"
to 42" in height shall separate the drive-through lane from other parking and
circulation areas and shall also be required adjacent to public rights-of way,
per Chapter
17.60  (Landscaping/Water Conservation).
      (4)   Drive-through Lane/Stacking for non-food establishments
         A.   Drive-through lanes shall have a minimum length of 60 feet from
entry to pick-up window, accommodating three (3) vehicles.
         B.   The lane shall have a minimum width of ten (10) feet on the
straight section and twelve (12) feet on curved sections.
         C.   Design of drive-through lanes shall incorporate a combination of
landscaping, low screen walls, and trellises.
         D.   Drive-through lanes shall be situated to best separate pedestrian
and vehicular uses, including avoidance of walkways and designated pedestrian
pathways.
         E.   A physical barrier with a low wall or solid landscaped hedge 36"
to 42" in height shall separate the drive-through lane from other parking and
circulation areas and shall also be required adjacent to public rights-of way.
      (5)   Location and Setbacks. Drive-through lanes shall not be located
within required setbacks or required landscape areas. The lanes shall comply
with the Parking Area setback standard per
Table 25-1(G).
      (6)   Noise. Noise emanating from sound systems, including intercom and
public address systems, shall not be audible beyond the property line.
      (7)   Signs. All signs shall conform to
Chapter 17.70, Signs. Drive-through businesses within or abutting a commercial
shopping center must comply with the sign program for the commercial center.
For drive-through businesses abutting a commercial shopping center, signs shall
be consistent and compatible with the center. In addition, drive-through
businesses may have two (2) menu signs with a maximum height of six (6) feet
and a maximum sign area of twenty-four (24) square feet.
      (8)   Landscaping/Water Conservation. Berming and landscaping shall be
provided to screen the entire drive-through area. Landscaping requirements
shall be subject to
Chapter 17.60, Landscaping/Water Conservation and
Chapter 17.15 of this Zoning Code.
   (c)   Permits Required
      The following review process shall be followed:
      (1)   A Conditional Use Permit and Location and Development Plan are
required for any drive-through facility closer than 150 feet to a residential
use or residentially zoned property. The distance is measured from property
line to property line of the subject drive-through facility to the residential
lot or residentially zoned property; or
      (2)   A Location and Development Plan is required for all other proposed
drive-through facilities in compliance with this Zoning Code.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit G, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit I, 9/10/14.]
CHAPTER 17.30
BUSINESS AND MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS
   
17.30.010   Intent and Purpose
   
17.30.020   Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Temporary Uses, and Conditional
Uses
   
17.30.030   Location and Development Plan
   
17.30.040   Development Standards
   
17.30.050   Parking and Loading
   
17.30.070   Outdoor Uses, Display, and Storage
   
17.30.080   Manufacturing/Industrial Condominiums
   
17.30.090   Requirements for Recycling Facilities, Service Stations, and Drive-
through Facilities
17.30.010 Intent and Purpose
   The Business and Manufacturing districts are established to facilitate the
development of larger-scale businesses involved in manufacturing, distribution,
or services, as well as office and retail uses in some areas. Toward this end,
the following districts are established:
   (a)   Airport Development District (ADD)
      The Airport Development District (ADD) provides for a wide range of
nonresidential uses, generally encompassing light and heavy industrial, retail,
office, and other commercial uses that are oriented around airport operation,
services, industries and businesses. The Airport Development District is
intended to provide maximum flexibility to the City, landowners, and tenants in
establishing and operating non-residential uses. Development is expected to be
predominated by buildings of one (1) or two (2) stories, but may attain any
heights up to fifty-five (55) feet . In some cases, retail uses will be on the
ground floor, with offices above. All uses in this district will be required to
execute aviation easements.
   (b)   Light Manufacturing (LM)
      The Light Manufacturing (LM) district provides for a more limited range
of uses, including only light industrial and manufacturing uses which benefit
from separation from residential, office, and retail districts.
   (c)   Manufacturing/Industrial (MI)
      The Manufacturing/Industrial (MI) district provides for a wide range of
industrial uses, including light and heavy industrial and manufacturing uses.
Adult businesses, as defined in
Chapter 17.85 of this Code, may be located only in the MI district.
   (d)   Business Park (BP)
      The Business Park land use designation allows for employment uses that
may be related and supportive of SCLA along with synergistic uses like research
and design, medical and professional offices, schools/studios for professional
and business advancement, and health and fitness facilities to attract
employment activity from beyond the City’s boundary.
   (e)   Light Manufacturing Cannabis Only (LMCO)
      The Light Manufacturing Cannabis Only (LMCO) district provides a cannabis
only use that will include cannabis cultivation, manufacturing, distribution/
transportation, testing, nursery, and other related cannabis uses or process as
may be defined by the City and State of California.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit H, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit J, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 586, Section 3, 5/9/18; Ord. No. 640, Section
3, 4/12/23.]
17.30.020 Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Temporary Uses, and Conditional Uses
   (a)   Appendix A of this Development Code indicates the uses permitted in
the industrial zone districts. Industrial uses represent the primary permitted
uses, although other uses are allowed as accessory, conditionally permitted,
and temporary uses, as indicated in
Appendix A .
   (b)   Uses listed as conditionally permitted uses are subject to the review
requirements and conditions contained in
Chapter 17.130  (Conditional Use Permits) of this Zoning Code. Temporary uses
and conditions are subject to the review requirements and conditions contained
in
Chapter 17.155  (Temporary Use Permit). Also, certain uses such as churches and
businesses involved in the sale of alcoholic beverages may be subject to
Special Use Standards outlined in
Chapter 17.80 .
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit H, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit J, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 581, Sections 3, 4, 12/13/17.]
17.30.030 Location and Development Plan
   Location and Development Plan approval, as described in
Chapter 17.150 (Location and Development Plan) and
Chapter 17.100 (Administrative Procedures), is required for all industrial
development projects, except as otherwise permitted by this code.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit H, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit J, 9/10/14.]
17.30.040 Development Standards
   (a)   General Standards
      
Table 30-1 provides the development standards for the Airport Development
District, the Light Manufacturing District, the Manufacturing/Industrial
District, and the Business Park District. Design Review and Standards for
Industrial Districts can be found in Section
17.15.070 of this Zoning Code.
   (b)   Building Materials
      Building Material requirements can be found in Section
17.15.070 of this Zoning Code.
   (c)   Airport Development Standards
      Construction within the 65 CNEL Noise Contour of the Airport will be
required to conform to construction standards of state and federal guidelines
including the Comprehensive Airport Land Use Plan (CALUP) standards.
Construction of buildings and structures are limited by the height and lighting
requirements of the Federal Aviation Authority (FAA) Regulations Part 77.
Aviation easements will be required for each development.
   (d)   Trash enclosures
      Trash enclosures shall be provided for any lot or parcel for the
temporary storage and collection of trash, rubbish, and/or garbage (hereafter
“trash facilities”) in accordance with all of the following requirements:
      (1)   Trash enclosures may be located within a building, or if in the
open, shall be enclosed by a decorative masonry wall, architecturally
compatible with the main building. Such trash enclosure shall include a solid
gate for bin access and a separate view obscuring pedestrian access.
      (2)   All trash enclosures visible from streets or public parking areas
shall be constructed and finished to be compatible with the architectural
details and decor of the primary structure.
      (3)   All trash enclosures shall be regularly cleaned and maintained;
      (4)   All trash containers and trash bins shall incorporate a tight-
fitting lid;
      (5)   All trash enclosures shall be located for convenient access by
occupants of the site and vehicular access for pick-up and disposal, but shall
be either in the rear or on the side of the building.
      (6)   Trash enclosures are prohibited in the front setback, or any
setback areas abutting residential zones, or properties used for residential
purposes.
   (e)   Buffering and Screening
      (1)   A minimum eight (8) foot high masonry wall shall be provided
adjacent to residential used or zoned areas.
      (2)   A low wall, berm, or solid landscaped hedge 36" to 42" in height
shall be provided between public streets and parking and driveway areas to
screen parking areas, per Chapter
17.60  (Landscape/Water Conservation).
      (3)   See screening requirements for outdoor uses, display, and storage
in Section
17.30.070 .
   (f)   On-site Lighting
      (1)   All on-site lighting shall be energy efficient, stationary and
directed away from adjoining properties and public rights-of-way.
      (2)   Light fixtures shall be shielded so no light is emitted above the
horizontal plane of the bottom of the light fixture.
      (3)   Light fixtures shall be shielded so no light above 0.5 foot-candle
spills over onto adjacent properties and rights-of-way. There shall be no
spillover (0.0 foot-candle) onto adjacent residential used or zoned properties.
   (g)   Noise
      Noise requirements are subject to Chapter 
17.90 (Performance Standards) of this Zoning Code.
   (h)   Landscaping/Water Conservation
      All landscaping shall comply with the requirements of
Chapters 17.60, Landscaping/Water Conservation and
17.15 Design Review of this Zoning Code.
   (i)   Signs
      All signs shall conform to
Chapter 17.70 (Signs) of this Development Code.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit H, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit J, 9/10/14.]
17.30.050 Parking and Loading
   Parking and loading requirements are subject to Chapter 
17.65 (Parking and Loading) and Chapter
17.15 (Design Review) of this Zoning Code. Where a mix of use types is proposed
in the Airport Development District (ADD) (e.g., retail, office, and
manufacturing), an alternative parking standard may be approved by the Planning
Director subject to approval of a Location and Development Plan (LDP) and
Variance. Changes in parking standards must be accompanied by a parking
analysis, which will be reviewed by the City Traffic Engineer.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit H, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit J, 9/10/14.]
17.30.070 Outdoor Uses, Display and Storage
   (a)   Outdoor Uses and Storage shall be located behind the building or
screened from public rights-of-way by a minimum eight (8) foot high solid,
masonry wall, which shall be setback from the public right-of-way in accordance
with the setbacks for buildings set forth in
Table 30-1  - Development Standards.
   (b)   Storage shall not exceed the height of the wall along public rights-
of-way
   (c)   Access gates along any masonry wall around outdoor uses or storage
areas shall be solid and the same height as the wall.
   (d)   Outdoor Storage areas shall be treated to control dust and driveways
in outdoor storage areas shall be paved.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit H, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit J, 9/10/14.]
17.30.080 Manufacturing/Industrial Condominiums
   Any proposed subdivision of a Manufacturing/Industrial use for condominium
purposes (either new construction or conversion) shall require a parcel map and
shall be consistent with the State Subdivision Map Act as contained in the
Government Code and be in accordance with the requirements of Adelanto City
Ordinance No. 277U and Ordinance No. 298, or their successors.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit H, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit J, 9/10/14.]
TABLE 30-1
ADD, LM, MI, AND BP DEVELOPMENT ZONE DISTRICTS - DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Development Standard Zone Districts
                     ADD LM/LMCO MI* BP
                                             Zone Districts
Development Standard                         ADD           LM/  MI*           BP
                                                           LMCO
A.   Minimum Lot Size                     20,000 sf (a)
                                             100 ft.
B.   Minimum Lot Dimensions               100 ft.
   • Width                              Minimum lot dimensions may be reduced through
   • Depth                              the use of a condominium-type project where
                                             areas smaller than the minimum standards are
                                             sold, leased, or rented to individual users.
                                                                North of
                                                                Holly Road
                                                                and
                                                                correctional
                                             55 ft. or per      facilities:   50 ft. (or
                                             Comprehensive      60 ft.        per
C.   Maximum Building Height              Airport Land  55   South of      Comprehensive
                                             Use Plan      ft.  Holly Road:   Airport Land
                                             (CALUP)            75 ft. (or    Use Plan
                                                                per           [CALUP])
                                                                Comprehensive
                                                                Airport Land
                                                                Use Plan
                                                                [CALUP])
                                             At least 5% of the project area (exclusive of
D.   Landscaping Required                 areas within a public right of way) must be
                                             landscaped.
                                             At least 10% of parking areas (exclusive of
                                             loading areas) must be landscaped. This
E.   Parking Lot Landscaping              landscaping may be counted toward the total
                                             site area landscaping required in item E
                                             above.
                                                                              0.75 FAR. FAR
                                             No Maximum Floor Area Ratio. FAR will be
                                             will be subject to meeting       subject to
F.   Maximum Floor Area Ratio (FAR)       parking and landscaping          meeting
                                             standards.                       parking and
                                                                              landscaping
                                                                              standards
G.   Minimum Front Yard Setback           25 ft.
   • Setback to Building                10 ft.
   • Setback to Parking Area
                                             25 ft.
                                             10 ft.
                                             0 ft.
H.   Minimum Side Yard Setbacks           Twenty-five (25) feet landscaped setback for
   • All Street Sides -Setback to Buildibuildings up to thirty-five (35) feet tall.
   • All Street Sides - Setback to ParkiBuildings over thirty-five (35) feet shall be
   • All Others                         setback two (2) additional feet for each
   • Abutting residential district      additional one (1) foot height of building
                                             over thirty-five (35) feet. May be reduced to
                                             zero (0) if approved by the City and the Fire
                                             Department.
                                             Twenty-five (25) feet landscaped setback for
                                             buildings up to thirty-five (35) feet tall.
                                             Buildings over thirty-five (35) feet shall be
I.   Minimum Rear Yard Setback            setback two (2) additional feet for each
   •Abutting residential district       additional one (1) foot height of building
   •Street Side - Setback to Building   over thirty-five (35) feet. May be reduced to
   •Street Side - Setback to Parking    zero (0) if approved by the City and the Fire
   •All Other                           Department.
                                             25 ft.
                                             10 ft.
                                             0 ft.
Abbreviations: sf = square feet; ft. = feet Notes:
(a) Except in a condominium development, where a different minimum lot size standard may be
provided.
 
[Ord. No. 583, Section 4, 2/28/18; Ord. No. 586, Section 4, 5/9/18; Ord. No.
640, Section 3, 4/12/23.]
17.30.090 Requirements for Recycling Facilities, Service Stations and Drive-
through Facilities
   The requirements of Sections
17.25.090, Recycling Facilities;
17.25.100, Service Stations; and
17.25.110, Drive-Through Facilities shall also apply in the Light
Manufacturing, Manufacturing/Industrial, Business Park and Airport Development
Districts.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit H, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit J, 9/10/14.]
CHAPTER 17.35
PUBLIC FACILITIES AND PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT
   
17.35.010   Intent and Purpose
   
17.35.020   Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Temporary Uses, and Conditional
Uses
   
17.35.030   Location and Development Plan Approval Required
   
17.35.040   Development Standards
17.35.010 Intent and Purpose
   The intent of this Chapter is to create zoning districts which will identify
and preserve public facilities. Toward this end, two zone districts are
established as follows:
   (a)   Public Facility (PF)
      The Public Facility (PF) district applies to all public facilities in
Adelanto, including City, County, and other government properties south of
Holly Road.
   (b)   Public Utility (PU)
      The Public Utility (PU) district encompasses a variety of public
facilities in Adelanto, including City, County, and other government properties
north of Holly Road.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit K, 9/10/14.]
17.35.020 Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Temporary Uses, and Conditional Uses
   (a)   
Appendix A: Regulation of Uses by Zone District of this Zoning Code indicates
the uses permitted in the PU and PF zone districts. Only public facilities and
utilities are permitted as primary uses, although other uses are allowed as
accessory, conditionally permitted, and temporary uses, as indicated in
Appendix A.
   (b)   Uses listed as conditionally permitted uses are subject to the review
requirements and conditions contained in
Chapter 17.130 of this Zoning Code. Temporary uses and conditions are subject
to the review requirements and conditions contained in
Chapter 17.155.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit K, 9/10/14.]
17.35.030 Location and Development Plan Approval Required
   A Location and Development Plan Approval, as described in
Chapter 17.150, is required for all projects in the PU and PF districts
involving the construction of new structures and major new buildings greater
than two-hundred (200) square feet in size.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit K, 9/10/14]
17.35.040 Development Standards
   
Table 35-1 indicates the development standards for the Public Utility and
Public Facilities zone districts.
TABLE 35-1
PF AND PU DISTRICTS - DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Development Standard Zone District
                     PF PU
Development Standard                Zone District
                                    PF         PU
A.   Minimum Lot Size            10,000 sf  N/A
B.   Minimum Lot Dimensions      None       None
C.   Maximum Building Height     40 ft. (a) 40 ft. (a)
                                    At least 15% of the project area (exclusive
D.   Landscaping Required        of areas in a public right of way) must be
                                    landscaped.
                                    At least 5% of parking areas must be
E.   Parking Lot Landscaping     landscaped. This landscaping may be counted
                                    toward the total site area landscaping
                                    required in item D, above.
F.   Minimum Front Yard Setback  25 ft.     25 ft.
   • Setback to Buildings      25 ft.     25 ft.
   • Setback to Parking
G.   Minimum Side Yard Setbacks (25 ft.     15 ft.
   • Street Side               15 ft.     10 ft.
   • All Others
H.   Minimum Rear Yard Setback   15 ft.     20 ft.
Abbreviations: sf = square feet; ft. = feet
(a) Height may be exceeded, up to a maximum of eighty (80) feet, by towers,
steeples, or other similar architectural features, subject to the requirements
of any avignation agreement and the CALUP.
 
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit K, 9/10/14.]
CHAPTER 17.40
OPEN SPACE, PUBLIC LAND AND SCHOOLS AND GREENBELT CORRIDOR DISTRICTS
   
17.40.010   Intent and Purpose
   
17.40.020   Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Temporary Uses, and Conditional
Uses
   
17.40.030   Development Standards
17.40.010 Intent and Purpose
   The Open Space, Public Land and Schools (OS) and Greenbelt Corridors (DE and
UE) districts are established to preserve natural desert habitat resources,
drainages, utility easements, and for outdoor recreation, both active and
passive, public lands and schools. This zone district applies to public lands
which have been acquired in fee ownership by the City and other public
agencies. Toward this end, the following districts are established:
   (a)   Open Space, Public Land and Schools (OS)
      The Open Space, Public Land and Schools (OS) district provides for
undeveloped areas with wildlife habitat and/or natural resource value,
renewable energy uses and recreational uses. Land designated as OS south of
Holly Road is also suitable for public lands and schools. In this district, one
residential dwelling unit is permitted per 50 acres or as an existing, approved
use.
   (b)   Greenbelt Corridor: Drainage Easement (DE)
      The Greenbelt Corridor: Drainage Easement (DE) district provides for
storm water drainage and storm water detention uses that may also contain
bicycle and hiking trails, and recreational parking areas.
   (c)   Greenbelt Corridor: Utility Easement (UE)
      The Greenbelt Corridor: Utility Easement (UE) district provides for
transmission and power lines uses that may also contain bicycle and hiking
trails and recreational park areas.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit L, 9/10/14.]
17.40.020 Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Temporary Uses, and Conditional Uses
   (a)   
Appendix A: Regulation of Uses by Zone District of this Zoning Code indicates
the uses permitted in the OS, DE and UE zone districts.
   (b)   Uses listed as conditionally permitted uses are subject to the review
requirements and conditions contained in
Chapter 17.130 of this Zoning Code. Temporary uses and conditions are subject
to the review requirements and conditions contained in
Chapter 17.155. Also, certain uses such as churches be subject to Special Use
Standards outlined in
Chapter 17.80.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit L, 9/10/14.]
17.40.030 Development Standards
   No specific development standards apply to public facility buildings
constructed within the OS, DE and UE zones. Buildings shall be designed and
constructed to reflect the character of the land in which they are located and
to ensure compatibility with development on adjacent properties.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit L, 9/10/14.]
CHAPTER 17.45
AIRPORT PARK OVERLAY DISTRICT (APO)
   
17.45.010   Intent and Purpose
   
17.45.015   Applicability
   
17.45.020   Regulations
   
17.45.030   Maximum Height
   
17.45.040   Special Considerations in the Airport Park Overlay District
   
17.45.050   Recorded Deed Notices
17.45.010 Intent and Purpose.
The Airport Park Overlay District designated herein by the symbol "APO", is
intended to enhance safety to aviators and the general public by informing and
notifying property owners of potential noise and safety issues generated from
the Adelanto Airport Park. The purpose of the Airport Park Overlay District is
to promote safe and harmonious development of those areas located within the
Airport Park Overlay District as shown on the City of Adelanto General Plan
Land Use/Zoning Map.
The guidelines in this Chapter help minimize the exposure to high noise levels
and accident hazards generated by airport operations and encourage future
development that is compatible with the continued operation of the airport.
This is achieved by promoting commercial and industrial developments that are
capable of strengthening the local economy and enhancing the quality of life of
residents, as well as ensuring that land use conflicts are minimized and that
long term interest for industrial projects are maintained. The Airport Park
Overlay District identifies potential restrictions and limitations on uses and
heights of structures and other objects near airports in order to protect
airport airspace and people on the ground.
[Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09.]
17.45.015 Applicability.
The Airport Park Overlay District applies to those areas adjacent to the
Airport Park District and within the boundaries shown on the City of Adelanto
General Plan Land Use/Zoning Map. Such areas shall be identified on the City of
Adelanto General Plan Land Use/Zoning Map by the letters "APO."
The Airport Park Overlay District is a supplement to the basic underlying land
use/zoning district and shall be applied to those properties that are
determined to be within the designated Overlay District. The provision of this
Chapter shall apply to all new development within the Airport Park Overlay
District and any addition, remodeling, relocation, or construction requiring a
building or grading permit.
[Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09.]
17.45.020 Regulations.
Whenever any property on the City of Adelanto General Plan Land Use/Zoning Map
is identified within the Airport Park Overlay District, the provisions of this
Chapter shall apply concerning uses and height limitation for any buildings or
structures located, or to be located upon such property. The regulations in
this Chapter shall be in addition to the regulations in the underlying zone.
[Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09.]
17.45.030 Maximum Height.
The Airport Park Overlay District is intended to identify recommended heights
of buildings and structures within the Overlay areas to reduce the potential
impacts of noise and safety hazards associated with the close proximity of the
airport. Structures or objects within the Airport Park Overlay District should
be reviewed as to whether they would conflict with Federal Aviation
Administration Regulations Part 77 or impede visibility or access to open areas
providing emergency landing areas for aircraft.
[Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09.]
17.45.040 Special Considerations in the Airport Park Overlay District.
Particularly hazardous land uses should be restricted in all designated airport
overlay zones. These include those which would cause smoke, water vapor, or
light interference impeding the pilot's ability to see the airfield. Other uses
which cause electrical interference with aircraft navigational and
communications equipment also should be prohibited in the airport vicinity.
Other inappropriate uses include those which attract large numbers of birds.
Examples include landfills and some types of food processing plants involving
outdoor storage of grain and other raw materials or food by-products.
The California Airport Land Use Planning Handbook offers the descriptions of
land uses which are considered hazardous and should be restricted within all
airport safety zones. These land uses include:
      1.   Any use which would direct a steady light or flashing light of red,
white, green, or amber colors associated with airport operations toward an
aircraft engaged in an initial straight climb following takeoff or toward an
aircraft engaged in a straight final approach toward a landing at the airport,
other than an FAA approved navigational signal light or visual approach slope
indicator;
      2.   Any use which would cause sunlight to be reflected toward an
aircraft engaged in an initial straight climb following takeoff or toward an
aircraft engaged in a straight final approach toward a landing at an airport;
      3.   Any use which would generate smoke or which would attract large
concentrations of birds, or which may otherwise affect safe air navigation
within this area;
      4.   Any use which would generate electrical interference that would be
detrimental to the operation of aircraft and/or aircraft instrumentation; and
      5.   Any land use involving, as the primary activity, the manufacture,
storage, or distribution of explosives or flammable or hazardous materials.
[Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09.]
17.45.050   Recorded Deed Notices.
All properties proposed for new development within the Airport Park Overlay
District and any addition, remodeling, relocation, or construction requiring a
building or grading permit shall record a deed notice prior to issuance of the
building or grading permit. The intent is to ensure that property owners and
prospective buyers of airport area property are informed about impacts of
airport operations on the property and conditions that may affect the property.
A deed notice shall be substantially as described below:
"
Chapters 17.22 (Airport Park) and
17.45 (Airport Park Overlay District) of the Adelanto Zoning Code identify an
airport influence area for the Adelanto Airport. Properties within this area
are subject to overflights by aircraft using this airport and, as a result,
occupants may experience inconvenience, annoyance, or discomfort arising from
the noise of such operations and potential increased risks associated with
aircraft operations. Therefore, these properties may be subject to certain
limitations on uses and heights of buildings in close proximity to the
airport."
[Ord. No. 480, Section 6, 3/11/09.]
CHAPTER 17.46
AFFORDABLE HOUSING OVERLAY DISTRICT (AHO)
   
17.46.010   Intent and Purpose
   
17.46.015   Applicability
   
17.46.020   Regulations
17.46.010   Intent and Purpose
The Affordable Housing Overlay District designated herein by the symbol “AHO”,
is intended to promote the development of affordable housing. The purpose of
the Affordable Housing Overlay District is to promote housing development in
those areas located within the Affordable Housing Overlay District as shown on
the City of Adelanto General Plan Land Use/Zoning Map.
[Ord. No. 652, Exhibit 1, 7/24/24.]
17.46.015   Applicability
The Affordable Housing Overlay District applies to those areas identified on
the City of Adelanto General Plan Land Use/Zoning Map by the letters “AHO.”
Specific provisions of the Affordable Housing Overlay District supersede those
of the underlying land use/zoning district and apply to those properties that
are within the designated Overlay District. The provisions in this Chapter
apply to all new development within the Affordable Housing Overlay District and
any addition, remodeling, relocation, or construction requiring a building or
grading permit. Provisions of the underlying land use/zoning district not
superseded by provisions in this Chapter remain in force.
[Ord. No. 652, Exhibit 1, 7/24/24.]
17.46.020   Regulations
The following provisions supersede those of the underlying land use/zoning
district:
   (a)   In residential zones (not including MU or AP zones), regulations
applicable to the R3-30 zone shall apply, unless superseded by provisions in
this Chapter.
   (b)   All development shall include residential dwelling units at a minimum
density of twenty (20) units per net acre or a maximum of two thousand one
hundred and seventy-eight (2,178) square feet of lot area per unit.
   (c)   In underlying land use/zoning districts with a maximum density, the
maximum density is the density of the underlying zone or thirty (30) dwelling
units per acre, whichever is greater. As in all districts, density bonus may
increase the maximum density.
   (d)   Owner-occupied and rental multifamily residential use shall be
reviewed through a “by-right” ministerial process (set forth in Section
17.100.090 Ministerial Review) for developments that include at least twenty
percent (20%) of units affordable to lower-income households.
[Ord. No. 652, Exhibit 1, 7/24/24.]
CHAPTER 17.50
MIXED USE DISTRICT
   
17.50.010    Intent
   
17.50.020    Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Conditional Uses, and Temporary
Uses
   
17.50.030    Development Standards
   
17.50.040    Minimum Design Standards
   
17.50.050    Accessory Uses and Structures
   
17.50.060    Attached Single-Family and Multi-Family Housing-Additional
Standards
   
17.50.070    Outdoor Storage
   
17.50.080    Parking Standards
17.50.010   Intent
   With the desire to achieve sustainable development forms, the Mixed Use land
use category is established. Mixed-use development approaches offer
opportunities for people to live close to work or near transit stops, walk to
neighborhood stores and parks, enjoy indoor and outdoor entertainment close to
home, and experience vibrant pedestrian districts. The Mixed Use designation
includes two activity areas: Town Center and Visitor Serving Center. The Mixed
Use designation is to allow mixed use development, thereby, providing maximum
opportunity and flexibility for a broad array of long term residential,
commercial, institutional, and business uses within walking distance to
multiple land use opportunities. The mixed use concept is embraced for the Town
Center Mixed Use and the Visitor Serving Center Mixed Use areas.
   The Mixed Use designation encourages a mixture of compatible and synergistic
land uses, such as residential with compatible non-residential uses.
Residential live-work, single family attached residences, and multi-family
units are permitted. The Mixed Use residential land use is a high density
category, and may include compact residential lots, attached homes,
condominiums, multi-family - for-sale and rental units located conveniently to
services and transportation. Ideally, these neighborhoods will have convenient
access to recreational and daycare facilities. Compatible non-residential uses
including, but are not limited to: civic and community facilities, City Hall,
Stater Bros. Stadium, visitor serving accommodations, senior center, Central
Park, farmer’s markets, museums, libraries, movie theaters, shopping and
dining, and employment opportunities in medical/business offices. Toward this
end, the following districts are established:
   (a)   Mixed Use: Town Center
      The Town Center is envisioned to be the heart or main focal point of the
City. It will include a “main street” and a downtown mixed use area that allows
for a variety of uses including residential. Uses in this zoning district must
comply with the Airport Safety review process and the SCLA Land Use Plan.
   (b)   Mixed Use: Visitor Serving Center
      The Visitor Serving Center area will provide an opportunity for hotel
accommodations and resort facilities related to Stater Bros.’ Stadium and serve
as a venue for entertainment uses such as community events, concerts, and
festivals.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit A, 9/10/14.]
17.50.020   Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses, Conditional Uses, and Temporary
Uses
   (a)   Appendix A: Regulation of Uses by Zone District of this Zoning Code
permits a range of uses including, but not limited to the following:
      •   Residential uses (compact lots, attached homes condominiums, etc.)
      •   Civic and community facilities
      •   Eating and drinking establishments
      •   Offices
      •   Retail
      •   Service Stations
      •   Auto Service and Repair
      •   Automobile Service (lubrication, tune-ups, emission tests, batteries,
mufflers, etc. No use of impact wrenches or other equipment that could create
noise impacts; no overnight outside storage or parking; paint, body work,
upholstery prohibited)
      •   Automobile Minor Repair (brakes, tires, radiators, electrical, etc.
No overnight outside storage or parking; paint, body work, upholstery
prohibited)
      •   Automobile Paint, Body, and Upholstery Shops
      •   Restaurant, Drive-Thru 2 , no alcohol sales
      •   Mini-Warehouses/Storage Facilities/Recreational Vehicle Storage
   (b)   Uses listed as conditionally permitted uses are subject to the review
requirements and conditions contained in
Chapter 17.130  of this Zoning Code. Temporary uses are subject to the review
requirements and conditions contained in
Chapter 17.155 . Also, certain other uses such as antennas may be subject to
Special Use Standards outlined in
Chapter 17.80 , subject to the special height limitations contained in
Table 22-1 , Section
17.22.040 (a).
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit A, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 600, Section 3, 5/8/19; Ord. No.
635, Section 3, 10/14/22.; Ord. No. 641, Section 3, 5/10/23; Ord. No. 654,
Section 3, 10/23/24.]
17.50.030   Development Standards
   (a)   General Standards
      
Table 50-1 provides the development standards for the Mixed Use District.
TABLE 50-1
MU ZONE DISTRICT - DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Development Standard Zone District
                     MU
Development Standard                Zone District
                                    MU
A.    Minimum Project Size, GLA  10,000 sf
B.    Minimum Lot Dimensions     100 ft.
   Width                         100 ft.
   Depth
C.   Maximum Building Height     60 feet
                                    At least 5% of the project area (exclusive
D.   Landscaping Required        of areas within a public right-of-way) must
                                    be landscaped.
                                    At least 5% of parking areas (exclusive of
                                    loading areas) must be landscaped. This
E.   Parking Lot Landscaping     landscaping may be counted toward the total
                                    site area landscaping required in item D
                                    above.
                                    0.45 FAR for mixed use (4 stories), 0.35
                                    for single use residential (2 stories), and
F.   Minimum Floor Area Ratio (FA0.25 for single use commercial (2 stories).
                                    FAR will be subject to meeting parking and
                                    landscaping standards.
G.   Minimum Front Yard Setback  0 ft.
   Setback to Buildings          10 ft.
   Setback to Parking
H.   Minimum Side yard Setback (a0 ft.
   Street Side                   10 ft.
   All Others
I.   Minimum Rear Yard Setback   0 ft.
 
Abbreviations: sf = square feet; ft. = feet; GLA = gross land area
Notes:
(a)   On lots located adjacent to a residential zone district, building height
shall be limited to thirty-five (35) feet.
(b)   Only one side yard is required. If a site adjoins a property zoned for
residential, open space, or institutional uses, then the side yard must be
provided on that side.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit A, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 589, Section 3, 7/25/18.]
17.50.040   Minimum Design Standards
   The following minimum design standards shall apply to all construction
projects, within the Mixed Use District.
   (a)   All development within the Mixed Use District shall adhere to the
intent of the development standards provided in the Adelanto North 2035
Comprehensive Sustainable Plan (Plan 2035). Where there is a conflict between
the guidance of this section and that of the Plan 2035, Plan 2035 shall
prevail.
   (b)   All primary single family residences shall have a minimum gross floor
area of one thousand (1,000) square feet. The minimum dwelling unit width and
depth shall be twenty (20) feet, measured from the exterior of the structure
and excluding garages, porches, patios, eaves, cabanas, and bay windows.
   (c)   Utility hookups shall be provided along with a designated laundry
space, for residential structures, to accommodate installation of a clothes
washer and dryer. This laundry space and utility hookups shall be provided
within the primary residential structure or within an enclosed accessory
structure.
   (d)   Siding material shall consist of stucco, wood, brick, stone,
decorative concrete block, or powder coated (colored) architectural metal.
Synthetic materials of a similar appearance and equivalent durability shall be
permitted, subject to the approval of the Community Development Director.
Exterior siding shall extend to a point at or near grade. However, if an
approved solid wood, metal, concrete, or masonry perimeter foundation is used,
the siding need not extend below the top of the foundation.
   (e)   Roofing materials shall be a minimum Class “A” as defined by the
Uniform Building Code and shall be architectural metal, such as standing seam
metal, or concrete tile, or equivalent.
   (f)   Areas for trash receptacles and recycling containers shall be provided
as required by the City of Adelanto.
   (g)   Architectural Design
      Any new building or structure, any addition to an existing building or
structure, and installation or construction of any site improvements shall be
designed to create a unified functional and comprehensive site plan. The
improvements shall have an integrated architectural theme that is compatible
with and will complement and enhance the subject and surrounding properties.
      1.   Residential Structures
         •   Residential structures shall include architectural features, such
as those listed below. Furthermore, hangars shall be architecturally compatible
with the residential structure.
         •   Low roof pitch
         •   Dormers
         •   Metal/tile roofs
         •   Wood columns
         •   Architectural and structural braces
         •   Recessed entries
         •   Balconies
         •   Awnings or shade elements
         •   Exposed beams and wood fascia
      2.   Commercial-Related Developments
         •   Commercial structures shall include architectural features, such
as those listed below:
         •   Integrated roof elements with parapets
         •   Covered outdoor pedestrian areas
         •   Landscaped parking island
         •   Uniform signs
         •   Covered recessed entrances
         •   Architectural elements to screen all mechanical equipment
      (h)   Walls and Fences
      1.   The maximum height at all locations, except the required front yard,
is eight (8) feet as measured from the top of the wall to finished grade.
      2.   Retaining and Crib walls shall comply with the requirements
contained in Section
17.10.120 (b) of this Municipal Code.
      3.   The height of fences within the required front yard shall be as
described in Section
17.10.120 (c).
      4.   All walls must be constructed of masonry, glass block, or a
combination thereof. All fences must be built with wood (weatherproofed),
decorative/wrought iron, chain link, or other similar materials. The use of
unsightly salvage materials is not permitted for fencing purposes.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit A, 9/10/14.]
17.50.050   Accessory Uses and Structures
   Accessory structures are subject to the same height and setback requirements
described for primary buildings and structures in
Table 30-1 ADD, LM and MI Zone Districts - Development Standards, except as
modified by Section
17.10.070 Maximum Projections into Yard, and Section
17.22.030 (b).
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit A, 9/10/14.]
17.50.060   Attached Single Family and Multi-Family Housing -Additional
Standards
   (a)   Open Space Requirements
      1.   All attached single-family and multi-family developments with ten
(10) or more dwelling units shall provide a minimum of five hundred (500)
square feet of a combination of private and common usable open space per unit.
Table 50-2  indicates the minimum open space dimensions for usable common and
private open space areas. The City may, at its discretion, include private
patios, decks, or balconies in the calculation of open space provided within a
development. Required front and street side setback areas, driveways, parking
areas, and walkways shall not be used to satisfy any part of the common open
space requirement.
TABLE 50-2
USABLE OPEN SPACE DIMENSIONS FOR MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENTS
 
Zone and Type of Usable Open Minimum Area Per Unit Minimum Length Minimum Width
Space
Combined and common private  500 sf.               5 ft.          5 ft.
(a)
 
   (a)   Where private open space is provided, it shall have a minimum of forty
(40) square feet in area and a minimum dimension of five (5) feet.
      2.   Required Amenities
         All attached single-family and multi-family housing developments shall
provide recreational amenities within the common open space. Common open space
amenities shall include, but not be limited to recreational amenities such as
swimming pool, picnic/barbeque area, volleyball court, passive sitting area,
tot lot, children’s playground (combined age group 2-5 and age group 5-12) and
indoor recreation/meeting room/fitness area. Amenities shall be provided in
accordance with the following:
   (b)   Laundry Facilities
      Laundry facilities shall be installed in each unit or a laundry room
shall be installed within each building or within an enclosed accessory
building located at a maximum walking distance of two hundred fifty (250) feet
from the units they serve, with an appropriate ratio of machines per dwelling
unit.
   (c)   Onsite Storage
      Each dwelling unit shall be provided a minimum of seventy-five (75) cubic
feet of lockable storage space outside the unit such as at the entrance of the
unit, on the balcony, within a carport or garage or other similar location
outside the unit.
   (d)   Trash Enclosures
      Trash enclosures shall be provided for any attached single-family and
multi-family housing development for the temporary storage and collection of
trash, rubbish, and/or garbage in accordance with all of the following
requirements:
      1.   Trash enclosures shall be provided at a rate of 1 bin/24 units or a
double bin per forty-eight (48) units.
      2.   All trash enclosures shall be located for convenient access by
occupants of the site and vehicular access for pick-up and disposal. Trash
enclosures shall be located to provide a maximum walking distance of two
hundred fifty (250) feet from the units they serve.
      3.   Trash enclosures shall be enclosed by a decorative masonry wall,
architecturally compatible with the main building(s). Such enclosure shall
include a solid gate for bin access and a separate view obstructing pedestrian
access. A trellis of non-flammable materials or heavy timbers, consistent with
Fire Department requirements, shall be provided over trash enclosures which are
not inside a structure.
      4.   All trash enclosures visible from streets or public parking areas
shall be constructed and finished to be compatible with the architectural
details and decor of the primary structure(s).
      5.   All trash enclosure shall be regularly cleaned and maintained.
      6.   All trash containers and trash bins shall incorporate a tight-
fitting lid.
      7.   Trash enclosures are prohibited in the front setback, or any setback
areas abutting residential zones, or properties used for residential purposes.
   (e)   Professional Management Required
      Management by a professional management company providing full-time
services for the management of rental housing facilities is required for all
rental housing in a multi-family complex of ten (10) units or more.
   (f)   Landscaping
      Landscaping is required as specified in
Chapters 17.60 and
17.15 of this Zoning Code. In addition to these requirements, multi-family
developments whose driveways (entry driveways and internal circulation
driveways) are located within any street-side setback and are not perpendicular
to the street are required to install a thirty-six (36) inch high hedge or
decorative wall adjacent to driveways, for screening purposes.
   (g)   Parking Spaces
      1.   Parking spaces shall be provided and located as specified in
Chapters 17.60  and
17.15  of this Zoning Code. Required parking spaces can be reduced by thirty
percent (30%) when seventy-five percent (75%) or more of the units within a
housing development are affordable to low or very-low income levels, or as
determined appropriate by the Planning Director.
      2.   Where driveways and parking spaces are located adjacent to a single-
family detached residential zone (DL-9, DL-2.5/5, R1-.5, R1), driveways and
parking spaces shall have a landscaped setback from the property line a minimum
of ten (10) feet and a block wall or solid fence, a minimum of six (6) feet in
height, shall be provided adjacent to the property line.
   (h)   Required Building Separation for Primary Buildings within Attached
Single-Family and Multi-Family Developments
      The building separation requirements outlined in
Table 50-4 shall apply to any lot containing two or more dwelling units located
in separate, detached structures. The required separations shall be between
opposite exterior walls of any buildings containing dwelling units. In the
event that more stringent requirements are imposed by the Uniform Building Code
or the Fire Department, the more stringent regulations shall apply.
TABLE 50-4
MINIMUM BUILDING SEPARATION FOR PRIMARY BUILDINGS WITHIN ATTACHED SINGLE FAMILY
AND MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENTS
 
Height of Building1 Minimum Required Separation
Less than 25 ft.    10 ft.
 
   1   Where buildings of different heights are adjacent, the standard for the
taller building shall apply.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit A, 9/10/14.]
17.50.070   Outdoor Storage
   (a)   All storage, except for operable vehicles and aircraft, shall be
screened from all public right-of-ways and adjacent residential properties.
Screening shall be the use of a decorative masonry block wall, solid fencing,
or other drought tolerant landscaping barrier.
   (b)   Recreational Vehicle Storage
      The storage of boats, travel trailers, and other recreational vehicles,
including personal aircraft for personal (non-commercial) use, on residential
lots within the Mixed Use District shall be not be permitted.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit A, 9/10/14.]
17.50.080   Parking Standards
   (a)   Parking standards for non-residential uses within the Mixed Use
District shall comply with
Chapter 17.65  of this Zoning Code.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit A, 9/10/14.]
CHAPTER 17.57
BIOTIC RESOURCES
   
17.57.010   Intent and Purpose
   
17.57.020   Locational Requirements
   
17.57.030   Biological Resource Report Required
   
17.57.040   Plant Protection and Management
17.57.010 Intent and Purpose
To implement General Plan policies regarding the protection and conservation of
beneficial rare and endangered plants and animal resources and their habitats
each project within the City of Adelanto is required to prepare a biotic
resources study.
17.57.020 Locational Requirements
The Biotic Resources Study shall be applied to areas which have been identified
by a state or federal agency as habitat for plants or animals officially listed
as threatened or endangered by the State of California and/or the federal
government, and their habitats. The Study may also be applied to areas of
ecological significance, including but not limited to those identified in the
General Plan.
17.57.030 Biological Resources Report Required
When new development is proposed or when an existing land use is proposed to be
increased by more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the existing floor area, or
by twenty-five percent (25%) of the land area for an outdoor recreational or
other use, the applicant shall have a report prepared identifying all biotic
resources located on the site and on adjacent parcels which could be impacted
by the proposed development. The report shall outline mitigating measures
designed to reduce or eliminate impacts to the identified resource(s).
The report shall be submitted along with the application for the proposed
development. The report shall be prepared by an appropriate expert such as a
qualified biologist, botanist, herpetologist, or other professional "life
scientist." The conditions of approval of any land use application shall
incorporate the identified mitigating measures to protect and preserve the
habitats of the identified plants and/or animals.
Reports may include, but are not limited to,
   1.   The federally and state listed desert tortoise (Xerobates agassizi).
   2.   State listed Mojave ground squirrel (Spermophilus mohavensis).
17.57.040 Plant Protection and Management
Development projects will comply with the requirements of the County of San
Bernardino for the relocation of Joshua trees. The Building Department will
review relocation plans and monitor the relocation of any Joshua trees.
CHAPTER 17.60
LANDSCAPING/WATER CONSERVATION
   
17.60.010   General Provisions
   
17.60.020   Landscape Design Plan
   
17.60.030   Landscape Design Standards
   
17.60.040   Landscape Material and Area Requirements
   
17.60.050   Model Home Complexes
   
17.60.060   Landscape Maintenance
   
17.60.070   Water Conservation
   
17.60.080   Approved Plant List
17.60.010 General Provisions
   Landscaping shall be provided, irrigated and maintained as required by the
Planning Director, pursuant to this Code and the policies of the City General
Plan, each of which may be amended from time to time.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of this Chapter is to provide minimum water
conservation and landscape development standards which will promote the general
welfare of Adelanto residents through the provision of an outdoor environment
which will:
      (1)   Create aesthetically pleasing views and vistas along public
streets.
      (2)   Complement and enhance the functional and aesthetic design of new
building and site development projects so as to protect and enhance property
values.
      (3)   Provide visual screening of parking, service and storage areas.
      (4)   Mitigate the adverse impacts of higher intensity land uses upon
lower intensity uses through the provision of needed landscape buffers.
      (5)   Promote water conservation by restricting the use of turf and
ornamental water features and requiring the utilization of low water use plant
materials.
      (6)   Promote climate modifications for enhancement of pedestrian
environment at street frontages, parking lots and building facades.
      (7)   Provide maximum shade on ground surfaces to reduce the “urban heat
island effect” produced by large expanses of unprotected paved areas.
   (b)   Applicability.
      All persons owning, developing or maintaining property subject to the
provisions of this Chapter shall comply with all applicable provisions
contained herein as identified below.
      The landscape standards and requirements established by
Chapter 17.15 and
Chapter 17.60, Sections
17.60.020 through
17.60.080 shall apply to all new developments whether residential, commercial
or industrial. The landscape standards and requirements establish by Sections
17.60.020 through
17.60.080 shall not apply to existing development, unless the development is
being expanded by 25% or more of the existing floor area. The landscape
maintenance provisions of Section
17.60.060 shall apply to all new and existing development.
      This Chapter does not apply to registered historical sites or cemeteries.
Registered historical sites and cemeteries shall provide scheduled irrigation
based on CIMIS (California Irrigation Management Information System) or conduct
water audits every three (3) years with strict adherence to the recommendations
in the water audit. CIMIS and water audits shall be submitted to the water
serving entity for compliance.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit I, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit M, 9/10/14.]
17.60.020 Landscape Design Plan
   (a)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit, three (3) copies of a
landscape design plan consisting of the landscape and irrigation plans shall be
submitted to the Planning Division. Such plans shall be drawn at a minimum
scale of one (1) inch equals thirty (30) feet (maximum sheet size 30" X 42")
and contain the following information:
      (1)   Building footprints and roof overhangs, walkways, parking surfaces
and vehicular overhang lines, property lines, right-of-way lines, and easement
lines.
      (2)   Calculations of the square footage and percent of total of all site
elements including building footprints, parking, and landscaped area.
Landscaped area shall also be further subdivided into subcategories of turf,
shrubs/groundcover, and inorganic materials.
      (3)   The location of existing and proposed plant materials.
      (4)   Plant graphic symbol legend and a plant schedule including
botanical and common names, planting size, number of plants, and on-center
spacing of massed shrubs and ground cover plants on each landscape plan sheet.
      (5)   Planting details, specifications and required guarantee (see
Section
17.60.060 (b)).
      (6)   Inorganic materials schedule including type of materials (i.e.
decomposed granite, river rock, screened rock, etc.) quantities and depth.
      (7)   Irrigation plan showing location of controller, existing or
proposed meters, backflow preventer, water lines, heads, and materials schedule
on each landscape plan sheet. Irrigation systems shall be designed to minimize
maintenance and water consumption, and the irrigation system shall be properly
designed and installed to ensure that overspray onto fences, walls and
structures is eliminated to the maximum extent feasible.
      (8)   Irrigation details and pressure loss calculations.
      (9)   A diagrammatic plan showing the amount of shading that the
landscaping is expected to provide at its maturity with the sun at its apex.
   (b)   The landscaping and irrigation plans shall be approved by the Director
if found to be in compliance with the standards and requirements of this
Chapter and
Chapter 17.15 , which approval shall be obtained prior to the installation of
the landscaping and irrigation materials. The installation of the landscaping
and irrigation materials required by this Chapter shall be completed and shall
be approved by the Director prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy
for the structure, or prior to the use of the facility if no structure is
involved.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit I, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit M, 9/10/14.]
17.60.030 Landscape Design Standards
   (a)   Landscaping shall be designed, installed and continuously maintained
in accordance with
Chapter 17.15  of this Zoning Code and the following standards:
      (1)   Principles of Xeriscape Landscaping. Landscape developments shall
be designed, installed and continuously maintained in accordance with the
following seven basic principles of Xeriscape landscaping:
         A.   Planning and Design. Use a water conservation design. Implement a
“mini-oasis” concept. Water using plants and turf should be concentrated in
small areas near buildings where they may be enjoyed at the pedestrian level.
         B.   Limited Turf Areas. Limit the use of turf to small areas where it
will be actively used and efficiently watered. See Section
17.60.070 (e) for further information.
         C.   Efficient Irrigation. Utilize the most efficient irrigation
system for the area being served. Drip irrigate individual plants rather than
flooding larger areas. Group plantings with common water requirements together
to be watered on the same irrigation control zone.
         D.   Soil Improvements. Add soil amendments within planned areas to
increase the water holding capacity of the soil and improve the health and
vigor of plants.
         E.   Mulching. Cover final soil surfaces around plants with organic or
inorganic mulches to insulate against soil temperature extremes and conserve
moisture.
         F.   Use Lower Water Demand Plants. Utilize only those plants listed
in the officially approved low water use plant list (see Section
17.60.080 ) or alternative plants approved by the Director.
         G.   Appropriate Maintenance. Maintain irrigation systems so they
operate at peak efficiency. Lessen water demand by keeping weed growth down and
by thinning unwanted wood from trees rather than cropping them.
      (2)   Unity and Continuity 1 .
         Landscape unity and continuity may be significantly enhanced through
the selection of a dominant tree and shrub species. Such dominance shall be
established by making the selected species clearly in the majority (60% or
more).
      (3)   Tree and Shrub Placement in Proximity to Fire Hydrants.
Figure 17.60.030-A - Fire Hydrant Clear Zone
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82242252ce6d54adb3244876d9e74fa1d0bd6515/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3852.jpg]
      (4)   Ground Surface Treatment.
         A.   Pre-Treatment of Ground Surfaces Required. A pre-emergent
herbicide shall be applied to the ground prior to and after the placement of
natural surface materials (decomposed granite, gravel, crushed rock, river run
rock, etc.) in any landscaped area to prevent weed growth.
         B.   Inorganic Ground Cover. Inorganic ground covers (decomposed
granite, crushed stone, etc.) shall be of a natural color harmonious with other
site and architectural materials and shall be installed to a minimum depth of
two (2) inches over a weed barrier such as landscape cloth or plastic that
prevents weed growth.
         C.   Plant Cover/Dust Control. All portions of a development site
(including future building pads) not occupied by buildings, structures, paved
improvements, and required landscape areas shall be temporarily landscaped with
plant materials in accordance with this Chapter or treated with an appropriate
inorganic ground cover and maintained in a weed and dust free condition.
      (5)   Plant Massing.
         The massing of trees and shrubs into groups containing three (3) or
more plants is required unless standards elsewhere within this Chapter require
only a single element, e.g., single trees within parking lot planter islands.
Planting of single shrub specimens, unless used to repeat an element already
established within a massed planting within the same visual area, is
prohibited.
      (6)   Plant Groupings.
         The grouping of plant species commonly found together in natural
associations or of common environmental requirements (soil type, water, sun
exposure, temperature limitations, etc.) is required.
      (7)   Plant Spacing.
         In order to foster a more natural look, an uneven spacing of plants is
required unless such plants are being used to create a massed shrub or
groundcover bed. The spacing of shrubs shall be sufficient to allow plants to
reach their natural mature size and form.
      (8)   Consistency with Existing Streetscape Standards.
         Street frontage landscaping shall be consistent with any previously
adopted specific streetscape standards.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit I, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit M, 9/10/14.]
 
Notes
     Plant palettes partially implemented through the construction of one or
1 more phases of a previously approved master planned project, except for turf
  areas in excess of the limitations established by these landscape standards,
  shall be continued throughout the development of that project.
17.60.040 Landscape Material and Area Requirements
   (a)   New developments shall be landscaped in accordance with the following
minimum standards:
      (1)   Plant Material.
         A.   Landscaping shall consist of native or drought-tolerant plants
capable of surviving the desert environment and climate with a minimum of
maintenance and supplemental watering. A list of plants determined capable of
meeting this criterion is contained in Section
17.60.080 . Other plants may be considered on their merits in meeting this
criterion. Determinations of plant species suitability will be made by the
Director upon submission of project plans.
         B.   Landscaping materials may also consist of wood timbers,
decorative rocks, boulders, sand, bark, gravel, or a combination thereof;
provided, however, that the majority of landscape materials and area shall
consist of plants, as set forth above.
      (2)   Irrigation.
         Utilize the most efficient irrigation system for the area being
served. Irrigation of required landscaped areas should be by drip irrigation
and matched precipitation rate, low-gallonage sprinkler heads, bubblers, and
timing devices. Timing devices shall include soil moisture sensors and rain
sensing override devices.
         Irrigation systems shall be designed to minimize maintenance and water
consumption, and the irrigation system shall be properly designed and installed
to ensure that overspray onto fences, walls and structures is eliminated to the
maximum extent feasible.
      (3)   Landscape Area Requirements.
         All portions of a development site not utilized for building
development, service areas, paved or improved storage areas, parking,
driveways, etc., shall be landscaped. Developers are required to install front
and street side yard landscaping for all new development. Minimum areas of
landscaping are as follows:
         A.   Front Building Setback/Street Right-of-Way Areas. All front
building setback and street right-of-way areas located between on-site
improvements and the back of existing or future public sidewalks or street
curbs, except needed access driveways, shall be fully landscaped, unless
otherwise provided for in this Development Code.
         B.   Parking Lot Area. The following landscaping standards apply to
parking lots (
Figure 17.60.040-A,
B, and
C).
            1.   In order to reduce the “heat island effect” of large expanses
of unprotected paved areas, a minimum of thirty (30) percent of the interior
parking surface of all parking lots shall be shaded at the maturity of the
landscaping.
            2.   Provide a minimum of one (1) tree (minimum fifteen (15) gallon
size when planted) for each seven (7) parking spaces located so as to visually
disrupt long rows of parking spaces, trees may be clustered where appropriate.
            3.   A thirty-six to forty-two (36-42) inch high decorative masonry
wall, hedge or landscaped berm, as measured from the finished grade of the
parking area, shall also be used adjacent to public rights-of-way to screen the
parking area. The height of the screening wall or berm may be reduced when the
parking lot is below grade. Horizontal and vertical variations in the design of
screening walls are required where the length of such walls exceeds forty (40)
feet. Said variations are subject to Planning Staff approval.
Figure 17.60.040-A - Recommended Design Features and Materials
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82242252ce6d54adb3244876d9e74fa1d0bd6515/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3858.jpg]
 
            4.   A minimum of five (5) percent of the interior parking surface
area of all parking lots shall be landscaped. Such percentage may be achieved
by combining paragraph (1) below with paragraph (2) and/or (3).
               a.   Planter islands a minimum of five (5) feet in width shall
be located at the ends of all rows of parking stalls between the last stall and
any drive aisle. Where drive aisles are curved, alternative dimensions with
similar area may be approved (
Figure 17.60.040-B ); and
               b.   Planter islands, shall be uniformly distributed throughout
the interior parking area, and protected by raised curbs (
Figure 17.60.040-B ); or
               c.   Planter strips, located between double rows of parking
stalls, shall be a minimum of four (4) feet in width. Each parking stall may
overhang two (2) feet into this area (
Figure 17.60.040-B ).
            5.   Trees within parking lots shall be kept trimmed to a minimum
clear canopy height of six (6) feet for visual safety.
Figure 17.60.040-B - Planter Islands/Strips
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82242252ce6d54adb3244876d9e74fa1d0bd6515/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3861.jpg]
 
            6.   A landscaped strip with a minimum width of ten (10) feet shall
be provided where parking lots are adjacent to a public right-of-way or
residential uses or districts, unless otherwise provided for in this Code.
      (4)   Landscape Buffers/Perimeter Landscape Strips.
         A.   Landscape Buffers. When providing a buffer between commercial/
industrial and residential uses or districts the following features are
required:
Figure 17.60.040-C - Landscape Areas
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82242252ce6d54adb3244876d9e74fa1d0bd6515/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3864.jpg]
 
            1.   Landscaping shall include one (1) tree for each 200 square
feet of required landscape area. Said tree shall be a minimum fifteen (15)
gallon size when planted, twenty (20) percent of such required trees shall be
twenty-four (24) inch box size; and
            2.   A six (6) foot decorative masonry wall to City standards; and
            3.   Evergreen trees a minimum of six (6) feet in height, and 2
inches in diameter, planted at a maximum spacing of twenty (20) feet on center
and shrubs planted at a rate of five (5) per one hundred linear feet.
         B.   Front Building Setback Area. Landscaping in the front building
setback area shall be provided at a minimum rate of one (1) tree and six (6)
shrubs per thirty (30) linear feet of frontage plus sufficient groundcover
plantings to provide combined shrub and ground coverage of fifty (50) percent
of the total landscaped area. Trees and shrubs may be grouped, but gaps between
groupings of plants shall not exceed forty (40) feet.
         C.   Other Perimeter Areas. Landscaping in other perimeter areas shall
be provided at a minimum rate of one (1) tree and six (6) shrubs per forty (40)
linear feet plus sufficient groundcover plantings to provide combined shrub and
ground coverage of forty (40) percent of the total landscaped area, except
where screening is required. Trees shall be a minimum fifteen (15) gallon size
when planted, twenty (20) percent of which shall be twenty-four (24) inch box
size. Trees and shrubs may be grouped, but gaps between groupings of plants
shall not exceed fifty (50) feet.
      (5)   Landscape Improvement Requirements. The following minimum landscape
improvements are required within the following landscape areas:
         A.   Single and Multi-Family Residential Developments.
            1.   Common open space/retention areas. A minimum of one (1) tree
and six (6) shrubs per 500 square feet of open space plus such additional
vegetative ground cover as is necessary to cover a minimum of fifty (50)
percent of the total landscaped area with shrubs and ground cover. The
inclusion of turf is subject to the limitations established in Section
17.60.070(e) and in
Table 17.60.040-A.
            2.   Major Street/Boulevard, collector street, and activity street
rights-of-way. Major Street/Boulevard, collector street, and activity street
rights-of-way adjacent to and within single and multi-family residential
developments shall be landscaped at a rate of one (1) tree and three (3) shrubs
per 30 linear feet plus such vegetative ground cover necessary to cover a
minimum of forty (40) percent of the total landscaped area with shrubs and
ground cover. Turf is prohibited within public rights-of-way.
            3.   Front and Street Side Yards. The use of turf in these areas is
discouraged. See Section
17.60.070(e) for specific restrictions.
         B.   Commercial/Office/Institutional Developments. One (1) tree and
six (6) shrubs per 500 square feet of interior open space plus such additional
ground cover which, upon maturity, will cover a minimum of fifty (50) percent
of all interior open space surfaces. The inclusion of turf is subject to the
limitations established in Section
17.60.070(d) and in
Table 17.60.040-A.
         C.   Industrial Developments. One (1) tree and six (6) shrubs per 750
square feet of interior open space plus such additional vegetative ground cover
which, upon maturity, will cover a minimum of forty (40) percent of all
interior open space surfaces. The inclusion of turf is subject to the
limitations established in Section
17.60.070(d) and in
Table 17.60.040-A.
         D.   Grading in the Front Building Setback. Front setback areas shall
be graded in a manner which creates natural and pleasing ground forms in
accordance with the following guidelines:
            1.   A maximum of fifty (50) percent of the front building setback
area may be used for storm water retention.
            2.   Soil excavated to create needed retention basins shall, within
the slope limitations established below, be used to create complementary earth
mounds elsewhere within the same front building setback area.
            3.   Earth mounds with a maximum slope ratio of four to one (4:1),
horizontal to vertical, shall be located and designed to minimize street views
into retention basins.
            4.   Grading and other site preparation shall preclude the run-off
of rain and/or irrigation water from landscaped surfaces onto paved surfaces.
         E.   Finished Grade Surfaces. All landscaped areas shall be graded so
that finish grade surfaces of all nonliving materials (i.e., decomposed
granite, crushed rock, mulch, and the like) are at least one and one-half (1 1/
2) inches below concrete or other paved surfaces.
         F.   Protection of Landscaped Areas. Landscaped areas adjacent to
vehicular drives or parking areas shall be protected by a six (6) inch vertical
curb. Areas surfaced with different materials (i.e. lawn and decomposed
granite) shall be separated by masonry, wood, or mowing strips.
         G.   Irrigation Systems. The use of drip irrigation systems or systems
of equivalent efficiency for all landscaping at commercial and industrial
facilities and all common areas of residential developments is required. The
use of similar systems on individual residential lots is encouraged.
            Irrigation systems shall be designed to minimize maintenance and
water consumption, and the irrigation system shall be properly designed and
installed to ensure that overspray onto fences, walls and structures is
eliminated to the maximum extent feasible.
         H.   Limitations on the Use of Turf.
            Unless watered with “reclaimed” water, the use of turf in specific
land uses shall be limited to the percentages listed in
Table 17.60.040-A below.
Table 17.60.040-A - Permitted Turf Area
 
Land Use                                   Turf permitted as a percent of
                                           Total Landscaped Area
Single family residential                  20%
Multi-family residential                   20%
Common open space/retention basins         20%
Parks, schools, golf course and cemeteries No limitations
Commercial/office/institutional            20%
Industrial                                 10%
 
      (6)   Decorative Water Features.
         Within commercial, industrial and multi-family developments the use of
decorative water features including, but not limited to, pools, ponds,
fountains, streams, and waterfalls, unless serviced with “reclaimed water”,
shall be limited to small scale pedestrian oriented locations and features.
Water feature designs that reduce evaporation, e.g. cascading water rather than
vertical sprays, are required.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit I, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit M, 9/10/14.]
17.60.050 Model Home Complexes
   (a)   Model home complexes, unless they are utilizing “reclaimed water”,
shall be landscaped in accordance with the xeriscape landscape principles
listed in Section
17.60.030 (a) and the following minimum requirements:
      (1)   Plant Materials.
         Landscaping shall consist of native or drought-tolerant plants capable
of surviving the desert environment and climate with a minimum of maintenance
and supplemental watering. A list of plants determined capable of meeting this
criterion is contained in Section
17.60.080. Other plants may be considered on their merits in meeting this
criterion. Determinations of plant species suitability will be made by the
Director upon submission of project plans.
      (2)   Turf and Water Surfaces/Features.
         Combined turf and water surfaces of all water features shall not
occupy more than fifty (50) percent of the landscapable area within each lot in
the model home complex. Swimming pools, hot tubs and spas are exempt from this
limitation.
      (3)   Literature Package.
         A literature package describing water conserving landscaping designs
shall be on display within all model sales offices. If copies of the literature
package are not made available by the homebuilder, such display shall include
information regarding where the literature is available. The following are
recommended to be included in the literature package:
         A.   A Guide to High Desert Landscaping is available at your local
water district offices and the Planning Division offices.
         B.   The Unthirsty One Hundred
            Reprint from Sunset Magazine - October 1988
            Lane Publishing Company
            Menlo Park, California 94025
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit I, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit M, 9/10/14.]
17.60.060 Landscape Maintenance
   (a)   Landscape Maintenance. Landscaping shall be continuously maintained
(watering, fertilizing, weeding, mowing, trash pick-up, and pruning) by the
landowner or the lessor of new and existing development in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   Sites shall be kept clean and attractive at all times. Weeds and
trash (windblown or otherwise) shall not be allowed to accumulate on the site.
      (2)   Living plant material shall receive sufficient water and
fertilization to maintain health and vigor and shall, to the maximum extent
possible, be allowed to attain its natural mature size and shape.
      (3)   Pruning and mowing shall be used to maintain plant health and vigor
while enhancing its form and structure. Cropping trees, unless necessary for
safety reasons, is prohibited.
         Pruning and mowing will conform to the commonly used standards for
each species; however, in no case will the landscape areas be allowed to become
overgrown. Examples of overgrown landscape material include:
         A.   Lawn grass species: Plants which have established seed heads,
lawns that have become thatched and matted, have become infested with
herbaceous weeds, or exceed eight (8) inches in height.
         B.   Shrubs and decorative grasses: Plants that have grown so large as
to block natural light from entering windows, extend over property lines,
extend over roof peaks or eaves, or are causing the strangulation of other
plants.
         C.   Trees: Plants which display sucker growth, have grown to a height
or canopy width which impairs the normal illumination of street lights, extend
over property lines, interfere with overhead lines or impact public property.
      (4)   All dead or obviously unhealthy plant material shall be replaced in
an expeditious manner with material equal to that which was originally
specified on the approved landscape plan.
      (5)   Bare spots in lawns or planters shall be promptly re-vegetated.
      (6)   Customary maintenance shall include provision of adequate
irrigation, based on the micro-climate, and regular application of fertilizer,
based on the needs of the plant.
      (7)   All property owners shall be responsible for maintenance of parkway
areas within the public right-of-way adjacent to their properties, except those
areas outside of a six-foot high block wall or solid fence.
   (b)   Landscape Guarantee.
      (1)   The owner or developer shall, prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy, evidence that all plant materials are guaranteed for
a minimum period of sixty (60) days from the date of final approval of the
installation of the landscaping. Terms of the guarantee shall also specify that
any plant materials which are not approved prior to October 1st of the calendar
year in which they are installed shall be further guaranteed until May 20th of
the following calendar year.
      (2)   Trees, shrubs, vines, ground cover, and turf which have to be
replaced under terms of the guarantee shall be guaranteed for an additional
sixty (60) days from the date of replacement.
      (3)   All plant materials requiring replacement under the conditions of
the contractors guarantee shall be replaced within ten (10) working days from
the date of written notification.
   (c)   Existing Landscaping.
      (1)   Maintenance. Required landscape areas, existing at the time of
adoption of this Ordinance, shall be maintained in accordance with the
provisions of Section
17.60.060(a) above.
      (2)   Prevention of Wasted Water. Existing developments shall, through
improvements to its irrigation system and landscaped areas, prevent water waste
resulting from inefficient landscape irrigation, run-off, low head drainage,
overspray, or other similar conditions where water flows onto adjacent
property, nonirrigated areas, walks, roadways, or structures.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit I, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit M, 9/10/14.]
17.60.070 Water Conservation
   (a)   Definitions.
      (1)   Acre-foot of water - that quantity of water required to cover (1)
acre of land one (1) foot deep, or three hundred twenty-five thousand, eight
hundred fifty-one (325,851) gallons.
      (2)   Active recreational area - an area designated and primarily used
for organized sports, including, without limitation, softball, baseball,
football, soccer or a similar related sport, including all amenities related to
the activity.
      (3)   Body of water - any artificially constructed lake, pond, or lagoon,
regardless of size.
      (4)   City - the City of Adelanto.
      (5)   Controller - a mechanical timer capable of operating valve stations
to set days, length of time, and frequency of water application.
      (6)   Escaped water - the pumping, flow release, escape, or leakage of
any water from any pipe, valve, faucet, connection, diversion berm, well, or
any facility for the purposes of water supply, transport, storage, disposal, or
delivery onto adjacent property or public right-of-way.
      (7)   Excess runoff - water accumulation on streets, gutters, neighboring
properties, or other areas in an amount sufficient to cause flow.
      (8)   Manager - the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee.
      (9)   Lot - a legally created parcel of land occupied or intended for
occupancy by one (1) main building together with its accessory buildings, and
uses customarily incidental to it, including the open space required by the
City’s zoning ordinance, and having it’s principal frontage upon a street as
defined in the City’s zoning ordinance.
      (10)   Model home - a facility used exclusively for the promotion and
sale of homes similar to the model.
      (11)   Person - an individual, corporation, partnership, incorporated
association, or any other similar entity.
      (12)   Public water system - any publicly or privately owned network of
pipes, conduits, wells, reservoirs, holding tanks, and other components,
including any combination thereof, which supplies water to water users, who are
charged a fee of any kind or nature for such purpose, or which is designed to
supply water or is capable of supplying water to water users for a fee, and
includes any such system whether it is operated under the regulatory authority
of the City of Adelanto, but does not include any irrigation company or
district whose primary purpose is to supply water for farming.
      (13)   Residential development - the development of any type of dwelling
unit or units suitable or designed for human habitation, including, but not
limited to, single family homes, condominiums, or manufactured homes, but not
including hotels, motels, licensed convalescent homes, commercially operated
retirement homes, time share units, or the like. “Residential development”
shall not include remodeling or reconstruction where no new dwelling unit is
created.
      (14)   Right of way - land which by deed, conveyance, agreement,
easement, dedication, usage, or process of law is reserved for or dedicated to
the general public for street, highway, alley, public utility, or pedestrian
walkway purposes.
      (15)   Turf - a surface layer of earth containing grass with its roots.
      (16)   Turf-related facility - a school, public recreational facility,
cemetery, golf course, industrial park, or common area of a housing development
that applies water from any source, including effluent.
      (17)   Water-intensive landscape - an area of land that is watered with a
permanent water application system and planted primarily with plants not listed
in Section H “Approved Plant List”. Included is the total surface area of all
water features (i.e. swimming pools of any size, fountains, ponds, water
courses, waterfalls, and other artificial water structures) filled or refilled
with water from any source.
      (18)   Water purveyor - the owner or operator of a public water system.
      (19)   Water user - those persons, customers, and properties served by a
water purveyor within the incorporated boundaries of the City.
      (20)   Water waste - the indiscriminate use or excessive dissipation of
water, which is unproductive or does not reasonably sustain life or economic
benefits.
   (b)   Application of Section.
      The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all water users. Any new
single family residential development that is in Final Map check or has
submitted Street Improvement Plans at the time this Ordinance is adopted is
exempt from these regulations.
      (1)   Resulting from fire fighting, hydrant flushing, or fire training
activities; or
      (2)   Necessary to prevent or abate threats to the public health or
safety; or
      (3)   From routine maintenance of any public water system or from
temporary water system failures or malfunctions; or
      (4)   From water users engaged in landscape irrigation with treated
wastewater, effluent, grey water, or other nonpotable water.
      (5)   Drought tolerant plants as outlined in Section
17.60.080 .
   (c)   Prohibited Water Uses and Water Waste.
      The restrictions or prohibitions in this chapter shall not apply to water
use, runoff, or flow.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any water user of a public water system to
knowingly allow water waste at any location or premises within the City limits
after having been served with a notice of violation, pursuant to Section
17.60.070 (c) for wasting water from the same location or premises.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupier, or manager of real
property within the City to knowingly allow water waste at any such real
property after having been served with a notice of violation, pursuant to
Section
17.60.070 (c) for wasting water from the same location or premises.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any water user within the City to
knowingly make, cause, use, or permit the use of water for residential,
commercial, industrial, agricultural, or any other purpose in a manner contrary
to any provision of this chapter.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any water user to cause or permit any
water furnished to any property within the City to run or to escape from any
hose, pipe, valve, faucet, sprinkler, or irrigation device onto any sidewalk,
street, or gutter or to otherwise escape from the property, if such running or
escaping can reasonably be prevented.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any water user to wash any vehicle,
equipment, or other object, or any driveway, parking lot, sidewalk, street, or
other paved surface, in any manner permitting the continuous flow of water for
more than five minutes.
      (6)   Commercial and noncommercial watering of turf, ground cover, open
ground, shrubbery, crops, gardens, and trees, including agricultural
irrigation, in a manner or to an extent which allows substantial amounts or
excess runoff shall not be permitted. A minimum amount of runoff, which is a
natural consequence of conservative watering, either by hand or by mechanical
or automated sprinkling facilities, is permitted, so long as such runoff does
not amount to excess runoff as defined in this Chapter.
      (7)   It shall be unlawful for any water user to permit the excess use,
loss, or escape or water through breaks, leaks, or other malfunctions in the
water user’s plumbing or distribution system for any period of time after such
escape of water should have reasonably been discovered and corrected.
      (8)   It shall be unlawful for any water user to willfully or negligently
permit or cause the escape or flow of irrigation water in such quantity as to
cause flooding, impede vehicular or pedestrian traffic, create a hazardous
condition to such traffic, or cause damage to public or private rights of way
through failure or neglect to properly operate or maintain any irrigation
structure, delivery ditch, or waste ditch.
      (9)   It shall be unlawful for any water user to water or permit the
watering of water intensive landscape or turf at time other than as authorized
by the water purveyor.
      (10)   It shall be unlawful for any water user to willfully or
negligently fail to accept irrigation water after it has been ordered.
   (d)   Limitation on water intensive landscape and turf areas within new
nonresidential facilities.
      The following types of facilities shall limit the water intensive
landscape and turf within the landscaped area to the following percentages of
the total lot area, and all remaining landscaped area shall consist of plants
listed in Section
17.60.080:
      (1)   Churches. Twenty percent (20%) of total lot area.
      (2)   Resorts, including hotels and motels. See
Table 17.60.040-A  (Permitted Turf Area).
      (3)   Commercial and industrial uses. See
Table 17.60.040-A  (Permitted Turf Area).
      (4)   Active recreational areas shall not be considered in calculating
the percentage of the total lot area and shall not be considered in determining
compliance with this Section.
      (5)   No water intensive landscape or turf shall be permitted in any
right of way.
      (6)   No water features (ponds, fountains, etc.) shall be allowed without
proof that the feature is utilizing water conservation measures such as
recirculated water.
   (e)   Limitations on model home and new residential development landscaping.
      (1)   Developers are required to provide front and street side yard
landscaping to all new developments prior to the issuance of a Certificate of
Occupancy. All new model homes and new residential development shall limit
water intensive landscape and turf area to the following percentage of the
total lot area, and all remaining landscaped area shall consist of plants
listed in Section
17.60.080:
         A.   Front yard and street side yards. Twenty percent (20%) of the
total front/street side yard area. (The total yard area of single-family
residences includes any hardscape areas such as driveways and walkways).
            1.   Rear yard. No limitations.
            2.   Common areas in residential developments. Ten percent (10%) of
the first acre and five percent (5%) of each additional acre up to five (5)
acres. Residential developments larger than five (5) acres shall not plant any
additional water intensive landscape and turf in common areas.
            3.   Each model home complex shall include at least one plan with
no turf. This no-turf option shall be offered as an option to the home buyer.
            4.   Water intensive landscape or turf is not limited in rear
yards, but is strongly encouraged.
            5.   No water intensive landscape or turf shall be permitted in any
right of way.
            6.   No water features (ponds, fountains, etc.) shall be allowed
without proof that the feature is utilizing water conservation measures such as
re-circulated water.
      Any modification to the landscaping that results in a proven reduction of
water use may be used to obtain greater flexibility in the minimum turf area
allowed. Methods used to reduce water use may include: satellite sprinkler
systems, elimination of surface runoff, and/or the use of reclaimed water.
   (f)   Public education during drought.
      The City will use intensive public education to assist water users
impacted by the drought to understand the City’s need for voluntary compliance.
In addition to education, the City may use enforcement measures to curb water
misuse.
   (g)   Drought management plan implementation.
      (1)   The City Council shall promulgate a drought management plan
containing regulations setting forth the criteria for implementation and
termination of various water use reduction stages.
      (2)   The City Council is authorized to declare a drought, and to
implement a drought management plan, in response to events including, but not
limited to, the following: reductions in supply from the Mojave Water Agency or
Adelanto Public Utilities Authority, or when an insufficient supply appears
likely due to water system limitations or structural failure.
      (3)   Such declaration may designate the entire area of the City, or a
portion of it if the shortage is not Citywide.
      (4)   The City Council may terminate the drought declaration when he or
she determines that the events that triggered the drought no longer exist.
   (h)   Notification and publication of drought management plan.
      If the City Council determines that the health and safety of the City
dictate implementing the drought management plan, notification shall be
published in a paper of general circulation, to educate the public about the
need for the plan, and give them notice of conservation regulations and
requirements of the applicable stage of the plan. A copy of the drought
management plan shall also be available for inspection at the City Clerk’s
office.
   (I)   Enforcement of drought management plan.
      (1)   The City Manager or his or her designee shall have authority to
take actions to enforce any mandatory elements that are part of drought
management plans.
      (2)   A written notice shall be placed on the property when a first
violation occurs, and a duplicate mailed to the person who is responsible for
the service to the property where the violation took place. The notice shall
describe the violation and order that it be abated immediately.
      (3)   For subsequent violations, the City will issue citations and fines
according to the provisions of this Chapter.
      (4)   Funds generated by the fines under this Section shall be used to
mitigate the impact of the drought.
   (j)   Variances from drought management plan.
      Variances to drought management plan provisions may be granted at the
discretion of the City Manager or his or her designee. Applicants for a
variance must apply in writing to the City Manager or his or her designee, and
demonstrate special circumstances such as health and safety needs or obligation
of contract.
   (k)   Limited exemption to restrictions for users of reclaimed water.
      To the extent they are exempt from the drought management plan, users of
reclaimed or recycled water shall clearly post notices stating that the water
being used is not potable and not from the public drinking water supply, and is
in conformance to the drought management plan in force at the time.
   (l)   Violations.
      (1)   For a first violation of any provision of this chapter, the City
shall issue a written notice of first violation and provide the violator with
educational materials on water conservation, including a copy of the relevant
provisions of this chapter. The City shall give the water user a reasonable
period of time to correct the violation. Failure to correct the violation
within a reasonable period of time shall constitute a second violation.
      (2)   For a second violation of any provision of this chapter, the City
shall issue a written notice of second violation to the water user imposing a
fine in the amount not to exceed that outlined in the City of Adelanto
Municipal Code and requiring immediate correction of the violation.
      (3)   For a third violation of any provision of this section, the City
shall issue a written notice of third violation to the water user imposing a
fine in an amount not to exceed that outlined in the City of Adelanto Municipal
Code and requiring immediate correction of the violation.
      (4)   For a fourth or subsequent violation of this Section, the City
shall impose a fine in an amount not to that outlined in the City of Adelanto
Municipal Code. The fourth and each subsequent violation of this chapter shall
be deemed a public nuisance, which may be abated pursuant to the procedures
provided in the City of Adelanto Municipal Code.
      (5)   Any fine imposed under this Section shall be collected in
accordance with the procedures provided in the City of Adelanto Municipal Code.
Failure to pay any portion of a water user’s account, including any fines
imposed pursuant to this Section, shall subject said account to termination of
water service in accordance with the provisions of this Section.
      (6)   In addition to the remedies set forth above, the City may seize
equipment, line, fountains, and other devices which are operated in violation
of this Chapter, until the fine is paid. The City may dispose of these items if
the fine is not paid in six (6) months from the date the equipment was
confiscated.
   (m)   Right to hearing.
      Any water user against whom a penalty is levied under this chapter shall
have a right to a hearing before the City Manager of the City Manager’s
designee.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit I, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit M, 9/10/14.]
17.60.080 Approved Plant List
CITY OF ADELANTO
WATER CONSERVING PLANTS FOR THE HIGH DESERT
LEGEND:   D = Drought Tolerant
      M = Moderate Water Use
   1.   Vines
M   Antigonon leptopus   Queen’s Wreath
M   Campsis radicans   Trumpet Creeper
M   Gelsemium sempervirens   Carolina Jasmine
M   Hedera helix   English Ivy
M   Jasminum mesny   Yellow Jasmine
M   Lonicera japonica ‘Halliana’   Hall’s Honeysuckle
M/D   Macfadyena ungis-cati   Cat Claw Vine
M/D   Parthenocissus quinquefolia   Virginia Creeper
M   Rosa banksiae   Lady Bank’s Rose
M   Wisteria floribunda   Japanese Wisteria
   2.   Ground
M/D   Acacia redolens   Prostrate Acacia
D   Atriplex semibacata   Salt Bush
M/D   Buccharis pilularis ‘Twin Peaks’   Coyote Bush
D   Cerastium tomentoseum   Snow-in-summer
M/D   Convolvulus mauritanicus   Ground Morning Glory
D   Dalea graggii   Trailing Indigo Bush
M   Euonymus fortunei   Winter Creeper
M/D   Festuca ovina glauca   Blue Fescue
M/D   Gazania rigens ‘Copper King’   Gazania
M   Liriope muscari   Lily Turf
D   Oenothera berlandieri   Mexican Primrose
M   Ophiopogon japonicus   Mondo Grass
M/D   Pyrocantha coccinea ‘Low Boy’    Firethorn
M/D   Teucrium chamaedrys   Germander
M/D   Verbena rigida   Verbena
M   Vinca major   Periwinkle
M   V. minor   Dwarf Periwinkle
   3.   Trees
D   Acacia constricta   Whitethorn Acacia
D   A. greggii   Catclaw Acacia
D   Ailathus altissima   Tree of Heaven
M   Albizzia j ullibrissin   Silk Tree/Mimosa
M/D   Arbutus unedoq   Strawberry Tree
M/D   Calocedrus decurrens   Insense Cedar
M   Cauarina stricta   Beefwood/She Oak
D   Catalpa speciosa   Western Catalpa
M   Chitalpa (Chiolopsis linearis X Catalpa bignonioides)
M   Cedrus atlantica   Atlas Cedar
M   C. deodora   Deodar Cedar
D   Celtis pallida   Desert Hackberry
M/D   C. reticulata   Western Hackberry
D   Cercidium Floridum   Blue Palo Verde
D   C. microphyllum   Little Leaf Palo Verde
M/D   Cercis occidentalis   Western Redbud
M   Chamaerops humulis   Mediterranean Fan Palm
D   Chilopsis linearis   Desert Willow
D   Cupressus arizonica   Arizona Cypress
D   Cotinus coggygria   Smoke Tree
D   Cupressus glabra   Arizona Cypress
D   C. sempervirens   Italian Cypress
D   Elaeagnus angustifolia   Russian Olive
M   Eriobotrya japonica   Loquat
D   Eucalyptus cinerea   Silver Dollar Gum
D   E. gunnii   Cider Gum
D   E. microtheca   Coolibah Tree
D   E. nicholii    Willow Lead Peppermint
D   E. pulverulenta   Silver Mountain Gum
M/D   Fraxinus velutina   Arizona Ash
M/D   F.v. ‘Modesto’   Modesto Ash
M/D   F.v. ‘Rio Grande’   Fan-Tex Ash
D   Fremontodendron californicum   Flannel Bush
M   Gleditsia triacanthos   Honey Locust
M   G.t. ‘Sunburst’   Sunburst
D   Heteromeles arbutifolia   Toyon/California Holly
M/D   Koelreuteria paniculata   Golden Rain Tree
M/D   Lagerstromeia indica   Crape Myrtle
M/D   Melia azedarach   Chinaberry
M   Morus alba   Fruitless Mullberry
M/D   Nerium oleander   Oleander
M/D   Olea eruopaea   European Olive
D   Parkinsonia aculeata    Mexican Palo Verde
M   Photinia fraseri   Fraser’s Photinia
M/D   Pinus eldarica   Mondel Pine
M/D   P. halepensis   Aleppo Pine
M/D   P. edulis   Pinion Pine
M/D   P. pinea   Italian Stone Pine
M/D   P. roxburghii   Chir Pine
M/D   P. thunbergiana   Japanese Black Pine
D   Pistachio atlantica   Mt. Atlas Pistache
M   Platanus acerfolia   London Plane Tree
M   R. pacemosa   California Sycamore
D   Prosopis species   Mesquite
D   Prunis ilicifolia   Hollyleaf Cherry
M   P. caroliniana   Carolina Cherry
M.   P. cerasifera ‘Autopurpurea’    Purple Leaf Plum
M   P. persica   Flowering Peach
M/D   Punica granatum   Pomegranate
M   Pyrus kawakamii   Evergreen Pear
D   Quercus dumosa   Scrub Oak
M   Q. ilex   Holly Oak
M   Q. lobata   Valley Oak
M   Q. palustris   Pin Oak
M   Q. suber   Cork Oak
M/D   Robinia ambigua ‘Idahoensis’   Idaho Locust
D   R. Pseudoacacia   Black Locust
M   Sambucus mexicana   Mexican Elderberry
M   Sequoiadendron giganteium   Giant Sequoia
D   Sophora secundiflora   Texas Mountain Laurel
M/D   Trachycarpus fortunei   Windmille Palm
M/D   Vauquelinia californica   Rosewood
M/D   Vitex agnus-castus   Chaste Tree
M/D   Washingtonia filifera   California Fan Palm
M/D   W. robusta   Mexian Fan Palm
D   Yucca brevifolia   Joshua Tree
M/D   Zelkova Serrata   Japanese Zelkova
M/D   Ziziphus jujuba   Chinese Date
    4.   Shrubs
M   Abelia grandiflora   Glossy Abelia
M   A.g. ‘Prostata’   Dwarf abelia
D   Agave americana   Century plant
D   Aloe saponaria   African Aloe
M/D   Arctostaphylos hookerii   Monterey Manzanita
D   Atriplex canescens   Four-wing Salt Bush
D   A. lentiformis   Quail Bush
D   A.l. ‘Breweri’   Brewer’s Saltbush
D   Daccharis sarthroides   Desert Broom
M   Buxus microphylla   Japanese Boxwood
D   Caesalpinia gilliessi   Desert Bird of paradise
D   Calliandra eriophulla   Fairy Duster
D   Cassia Wislizeni   Shrubby senna
D   Cistus species   Rockrose
M/D   Convolvulus species   Bush Morning Glory
D   Cortaderia selloana   Pampas Grass
M   Cotoneaster horizontalis   Rock Cotoneaster
M   C. microphyllus    Rockspray Cotoneaster
M   C. lacteus    Parney Cotoneaster
D   Dasylirion wheeleri    Desert Spoon
D   Dendromecon rigida    Bush Poppy
D   Elaeagnus pungens    Silverberry
D   Eriogonum species    Buckwheat
M   Euonymus Species    Evergreen Euonymus
M   Fatsia japonica    Japanese Aralia
D   Ferocactus species    Barrel cactus
D   Fouquieria splendens    Ocotilla
D   Hesperaloe englemanii    Red Yucca
M/D   Hibiscus syriacus    Rose of Sharon
M   Ilex cornuta “Burfordii’   Buford Holly
M/D   Ilex vomitoria   Yapon Holly
M/D   Juniperus species   Juniper
D   Larrea tridentata    Creosote Bush
D   Lavendula species    Lavender
D   Leucophyllum frutescens    Texas Ranger
M   Ligustrum texanum    Wax Leaf Privet
D   Lycium species    Desert Thorn
M/D   Mahonia aquifolium    Oregon Grape
M   Myrtus communis    True Myrtle
M   M.c. Compacta    Dwarf Myrtle
M   M.c. ‘Boetica’   Tw isted Myrtle
M/D   Nandina domestica   Heavenly Bamboo
M/D   N.d. ‘Nana’   Dwarf Nandina
M/D   Nerium oleander   Oleander
D   Opuntia species   Prickley Pear and Cholla Cactus
M   Osmanthus fragrans   Sweet Olive
D   Pennisetum species   Fountain Grass
D   Penstemon species   Beard Tongue
M   Photinia fraseri    Fraser’s Photinia
M   P. serrulata    Chinese Photinia
M   Pittosporum tobira    Mock Orange
M   P.t. ‘Wheeler’s Dwarf   Wheeler’s Dwarf
D   Teucrium fruticans    Bush Germander
M/D   Puracantha species    Firethorn
M   Raphiolepis indica   Indian Hawthorn
D   Romneya coulteri   Matilija Poppy
D   Phus ovata   Sugarbush
M/D   Rosmarinus officinalis     Bush Rosemary
M/D   R. prostratus    Dwarf Rosemary
D   Santolina chamaecyparissus   Lavander Cotton
D   S. virens   Green Santolina
D   Salvia dorrii   Mojave Sage
M/D   Syringa vulgaris   Common Lilac
D   Yucca alofolia   Spanish Bayonet
D   Y. schidigera    Mojave Yucca
D   Y. Whipplei     Our Lord’s Candle
D   Zauschneria california     California Fuchsia
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit I, 5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit M, 9/10/14.]
CHAPTER 17.65
PARKING AND LOADING
   
17.65.010   Intent and Purpose
   
17.65.020   Applicability
   
17.65.030   Location and Development Plan and Building Permit Required
   
17.65.040   General Provisions
   
17.65.060   Number of Parking Spaces Required
   
17.65.070   Parking Facility Layout and Dimensions
   
17.65.080   Parking Facility Development Standards
   
17.65.090   Combined or Shared Parking Facilities
   
17.65.100   Loading Space Requirements
   
17.65.110   Bicycle Parking Standards
17.65.010 Intent and Purpose
   The purpose of the parking and loading regulations is to ensure that all
land uses provide adequate off-street parking facilities and adequate
facilities for vehicle movement and loading activities associated with a use.
The intent of these regulations is to ensure that the use of land does not
negatively interfere with the use of and circulation on public rights-of-way
and that private on-site circulation does not pose a potential safety problem.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit J, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit N, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 549, Exhibit A, 8/24/16.]
17.65.020 Applicability
   (a)   The minimum standards of this Chapter shall apply to all proposed land
uses, buildings, and structures.
   (b)   The minimum standards of this Chapter shall also apply to all proposed
additions, enhancements, and modifications to existing land uses or structures.
At the time the building or structure is modified and/or enlarged, or the use
is modified and/or intensified so as to cause a need for additional parking,
parking and loading spaces shall be provided for both the existing units and
the modified or enlarged portions of the building and/or use so as to conform
to provisions of this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit J, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit N, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 549, Exhibit A, 8/24/16.]
17.65.030 Location and Development Plan and Building Permit Required
   (a)   A Location and Development Plan shall be required for all required
parking facilities. The Plan shall consist of a detailed layout of the parking
facility, site, and parking lot landscaping. The Plan shall be accurately
dimensioned, showing all required parking and loading spaces, landscaped areas,
driving aisles, ingress/egress points, etc. The Plan shall be submitted and
reviewed in conjunction with any application for planning, land use,
engineering, or building permit.
   (b)   A parking facility or driveway shall have building and engineering
permits for the facility or driveway in accordance with applicable provisions
contained in the Municipal Code.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit J, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit N, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 549, Exhibit A, 8/24/16.]
17.65.040 General Provisions
   (a)   Location
      The required parking spaces shall be located on the same site with the
primary use or structure, on premises contiguous to them, or in a location
conforming to an approved Location and Development Plan in compliance with
Chapter 17.150 (Location and Development Plan) of this title. Property within
the ultimate right-of-way of a street or highway shall not be used to provide
required parking or loading facilities.
   (b)   Residential Uses
      Required parking facilities for Residential Zone Districts shall be
located on the same lot or parcel of land as the use the parking facilities are
intended to serve, or within a single development as approved by the Planning
Director. The facilities shall be conveniently and safely located on the site.
Required parking facilities provided by a given project shall be used
exclusively for parking purposes by that project or residence, and shall not be
leased, sold, or utilized by other projects or entities.
      Within a required front yard area, vehicles may be parked only on a
parking space as defined in Section
17.65.080 (Parking Facility Development Standards) of this Chapter.
      Vehicles may be parked in a side or rear yard area, or within the
buildable area of a lot on a parking space as defined in Section
17.65.080 (Parking Facility Development Standards) of this Chapter, provided
that a minimum of four feet (4') of clearance is provided between the vehicle
and the adjacent outside wall of any structure containing windows.
   (c)   Non-Residential Uses
      Required parking for non-residential uses shall be located:
      (1)   On the same lot or parcel of land as the use which the facilities
serve; or
      (2)   On an adjoining lot or parcel of land under the same ownership as
the lot supporting the use the parking facilities serve, provided that the
adjoining lot is merged with the property containing the primary use for which
the parking is required; or a covenant of easement is recorded for parking
purposes in accordance with Section
17.65.090(a) (Combined or Shared Parking Facilities).
      (3)   On a lot or parcel of land separated only by an alley (20 feet wide
or less) from the lot or parcel supporting the use the parking facilities
serve, provided:
         A.   That said lots or parcels are under the same ownership; and
         B.   That said lots or parcels would be contiguous if not separated by
the alley; and
         C.   That direct vehicular and pedestrian passage between said lots or
parcels would be possible if the alley were vacated; and
         D.   That the parking and vehicular access on said lots or parcels can
be designed to ensure safe pedestrian movement between the parking and the
property containing the primary use it is intended to serve; and
         E.   That a Covenant of Easement is recorded for parking purposes in
accordance with Section
17.65.090 (a), or Section
17.65.090 (b) (Combined or Shared Parking Facilities) for joint use of parking
facilities.
   (d)   Change in use
      A change in use that results in a more intensive parking requirement
shall comply with all current parking and loading standards of this Chapter.
   (e)   Two or more uses
      Where two or more uses are located in the same development or structure,
the parking requirements shall be the sum of the separate requirements per use,
except as specifically provided by this Chapter.
   (f)   Parking and loading spaces to be permanent
      Parking and loading spaces shall be paved and permanently available,
marked and maintained for parking or loading purposes for the use they are
intended to serve. The Director may approve the temporary reduction of parking
or loading spaces in conjunction with a seasonal or intermittent use with the
approval of a Temporary Use Permit issued in compliance with
Chapter 17.75 and
17.155 (Temporary Uses and Structures and Temporary Use Permits) of this title.
   (g)   Parking and loading to be unrestricted
      Owners, lessees, tenants, or persons having control of the operation of a
premise for which parking or loading spaces are required by this Chapter shall
not prevent, prohibit or restrict authorized persons from using these spaces
without prior approval of the Director.
   (h)   Use of parking area for activities other than parking
      Required off-street parking, circulation, and access areas shall be used
exclusively for the temporary parking and maneuvering of vehicles and shall not
be used for the sale, lease, display, repair, or storage of vehicles, trailers,
boats, campers, mobile homes, merchandise, or equipment, or for any other use
not authorized by the provisions of this Code.
   (j)   Maintenance
      All required parking and loading space areas including their driveways
and aisle widths shall be maintained in good condition and available for their
intended use. Parking areas shall be kept free of litter, trash, debris and
display or advertising not specifically approved in accordance with this Zoning
Code.
      Inside garage storage shall not encroach into required parking and
loading space areas and vehicles shall not be continuously parked in these
areas. All parked vehicles shall be operable and currently registered.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit J, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit N, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 549, Exhibit A, 8/24/16.]
17.65.060 Number of Parking Spaces Required
   (a)   Required Spaces
   
Table 65-2 specifies the number of off-street parking spaces required for
specific uses. The requirement for a use not specifically mentioned shall be
the same as for a specified use which has the most similar traffic and/or
parking generating characteristics. The Planning Director shall determine what
constitutes similar traffic generating characteristics.
   As provided in
Chapter 17.140 (Minor Variances) of this Code, the Planning Director may
approve up to a thirty percent (30%) reduction in the number of required
parking spaces. Reductions of more than thirty percent (30%) may be approved by
the Planning Commission, as provided in
Chapter 17.135 (Major Variances).
TABLE 65-1
NUMBER OF AUTOMOBILE PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Use Required Number of Spaces
Use                                     Required Number of Spaces
Residential Uses
                                        2-car enclosed garage for each unit.
Single-family, detached and attached in Said garage shall have a minimum clear
R1 and DL zone districts                dimension of 20-feet by 20-feet free of
                                        any obstructions including mechanical
                                        equipment.
Duplex units                            2-car enclosed garage for each unit
                                        2 spaces per unit, with 1 space
                                        required to be covered, plus 1 guest
                                        space for every 2 dwelling units, plus
                                        the following:
                                        3 spaces for each on-site rental or
Apartments, condominiums, townhouses,   sales office for developments of 100
and similar developments                units or less, plus 1 additional space
                                        for each additional 100 units or
                                        fraction thereof.
                                        Single car garages shall have a minimum
                                        clear dimension of 10-feet by 20-feet
                                        free of any obstructions including
                                        mechanical equipment.
                                        2 covered spaces per unit, plus 1 guest
Mobile home park                        space per every 2 units, plus 2 spaces
                                        for each on-site sales or rental office
Fraternity-sorority/lodge/bed and       1 space per bed, plus 1 guest space for
breakfast                               every 3 beds
Convalescent facility/residential care  1 space for every 4 beds, plus parking
facility                                for on-site employee housing
Public Assembly and Community Uses
                                        1 space/3 fixed seats (or 54" of bench
Church, chapel, religious facility,     seating), or
cemetery, mortuary                      1 space/25 square feet of gross floor
                                        area of assembly area where there are
                                        no fixed seats
Theatres:                                
   Movie - multiple screen           1 space/5 seats, plus 7 spaces for
                                        employees
   Movie - single screen             1 space/5 seats, plus 5 spaces for
                                        employees
   Live performance                  1 space/4 fixed seats
Assembly                                1 space/50 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
                                        1 space per employee, plus 1 space/10
Day care (all types), nursery school    children (or participants) based on
                                        facility capacity
                                        1.5 spaces/classroom, plus 1 space/
Private elementary and junior high      5 fixed seats in auditorium, gymnasium
school                                  or similar public assembly facility, or
                                        1 space/35 SF-GFA of assembly area
                                        where there are no fixed seats
                                        1.5 spaces/classroom, plus 1 space/
Private high school                     5 students based on maximum student
                                        capacity
                                        1 space/employee, plus 1 space/
College or university (public/private)  3 students based on maximum student
                                        capacity
Trade school, business school, adult    1 space/3 students, plus 1 space for
education (public/private)              each staff member, faculty member, and
                                        employee
Museums, art galleries                  1 space/300 SF-GFA
Libraries                               1 space/300 SF-GFA
Hospitals and medical centers           1 space/2 patient beds, plus 1 space
(providing acute care, clinical,        for each employee and staff member on
surgical, teaching, research and office largest shift
services)
Industrial Uses
Ambulance service                       1 space per 250 SF-GFA; plus 1 space
                                        per service vehicle
Construction yards                      1 space per 250 SF-GFA, plus 1 space
                                        per 7,000 sq. ft. of yard area
Junk, salvage, vehicle wrecking and     1 space per 250 SF-GFA; plus 1 space
impound yard                            per 7,000 sq. ft. of yard area
                                        1 space/500 SF of industrial/
                                        manufacturing area, plus 1 space/250 SF
                                        of office use, plus 1 space/1,000 SF of
Manufacturing and processing uses (not  warehouse area (Note: Buildings in the
including buildings used exclusively    MI zone district which are built with
for warehouse purposes)                 the intention of converting to a more
                                        parking-intensive use at a later date
                                        may be required to submit a parking
                                        plan showing the configuration of
                                        parking for the ultimate use.)
                                        1 space/50 storage units; plus 1 space/
Mini-storage warehouse                  250 SF-GFA of office area; plus 2
                                        spaces for a caretaker's residence
Recycling facilities, public            1 space per 1,000 SF-GFA; plus 1 space
(collection only)                       per 7,000 sq. ft. of yard area
Recycling facilities, commercial        1 space per 500 SF-GFA; plus 1 space
(processing)                            per 7,000 sq. ft. of yard area.
Research and development                1 space/250 SF-GFA
Upholstery shop, welding shop           1 space per 500 SF-GFA
                                        1 space per 1,000 SF-GFA for the first
                                        20,000 sq. ft;
                                        1 space per 2,000 SF-GFA for that
Warehouse/distribution facility, indoor portion between 20,000 and 40,000 sq.
agriculture                             ft.;
                                        1 space per 4,000 SF-GFA for that
                                        portion over 40,000
                                        Plus 1 space/300 SF-GFA of office use
Office Uses
Medical and dental offices              1 space/250 SF-GFA, with a minimum of 4
                                        spaces
Veterinary office                       1 space/250 SF-GFA, with a minimum of 4
                                        spaces
Business and professional               1 space/250 SF-GFA, with a minimum of 4
                                        spaces
Financial services (banks, savings and  1 space/250 SF-GFA, with a minimum of 4
loans, credit unions)                   spaces
Commercial Uses - Retail, Service, and Other
                                        2 spaces, plus 3 spaces/service bay
                                        (service bays do not count as spaces),
                                        parking areas shall not be utilized for
Automotive/RV service and repair        storage or overnight parking. The
                                        storage of vehicles/RVs shall be a
                                        separate area and screened from
                                        adjacent uses.
Automotive car wash                     3/1,000 SF-GLA
Self-service car wash                   2 spaces/wash bay (wash bays do not
                                        count as spaces)
Automobile sales                        1 space/2,000 SF-GLA
Dance studio, karate studio and similar 1 space/100 SF-GFA
uses
Furniture stores                        1 space/500 SF-GFA
                                        1 space/250 SF-GFA
                                        If restaurant space occupies more than
                                        10% of total GFA, then additional
General retail                          parking shall be provided for excess
                                        restaurant space beyond the 10%. The
                                        additional parking shall be calculated
                                        at the restaurant rate.
                                        1 space/guest room, plus additional
Hotels and motels                       spaces for restaurant and public
                                        assembly areas as required for those
                                        uses
Laundromat                              1 space/3 washing machines
                                        1 space/1,000 SF indoor GFA, plus 1
Plant nurseries                         space/2,000 SF gross outdoor retail
                                        area
                                        1 space/1,000 SF gross outdoor retail
Outdoor sales, including lumber yards,  area, plus additional parking as
salvage yards                           required for indoor sales area, service
                                        facilities, and other uses
                                        3 spaces per model home or unit,
Residential sales office (temporary)    including at least 1 space designated
                                        for vehicles displaying a handicapped
                                        placard
                                        1 space per each 500 SF of tree/pumpkin
                                        display area. Minimum number of spaces
Temporary sales (Christmas Tree/        is subject to review and approval by
pumpkins)                               the City; at least 1 space must be
                                        designated for vehicles displaying an
                                        accessible placard.
Recreation Uses
Arcades                                 1 space/150 SF-GFA
Billiard parlor                         2 spaces per billiard table
                                        5 spaces/lane, plus auxiliary uses
Bowling alley                           calculated separately as required by
                                        this Section
                                        1 space/20 gross SF dance floor area,
Dance halls                             plus 1 space per 3 fixed seats. Where
                                        there are no fixed seats, 1 space per
                                        20 SF of seating area.
Driving range                           Parking requirements subject to case-
                                        by-case review
Golf course - regulation and pitch and  Parking requirements subject to case-
putt                                    by-case review
Gym, spa, health club                   1 space/100 SF-GFA
                                        1.5 spaces/hole, plus other uses
Miniature golf                          calculated separately as required by
                                        this Section
                                        1 space/100 SF of rink, plus other uses
Skating rink - ice or roller            calculated separately as required by
                                        this Section
Public swimming pool (as defined by the 10 spaces, or 1 space/1,000 SF of lot
Uniform Building Code)                  area, plus 1 space/2 employees,
                                        whichever is greater
Handball/racquetball - commercial       3 spaces/court, plus other uses
facility                                calculated separately as required by
                                        this Section
Tennis courts - commercial facility or  3 spaces/court, plus other uses
associated with private club            calculated separately as required by
                                        this Section
Restaurants
Restaurants (as defined in              1 space/100 SF-GFA or 1 space for every
Chapter 17.200 of this Code)            3 persons (as determined by occupancy
                                        load)
                                        1 space for every 3 seats or 10 spaces/
                                        1,000 SF-GFA, whichever is greater. A
Restaurants (drive-through, fast food,  minimum of 5 spaces shall be provided.
and walkup restaurants, as defined in   Restaurants with drive-through areas
Chapter 17.200 of this Code)            must provide at least 6 on-site queuing
                                        spaces for patron vehicles ahead of the
                                        menu board, or as approved by the City
Outdoor dining areas in excess of 16    1 space/200 SF of outdoor seating area
seats for sit-down or fast food         or 1 space for every 3 seats, whichever
restaurants                             is greater
Abbreviations: SF = square feet, GFA = gross floor area, GLA = gross land area
 
   (b)   Fractional Spaces
      If the calculation of required parking spaces results in a fractional
number, that number shall be rounded up to the next whole number.
   (c)   Accessible Parking
      Accessible parking requirements are established by Title 24 of the State
of California. The parking standards contained in this section are identical to
those established by the State at the time of the adoption of this Zoning Code.
Any change in the State’s accessible parking requirements shall preempt the
affected requirements in this section.
      (1)   Number of Spaces Required.
         A.   Multi-Family Residential Uses. Accessible parking spaces shall be
provided at a minimum rate of two percent (2%) of the multi-family dwelling
units assigned parking spaces. At least one (1) space of each type of parking
facility (garage, private garage, carport, and open parking spaces) shall be
made accessible even if the total number exceeds 2 percent. At least 5 percent
of unassigned or guest parking spaces shall be accessible.
         B.   Required handicapped parking spaces shall count toward fulfilling
off-street parking requirements.
         C.   Van accessible spaces shall be provided at a rate of one in every
eight accessible spaces.
         D.   In the event only one handicapped parking space is required, such
space shall be van accessible.
         E.   Accessible parking spaces shall be provided for all uses, other
than as specified above, at the following rate:
TABLE 65-2
NUMBER OF ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Total Number of Parking Spaces Provided Number of Handicapped Parking Spaces
                                        Required
Total Number of Parking Spaces Provided Number of Handicapped Parking Spaces
                                        Required
1 - 25                                  1
26 - 50                                 2
51 - 75                                 3
76 - 100                                4
101 - 150                               5
151 - 200                               6
201 - 300                               7
301 - 400                               8
401 - 500                               9
501 - 1,000                             2% of total
1,001 and over                          20 plus one for each 100, or fraction
                                        over 1,001
 
      (2)   Accessible Parking Size and Location. Accessible parking spaces
shall have the following dimensions:
         A.   Where single spaces are provided, they shall be 14-feet wide and
lined to provide a 9-foot parking area and a 5-foot loading and unloading
access aisle on the passenger side of the vehicle.
         B.   A double accessible space can be provided with a 23-foot wide
area lined to provide a 9-foot parking area on each side of a 5-foot loading
and unloading access aisle in the center.
         C.   Van accessible spaces shall provide an 8-foot wide loading and
unloading access aisle.
         D.   All spaces shall be located near or convenient to a level or
ramped entrance, not exceeding five percent (5%) slope, to the facility served
by the parking space.
         E.   Parking spaces for the handicapped shall be signed and restricted
for use by the handicapped only.
      (3)   Any revisions to Title 24 of the California Government Code shall
supersede these requirements.
   (d)   Compact Parking
      Compact parking spaces are not permitted. However, such spaces existing
on the effective date of this Zoning Code shall be exempted. Parking lots which
contain compact spaces as of the effective date of this Code which are re-
striped to eliminate compact spaces will not be subject to the parking
requirements of this Chapter, if the elimination of compact spaces results in a
deficit of parking (as calculated using the standards in this Chapter).
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit J, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit N, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 549, Exhibit A, 8/24/16.]
17.65.070 Parking Facility Layout and Dimensions
   Parking facilities shall be designed to be fully accessible, adequate and
safe ingress and egress shall be provided from and to a street, highway, alley,
or driveway and shall conform to the following minimum standards:
   (a)   Parking Space Dimensions
      (1)   Standard Spaces
         The minimum size of a standard parking space shall be nine feet wide
and eighteen feet long (9' x 18').
      (2)   Parallel Spaces
         The minimum size of a parallel parking space shall be nine feet wide
and twenty-four feet long (9' x 24').
   (b)   Parking Access
      Access leading to parking facilities, including garages for private
residences, shall meet the following dimensions:
      (1)   Width - The minimum width for driveways and drive aisles shall be
twenty feet (20') for one-way traffic and twenty-six feet (26') for two-way
traffic. Where one-way drives exist, pavement graphics and directional signs
and arrows shall be provided. Greater widths may be required at the discretion
of the City.
      (2)   Minimum Residential Driveway Length - Driveways for single family
or duplex units in any zoning district shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20')
in length as measured from the back of sidewalk to the front of the garage
door.
      (3)   Limit on Residential Driveways - The number of permitted driveways
shall be one per fifty feet (50') of lot frontage, or fraction thereof, not to
exceed a total of two (2) driveways. A curved driveway with two (2) entrances
shall count as one (1) driveway for the purposes of this section.
      (4)   Non-residential Driveway Spacing - The distance between non-
residential driveways; and between non-residential driveways and public rights-
of-way shall conform to the City’s Public Works standards.
      (5)   Maneuvering Areas - Except for residential uses of two (2) or fewer
units per building site, access facilities adjoining roadways classified as
Collector Street or higher in the General Plan Circulation Element shall be
arranged so that any vehicle can leave the parking area and enter into an
adjoining vehicular right-of-way traveling in a forward direction.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit J, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit N, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 549, Exhibit A, 8/24/16; Ord. No. 583,
Section 3, 2/28/18.]
17.65.080 Parking Facility Development Standards
   (a)   Paving Required
      (1)   All parking spaces and associated driveways shall be entirely paved
with concrete or asphalt-type surfacing as per City standards and requirements.
      (2)   All newly constructed driveways and parking areas shall be
concrete, asphalt, or as otherwise approved by the City.
      (3)   Parking on areas which do not meet the above standards shall be
prohibited.
   (b)   Parking Space Delineation
      All parking spaces shall be clearly delineated with a 4-inch wide double
stripe, a 4-inch gap between stripes, and an overall width of 12 inches wide
and 20 feet long. The ends of the striping can be rounded or squared. In order
to maintain the 9-foot wide parking space standard mentioned above, parking
striping shall be spaced center to center.
   (c)   Construction
      (1)   All driveways and parking areas shall be constructed and striped in
accordance with road and drainage standards established by the City Engineer
and the Fire Department.
      (2)   Wheel stops, ground-mounted bumpers, and similar devices are
permitted. Curbs shall be used in conjunction with landscaped areas, as
approved by the City.
   (d)   Lighting
      (1)   All on-site lighting shall be energy efficient, stationary and
directed away from adjoining properties and public rights-of-way.
      (2)   Light fixtures shall be shielded so no light is emitted above the
horizontal plane of the bottom of the light fixture.
      (3)   Light fixtures shall be shielded so no light above 0.5 foot-candle
spills over onto adjacent properties and rights-of-way. There shall be no
spillover (0.0 foot-candle) onto adjacent residential used or zoned properties.
   (e) Landscaping and Screening
      Parking lot landscaping shall be provided and maintained as required in
Chapter 17.60 and
17.15 of this Zoning Code.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit J, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit N, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 549, Exhibit A, 8/24/16.]
17.65.090 Combined or Shared Parking Facilities
   (a)   For Uses on Separate Lots or Parcels
      Required parking facilities for non-residential uses may be provided
collectively for two (2) or more buildings or uses located on the same or
separate contiguous lots or parcels of land, provided that the total combined
parking facilities meet or exceed all other minimum parking capacity
requirements for the buildings or uses. A covenant, approved as to form by the
City Attorney, shall be recorded describing the combined parking arrangement
and granting reciprocal access rights to the parking facilities.
   (b)   Shared Parking Facilities
      Where two (2) or more uses are sharing parking facilities, the applicant
may propose the use of shared parking, provided that a “Shared Parking
Analysis” is approved by the City, demonstrating that sufficient parking will
be provided at all times for all uses. Such Shared Parking Analysis shall be
prepared pursuant to guidelines published by the Urban Land Institute or other
guidelines as approved the City. Where separate parcels exist within a single
development, a parking agreement shall be required, per Section
17.65.090(a), above.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit J, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit N, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 549, Exhibit A, 8/24/16.]
17.65.100 Loading Space Requirements
   (a)   Number of Spaces Required
      (1)   For commercial uses, loadings spaces shall be provided in
accordance with the following:
TABLE 65-3
Minimum Required Loading Spaces - Commercial
 
Gross Floor Area         Minimum Spaces Required
Less than 25,000 sq. ft. 1 small space (12 ft. by 20 ft.)
25,001 to 50,000 sq. ft. 2 small spaces (12 ft. by 20 ft.)
                         1 large space per unit (12 ft. by 45 ft.), plus 1
Over 50,001 sq. ft.      additional large space for each additional 50,000
                         square feet, with a maximum of 4 spaces required
 
         (2)   In Light Manufacturing, Manufacturing/Industrial, and Airport
Development Districts, loadings spaces shall be provided in accordance with the
following:
TABLE 65-4
Minimum Required Loading Spaces - Industrial
 
Gross Floor Area         Minimum Spaces Required
Less than 50,000 sq. ft. 1 small space per unit (12 ft. by 20 ft.)
                         1 large space per unit (12 ft. by 45 ft.), plus 1
Over 50,001 sq. ft.      additional large space for each additional 50,000
                         square feet, with a maximum of 4 spaces required
 
      (3)   Required loading spaces in other Districts will be determined on a
case by case basis, depending on the requirements of each project.
   (b)   Dimensions
      The dimensions of loading spaces shall be as specified in the table
above.
   (c)   Location
      All loading areas shall be located adjacent to loading doors and outside
of any required aisles or other circulation areas. Adequate turning radii shall
be provided to allow a vehicle to maneuver without backing into a street or
without backing into the loading space from the street.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit J, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit N, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 549, Exhibit A, 8/24/16.]
17.65.110 Bicycle Parking Standards
   (a)   Bicycle Parking
      Parking spaces for bicycles shall be provided as required by
Table 65-5. For any use for which bicycle parking is required, a minimum of
four (4) bicycle spaces shall be provided.
TABLE 65-5
NUMBER OF BICYCLE PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Use Required Spaces - % of Auto Requirement
Use                                     Required Spaces - % of Auto Requirement
Residential Uses
Single-family                           0
Multi-family                            1 space per each four units
Public Assembly and Community Uses
Child Care, Preschools, Senior Centers  10%
Libraries, Auditoriums, Museums,        5%
Galleries, Stadiums, Theaters
Private Schools, Private Colleges,      20%
Trade Schools
Industrial Uses
Manufacturing and Warehousing           10%
Office Uses
Banks, Savings and Loans                15%
General Office                          10%
Medical, Dental, and Veterinary Offices 5%
Commercial Uses
Bowling Alleys, Billiard Parlors,       10%
Roller and Ice Rinks, Private Clubs
Health Clubs and Studios                10%
Hospitals and Medical Centers           10%
Hotels and Motels                       5%
Restaurant                              10%
Retail                                  10%
 
   (b)   Separation from Automobile Parking
      Bicycle parking spaces shall be separated from automobile parking spaces
or aisles by a wall, fence, or curb, or by at least five feet (5') of open
space where parking is prohibited.
   (c)   Access
      Free and clear access directly from a public right-of-way or drive aisle
shall be provided and maintained. Aisles or walkways providing access to
bicycle parking spaces shall be at least five feet (5') wide.
   (d)   Signs
      Signs indicating location of bicycle parking shall be placed on the site,
as determined on a case by case basis.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit J, 5/22/13; Ord. No.
528, Exhibit N, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 549, Exhibit A, 8/24/16.]
CHAPTER 17.67
TRIP REDUCTION
   
17.67.010   Intent and Purpose
   
17.67.020   Additional Parking and Loading Requirements
   
17.67.030   Transit Facilities
   
17.67.040   Video Conferencing
   
17.67.050   Telecommuting Centers
   
17.67.060   Timing
17.67.010 Intent and Purpose
   Use of the private automobile in Southern California has created serious
traffic congestion and air quality problems. At the regional and local levels,
government agencies have adopted policies and programs aimed at reducing the
number of single-passenger vehicles traveling along the region’s highways and
thereby alleviating congestion and improving air quality. The trip reduction
measures contained in this Chapter are intended to help meet regional
congestion management and air quality goals.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit O, 9/10/14.]
17.67.020 Additional Parking and Loading Requirements
   In addition to the parking requirements contained in
Chapter 17.65 of this Zoning Code, the following parking standards shall apply:
   (a)   Carpool/Vanpool Parking - Office Development and Business Parks
      For all new developments in the MU, BP, LM, MI and ADD zoning districts,
a minimum of three (3) parking spaces shall be reserved for use by carpool/
vanpool users for each fifty (50) total spaces. The carpool/vanpool spaces
shall be located in close proximity to each building in an office or business
park facility. Carpool/ vanpool spaces shall be included in the total parking
count as shown in the example below:
 
Total spaces required           50
Carpool/Vanpool spaces required 3
Standard spaces (50 - 3)        47
Total spaces provided (47 + 3)  50
 
      All carpool/vanpool spaces shall be signed to identify them as reserved
for these users, and shall be designed to accommodate full-sized passenger
vans.
   (b)   Residential Project Requirements
      For projects consisting of ten (10) or more attached apartment or
condominium units, the following requirements shall apply:
      (1)   Each building shall be directly accessible to a public roadway via
sidewalks or paved walkways.
      (2)   Each project providing one hundred (100) or more parking spaces
shall provide a passenger loading area in close proximity to the main entrance
to each building. This area shall be equal in size to five (5) standard parking
spaces.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit O, 9/10/14.]
17.67.030 Transit Facilities
   Transit facilities such as bus turnouts, bus stops and shelters, and bus
pads shall be required if determined to be necessary by the Planning Director.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit O, 9/10/14.]
17.67.040 Video Conferencing
   One (1) on-site video conferencing facilities shall be provided in each
office building of 200,000 square feet or larger in size. In an office
development where no single building exceeds 200,000 square feet, but the
aggregate of all buildings exceeds 300,000 square feet, one (1) on-site video
conferencing facility accessible to tenants from each building shall be
provided. Video conferencing facilities shall provide the capability to provide
voice and data connections with other video conferencing facilities.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit O, 9/10/14.]
17.67.050 Telecommuting Centers
   Each single-family subdivision consisting of five hundred (500) or more
homes or each mixed-use project containing five hundred (500) or more homes
shall either provide one (1) telecommuting center or an in-lieu payment to the
City sufficient to construct and staff such a center for a period of at least
five (5) years.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit O, 9/10/14.]
17.67.060 Timing
   (a)   For non-residential uses, all facilities and improvements required by
this Chapter shall be constructed or otherwise provided prior to the issuance
of a Certificate of Occupancy for any new building or addition to an existing
building subject to the requirements of this Chapter.
   (b)   For residential uses, all facilities and improvements required by this
Section shall be provided prior to the issuance of any certificates of
occupancy for more than the first half of the total number of dwelling units.
For example, in a project which includes six hundred (600) single-family homes,
required facilities and improvements would need to be provided prior to the
issuance of Certificates of Occupancy for units 301 and above.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit O, 9/10/14.]
CHAPTER 17.70
SIGNS
   
17.70.010   Intent and Purpose
   
17.70.020   Applicability
   
17.70.030   Administration
   
17.70.040   Sign Permits and Exemptions
   
17.70.050   Prohibited Signs and Sign Devices
   
17.70.055   Off-Site Residential Subdivision Signs
   
17.70.060   Signs in Residential Districts
   
17.70.065   Political Signs
   
17.70.070   Signs in Commercial Districts
   
17.70.080   Signs in Industrial Districts
   
17.70.090   Highway/Freeway Identification Signs
   
17.70.100   Sign Programs
   
17.70.110   Temporary Signs
   
17.70.115   Billboard Overlay Zone (B-O Zone)
   
17.70.120   Definitions
17.70.010 Intent and Purpose
   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to outline regulations which
promote economic development, but are fair, comprehensive, and enforceable
while allowing the City of Adelanto to create and maintain safe and
aesthetically pleasing building elevations and streetscapes. These regulations
serve to balance the need to protect the public safety and welfare, the need
for a well maintained and attractive community, and the need for adequate
identification, communication and advertising for land uses.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14.]
17.70.020 Applicability
   The sign standards provided in this Chapter shall apply to signs in all land
use zoning districts in the City. Only signs authorized by this Chapter shall
be allowed in the specified zoning district, unless otherwise expressly
provided in this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14.]
17.70.030 Administration
   (a)   Administration
      The Director is authorized by the City Council to administer and enforce
the provisions of this Chapter, unless otherwise provided in this Chapter. The
Director may designate a representative to act in his/her place.
   (b)   Interpretation
      (1)   This Chapter shall be interpreted in a manner which best fulfills
the intent of its provisions.
      (2)   Questions arising from the application of this Chapter shall be
interpreted by the Director. If any inconsistency still exists in the
interpretation, an appeal application shall be referred to the Planning
Commission for its determination.
   (c)   Appeals
      (1)   Any decision or determination by the Director may be appealed to
the Planning Commission in accordance with the provisions of this Zoning Code.
      (2)   Any decision of the Planning Commission may be appealed to the City
Council in accordance with the provisions of this Zoning Code.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14.]
17.70.040 Sign Permits and Exemptions
   (a)   Sign Permits Required
      No exterior sign shall be erected, placed, displayed, or altered,
including change of face, without the issuance of a sign permit by the Planning
Division, unless exempted by subsection 17.70.040(c) (Exempt Signs). Building
and/or electrical permits may also be required from the Building Division.
   (b)   Applications and Fees
      (1)   Applications for sign permits shall be submitted to the Planning
Division and be accompanied by the information, materials and submittal
requirements as specified on the application.
      (2)   Fees shall be paid as established by the City fee schedule.
      (3)   Fees shall be doubled for signs erected or placed prior to issuance
of a sign permit or any required building and electrical permits.
   (c)   Exempt Signs
      The following signs shall be exempt from the requirements of this
Development code and applicable specific plans:
      (1)   Holiday display and decorations not to exceed 60 days.
      (2)   Signs located inside a structure, courtyard, mall, or other similar
structure, provided these signs are not conspicuously visible and readable from
a public street.
      (3)   Utility company signs identifying conduits, cables, dangerous
conditions, or providing other notices of this type.
      (4)   Memorial tablets or signs and historic markers.
      (5)   Signs, flags, banners, emblems, or notices issued or endorsed by a
constituted government body, public agency, court, person, or officer in
performance of a public duty, including traffic or highway signs, railroad
crossing signs or similar regulatory or warning devices and legal notices.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14.]
17.70.050 Prohibited Signs and Sign Devices
   (a)   Prohibited Signs
      Any sign not specifically allowed by this ordinance is prohibited. The
following devices used to attract pedestrian or vehicular attention are
prohibited in the City of Adelanto.
      (1)   A-Frames, Portable Signs.
      (2)   Beacon Lights. Except as specifically allowed by this ordinance for
a Special Promotion period or as part of a Grand Opening period not to exceed a
30 day period.
      (3)   Bus Bench Signs and Signs on Transit Stop Enclosures unless
initiated by the City in order to enhance the bus shelter.
      (4)   Flashing or Animated Signs.
      (5)   Graffiti.
      (6)   Inflatable Devices.
      (7)   Mobile Signs. Excludes signs painted on vehicles unless the
Director determines such a vehicle is being utilized for advertising purposes
beyond that approved for signage on a site. In such case the Director may
require a business to remove or relocate such vehicle.
      (8)   Off-Premise Signs and Billboards, other than those located in a B-
O Zone.
      (9)   Projecting Signs. Any sign that projects out from a building, or
any projections from a freestanding sign that extend over a driveway, sidewalk,
or public street. Minor projections may be allowed with approval of a Sign
Program that incorporates a design scheme with projections.
      (10)   Roof Signs.
      (11)   Sexually Oriented Signs. Any display, decoration, sign or show
window that provides the observation of any material depicting, describing or
relating to “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
      (12)   Statuary. Statuary bearing the likeness or suggestion of any
product or logo unless as approved as a monument sign.
      (13)   Temporary Signs. Except as specifically allowed by this ordinance
(see Section
17.70.110  Temporary Signs).
   (b)   Hand-bills and Signs in Public Places
      (1)   Except as otherwise stipulated, no person shall paint, mark or
write on, or post or otherwise affix, any hand-bill or sign to or upon any
sidewalk, crosswalk, curb, curbstone, park strip, street lamp post, hydrant,
tree, shrub, tree stake or guard, railroad trestle, public utility pole (i.e.,
electric, light or power or telephone or telegraph or trolley wire pole) or
wire appurtenance thereof or upon any lighting system, public bridge, drinking
fountain, life saving equipment, street sign or traffic sign.
      (2)   Any hand-bill or sign found posted upon any public property
contrary to the provisions of this section may be removed by any designated
City of Adelanto employee. The person responsible for any such illegal posting
shall be liable for the cost incurred in the removal thereof and the City is
authorized to effect the collection of said cost.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the installation of a metal
plaque or plate or individual letters or figures in a sidewalk commemorating a
historical, cultural, or artistic event, location, or personality for which the
Department of Public Works has granted a written permit.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the painting of house
numbers upon curbs.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14; Ord. No.
611, 4/22/20.]
17.70.055 Off-Site Residential Subdivision Signs
   The following regulations shall control the location and design of all off-
site residential housing identification signs. Only signs installed consistent
with these requirements shall be allowed. A residential subdivision shall be
defined as a housing project within a recorded tract. This section may be
referred to as the City’s kiosk sign program.
   (a)   General Provisions
      (1)   Off-site Residential Subdivision Signs shall be considered
temporary and will be removed upon the completion of the sale of houses within
the identified subdivision.
      (2)   The size of the permitted signs shall be as follows:
         (A)   Kiosk structures may utilize a combination of 12, 24 or 36-inch
wide panels.
         (B)   Freestanding monument structures shall have a maximum 32 square
foot sign area. Signs shall not exceed fifteen (15) feet in height.
         (C)   Temporary weekend signs, shall have a maximum sign area of six
(6) square feet, two (2) feet high and three (3) feet wide, with a maximum
height of four (4) feet.
         (D)   Nothing shall prevent the City of Adelanto from utilizing the
structures to identify local public or civic facilities of importance to the
City.
   (b)   Location Requirements
      (1)   The City shall prepare or have prepared by others a comprehensive
plan identifying the location of all kiosk and freestanding signs, excluding
weekend signs, throughout the City limits. The location and spacing of weekend
signs shall be established by the City as a matter of policy. The comprehensive
program shall be subject to change as projects complete their sales programs
and new projects are approved.
      (2)   Off-site directional signs shall be allowed on private and public
property.
      (3)   All signs proposed on private or public property must receive
written authorization from the affected property owner prior to their
installation.
      (4)   The placement of all signs shall avoid locations that may create a
hazardous condition for pedestrians and vehicles.
      (5)   The location of all signs shall be subject to relocation due to
street construction, improvement of the subject property or other actions that
affect the location of individual signs.
      (6)   The comprehensive sign program and the location of all signs
provided for as part of that plan shall be approved by the Planning Director or
his designee prior to their installation.
      (7)   Proposed signs that are visible from U.S. Highway 395 or Palmdale
Road (Highway 18) are subject to CalTrans review and approval prior to Planning
Department approval and Building permit issuance.
   (c)   Time Limits
      All signs subject to this section shall be limited to the following time
periods:
      (1)   All signs shall be allowed for up to 24-months.
      (2)   Extensions can be granted for up to 24-months.
      (3)   No maximum time limit exists.
   (d)   Restrictions
      (1)   The off-site residential subdivision signs allowed within this
section shall be limited to identifying housing projects within the city
limits. Housing projects outside the city limits shall only be identified if
that city has:
         (A)   A similar kiosk program to that provided by the City of
Adelanto; and
         (B)   Allowance is made for housing projects within the City of
Adelanto on its kiosk signs.
      (2)   No additions, tag signs, streamers, devices, display boards or
other appurtenances shall be added to the signs as originally approved.
      (3)   Only the types of directional signs specified within this section
shall be allowed. Posters, trailers or other devices used for advertising shall
be prohibited.
[Ord. 422; Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14.]
17.70.060 Signs in Residential Districts
   No sign, outdoor advertising structure, or display of any kind shall be
permitted in Residential Zones, except as specifically allowed by this
ordinance.
   (a)   On-site Subdivision and Mobilehome Park identification Signs
      (1)   One (1) wall or monument identification or landscape wall sign per
public street entrance to the project, not to exceed a maximum of two (2) such
signs, not exceeding twenty-four (24) square feet maximum each.
      (2)   Maximum allowable height shall be six (6) feet and may not extend
above a wall or fence.
      (3)   Each monument sign should be located within a landscaped area which
is of a shape and design that will provide a compatible setting and ground
definition to the sign.
      (4)   Such identification signs shall only be allowed if maintenance
responsibility is assigned to a community association or a park owner for
mobilehome parks.
   (b)   Multi-Family Residential Uses
      (1)   Apartments and multi-family residential developments having more
than four (4) units may be permitted a cumulative sign area per project
frontage containing no more than one (1) square foot per each ten (10) feet of
linear frontage and shall not exceed a maximum of twenty-four (24) square feet
per frontage. Such signs may be monument or wall signs.
      (2)   Sign Copy shall be limited to the name of the complex, address, and
manager’s phone number.
      (3)   Monument signs shall have an overall maximum height of six (6) feet
and shall be located within a landscaped area that will provide a compatible
setting and ground definition to the sign.
      (4)   A wall sign shall be located below the roof eave, awning or canopy,
and be fastened parallel to the surface of the main building and may be placed
at a height not greater than two-thirds of the height of the building surface
upon which it is located.
      (5)   All signs shall be compatible with the theme or architecture and
scale of the development.
   (c)   Directory Signs
      (1)   For multi-family residential developments of twelve (12) or more
units or mobilehome parks, one (1) site directory monument sign per vehicle
entrance may be allowed where necessary to direct visitors and emergency
vehicles to buildings. Such signs shall be in a accordance with the following:
         (A)   Maximum sign area shall not exceed twenty-four (24) square feet.
         (B)   Sign height shall not exceed six (6) feet.
         (C)   Signs shall locate buildings, driveways locations and addresses
for each building.
         (D)   Fire hydrant or Knox box locations shall also be shown as
required by Fire District regulations.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14.]
17.70.065 Political Signs
   It is expected that candidates for City Council will want to use campaign
signs to promote their candidacy. The City asks that each candidate keep in
mind the best interests of the community, through compliance with the
following:
   (a)   Political and election signs, including their supporting structures,
shall be permitted on private property and public rights-of-way in all zoning
districts.
   (b)   Signs advertising a political candidate, political party, or ballot
measure may be displayed only during a period beginning forty-five (45) days
before the election or vote and ending fourteen (14) days after the election or
vote.
   (c)   No person shall install or maintain or cause to be installed or
maintained any sign which simulates or imitates in size, color, lettering, or
design any traffic sign or signal, or which makes use of words, “STOP,” “LOOK,”
or “danger,” or any words, phrases, symbols, or characters in such a manner as
to interfere with, mislead, or confuse traffic.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14.]
17.70.070 Signs in Commercial Districts
   No sign, outdoor advertising structure, or display of any kind shall be
permitted for nonresidential uses except as specifically allowed by this
Chapter.
   (a)   Signs for Free-Standing Single Tenant Buildings and Sites
      (1)   Wall Signs
         (A)   The maximum sign area per building frontage shall be one (1)
square foot per linear foot of building frontage. Any wall sign removed or
obstructed due to construction of an adjacent building cannot be relocated
unless a new sign permit is obtained and it complies with all the requirements
of this Chapter.
         (B)   Awnings or canopy signs may be allowed, with their sign area
allocated against the total cumulative sign area for wall signs.
         (C)   Window signs may also be allowed to identify the business or
use. The maximum sign area shall not exceed 25% of the window area.
         (D)   Nameplate sign may not exceed one (1) square foot in size.
      (2)   Free-Standing Monument Signs
         (A)   Free-Standing pole signs are not permitted; only monument or
Pylon style signs are permitted. Pylon signs shall have two supporting towers
on either side of the sign with a minimum dimension of twelve inches by twelve
inches (12" x 12").
         (B)   No more than one free-standing monument sign is permitted for
each street frontage.
         (C)   The maximum sign area allowed for free-standing monument signs
shall be one (1) square foot per ten (10) linear feet of street frontage on
which the sign is located.
         (D)   No single sign shall exceed thirty-six (36) square feet in area.
         (E)   The address or address range of the property shall be
incorporated on the sign visible from public right-of-way and no larger than
one (1) square foot in area.
         (F)   Maximum height of a free-standing monument sign shall not exceed
eight (8) feet.
         (G)   Monument signs located near street intersections and driveways
shall be setback out of the Clear Area per Section
17.10.080 .
         (H)   “Reader boards” or similar devices for showing changing text
and/or graphic messages may be used and shall count towards the permitted sign
area. Reader board content shall be limited to the date, time, temperature, and
messages directly related to business or site use. Advertisement of off-site
uses is prohibited.
      (3)   Projecting or Shingle Signs
         Small projecting, shingle or suspended signs may be permitted subject
to the following:
         (A)   A maximum of one (1) such sign per building entrance is
permitted provided that it is perpendicular to the main face of the building
suspended from a canopy or projects not more than three (3) feet from the
building face.
         (B)   Projecting or shingle signs shall not exceed two (2) square feet
in area and shall have a minimum ground clearance of eight (8) feet.
         (C)   All such signs shall be non-energized or non-electrical.
   (b)   Signs for Tenants within Shopping Centers and Multiple Tenant
Buildings
      (1)   Sign Programs
         A sign program shall be required for all business or shopping centers
or any group of business uses with shared signs facilities to insure that all
signs are integrated and compatible. Sign programs shall comply with all of the
provisions of Section
17.70.100 Sign Programs. All signs in such development shall comply with the
provisions of the approved sign program in addition to the provisions of this
Chapter.
      (2)   Wall Signs
         (A)   The maximum sign area per building or unit frontage shall be one
(1) square foot per linear foot of building or unit frontage. Subject to the
approval of a sign program, the property owner may apportion the sign area to
individual uses or overall building, or certain identification, provided that
the total cumulative sign area is not exceeded.
         (B)   Any wall sign removed or obstructed due to construction of an
adjacent building cannot be relocated unless a new sign permit is obtained and
it complies with all the requirements of this Chapter.
         (C)   Awnings or canopy signs may be allowed, with their sign area
allocated against the total cumulative sign area for wall signs.
         (D)   Window signs may also be allowed to identify the business or
use. The maximum sign area shall not exceed 25% of the window area.
         (E)   Nameplate sign may not exceed one (1) square foot in size.
      (3)   Free-Standing Signs
         (A)   Free-Standing pole signs are not permitted; only monument or
Pylon style signs are permitted. Pylon signs shall have two supporting towers
on either side of the sign with a minimum dimension of twelve inches by twelve
inches (12" x 12").
         (B)   The maximum sign area allowed for free-standing signs shall be
two (2) square feet per ten (10) linear feet of street frontage on which the
sign is located.
         (C)   No single-sign shall exceed two hundred (200) square feet.
         (D)   No more than two free standing signs are permitted for each
street frontage. Spacing shall be subject to
Table 70-1  below.
         (E)   Monument signs located near street intersections and driveways
shall be setback out of the Clear Area per Section
17.10.080 .
         (F)   “Reader boards” or similar devices for showing changing text
and/or graphic messages may be used and shall count towards the permitted sign
area. Reader board content shall be limited to the date, time, temperature, and
messages directly related to business or site use. Advertisement of off-site
uses is prohibited.
         (G)   Maximum height and separation of free-standing signs shall
comply with the following:
            (1)   Center identification signs shall meet the maximum sign
heights and minimum sign spacing specified below:
TABLE 70-1
FREE-STANDING SIGN HEIGHT AND SPACING STANDARDS
 
Road Designation           Gross Lot Area Maximum Sign Height Minimum Spacing
Highways or Major Streets/ 20 ac or more  25 feet             300 feet
Boulevards
Highways or Major Streets/ 5 to 19.99 ac  15 feet             200 feet
Boulevards
Highways or Major Streets/ Less than 5 ac 8 feet              150 feet
Boulevards
Collector                  Any lot area   8 feet              *
 
   *   Minimum sign spacing shall comply per net lot area as Major Streets/
Boulevards
            (2)   Other free-standing signs which may be permitted for a center
shall not exceed a maximum height of eight (8) feet.
         (H)   Subject to approval of a sign program, the property owner may
apportion the sign area to individual uses or overall center or building
identification, provided that the total cumulative sign area per each type of
sign is not exceeded. This allows a center to apportion sign area for free-
standing signs, for example, between a center identification sign and monument
signs for individual free-standing tenants in accordance with the maximum
number of permitted signs per lot and/or development.
         (I)   The address or address range of the property shall be
incorporated on the sign visible from public right-of-way and no larger than
four (4) square feet in area.
         (J)   All free-standing signs in excess of eight (8) feet in height
shall reflect high quality, enhance community design and be harmonious with the
desert character through the following:
            (1)   Is compatible with the structures and uses located on the
site by incorporating elements of the architecture and/or natural features of
the site, without dominating the site;
            (2)   Makes use of high quality and/or natural or indigenous
building materials, including, but not limited to, rock, adobe, timber, carved
wood and incised lettering in stone;
            (3)   Identifies the site or use without extensive sign copy (text)
by use of graphic imagery and/or logo; and
            (4)   Utilizes reverse channel lettering or opaque sign field
(background) with illuminated routed copy.
         (K)   Fast Food Menu Boards
            (1)   Fast food restaurants with drive-through or walk-up
facilities may be allowed two (2) menu or reader boards with a total maximum
area of thirty-six (36) square feet, with a maximum height of six (6) feet.
            (2)   Any pictures, photographs, representations, or logos within
or on the perimeter of the board shall be included in the computation of the
maximum area of such boards.
            (3)   The menu board shall be located at such a point that there
are at least 3 cars queued between the service window and the menu board; and
at least 3 cars queued from the menu board to the entrance of the drive-
through.
         (L)   Automated Service Facilities
            Signs for drive-up or walk-up service windows or machines whether
free-standing or incorporated into a building, require special consideration
for which uniform sign regulations cannot be established because of their
unlimited variety and character. Therefore, the sign allowance for such
facilities shall be determined on the basis of their function and use, when the
sign permit application is being reviewed.
            (1)   In no event shall such signs exceed five (5) square feet in
area.
            (2)   Automated service signs shall not be allowed as a method of
increasing the basic sign allowance for the principal use or the function as
off-site advertising of the principal use. Examples of such facilities are
drive-up or walk up machines for banking and drive-up or walk-up windows for
restaurants, grocery stores, and film processing.
      (4)   Projecting or Shingle Signs
         Small projecting, shingle or suspended signs may be permitted subject
to the following:
         (A)   A maximum of one (1) such sign per building entrance is
permitted provided that it is perpendicular to the main face of the building
suspended from a canopy or projects not more than three (3) feet from the
building face.
         (B)   Projecting or shingle signs shall not exceed two (2) square feet
in area and shall have a minimum ground clearance of eight (8) feet.
         (C)   All such signs shall be non-energized or non-electrical.
   (c)   Service Stations
      Signs for service stations shall be the same as for other businesses,
except the following:
      (1)   Free-standing signs shall not be within one hundred (100) feet of
another free-standing sign on the same property.
      (2)   Signs on dispensers and dispenser islands shall be limited to
identification and directions for use of pumps or payments, or other signs
required by State regulations.
      (3)   Video display terminals on dispenser and dispenser islands shall
not exceeding fifteen (15) inches, measured diagonally.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14.]
17.70.080 Signs in Industrial Districts
   No sign, outdoor advertising structure, or display of any kind shall be
permitted in Industrial Zones, except as specifically allowed by this
ordinance.
   (a)   Signs for Free-Standing Single Tenant Buildings and Sites
      (1)   Wall Signs
         (A)   The maximum sign area per building or unit frontage shall be
one-half (1/2) square foot per linear foot of building or unit frontage.
         (B)   Any wall sign removed or obstructed due to construction of an
adjacent building cannot be relocated unless a new sign permit is obtained and
it complies with all the requirements of this Chapter.
         (C)   Awnings or canopy signs may be allowed, with their sign area
allocated against the total cumulative sign area for wall signs.
         (D)   Window signs may also be allowed to identify the business or
use. The maximum sign area shall not exceed 25% of the window area.
         (E)   Nameplate sign may not exceed one (1) square foot in size.
      (2)   Free-Standing Monument Signs
         (A)   Free-Standing pole signs are not permitted; only monument or
pylon style signs are permitted. Pylon signs shall have two supporting towers
on either side of the sign with a minimum dimension of twelve inches by twelve
inches (12" x 12").
         (B)   No more than one free-standing monument or pylon sign is
permitted for each street frontage.
         (C)   The maximum sign area allowed for free-standing monument signs
shall be one (1) square foot per ten (10) linear feet of street frontage on
which the sign is located.
         (D)   No single sign shall exceed sixty (60) square feet.
         (E)   Maximum height of a free-standing monument sign shall not exceed
eight (8) feet.
         (F)   The address or address range of the property shall be
incorporated on the sign visible from public right-of-way and no larger than
one (1) square foot in area.
         (G)   Monument signs located near street intersections and driveways
shall be setback out of the Clear Area per Section
17.10.080 .
         (H)   “Reader boards” or similar devices for showing changing text
and/or graphic messages may be used and shall count towards the permitted sign
area. Reader board content shall be limited to the date, time, temperature, and
messages directly related to business or site use. Advertisement of off-site
uses is prohibited.
      (3)   Projecting or Shingle Signs
         Small projecting, shingle or suspended signs may be permitted subject
to the following:
         (A)   A maximum of one (1) such sign per building entrance is
permitted provided that it is perpendicular to the main face of the building
suspended from a canopy or projects not more than three (3) feet from the
building face.
         (B)   Projecting or shingle signs shall not exceed two (2) square feet
in area and shall have a minimum ground clearance of eight (8) feet.
         (C)   All such signs shall be non-energized or non-electrical.
   (b)   Signs for Business Parks and Multi-tenant Industrial Developments
      (1)   Sign Programs
         A sign program shall be required for all business parks and multi-
tenant industrial developments or any group of business uses with shared signs
facilities to insure that all signs are integrated and compatible. Sign
programs shall comply with all of the provisions of Section
17.70.100 Sign Programs. All signs in such development shall comply with the
provisions of the approved sign program in addition to the provisions of this
Chapter.
      (2)   Wall Signs
         (A)   The maximum sign area per building or unit frontage shall be one
(1) square foot per linear foot of building or unit frontage. Subject to the
approval of a sign program, the property owner may apportion the sign area to
individual uses or overall building, or certain identification, provided that
the total cumulative sign area is not exceeded.
         (B)   Any wall sign removed or obstructed due to construction of an
adjacent building cannot be relocated unless a new sign permit is obtained and
it complies with all the requirements of this Chapter.
         (C)   Awnings or canopy signs may be allowed, with their sign area
allocated against the total cumulative sign area for wall signs.
         (D)   Window signs may also be allowed to identify the business or
use. The maximum sign area shall not exceed 25% of the window area.
         (E)   Nameplate sign may not exceed one (1) square foot in size.
      (3)   Free-Standing Monument Signs
         (A)   Free-Standing pole signs are not permitted; only monument or
Pylon style signs are permitted. Pylon signs shall have two supporting towers
on either side of the sign with a minimum dimension of twelve inches by twelve
inches (12" x 12").
         (B)   The maximum sign area allowed for free-standing signs shall be
two (2) square feet per ten (10) linear feet of street frontage on which the
sign is located.
         (C)   No single sign shall exceed one hundred (100) square feet.
         (D)   No more than two free standing signs are permitted for each
street frontage. Spacing shall be subject to
Table 70-2  below.
         (E)   Monument signs located near street intersections and driveways
shall be setback out of the Clear Area per Section
17.10.080 .
         (F)   “Reader boards” or similar devices for showing changing text
and/or graphic messages may be used and shall count towards the permitted sign
area. Reader board content shall be limited to the date, time, temperature, and
messages directly related to business or site use. Advertisement of off-site
uses is prohibited.
         (G)   Maximum height and separation of free-standing signs shall
comply with the following:
            (1)   Center identification signs shall meet the maximum sign
heights and minimum sign spacing specified below:
TABLE 70-2
FREE-STANDING SIGN HEIGHT AND SPACING STANDARDS
 
Road Designation           Net Lot Area    Maximum Sign Height Minimum Spacing
Highways or Major Streets/ 20 ac or more   15 feet             200 feet
Boulevards
Highways or Major Streets/ Less than 20 ac 8 feet              150 feet
Boulevards
Collector                  Any lot area    8 feet              *
 
   *   Minimum sign spacing shall comply per net lot area as Major Streets/
Boulevards
            (2)   Other free-standing signs which may be permitted for a center
shall not exceed a maximum height of eight (8) feet.
         (H)   The address or address range of the property shall be
incorporated on the sign visible from public right-of-way and no larger than
four (4) square feet in area.
         (I)   All free-standing signs in excess of eight (8) feet in height
shall reflect high quality, enhance community design and be harmonious with the
desert character through the following:
            (1)   Is compatible with the structures and uses located on the
site by incorporating elements of the architecture and/or natural features of
the site, without dominating the site.
         (J)   Fast Food Menu Boards
            Fast food restaurants with drive-through or walk-up facilities
within Industrial zoning districts shall comply with the standards set forth in
Section
17.70.070.b.3.K (Fast Food Menu Boards).
         (K)   Automated Service Facilities
            Signs for drive-up or walk-up service windows or machines whether
free-standing or incorporated into a building within Industrial zoning
districts shall comply with the standards set forth in Section
17.70.070.b.3.L (Automated Service Facilities).
      (3)   Projecting or Shingle Signs
         Small projecting, shingle or suspended signs may be permitted subject
to the following:
         (A)   A maximum of one (1) such sign per building entrance is
permitted provided that it is perpendicular to the main face of the building
suspended from a canopy or projects not more than three (3) feet from the
building face.
         (B)   Projecting or shingle signs shall not exceed two (2) square feet
in area and shall have a minimum ground clearance of eight (8) feet.
         (C)   All such signs shall be non-energized or non-electrical.
   (c)   Service Stations
      Signs for service stations shall be as provided in subsection
17.70.070(c) (Service Stations).
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14.]
17.70.090 Highway/Freeway Identification Signs
   Commercial, Industrial, and other similar uses immediately adjacent to
Highway 395 and Palmdale Road (Highway 18) with on-site freeway identification
signs oriented to freeway traffic shall be permitted subject to the following
criteria:
   (a)   Approval of a Sign Permit or Sign Program shall be obtained from the
Planning Commission.
   (b)   Properties containing such signs shall be abutting a freeway or
freeway ramp.
   (c)   Signs may advertise the name(s) and logo(s) of uses on the same parcel
or in the same development as the sign. Advertisement of off-site uses, or the
use of off-site signs for advertising, is prohibited.
   (d)   Wall signs may be permitted for properties facing the freeway subject
to the same criteria allowed for frontages on a public right-of-way;
   (e)   Free-Standing Signs. Free-Standing signs may be permitted subject to
the following criteria:
      (1)   Free-Standing pole signs are not permitted; only monument or Pylon
style signs may be considered. Pylon signs shall have two supporting towers on
either side of the sign with a minimum dimension of twelve inches by twelve
inches (12" x 12").
      (2)   Developments of up to ten (10) gross acres may erect one (1)
freeway-oriented sign. Developments of more than ten (>10) gross acres may
erect a maximum of two (2) signs.
      (3)   Signs may be up to one hundred feet (100') in height, or as
approved by the Planning Commission on a case-by-case basis.
      (4)   Maximum sign area for each sign face shall be four hundred (400)
square feet, or as approved by the Planning Commission. Each sign shall have a
maximum of two (2) faces.
      (5)   Highway/Freeway-oriented signs shall be spaced a minimum of five
hundred (500) feet apart.
      (6)   Highway/Freeway-oriented signs shall be space a minimum of one
hundred fifty (150) feet from a monument or pylon sign allowed in Sections
17.70.070  and
17.70.080  above.
      (7)   Highway/Freeway-oriented signs may not rotate or be animated in any
way.
      (8)   “Reader boards” or similar devices for showing changing text and/or
graphic messages may be used, subject to approval of a Conditional Use Permit
by the Planning Commission.
      (9)   The address or address range of the property shall be incorporated
on the sign visible from public right-of-way and no larger than one (1) square
foot in area.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14.]
17.70.100 Sign Programs
   (a)   Sign Program Required
      A sign program shall be developed for any business or shopping center or
any group of business uses (three or more tenant spaces) with shared sign
facilities, master planned communities or specific plans to ensure that all
signs are in harmony with other on-site signs, buildings, and surrounding
developments. The intent of a sign program is to integrate signs with building
and landscape design into a unified architectural statement. Sign programs are
also intended to provide a means of flexible application of sign regulations so
as to encourage maximum creativity in the design and display of signs.
   (b)   Application Requirements
      In addition to applicable application forms and fees, the following
information is required for review of a sign program:
      (1)   Site plan, to scale, indicating the location of all existing and
proposed signs with sign area dimensions, colors, materials, letter style,
proposed copy, if available, letter height, and method of illumination.
      (2)   Building elevation(s), to scale, with sign location depicted and
dimensioned.
      (3)   Sign details indicating sign area, dimensions, colors, materials,
letter style, proposed copy, if available, letter height and method of
illumination.
      (4)   Landlord, Property Owner or Manager review authority and
maintenance responsibilities.
   (c)   Approval
      A Sign Permit (Signs) shall be required for a sign program. The Director
shall have authority to approve, conditionally approve, or deny a sign program
based on findings that the proposed sign program is in compliance with the
Design Guidelines of this Chapter.
   (d)   Design Guidelines
      The following guidelines are encouraged in developing a sign program:
      (1)   A theme, styles, types, form, colors or placement of signs that
will unify and identify the center and integrate the signs with the building
and landscape design should be provided. Consideration should be given to
different types of tenants (e.g., major and minor) and placement locations
consistent with the architectural design.
      (2)   Sign color should be compatible with building color. In general,
limit the number of primary colors on any sign to no more than two (2) with
secondary colors used for accent or shadow detail. Variations in color may be
used as long as the remaining components of the program remain consistent with
the overall program.
      (3)   Use the same type of supports or method of mounting for signs of
the same type.
      (4)   Use the same type of construction material for same components,
such as monument bases, panels, cabinets, and supports.
      (5)   Use the same form of illumination for all signs of a given type, or
by using varied forms of illumination that have been determined by the
approving body to be compatible.
      (6)   Consideration should be provided for logos or trademarks.
   (e)   Revisions to Sign Programs
      (1)   Minor Revisions
         A revision to a sign program may be approved by the Director if it is
determined that the revision is minor in nature and that the intent of the
original approval, and any conditions attached thereto, are not affected.
      (2)   Major Revisions
         For any revisions which are determined to be major by the Director, a
new application shall be filed in accordance with this Chapter.
      The submittal materials required to accompany the application for a
revision to a sign program shall be the same as those required in subsection
17.70.100(b) of this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14.]
17.70.110 Temporary Signs
   No temporary sign, or display of any kind shall be permitted, except as
specifically allowed by this ordinance. A temporary sign permit, on forms
provided by the Planning Division, must be obtained prior to installation of a
temporary sign.
   (a)   Temporary Banner Signs
      A temporary banner sign may be approved for a period of time, as
specified in this section, for commercial and industrial uses. The signs may be
used to promote the sale of new products, new tenant, new management, new hours
of operation, a new service, or to promote a special sale. Any business or
property owner desiring to use a temporary advertising sign must file an
application with a drawing or photograph demonstrating the sign appearance with
the Planning Division for review and approval. The use of such signs is subject
to the following limitations:
      (1)   No more than one sign shall be permitted per activity or business.
      (2)   The sign shall be a temporary sign designed either as a wall sign,
window sign or ground sign. The sign can be in the form of a banner or pennant.
      (3)   The sign shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet and shall be
posted below the roof. In the case of a ground sign, the height of the sign
shall not exceed eight (8) feet.
      (4)   The sign shall be limited to a maximum display period of thirty
(30) days. Four (4) such periods shall be permitted for each calendar year, not
to exceed a total of 120 days per year. A maximum of four (4) periods may be
approved consecutively to allow a single sign to be displayed for up to 120
days; otherwise, a minimum of 30 days shall be required between display
periods.
      (5)   The following temporary banner display criteria shall apply:
         (A)   All temporary banners shall be constructed of durable material
that will not deteriorate during the time period in which the banner is
displayed. Temporary banners which become frayed, torn, faded, or showing
similar signs of fatigue or failure shall be deemed to be in violation of these
provisions.
         (B)   All temporary banners shall be securely affixed to the face of
the facade of the building housing the business where the business is located.
         (C)   Temporary banners shall not be affixed to fences, light poles,
trees, extended over parking and/or landscaped areas or other similar
techniques.
         (D)   No temporary banners shall be affixed on, within, or over any
public right-of-way.
   (b)   Grand Opening Signs
      A grand opening sign may be approved for a period of time in any zoning
district to advertise a new business or a change of business name following a
closure. Any business or property owner desiring to use a grand opening sign
must file an application together with a drawing or photograph to the Planning
Division for review and approval. An application must be made either prior to
opening or within the first sixty (60) days of operation. The use of such signs
is subject to the following limitations:
      (1)   No more than one sign shall be permitted per grand opening.
      (2)   The sign shall be a temporary sign designed either as a wall,
window or ground sign. The sign can be in the form of a banner or pennant.
      (3)   The sign shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet and shall be
posted below the roof. In the case of a ground sign, the height of the sign
shall not exceed eight (8) feet.
      (4)   The sign shall be limited to a display period not to exceed thirty
(30) days prior to opening and sixty (60) days after opening, for a total
display period of ninety (90) days.
      (5)   Grand Opening Sign display criteria shall comply with the Temporary
Sign criteria in Section
17.70.110 (a)(5) above.
   (c)   Special Event Signs
      Special event signs may be approved for a limited period of time in any
zoning district as a means of publicizing special events such as carnivals,
festivals, pumpkin patches, charitable events and Christmas tree lots, in
conjunction with a Temporary Use Permit. To apply for approval of special event
signs, any business or property owner must submit an application with the city
planning division which describes the proposed sign by means of a sketch and
the display dates for review and approval. Such special event signs shall be
limited to the following provisions:
      (1)   No more than one special event sign shall be permitted per activity
and shall be either a wall, window or ground sign, and use of flags, banners
and pennants.
      (2)   All special event signs shall be a maximum of fifty (50) square
feet and shall be posted below the roof or shall be no higher than eight (8)
feet in the case of a ground sign.
      (3)   Special event signs shall be limited to forty-five (45) days per
calendar year.
      (4)   Special Event Sign display criteria shall comply with the Temporary
Sign criteria in Section
17.70.110 (a)(5) above.
   (d)    Permitted Signs - On-site Subdivision Signs
      The following signs shall be allowed in any zoning district subject to
the provisions listed:
      (1)   One temporary on-site subdivision sign not to exceed sixty-four
(64) square feet total for two sides or thirty- two (32) square feet for one
side, with a maximum height of fifteen (15) feet.
      (2)   One on-site subdivision sign may be permitted on each main street
frontage of the property being subdivided not to exceed two such signs for all
phases of any subdivision (interior streets of the subdivision are not
recognized as main street frontage).
      (3)   Such signs shall be for the identification of a subdivision, price
information and the developer’s name, address, and telephone number.
      (4)   Such signs shall be removed within ten days from the date of the
final sale of the land and/or residences or within two years, whichever comes
first. Extensions of the two-year time limit can be approved by the Director in
cases of hardship.
      (5)   Signs shall be maintained in good repair at all times.
      (6)   If the City is forced to remove any signs, then the developer shall
be subject to the cost of removal.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14.]
17.70.115   Billboard Overlay Zone (B-O Zone)
      (a)   Purpose
         Billboards are recognized as a legitimate form of commercial use in
the city. However, the size, number, location and illumination of billboards
can have significant influence on the city’s visual environment, and can,
without adequate control, create or contribute to visual blight conditions. The
purpose of this section is to provide reasonable billboard control, recognizing
that community appearance is an important factor in ensuring the general
community welfare. This section contains the entirety of the city’s zoning
regulations with respect to billboards in the Billboard Overlay Zone. Nothing
herein shall affect the right of any billboard or digital billboard in the
Billboard Overlay Zone in existence as of the date of this ordinance pursuant
to a development agreement to continue to legally exist and be maintained
pursuant to such agreement (including any amendments or extensions thereof).
      (b)   Billboard Overlay Zone Established
         A new Billboard Overlay Zone is hereby established in the following
areas:
         (1)   Air Expressway B-O Zone
            On the east line of Highway 395, the length of the BOZ begins at
the intersection of the east line of Highway 395 and the north line of Air
Expressway and extends north along the east line of Highway 395 for 650 feet
and has a depth of 200 feet from the east line of the right of way edge of
Highway 395 and said depth is measured along a line that begins perpendicular
to the centerline Highway 395 and extends out from the east edge of the right
of way 200 feet.
         (2)   Adelanto Stadium B-O Zone
            On the east line of Highway 395, the length of the BOZ begins at
the north/western edge of San Bernardino County Assessor parcel number 3128-
221-25-0000 where it abuts Highway 395 and then extends south to the south/
western corner of San Bernardino County Assessor parcel number 3128-221-23-0000
were it abuts Highway 395 and said depth is measured along a line that begins
perpendicular to the centerline of Highway 395 and extends out from the east
edge of the right of way 200 feet.
         (3)   Bellflower Street B-O Zone
            On the north line of Highway 18 (Palmdale Road), the length of the
BOZ begins at the intersection of the north line of Highway 18 and the east
line of Bellflower Street and extends west along the north line of Highway 18
for 300 feet and has a depth of 200 feet from the north line of the right of
way edge of Highway 18 and said depth is measured along a line that begins
perpendicular to the centerline of Highway 18 and extends out from the edge of
the right of way 200 feet.
         (4)   Holly Road B-O Zone
            On the east line of Highway 395, the length of the BOZ begins at
intersection of the north line of Holly Road and the east line of Highway 395
and then extends north along the east line of the right-of-way of 395 for 1,400
feet and said depth is measured along a line that begins perpendicular to the
centerline of Highway 395 and extends out from the east edge of the right of
way 200 feet.
      (c)   General Criteria
         Notwithstanding any other provision of the zoning code, off-site
outdoor advertising displays shall be allowed in all B-O Zones, on any size
parcel, whether public or private property, or in the right-of-way, subject to
the following criteria:
         (1)   City Agreement
            The advertising display shall be included as part of a disposition
and development agreement, owner participation agreement, lease agreement or
other agreement ("City Agreement") with the city and the City Agreement
contains: locations, site plans, elevations, renderings, performance, onetime
fee, ongoing revenue provisions, relocation of off-site outdoor advertising
signs, or other benefits that allow the city to undertake projects, programs,
or other activities that improve the visual environment.
         (2)   Location Allowed
            The advertising display shall be placed in any commercial, mixed
use, business park, or industrial district that is within the specified B-
O Zone and within two hundred feet (200') from the edge of the right of way of
a freeway or highway whether on private or public property, including public
areas that have been approved by a City Agreement to be placed in a sidewalk or
curb or park strip.
         (3)   Conflict Between Provisions
            In the event of any conflict between any provision contained in
this section and any other provisions contained elsewhere in this code, the
provisions of this section shall govern.
         (4)    Spacing
            (A)   Spacing Between Two Digital Off-Site Signs
               No digital off-site advertising display shall be placed within
one thousand feet (1,000') from another digital off-site advertising display on
the same side of any portion of a freeway or highway.
            (B)   Spacing Between Two Static Off-Site Signs.
               No static off-site advertising display shall be placed within
five hundred feet (500') from another static off-site advertising display on
the same side of any portion of a freeway or highway.
            (C)   Spacing Between One Static Off-Site Sign and One Digital Off-
Site Sign
               No static off-site advertising display shall be placed within
five hundred feet (500') from a digital off-site advertising display on the
same side of any portion of a freeway or highway.
         (5)   Sign Height
            Notwithstanding any other way to measure the sign height per the
zoning code, the advertising structure shall not exceed the height of sixty
feet (60') as measured from either the finished grade under the sign or from
the freeway or highway grade, whichever is higher.
         (6)    Sign Face Size
            No advertising structure shall have a facing that exceeds six-
hundred and seventy-two (672') square feet, but it shall allow extensions of up
to two (2') on the sides and five and one-half feet (5.5') on the top,
excluding base or apron supports and other structural members. This subsection
shall apply to each facing on an outdoor advertising structure. The area shall
be measured by the smallest square, rectangle, triangle, circle, or combination
thereof, which will encompass the entire advertisement and is made based on the
height and the length but not the depth of the advertising copy.
         (7)   Illumination & Traffic Signs
            No advertising display may be placed that is so illuminated that it
interferes with the effectiveness of, or obscures any official traffic sign,
device, or signal; nor shall any advertising display include or be illuminated
by flashing, intermittent, or moving light; nor shall any advertising display
cause beams or rays of light to be directed at the traveled ways if the light
is of an intensity or brilliance as to cause glare or to impair the vision of
any driver, or to interfere with any driver's operation of a motor vehicle.
This section does not prohibit properly maintained off-premise digital
billboards that comply with State and Federal law.
         (8)   No Setbacks
            Existing setback and yard requirements of the underlying commercial
or industrial zone shall not be applicable to placement of any advertising
structure. No minimum setback or yard requirements shall be applied to
placement of an advertising display.
         (9)   Compliance with Federal, State and Local Laws
            No advertising display shall be placed or maintained in violation
of the California Outdoor Advertising Act, Chapter 2 (commencing with Section
5200) of Division 3 of the California Business and Professions Code, or any
other applicable state, federal, or local law. Unless otherwise specified in
this section, the general sign requirements set forth in the Business and
Professions Code shall apply to plans and materials for and to design,
construction, street address numbers, identification and maintenance of outdoor
advertising displays approved under this section.
         (10)   Permits Required
            No person shall place an off-site outdoor advertising structure
without first having secured a building permit and a State (Caltrans) permit.
            (A)   Building Permit
               A separate building permit shall be required for each
advertising structure whether or not the advertising structure is proposed
alone or as one of any number of advertising structures proposed to be placed
on the same parcel, contiguous parcels, or any set of related or unrelated
parcels that are the subject of a single development proposal.
            (B)   Application
               No permit of any kind shall be issued for an advertising display
without prior approval of the City Council.
            (C)   Application Filing
               An application for approval of an off-site advertising structure
shall be filed with the City Council in accordance with the following
provisions:
                  1.   Any person who has an ownership, license or leasehold
interest in the land parcel may file an application for approval of a building
permit for an off-site advertising structure. If submitted by the holder of a
license or leasehold interest, the application must include a statement of
consent to proceed with the proposed development executed by the holder of an
ownership interest and acknowledged before a notary public for the state of
California.
                  2.   The application may request review of one or multiple
advertising structures.
                  3.   The application shall be accompanied by photos of all
existing signage and accurate architectural renderings and elevations of
proposed advertising structures, as well as a scaled plot plan and elevations
showing the locations of all existing structures and improvements on the
property, and the proposed advertising structure(s), within one-hundred (100')
feet of the proposed advertising structure.
                  4.   At the time of filing the application for permits, the
applicant shall pay a filing fee in accordance with a City Council approved
resolution. This fee shall be in addition to any other required fees for
permits relative to development of the property and shall be for the purpose of
defraying the costs associated with city review and action on the application.
      (d)   City Council Can Refer to Planning Commission.
         The City Council may act on the application directly or refer the
application to the planning commission for review, recommendations or
determination.
      (e)   Determinations.
         Before approving any off-site advertising display permit application,
the City Council, or the Planning Commission upon City Council referral, shall
make the following determinations concerning the parcel(s) for which permits
are sought:
            (1)   All existing and proposed advertising displays are
appropriately scaled to the architectural character of all buildings and
structures on the parcels that are within one-hundred (100') feet of the
proposed advertising structure;
            (2)   All existing and proposed advertising displays result in a
complementary enhancement to the architecture on the parcel;
            (3)   All existing and proposed advertising displays result in a
visually uncluttered appearance;
            (4)   All existing and proposed advertising displays enhance
commercial corridors and properties and do not obscure street views of public
art, council designated historical buildings, or City Council designated
projects;
            (5)   All existing and proposed advertising displays minimize
potential traffic hazards;
            (6)   All existing and proposed advertising displays are compliant
with all applicable provisions of this zoning code, and federal, state and
local law relevant thereto.
      (f)   Additional Conditions of Approval.
         The City Council, or the Planning Commission upon City Council
referral, may impose additional conditions of approval as are reasonably
necessary to ensure the development is consistent with the general plan,
compatible with surrounding land use, meets the provisions and intent of this
zoning code, minimizes potential traffic hazards, and otherwise protects the
public health, safety and welfare. In making such determinations, findings
shall be made that the proposed use is in general accord with the principles
and standards set forth in section 25-130-5 of this chapter.
      (g)   Express Conditions & Reservations.
         Without exception, every outdoor advertising display approved under
this section shall be subject to the following express conditions and
reservations:
            (1)   If an advertising display is illuminated, any illumination
shall not impair the vision of travelers on any adjacent highway, including the
freeway or highway. Digital billboards shall not operate at brightness levels,
of more than 0.3 foot candles above ambient light, as measured using a foot
candle meter at a pre-set distance. Each digital billboard must have a light
sensing device that will adjust the brightness as ambient light conditions
change. Pre-set distances to measure the foot candles impact vary with the
expected viewing distances of each size sign. Measurement distance criteria:
               Nominal      Distance to
               Face Size      be measured from:
               12'x25'      150'
               10'6"x36'      200'
               14'x48'      250'
               20'x 60' or 25'x 48'   350'
            (2)   Each digital billboard shall be designed to freeze the
display in one static position, display a full black screen, or turn off, in
the event of a malfunction.
            (3)   When an advertising display is defaced with graffiti, the
display owner shall remove the graffiti within seventy-two (72) hours after
telephonic notice by city.
            (4)   No billboard shall display any statement or words of an
'obscene, indecent, or immoral character', as that phrase is used in Business
and Professions Code Section 5402 and judicial decisions interpreting the same.
      (h)   Final Decision.
         The decision of the City Council shall be final and conclusive. If the
City Council refers the application to the planning commission for
determination, the decision of the planning commission shall be final, subject
to applicant's right to appeal any decision of the planning commission, to the
City Council.
      (i)   Variance.
         Any proposed variance to this subsection shall be deemed a major
variance and may be approved only if the City Council determines that each of
the required findings set forth in this zoning code are met.
      (j)   Nonconforming.
         All existing off-site outdoor advertising displays that have
previously obtained required permits, and which remain in compliance with the
terms and conditions of those permits but that are not in conformance with the
provisions of this section shall become nonconforming uses. The owner of a
nonconforming outdoor advertising display may perform normal repairs and
customary maintenance to such existing nonconforming advertising displays,
including, but not limited to, changing the advertising message and adding an
extension to the outside dimension of a facing.
      (k)   Relocations.
         All off-site outdoor advertising displays approved under this section
and existing nonconforming advertising displays may be relocated by mutual
agreement between the display owner and the City Council on whatever terms are
agreeable to both parties under the authority of California Business and
Professions Code Section 5412.
         (1)   "Relocation" as used in this section, includes removal of an
advertising structure and construction of a new advertising structure to
substitute for the advertising structure removed.
         (2)   The purpose of this subsection is to allow the city to continue
to develop in a planned manner without expenditure of public funds while
allowing the continued maintenance of private investment and a medium of public
communication established in outdoor advertising.
[Ord. No. 611, §3, 4/22/20.]
17.70.120 Definitions
A-frame Sign. A sign with two (2) sign faces which are not parallel, with a
side profile in the shape of an “A”.
Abandoned Sign. A sign pertaining to, or located on, a property, building suite
or premises which is vacant and unoccupied for a period of ninety (90) days, or
a sign which is damaged, in disrepair, or vandalized and not repaired within
ninety (90) days of the date of the damaging event.
Advertising Display. Shall refer to advertising structures and to signs placed
for off-site outdoor advertising purposes on advertising structures.
Advertising Structure. Shall mean a structure of any kind or character erected,
used, or maintained for off-site outdoor advertising purposes, upon which any
poster, bill, printing, painting, digital, or other advertisement of any kind
whatsoever may be placed.
Architectural Sign. A sign incorporated into architectural elements such as an
archway, fountain, or sculptured garden which is integrated with, but
subordinate to, the overall architectural element.
Advertising Devices. A commercial temporary device other than signs, used for
grand openings and special promotions. Advertising devices could consist of,
but not be limited to, balloons, flags, search lights, clowns, etc.
Area of Sign. “Sign area” means the entire area within the outside border of
the sign. The area of a sign having no continuous border or lacking a border
shall mean the entire area within a single continuous perimeter formed by no
more than eight straight lines enclosing the extreme limits of writing,
representations, emblem, or any fixture or similar character, integral part of
the display or used as a border, excluding the necessary supports or uprights
on which such sign is placed. Where a sign has two (2) or more faces, the area
of all faces shall be included in determining the area of the sign, except that
where two (2) such faces are placed back-to-back and are at no point more than
three feet (3') from one another, the area of the sign shall be taken as the
area of one face if the two faces are of equal area, or as the area of the
larger face if the two faces are of unequal area.
Awning/Canopy Sign. Signs which are placed on or integrated into fabric
awnings, or other material canopies, which are mounted on the exterior of a
building which extend from the wall of a building to provide shielding of
windows and entrances from inclement weather and the sun.
Balloon. Any mobile, portable, temporary structure that is inflated with
gaseous material and is used for the purpose of attracting attention whether or
not it contains a written or graphic message.
Banner, Flag, Pennant or Streamers. Any cloth, bunting, plastic, paper, or
similar material, used for advertising purposes, attached to any structure,
staff, pole, line, framing, vehicle, but not including official flags of the
United States, the State of California, and other states of the nation,
counties, municipalities, and official flags of foreign nations.
Berm. A mound or embankment of earth.
Billboard Sign. Shall mean a sign, static or digital, excluding a supergraphic
sign, which advertises goods, products, services or facilities not sold,
produced, manufactured or furnished on the premises on which the sign is
located (also known as outdoor advertising, off-premise sign or off-site sign).
   A.   Digital Billboard. Shall mean a changeable off-premise message sign
(digital sign) consisting of a matrix of lamps or diodes or other electronic
light source which are computer controlled (excluding time/temperature signs).
A Digital Billboard shall not change more often than once every four (4)
seconds.
   B.   Static Billboard. Shall mean a conventional off-premise sign that is
painted or have a vinyl that is stretched over the face of the sign or has
another means of displaying the advertising that is not using a digital
billboard display.
Building Facade. The exterior wall of a building exposed to public view or that
wall viewed by persons not within the building.
Building Wall. The individual sides of a building.
Business Entrance Identification. A sign adjacent to, or on the entrance door
of a business which names, gives the address and other appropriate information
as store hours and telephone numbers.
Cabinet. A three dimensional structure which includes a frame, borders, and
sign face panel and may include internal lighting upon which the sign letters
and logos are placed or etched, and is architecturally integrated with the
building.
Center. A center contains businesses and buildings designed as an integrated
and interrelated development sharing such elements as architecture, access, and
parking. Such design is independent of the number of structures, lots, or
parcels making up the center.
Channel Letter Sign. Three dimensional individually cut letters or figures,
illuminated or unilluminated, affixed to a building or sign structure.
Channel Letter Sign, Reverse. A type of sign utilizing opaque channel lettering
with an open back containing a light source which throws light onto the sign
field (background) against which the channel letters are silhouetted.
Directional Sign. Signs limited to directional messages, principally to direct
pedestrian or vehicular traffic, such as “one way”, “entrance”, or “exit.”
These signs provide information which will assist the operators of vehicles and
the flow of traffic. Such signs may use names, logos, or symbols of buildings,
businesses, activities, uses or places as a means of providing directions.
Directory Sign. A sign which provides a listing of the names of businesses,
tenants, activities, addresses, locations, uses, or places within a building,
complex of buildings, or multi-use project.
Double-Faced Sign. A single sign structure designed with the intent of
providing copy on both sides in which the sides are not separated by more than
three (3) feet.
Eave. That part of a roof that overhangs the side walls or the lowest part of
the roof extending over an arcade.
Eaveline. The eaveline is the bottom of the eave.
Entryway Sign. A sign which is placed on the perimeter of a recorded
subdivision, townhouse project, commercial development, master planned
community, hotel, motel, or guest ranch at a major street or driveway entrance
to identify the name of the interior project. Such signs may flank both sides
of the entrance and may include monument or landscape wall sign types.
Fascia Sign. A sign placed on a parapet-type wall used as part of the face of a
flat roofed building and projecting not more than one (1) foot from the
building face immediately adjacent thereto.
Flag. A fabric sheet or square, rectangular or triangular shape which is
mounted on a pole, cable, or rope at one end.
Flag, Decorative. A flag which contains no text or graphics. Also known as
pennants.
Flashing Sign. A sign that contains an intermittent or sequential flashing
light source.
Free-Standing Sign. A sign that is not attached to any building.
Flashing, Intermittent or Moving Light. Shall mean a light or message that
changes more often than once every four (4) seconds. The illumination or the
appearance of illumination resulting in a change of message or advertising copy
is not the use of flashing, intermittent, or moving light, unless it changes
more often than once every four (4) seconds.
Freeway. A major highway which carries high speed traffic without interruption
by traffic signals.
Frontage. Linear measurement of a lot or building facade or portion of the
facade which encloses an individual tenant or business which fronts on either a
street, freeway, parking lot, or pedestrian mall, not including loading or
service areas, and is used as the basis for determining the maximum sign area
and number of signs allowed for individual activities. For wall signs, building
frontage may also include linear footage of the building facing an adjacent
commercial or industrial designated use, which is not adjacent to another
building.
Height, Sign. The distance from ground level to the highest point of the
structure, providing, however that where the structure is on a berm, mound or
slope, the slope shall not exceed a four to one (4:1) horizontal to vertical
ratio. If the slope exceeds this ratio, then height shall be measured from the
toe (or bottom) of the slope, or a point where the slope does not exceed four
to one (4:1).
Highway. A major highway which carries high speed traffic which may be
continuous without interruption by traffic signals or may have frequent
interruption by traffic signals. Within the City of Adelanto, Highway 395 and
Palmdale Road (Highway 18) are classified as Highways.
Identification Sign. A sign on a building wall or landscape wall, a ground sign
or temporary sign used to present the name of a major residential project or
master planned community information center.
Illegal Sign. Any sign erected without first obtaining a sign permit, or a sign
for which the permit has expired or been revoked.
Illuminated Sign. A sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs or
outline backlit or internally illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes
as a part of the sign proper.
Indirect Lighting. Illumination so arranged that the light is reflected from
the sign to the eyes of the viewer. Indirect lighting is typically external
illumination located away from the sign, which lights the sign, but which is
itself not visible to persons viewing the sign from any street, sidewalk, or
adjacent property.
Individual Letters. A cut-out or etched letter or logo which is individually
placed on a landscape, screen wall, building wall, or ground sign.
Institutional Sign. A sign identifying the premises of a church, school,
hospital, rest home, or similar institutional facility.
Internal Lighting. A source of illumination entirely within the sign which
makes the contents of the sign visible at night by means of the light being
transmitted through a translucent material but wherein the source of
illumination is not visible.
Internal Backlighting. A source of illumination entirely within the individual
letter, cabinet, or structure which makes the sign visible at night by means of
lighting the background upon which the individual letter is mounted. The
letters are opaque, and thus are silhouetted against the background. The source
of illumination is not visible.
Kiosk Sign. An off-premises sign used for directing people to the sales office
or models of a residential subdivision project.
Logo. A graphic symbol representing an activity, use, or business. Permitted
logos shall be registered trademarks or symbols commonly used by the applicant,
and may include graphic designs. The applicant shall provide stationery or
other supporting documents illustrating use of logo.
Main Traveled Way. Shall mean in the case of a freeway or highway, the traveled
way of each of the separate roadways for traffic in opposite directions is the
main traveled way.
Menu Board. An outdoor sign listing food and beverage items available at
restaurants with drive-through windows for take-out service.
Monument Sign. A free-standing cabinet or panel sign mounted on, or within, a
base (above grade) which is detached from any building.
Multiple Tenant Commercial Building. A commercial development in which there
exists two or more tenant spaces, and which is designed to provide a single
area in which the public can obtain a variety of products and services.
Distinguishing characteristics of a multiple tenant commercial building may,
but need not, include common ownership of the real property upon which the
center is located, common-wall construction and multiple occupant commercial
use of a single structure.
Name Plate. A small sign which identifies a resident’s or home’s name and
address or the name of a farm, ranch, or commercial stable. Such sign may be
shingle, building wall, or archway-mounted.
Off-Site Subdivision Directional Sign. A sign located off the subject property
providing direction to a residential land development project.
On-Site Subdivision and Model Home Directional Sign. A sign providing direction
to a residential land development project located within the boundaries of the
subdivision.
Panel. A two dimensional visual background behind the sign letters and logos
which is visually separated from the mounting upon which the sign letters and
logos are placed by the presence of a border, different colors, different
materials, or other technique of visual framing around the letters or logo.
Pennant. See “Flag, Decorative.”
Permanent Sign. Any sign which is intended to be and is so constructed as to be
a lasting and enduring condition remaining unchanged in character, condition
(except normal wear) and position, and in a permanent manner affixed to the
ground, wall, or building, provided the sign is listed as a permanent sign in
the Ordinance.
Pole Signs. Pole signs are signs that are supported by a pole or post and
otherwise separated from the ground by air. Pole signs are almost always
separated from buildings and other structures.
Portable Sign. A sign that is not permanently affixed to a structure or the
ground.
Projecting Sign. A wall sign suspended from, or supported by, a building or
structure and projecting outward.
Raceway. A metal conduit or channel containing the electrical power lines for
illuminated signs.
Reader Board Sign. A on-premise sign designed to allow the changing of copy
through manual, mechanical, or electrical means, including time and
temperature. The changeable copy of a “Reader Board Sign” shall not change at a
frequency in excess of one alteration per four (4) seconds, shall not use
scrolling or animated characterization nor be located within the direct line-
of-sight of any residential used or zoned property within 150 feet of said
sign.
Reverse Channel Lettering. See “Channel Letter Sign, Reverse.”
Roof Sign. A sign that extends above the roof line.
Shingle Sign (Canopy Sign). A sign suspended from a roof overhang of a covered
porch or walkway which identifies the tenant of the adjoining space (see “Under
Canopy Sign”).
Sign. Any words, letters, numerals, emblems, designs, or other marks shown on
any flag, card, cloth, paper, metal, painted surface, glass, wood, plaster,
stone or other device of any kind or character by which anything is made known
and used to attract attention. “Sign” does not include:
   A.   Official notices issued by any court or public body or officer;
   B.   Notices posted by any public officer in performance of a public duty or
by any person in giving any legal notice;
   C.   Directional, warning or information signs or structures required by or
authorized by law or federal or state authority.
Sign Copy. Letters or figures that make up the sign’s message.
Sign Program. A specific set of design standards established for the purpose of
unifying a variety of signs associated with a multi-tenant or multi-use project
(three or more tenant spaces), building or complex of buildings. The design
standards shall include, but are not limited to, letter and logo sizes, letter
style, colors, texture, lighting methods, sign type (individual letters,
cabinet, etc.) and architectural features. The purpose of the program is to
provide design compatibility for all signs and to integrate the signs with the
architectural features of the project or building(s) being signed. Upon
approval of the master sign program by the Director, all signage contained
within the limits of the project, regardless of ownership, shall comply with
the design standards established by the program.
Sign Structure. Any structure which supports any sign.
Snipe Sign. Temporary signs made of any material, including paper, cardboard,
wood and metal which is fastened to fences, trees, utility poles, or other
nonsign structures.
Special Event Sign/Banner. A temporary sign or banner that is intended to
inform the public of a unique happening, action, purpose, or occasion, such as
a grand opening or community event (see Banner).
Special Service Sign. Small signs associated with gasoline or service stations
such as “full service”, “water and air”, “cashier”, “smog certificates”, etc.
Temporary Sign. A sign usually constructed of cloth or fabric, cardboard,
wallboard, wood or other light material intended to be displayed for a short
period of time as set forth in this Chapter.
Time/Temperature Sign. Shall mean a sign which communicates time and
temperature information in digital or analog fashion, frequently in connection
with business logo or identification copy.
Traffic Directional Sign. Signs used at driveways to improve public safety and
to enhance public access to the site from public streets. These signs provide
information which will assist the operators of vehicles and the flow of
traffic. Such signs may use names, logos, or symbols of buildings, businesses,
activities, uses or places as a means of providing directions.
Two Hundred Feet from the Edge of the Right Of Way. Shall mean two hundred feet
(200') measured from the edge of the right of way horizontally along a line
perpendicular to the centerline of the highway.
Under Canopy Sign. Any sign attached to the underside of a projecting canopy
protruding over a private or public sidewalk or right-of-way.
Vehicle Sign. A sign which is attached to or painted on a vehicle which is
parked on or adjacent to any property, the principal purpose of which is to
attract attention to a product sold or business located on such property.
Wall Sign. A sign that is affixed to the wall or fascia of a building.
Window Sign. Any sign posted, painted, placed, or affixed in or on any window
exposed to public view. Any interior sign which faces any window exposed to
public view and is located within three (3) feet of the window.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit P, 9/10/14; Ord. No.
611, 4/22/20.]
CHAPTER 17.75
TEMPORARY USES AND STRUCTURES
   
17.75.010   General Provisions
   
17.75.020   Halloween Pumpkin/Christmas Tree Sales Facilities
   
17.75.030   Residential Tract Sales and Rental Office
   
17.75.040   Temporary Construction Office
   
17.75.050   Special Outdoor Events
   
17.75.060   Temporary Cannabis Facilities
17.75.010 General Provisions
   (a)   The uses described in this Chapter shall be permitted in designated
zoning districts, as outlined in
Appendix A: Regulation of Uses by Zoning District, and subject to the issuance
of a Temporary Use Permit.
Chapter 17.155 of this Zoning Code contains provisions for the issuing of
Temporary Use Permits.
   (b)   All temporary uses are subject to time limits.
   (c)   All temporary uses shall be subject to the following, where
applicable:
      (1)   The valid Temporary Use Permit shall be prominently displayed in a
manner to be visible at all times from the exterior of the permitted structure
or vehicle associated with the use.
      (2)   Installation of a permitted temporary structure or vehicle shall
comply with all requirements and regulations of the Municipal Code, Health
Department, and applicable state and federal agencies.
   (d)   All temporary uses shall be subject to inspection and approval by the
Building Official prior to issuance of a Temporary Use Permit.
   (e)   A Plot Plan shall be submitted to the City for any temporary use. This
Plot Plan shall indicate at least the following:
      (1)   The boundaries of the site on which the temporary use is proposed.
      (2)   Proposed access, including the type and location of any proposed
traffic control devices or persons.
      (3)   The location of all proposed uses, including all fences,
structures, and vehicles to be used as part of the operation of the temporary
use.
      (4)   The location and size of any proposed utility service.
      (5)   The method of providing toilet facilities, including the location
and type of any portable toilets.
   (f)   All temporary uses shall be required to post a bond in an amount
sufficient to restore the site of the temporary use to its pre-existing
condition and to allow compliance with all applicable Codes.
   (g)   This Chapter shall not apply to City sponsored events.
17.75.020 Halloween Pumpkin/Christmas Tree Sales Facilities
Unless prohibited by the specific zoning district regulations, temporary
Halloween Pumpkin/Christmas tree sales facilities shall be permitted in any
commercial, industrial, or airport district, or on any church or school site
which abuts a collector or higher rated roadway, as designated in the General
Plan. All temporary Halloween Pumpkin/Christmas tree sales shall be subject to
the to the following requirements:
   (a)   Date of Opening
      No Halloween pumpkin sales facility shall be open for business during any
calendar year prior to October 4.
      No Christmas tree sales facility shall be open for business during any
calendar year prior to Thanksgiving.
   (b)   Merchandise to Be Sold
      A permitted Halloween pumpkin sales facility may not sell items not
directly associated with pumpkins and Halloween decorations.
      A permitted Christmas tree sales facility shall not engage in the sale of
any merchandise not directly associated with Christmas trees and Christmas
decorations.
   (c)   Electrical Permit
      The applicant shall secure an electrical permit from the City if the
facility is to be energized.
   (d)   Removal of Facility
      By November 14, each Halloween pumpkin sales site shall be removed and
the premises cleared of all debris and restored to at least as good a condition
as existed prior to the establishment of the facility. If the Halloween pumpkin
facility will be used in the same calendar year for Christmas tree sales, the
site shall be cleaned and maintained in an orderly condition for the period
between the closing of Halloween sales and the opening of Christmas tree sales.
      Within fourteen (14) days after Christmas, the facility shall be removed
and the premises cleared of all debris and restored to at least as good a
condition as existed prior to the establishment of the facility.
   (e)   Fire Prevention Standards
      Each sales facility shall comply with fire prevention standards as
approved and enforced by the Fire Chief.
17.75.030 Residential Tract Sales and Rental Office
Temporary real estate offices, to be used solely for the first sale of homes or
the first rental of apartments in projects of twenty (20) or more units within
the same development, may be established within the area of an approved
Tentative Tract subject to the provisions of this Section.
   (a)   Permitted Structures and Facilities
      (1)   Model homes in compliance with the Zoning Code applicable to the
properties that are being sold.
      (2)   Temporary sales office buildings.
      (3)   Garages, attached and detached, in compliance with the Zoning Code
applicable to the properties that are being sold.
      (4)   Accessory buildings and structures in compliance with the Zoning
Code applicable to the properties that are being sold.
      (5)   Temporary and permanent fencing, walks, and structural amenities.
      (6)   Temporary vehicle parking and maneuvering areas to provide off-
street parking as necessary for employees and guests.
      (7)   Temporary vehicle accessways.
      (8)   Streets and driveways which will be part a permanent of the
residential project.
      (9)   Recreational facilities which will be a permanent part of the
residential project.
      (10)   Temporary playgrounds, parks, and other recreational amenities,
provided they are clearly identified as “Temporary Facilities for Display
Only.”
   (b)   Any approving action shall include those conditions and requirements
deemed to be necessary or advisable to protect the public safety and the
general welfare and adequate guarantees that the structures and facilities will
be removed or made consistent with applicable zoning regulations within ninety
(90) days after the expiration of the permit. In addition to those findings
required for the approval of an application, any approving action for a
temporary real estate office shall also include the following findings:
      (1)   That the access, parking, and circulation facilities will not
result in excess traffic congestion or traffic safety hazards.
      (2)   That the operation of the real estate office and associated
activities will not conflict with adjacent and nearby residential uses.
   (c)   Time Limitation
      A Temporary Use Permit application for a temporary real estate office may
be approved for a maximum time period of two (2) years from the date of
approval. At the end of the two (2) year period, the use must either be
terminated or the permit re-applied for.
17.75.040 Temporary Construction Office
A temporary construction office, used during the construction of a main
building or buildings on the same site, shall be permitted subject to the
following conditions. A temporary construction office may not be used as a
sales office.
   (a)   The temporary office may consist of a manufactured home, commercial
coach, self-contained recreational vehicle, mobile office, or modular
structure, provided the structure or vehicle is erected or installed in
accordance with Uniform Building Code requirements for temporary construction
offices.
   (b)   A temporary construction office shall be removed or shall be converted
to a permitted use prior to the issuance of a certificate of use and occupancy
for the main building or buildings. If construction is phased over a length of
time, the permit may provide that certificates of use and occupancy may be
issued for completed buildings.
   (c)   Not later than the granting of Certificates of Occupancy for the last
buildings in a Tract or phase, the temporary construction offices shall be
removed (or converted into permanent structures, where permitted).
   (d)   If no construction activity is anticipated to occur for a period of
forty-five (45) days or more, the temporary office shall be removed and the
site maintained in a clean and orderly condition. This provision specifically
applies to construction offices associated with the development of homes within
custom lot sales subdivisions.
17.75.050 Special Outdoor Events
The regulations of this Section pertain to the temporary use of property for
special outdoor events including, but not limited to, pageants, fairs,
carnivals, and large athletic, religious, or entertainment events.
A Special Event is defined as any event which will attract 200 or more persons
per day. A Major Special Event is defined as any event which will attract 5,000
or more persons per day.
Such activities may be permitted as outlined in
Appendix A: Regulation of Uses by Zoning District, subject to the following:
   (a)   Activities conducted on property owned by or leased to the City and
public road rights-of-way may require an encroachment permit issued by the City
of Adelanto.
   (b)   The temporary use may be permitted for a period not to exceed ten (10)
consecutive days. Events recurring more than four (4) times in a calendar year
are not considered temporary.
   (c)   The Planning Director may require a cash bond or other guarantee for
removal of the temporary use, cleanup and restoration of the activity site
within seven (7) days of the activity conclusion.
   (d)   Applications for permits/certificates required by subsections (a) and
(b) above shall be referred by the Planning Director to other affected agencies
as may be appropriate for review and comment.
   (e)    Related issues including but not limited to police/security, food and
water supply, use of tents and canopies, sanitation facilities, medical
services, noise, signage, fire protection, and traffic control shall be
satisfactorily addressed as may be required by the Planning Director, Director
of Public Works, Police Department, Fire Department, or Health Officer in their
administration of other City codes. Such other Codes may require the applicant
to obtain permits such as building, electrical, health, and tent permits.
   (f)   The Planning Director or any other responsible City Department head
may impose any other additional conditions on the temporary use to ensure that
the use is operated in a manner compatible with surrounding uses.
17.75.060 Temporary Cannabis Facilities
      A temporary facility used to cultivate, manufacture or test cannabis,
shall be permitted subject to the following conditions. A temporary cannabis
facility may not be used as a dispensary.
      (a)   The temporary cannabis facility may consist of a modular structure
provided the structure is erected or installed according to the Uniform Housing
Code requirements for temporary construction units, subject to reasonable
conditions by staff.
      (b)   A temporary cannabis facility shall be removed or shall be
converted to a permitted use prior to the issuance of a certificate of use and
occupancy for the main building or buildings. If construction is phased over a
length of time, the permit may provide that certificates of use and occupancy
may be issued for completed buildings.
      (c)   Not later than the granting of certificates of occupancy for the
last buildings in a tract or phase, the temporary construction offices shall be
removed (or converted into permanent structures, where permitted).
      (d)   If no construction activity is anticipated to occur for a period of
forty-five (45) days or more, the temporary cannabis facility shall be removed
and the site maintained in a clean and orderly condition.
[Ord. No. 578, 10/11/17.]
CHAPTER 17.80
SPECIAL USE STANDARDS
   
17.80.010   Intent and Purpose
   
17.80.020   Antennas and Cellular Telephone Towers
   
17.80.030   Churches, Temples, Religious Institutions, Non-profits and Other
Similar Institutions
   
17.80.040   Restrictions on Sales of Tobacco Products
   
17.80.050   (Reserved)
   
17.80.060   Wind Energy Conversion Systems (WECS)
   
17.80.070   Solar Energy Conversion Systems (SECS)
   
17.80.071   Solar Energy Conversion Systems (SECS) Overlay Zone
   
17.80.080   Cannabis Cultivation
   
17.80.081   Cannabis Cultivation Water Requirements
   
17.80.090   Cannabis Manufacturing
   
17.80.100   Cannabis Distribution
   
17.80.101   Cannabis Transportation
   
17.80.110   Cannabis Testing
   
17.80.120   Cannabis Retail
17.80.010 Intent and Purpose
   Certain uses, although permitted in specific zoning districts, require
additional development standards beyond those specified for the applicable
zone. Additional standards are required to ensure that such uses are operated
in a manner that does not adversely impact surrounding uses. The purpose of
this Chapter is to provide additional development standards and conditions for
certain uses to ensure their compatibility with surrounding uses.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit K, 5/22/13; Ord No.
528, Exhibit Q, 9/10/14.]
17.80.020 Antennas and Cellular Telephone Towers
   (a)   Exempt Antennas
      Common skeletal-type radio and television antenna in standard
configurations used to receive UHF, VHF, AM, and FM signals of off-air
broadcasts from radio and television stations are exempt from the requirements
of this Section.
      Solid dish-type antennas with a diameter of less than two feet (2') which
are designed to receive broadcast signals directly from orbiting satellites are
also exempt from the following requirements, with the exception that this type
of antenna may not be placed in a front yard area or in any other location
visible from the street at the front of the home or building which the antenna
serves.
   (b)   Location of Antennas in Residential Districts
      Antennas and satellite dishes (hereafter referred to as “antennas”)
located in the residential zones of the City shall conform to the following
standards:
      (1)   All antennas shall be required to maintain their supporting
structures at least five feet (5') from any property line and ten feet (10')
from any other structure.
      (2)   All ground-mounted antennas shall be screened by walls, fences, or
landscaping at least six feet (6') in height obscuring visibility of the
antenna from adjacent properties at the same elevation. Landscaping shall be of
a type and variety and installed at sufficient size to be capable of growing
within one year to a landscape screen which obscures the visibility of the
antenna.
      (3)   All antennas and their supporting structures shall be located in
the rear yard.
      (4)   No antenna shall be higher than thirty-five feet (35') above grade
level, except dish-type satellite receiving antennas, which shall not exceed
fifteen feet (15') in height. Antennas exceeding thirty-five feet (35') may be
approved provided the antenna is retractable to below the thirty-five foot
(35') height limit, and the applicant executes a use agreement providing that
the antenna will only be extended during actual use of said antenna.
      (5)   A maximum of two (2) antennas, including exempt antennas, shall be
allowed per lot.
      (6)   All roof-mounted antennas, with the exception of exempt antennas,
are prohibited.
   (c)   Location of Antennas in Non-Residential Districts
      Antennas located in non-residential zoning districts shall conform to the
following standards:
      (1)   All ground-mounted antennas shall be required to maintain their
supporting structures at least five feet (5') from any property line and ten
feet (10') from any other structure.
      (2)   All ground-mounted antennas shall be screened by walls, fences, or
landscaping at least six feet (6') in height obscuring visibility of the
antenna from adjacent properties at the same elevation. Landscaping shall be of
a type and variety capable of growing within one year to a landscape screen
which obscures the visibility of the antenna.
      (3)   All antennas and their supporting structures shall be located in
the rear yard or any side yard, except a street side yard.
      (4)   No antenna or its supporting structure shall be located in the area
between the front property line and the main structure or building.
      (5)   No antenna shall be higher than the maximum height permitted in the
zone, measured from grade level, except satellite antennas, which shall not
exceed fifteen feet (15') in height.
      (6)   A maximum of two (2) antennas, including exempt antennas, shall be
allowed per lot.
      (7)   No antenna shall be roof-mounted except on a flat portion of the
roof structure with parapets, and/or architecturally matching screening plan.
   (d)   Location of Antennas in Public Utility, Open Space and Greenbelt
Corridor Districts
      (1)   All ground-mounted antennas shall be required to maintain their
supporting structures at least five feet (5') from any property line and ten
feet (10') from any other structure.
      (2)   All ground-mounted antennas shall be screened by walls, fences or
landscaping at least six feet (6') in height obscuring visibility of the
antenna. Landscaping shall be of a type and variety capable of growing within
one year to a landscape screen which obscures the visibility of the antenna.
      (3)   All antennas and their supporting structures shall be located in
the rear yard or any side yard, except a street side yard.
      (4)   No antenna or its supporting structure shall be located in the area
between the front property line and the main structure or building.
      (5)   No antenna shall be higher than the maximum height permitted in the
zone measures from grade level, except satellite antennas which shall not
exceed fifteen feet (15') in height.
      (6)   A maximum of two (2) antennas, including exempt antennas, shall be
allowed per lot.
      (7)   No antenna shall be roof-mounted except on a flat portion of the
roof structure with parapets, and/or architecturally matching screening plan.
   (e)   Wireless Communication Facilities
      The following regulations shall govern the placement of wireless
communication facilities, antennas, and similar installations:
      (1)   All cellular phone installations shall require Conditional Use
Permit Approval, pursuant to the requirements of
Chapter 17.130  of this Code.
      (2)   Cellular Telephone Towers shall be permitted within all Business
and Manufacturing (BP, LM, MI and ADD), Open Space, Public Land, Schools,
Greenbelt Corridors (OS, DE, UE) and Public Utilities and Public Facilities (PU
and PF) zoning districts.
      (3)   Cellular Telephone Towers shall not be located in Residential
Districts.
      (4)   Design Standards
         A.   Cellular Telephone Towers shall be “Stealth Facilities”, which
means that any Wireless Telecommunications Facility shall be disguised to
appear as another natural or artificial object that exists in the surrounding
environment or which is architecturally integrated into a building or other
structure. They may include, but are not limited to:
            1.   Co-location on existing electrical transmission towers within
Power Easements.
            2.   Architecturally screened roof mounted antenna.
            3.   Wall or facade-mounted antenna as design features, clock
towers, flagpoles, church crosses, “tree” poles (monopalms, monopines, or
similar).
            4.   Wall Mounted means a Wireless Telecommunication Facility that
is mounted on any vertical surface or nearly vertical surface of a building or
other existing structure that is not specifically constructed for the purpose
of supporting an antenna, such as exterior walls of a building, an existing
parapet, the side of a water tank, the face of a church steeple, or the side of
a freestanding sign such that the highest point of the Facility is at an
elevation equal to or lower than the highest point of the surface on which it
is mounted.
            5.   Exceptions to this may be granted through the Conditional Use
Permit Process, provided that it can be demonstrated that the proposed
installation would not be unduly intrusive, such as they are located in
proximity to similar existing towers for major electrical transmission lines.
         B.   Cellular phone towers, antennas, and similar structures are
limited to the maximum height allowed within the Zoning District in which it is
located, unless an RF report prepared by a qualified RF Engineer and reviewed
by the City, demonstrates that: 1) an antenna built at the Zoning District
limit would obstruct the antenna’s reception window or otherwise excessively
interfere with reception and such obstruction or interference involves factors
beyond the applicant’s control; and 2) there are no other locations within the
City available to the cellular phone provider that would enable the cellular
phone provider to construct an antenna within the limits of the Zoning Code
without limiting cell phone coverage and reception. In such cases, a maximum
height of one hundred feet (100') may be allowed, unless a lower height is
required by a local Airport Land Use Commission (ALUC).
         C.   Setback requirements for cellular phone installations shall be
developed on a case-by-case basis as part of the Conditional Use Permit
Approval.
   (f)   Antennas Used for Transmission Purposes
      The following regulations shall apply to the establishment, installation,
and operation of antennas used to transmit signals of any type for commercial
purposes.
      (1)   Except as provided in subsection (2) below, prior to the approval
by the City of the installation of any non-exempt antenna, the applicant must
submit a written statement that the antenna will not be used for transmission
purposes; or, that the use of the antennas for transmission purposes will not
exceed EIRP levels of 80 dBW.
      (2)   Antennas used for transmission purposes which exceed EIRP levels of
80 dBW may be approved by the Planning Commission, subject to the imposition of
reasonable conditions to protect the applicant and the public health and
safety. Reasonable conditions shall include, but not be limited to, fencing,
screening, warning signs, partial submersion below ground level, and other like
conditions.
      (3)   Antennas used for transmission purposes shall be subject to the
same screening requirements as antennas used for receiving signals. Transceiver
antennas shall be considered to be transmitting antennas for the purposes of
this Chapter.
      (4)   Any applicant aggrieved by a decision of or condition imposed by
the City may appeal that decision or condition pursuant to Section
2.04.080  et seq. of this Code.
   (g)   Required Criteria and Performance Standards
      The following regulations shall apply to the establishment, installation,
and operation of antennas in all zoning districts:
      (1)   Antennas shall be installed and maintained in compliance with the
requirements of the Building Code. Antenna installers shall obtain a building
permit prior to installation.
      (2)   No advertising material shall be allowed on any antenna.
      (3)   All electrical wiring associated with any antenna shall be buried
underground or hidden in a manner acceptable to the Building Official.
      (4)   No portion of an antenna array shall extend beyond the property
lines or into any front yard area. Guy wires shall not be anchored within any
front yard area but may be attached to the building.
      (5)   The antenna, including guy wires, supporting structures, and
accessory equipment, shall be located and designed so as to minimize the visual
impact on surrounding properties and from public streets. The materials used in
constructing the antenna shall not be unnecessarily bright, shiny, garish, or
reflective.
      (6)   Every antenna must be adequately grounded for protection against a
direct strike of lightning with an adequate ground wire. Ground wires shall be
of the type approved by the latest edition of the National Electrical Code, as
adopted by the City, for grounding masts and lightning arresters and shall be
installed in a mechanical manner, with as few bends as possible, maintaining a
clearance of at least two (2) inches from combustible materials. Lightning
arresters shall be used which are approved as safe by the Underwriter’s
Laboratories, Inc., and both sides of the line must be adequately protected
with proper arresters to remove static charges accumulated on the line. When
lead-in conductors of polyethylene ribbon-type are used, lightning arresters
must be installed in each conductor. When coaxial cable or shielded twin lead
is used for lead-in, suitable protection may be provided without lightning
arresters by grounding the exterior metal sheath.
      (7)   A wind velocity test shall be required if deemed necessary by the
Building Official.
   (h)   Variances
      Pursuant to the procedures of
Chapter 17.140 et seq. of this Zoning Code, any person may seek a variance from
the provisions of this Chapter pertaining to antennas and satellite dish
antennas. A fee shall be charged to an applicant for a variance that is
required solely for the purposes of complying with the antenna and/or satellite
dish antenna regulations of this Chapter. Any variance so granted is revocable
for failure by the applicant or property owner to comply with the conditions
imposed. A variance shall be issued for an antenna if it meets the following
standards:
      (1)   Locating the antenna in conformance with the specifications of this
Chapter would obstruct the antenna’s reception window or otherwise excessively
interfere with reception, and such obstruction or interference involves factors
beyond the applicant’s control; or the cost of meeting the specifications of
this Section is excessive, given the cost of the proposed antenna.
      (2)   The variance application includes a certification that the proposed
installation is in conformance with applicable City Building Code regulations.
Furthermore, the application must contain written documentation of such
conformance, including load distributions within the building’s support
structure, and must be certified by a registered engineer.
      (3)   If it is proposed that the antenna will be located on the roof,
where possible, the antenna shall be located on the rear portion of the roof
and be consistent with neighboring improvements, uses, and architectural
character.
   (i)   Nonconforming Antennas
      All antennas, in any zone, lawfully constructed and erected prior to the
effective date of this Chapter, which do not conform to the requirements of the
provisions of this Chapter for the particular zoning district in which they are
located, shall be accepted as non-conforming uses for a period of one (1) year
from the date of adoption of this Chapter. Thereafter, the antennas shall be
subject to abatement as set forth below via removal, modification, or
relocation to comply with the standards of this Chapter. Any antenna
constructed or erected in violation of this Chapter or any prior law,
ordinance, or regulation shall be subject to immediate abatement.
   (j)   Notice of Nonconforming Antennas
      (1)   Upon the determination of the Planning Director that the provisions
of this Chapter apply to a given parcel of land on which an antenna is located,
the Planning Director or his/her designee shall send a notice thereof by United
States certified mail, return receipt requested, to the owner thereof as shown
on the last equalized assessment roll and shall cause such property to be
posted with a similar notice.
      (2)   The notice provided for in this Section shall state that the
property and antenna in question is a nonconformity, shall state the date of
abatement established in Section
17.80.020 (i), shall state that an administrative hearing will be held before
the Planning Commission and shall state the date of such hearing.
   (k)   Hearing; Decision and Order; Appeal; Recordation of Order
      (1)   Within sixty (60) days after the issuance of the notice prescribed
in Section
17.80.020 (j), the Planning Commission shall hold an administrative hearing to
determine whether the nonconformity should be abated or whether a time
extension should be granted as provided in subsection (7) below.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall receive written and oral testimony at
such hearing in regard to the abatement.
      (3)   At the close of the hearing, the Planning Commission shall find and
determine whether the nonconformity should be abated and all facts in support
thereof, whether the owner of the property can amortize his/her investment in
the term for abatement provided in Section
17.80.020 (i), and if not, what term for abatement should be provided as
specified in Section
17.80.020 (j).
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall also find and determine whether the
structure encompassing the nonconforming use can be used economically in its
present condition or can be modified successfully for a purpose permitted in
the zoning district in which it is located.
      (5)   The decision of the Planning Commission and the findings in support
thereof shall be in the form of a written order and shall be served upon the
property owner personally or by United States certified mail, return receipt
requested, within ten (10) days after the decision is rendered.
      (6)   The decision of the Planning Commission may be appealed to the City
Council.
      (7)   After the conclusion of all appeals, notice of the decision and
order of the Planning Commission or the City Council shall be recorded with the
City Clerk.
   (l)   Extension of Time
      (1)   The Planning Commission or City Council on appeal, shall grant an
extension of the time for abatement of nonconformity where it finds that an
unreasonable hardship would otherwise be imposed on the property owner.
      (2)   The Planning Commission or City Council on appeal, shall consider
the following factors, among others, in determining whether to grant an
extension of time and the length of the term:
         A.   The nature of the use.
         B.   The amount of the owner’s investment in improvements.
         C.   The convertibility of improvements to permitted uses.
         D.   The character of the neighborhood.
         E.   The detriment, if any, caused to the neighborhood by continuance
of the nonconforming use.
         F.   The amount of time needed to amortize the investment.
   (m)   Proof of Amortization
      The Planning Commission, or City Council on appeal, shall base its
decision as to the length of the permitted amortization period on any competent
evidence presented, including, but not limited to, the depreciation schedule
attached to the owner’s latest federal income tax return.
   (n)   Relocation
      Where the Planning Commission finds that a nonconforming antenna, either
in its present condition or as modified, can be used in compliance with the
standards set forth in this Chapter for the zoning district in which it is
located, the nonconforming antenna may be granted an extension sufficient to
permit it to relocate on the site wherein such use is permitted and which has
substantially equivalent utility for the use. In no event shall such extension
be more than two (2) years.
   (o)   Antennas Used for Transmission Purposes
      (1)   Except as provided in subsection (2) below, prior to the approval
by the City for the installation of any non-exempt antenna, the applicant must
submit a written statement that the antenna will not be used for transmission
purposes; or that the use of the antennas for transmission purposes will not
exceed EIRP levels of 80 dBW.
      (2)   Antennas used for transmission purposes which exceed EIRP levels of
80 dBW may be approved by the Planning Commission subject to the imposition of
reasonable conditions to protect the applicant and the public health and
safety. Reasonable conditions shall include, but not be limited to, fencing,
screening, warning signs, partial submersion below ground level, and other like
conditions.
      (3)   Any applicant aggrieved by a decision of or condition imposed by
the Planning Commission may appeal that decision or condition to the City
Council, pursuant to Section
2.04.080  et seq of this Code.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit K, 5/22/13; Ord No.
528, Exhibit Q, 9/10/14.]
17.80.030 Churches, Temples, Religious Institutions, Non-profits and Other
Similar Institutions
   (a)   All churches, temples, religious institutions, non-profits and other
similar institutions shall require a Location and Development Plan approval and
Conditional Use Permit approval, as indicated in
Appendix A .
   (b)   All buildings, structures, setbacks, building height and landscaping
shall be developed in a manner harmonious and compatible with development on
surrounding properties.
   (c)   Off-street parking spaces shall be required as per
Chapter 17.65  and
17.15  of this Zoning Code. The number of parking spaces shall be determined in
Table 65-2  of the aforementioned code section. Exterior parking areas shall be
screened with landscaping to be compatible with and an enhancement to
surrounding land uses.
   (d)   All exterior lighting shall be designed, oriented, and constructed to
shield adjacent properties from adverse glare effects.
   (e)   Establishment of a church does not automatically permit any school,
day nursery, kindergarten, or any congregation of persons for purposes other
than religious instruction, worship, or guidance. Any such additional uses
shall be subject to the use requirements of the zoning district in which they
are located.
   (f)   Churches, Temples, religious institutions, non-profit and other
similar institutions proposed to be located in residential zones shall only be
allowed if vehicular access is from a Major Street/Boulevard, Collector Street,
Activity Street or Loop Street-One Way, as identified in the Circulation
Element of the General Plan.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit K, 5/22/13; Ord No.
528, Exhibit Q, 9/10/14.]
17.80.040 Restrictions on Sales of Tobacco Products.
   (a)   Definitions
      The following words and phrases, whenever used in this article, shall
have the meanings defined in this section unless the context clearly requires
otherwise:
      Tobacco Product means any product(s) that is used to consume tobacco or
any product that contains any tobacco leaf, including but not limited to:
cigarettes, cigars, cigarillos, blunts, snuff, dipping/chewing tobacco,
flavored tobacco, tobacco water, tobacco paste, gutka, kretek, shisha, roll-
your-own cigarettes, cigarette or cigar rolling papers, or pipes.
      Tobacco Retailer means any person, retail establishment, or any other
legal entity who knowingly sells, donates, distributes, or delivers to any
person(s), for any form of consideration, tobacco products.
   (b)   Zoning Regulations.
      It is hereby declared that the sense and policy of this section is that
no tobacco retailer shall be permitted to sell, donate, distribute, or deliver
to any person(s), for any form of consideration, tobacco products within 1,000
feet of any playground, church, public library, school, or any childcare
facility or similar entity providing structured, organized care for youth.
   (c)   How Distance Measured.
      The 1,000 foot distance provided for in Section
17.80.040(b) shall be measured as a person walks, using the sidewalk, from the
nearest point of the property line of the playground, church, public library,
school, or childcare facility or similar entity providing structured, organized
care for youth, to the nearest of the property line of the tobacco retailer.
   (d)   Nonconforming Uses
      The City’s nonconforming use rules, contained in
Chapter 17.165 apply to this section. If a tobacco retailer has an interruption
of the continuity of business for a period in excess of six months, in order to
reopen for business, the requirements set forth above must be complied with.
   (e)   Enforcement.
      Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the Community
Development Director or his designee. In addition, any peace officer or code
enforcement official also may enforce this chapter.
[Ord. No. 496, Section 2, 5/12/10; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit K, 5/22/13; Ord No.
528, Exhibit Q, 9/10/14.]
17.80.050 (Reserved)
17.80.060 Wind Energy Conversion Systems (WECS).
   (a)   Wind Energy Conversion Systems shall be classified into three (3)
categories.
      (1)   Category One, consist of large WECS that have one or more units
producing power for sale. This category generates power in excess of 500 Kw and
does not provide power for onsite use. These systems require the approval of a
Conditional Use Permit and Location and Development Plan and are allowed in the
Manufacturing/Industrial (MI), Airport Development District (ADD), Public
Utilities (PU) and Open Space, Public Land and Schools (OS) zones.
      (2)   Category Two, consist of medium WECS that provide power for
existing onsite structures. These systems may have more than one unit but
produce 500 Kw or less. These systems require the approval of a Minor
Conditional Use Permit and Site Plan and are allowed in all zoning districts
except Single Family Residential (R-S1, R1, R1-.5, R-S5) and Desert Living (DL-
9, DL-5, DL-2.5).
      (3)   Category Three, consist of WECS that provide power for existing
onsite single family residential structures. These systems may have more than
one unit but produce 25 Kw or less. These systems require the approval of a
site plan and can be pole/tower or roof mounted.
   (b)   WECS installed in the DL zone may be 75' in height. All others shall
comply with height limitations for the zoning district they are installed in.
   (c)   All ground mounted pole/tower WECS shall be set back from property
lines a distance that equals the total height of the system and shall have a
locked anti-climb device installed or be un-climbable by design for the first
12 feet.
   (d)   All pole mounted WECS shall be of the self supporting monopole type.
WECS requiring the use of guyed wires are only permitted in the DL zone.
   (e)   No WECS shall emit sounds which exceed 65 decibels at any time as
measured from the property line.
   (f)   All on-site wiring for WECS shall be installed underground.
   (g)   All WECS shall be installed and operated so that the public health,
safety, and welfare of neighboring property owners or occupants will not be
jeopardized.
[Ord. No. 502, Section 5, 4/27/11; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit K, 5/22/13; Ord No.
528, Exhibit Q, 9/10/14.]
17.80.070 Solar Energy Conversion Systems (SECS).
   (a)   Solar Energy Conversion Systems shall be classified into three (3)
categories.
      (1)   Category One, consist of large SECS that have one or more units
producing power for sale. This category generates power in excess of 500 Kw and
does not provide power for onsite use. These systems require the approval of a
Conditional Use Permit and Location and Development Plan and are allowed in the
Manufacturing/Industrial (MI) and Airport Development District (ADD) and Open
Space (OS) zones, unless allowed in other zones pursuant to site-specific
approval of a SECS overlay zone pursuant to Subsection (f), below.
      (2)   Category Two, consist of medium SECS that provide power for
existing onsite structures. These systems may have multiple panels but produce
500 Kw or less. These systems require the approval of a Minor Conditional Use
Permit and Site Plan and are allowed in all zoning districts except Single
Family Residential (R1), (R1-.5) and Desert Living (DL), unless allowed in
other zones pursuant to project-specific approval of a SECS overlay zone
pursuant to Subsection (f), below.
      (3)   Category Three, consist of SECS that provide power for existing
onsite single family residential structures. These systems may have multiple
panels but produce 25 Kw or less. These systems require the approval of a site
plan and can be ground or roof mounted.
   (b)   All SECS shall comply with height limitations and setbacks for the
zoning district they are installed in.
   (c)   No SECS shall emit sounds which exceed 65 decibels at any time as
measured from the property line.
   (d)   All on-site wiring for SECS shall be installed underground.
   (e)   All SECS shall be installed and operated so that the public health,
safety, and welfare of neighboring property owners or occupants will not be
jeopardized.
   (f)   Category One and Category Two SECS proposed outside of a designation
Solar Energy Conversions System Overlay Zone, as identified in Subsection (a)
must obtain approval of a site-specific SECS overlay zoning designation
pursuant to Section
17.80.071 of this Chapter.
[Ord. No. 502, Section 5, 4/27/11; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit K, 5/22/13; Ord No.
528, Exhibit Q, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 618, Attachment F, 12/9/20.]
17.80.071 Solar Energy Conversion Systems (SECS) Overlay Zone.
   (a)   Purpose and applicability. The purpose of the SECS overlay zone is to
encourage investment in solar energy while providing guidelines for the
installation of solar facilities that complement the surrounding environment.
All SECS shall comply with all applicable provisions of the city codes and the
standards of this section.
   (b)   Approvals required. An applicant shall submit for and receive approval
of a project-specific General Plan Amendment and Zone Change authorizing a SECS
overlay zoning designation, a Conditional Use Permit, a Location and
Development Plan, and a building permit prior to construction of a SECS, unless
the SECS is otherwise allowed pursuant to Section
17.80.071 of this Chapter.
   (c)   Design requirements.
      (1)   Barbed wire is acceptable on the top of the perimeter fence to
provide site security, but razor wire is prohibited.
      (2)   Portable restroom facilities shall be provided on the project site
for use by maintenance staff.
      (3)   Per the direction of the director of public works, an applicant
shall dedicate right-of-way for all necessary street improvements.
   (d)   CUP Findings.
      (1)   The SECS conforms with the Adelanto North 2035 Sustainable Plan
policy LC 4.4, which states, “Promote the use of solar, wind, and other
alternative energy generation systems as part of new planned development.”
      (2)   The SECS conforms with Subsections (b) through (e) of Section
17.80.070 of this Chapter.
      (3)   The SECS will not, at the location proposed:
         A.   Be materially detrimental to the use, enjoyment, or valuation of
property of other persons located in the vicinity of the site because the
proposed panels are within the height regulations of the rural residential
zones and are designed with adequate setbacks from the adjacent street.
         B.   Jeopardize, endanger, or otherwise constitute a menace to the
public health, safety, or general welfare because adequate sewer, water, and
drainage improvements will be part of the project.
      (4)   The SECS will not substantially adversely affect other nearby uses
because all aesthetic, noise, and other environmental concerns will be
mitigated through various design features, including screening and the use of
silent or low-noise equipment.
      (5)   The proposed site is adequate in size and shape to accommodate the
SECS and other development features prescribed in the zoning ordinance or as
otherwise required to integrate said use with surrounding uses.
      (6)   The proposed site is adequately served by the surrounding streets,
which are of sufficient width and improved as necessary to carry the
anticipated daily vehicle trips such use would generate; and by other public
and private service facilities, including sewer, water, fire, and police
services, as required.
      (7)   The proposed use will not result in a significant effect on the
environment because all potential impacts have been found to be less than
significant with the inclusion of mitigation measures or are determined to be
acceptable due to overriding considerations.
         [Ord. No. 618, Attachment F, 12/9/20.]
17.80.080 Cannabis Cultivation.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this Section is to regulate the
cultivation of adult-use and medical cannabis that is grown in accordance with
State law in order to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare
of the residents and businesses within the City. The City is authorized to
regulate this activity pursuant to the MAUCRSA.
   (b)   Definitions. For purposes of this Section, the following definitions
shall apply, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
      (1)   “Cannabis” means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa Linnaeus,
Cannabis indica, or Cannabis ruderalis, whether growing or not; the seeds
thereof; the resin, whether crude or purified, extracted from any part of the
plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the plant, its seeds, or resin. “Cannabis” also means the
separated resin, whether crude or purified, obtained from cannabis. “Cannabis”
does not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the
stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound,
manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks
(except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized
seed of the plant which is incapable of germination. For the purpose of this
division, “cannabis” does not mean “industrial hemp” as defined by Section
11018.5 of the Health and Safety Code.
      (2)   “Cultivation” shall be defined in accordance with the MAUCRSA,
Business and Professions Code section 26001, and other applicable State laws.
      (3)   “Cultivation Permit” means a City permit to operate an indoor
adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility pursuant to the terms
and conditions of this Section and the conditions of approval for the permit.
      (4)   “Cultivation Permittee” means an applicant who has applied for and
has been issued a Cultivation Permit by the City pursuant to the terms and
conditions of this Section.
      (5)   “CUP” means a Conditional Use Permit issued by the City in
accordance with this Code.
      (6)   “Fully enclosed and secure structure” means a space within a
building, greenhouse or other structure which has a complete roof enclosure
supported by connecting walls extending from the ground to the roof, which is
secure against unauthorized entry, provides complete visual screening, and
which is accessible only through one or more lockable doors and is inaccessible
to minors.
      (7)   “Indoors” means within a fully enclosed and secure structure.
      (8)   “MAUCRSA” means the Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis Regulation and
Safety Act (MAUCRSA). (Bus. & Prof. Code, section 26000 et seq.)
      (9)   “Medicinal cannabis” or “medicinal cannabis product” means cannabis
or a cannabis product, respectively, intended to be sold for use pursuant to
the Compassionate Use Act of 1996 (Proposition 215), found at Section 11362.5
of the Health and Safety Code and other applicable State laws, by a medicinal
cannabis patient in California who possesses a physician’s recommendation. For
purposes of this definition, “medical cannabis” also means “medical marijuana.”
“Nursery” means an adult-use and/or medical marijuana cultivation operation
that produces only clones, immature plants, seeds, and other agricultural
products used specifically for the planting, propagation, and cultivation of
medical marijuana, including research and development related thereto.
      (10)   “Outdoors” means any location within the City that is not within a
fully enclosed and secure structure.
   (c)   Cannabis Cultivation Prohibited. All cannabis cultivation within the
City is prohibited except as expressly permitted by this Section.
   (d)   Indoor Medical Cannabis Cultivation Conditionally Permitted. Indoor
adult- use and medical cannabis cultivation is conditionally permitted in the
City only as expressly specified in this Section.
      (1)   Indoor Medical Cannabis Cultivation Standards. Indoor adult-use and
medical cannabis cultivation, within the City, shall be in conformance with the
following standards:
         A.   Indoor adult-use and medical cannabis cultivation shall only be
allowed upon application and approval of a Cultivation Permit and a CUP in
accordance with the criteria and process set forth in this Section and this
Code.
         B.   Indoor adult-use and medical cannabis cultivation is a
conditionally permitted use only on properties within the City’s Cannabis
Overlay Zones.
         C.   No cannabis cultivation shall be established, developed, or
operated within 600 feet of a school, public playground or park, child care or
day care facility, youth center, or church. All distances shall be measured in
a straight line, without regard to intervening structures, from the nearest
point of the building or structure in which the indoor adult-use and/or medical
cannabis cultivation is, or will be located, to the nearest property line of
those uses described in this Subsection.
         D.   An indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility
may not be located within the same unit as a cannabis testing facility.
         E.   Subject to the further requirements of this Section, only the
following State cultivator license classification types “M” and “A” specified
in the MAUCRSA and Business and Professions Code sections 26001 and 26050 will
be allowed to operate in the City: 1, 1A, IB, 1C, 2, 2A, 2B, 3, 3A, 3B, and 4.
         F.   Indoor adult-use and medical cannabis cultivation is allowed only
within a fully enclosed and secure structure that is inaccessible to minors.
         G.   Indoor adult-use and medical cannabis cultivation shall not
exceed the square footage authorized pursuant to the CUP.
         H.   From any public right-of-way, there shall be no visible exterior
evidence of any indoor adult-use or medical cannabis cultivation activity.
         I.   Indoor adult-use and medical cannabis cultivation activity may
include production of clones, growing marijuana plants, harvesting marijuana
plants, harvesting marijuana seeds, drying marijuana flowers, producing other
agricultural products used specifically for the planting, propagation,
cultivation of adult-use and medical marijuana, and research and development
related to the foregoing, but shall not include any extraction procedures to
produce concentrated THC.
         J.   Indoor adult-use or medical cannabis cultivation shall not
adversely affect the health or safety of the nearby residents by creating dust,
glare, heat, noise, smoke, traffic, vibration, or other impacts, and shall not
be hazardous due to use or storage of materials, processes, products, or
wastes.
         K.   Each indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation
facility shall fully comply with all of the applicable restrictions and
mandates set forth in State law. An indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis
cultivation facility shall comply with all size requirements for such facility
as imposed by State law. An indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis
cultivation facility shall not engage in any activities not allowed by an
indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility pursuant to State
law. An indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility shall
comply with all horticultural, labeling, processing, and other standards
required by State law.
         L.   There is no set restriction on the hours of operation of an
indoor adult use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility; however,
restricted hours of operation may be established as a condition of approval of
the Cultivation Permit or the applicable CUP.
         M.   All cannabis shall be kept in a secured manner during all
business and nonbusiness hours.
         N.   An indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility
shall operate within a legal structure that is compliant with all applicable
State and local laws.
         O.   An indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility
must pay all applicable sales taxes pursuant to all federal, State, and local
laws.
         P.   On-site smoking, ingestion, or consumption of cannabis or alcohol
shall be prohibited on the premises of an indoor adult-use and/or medical
cannabis cultivation facility. The term “premises” as used in this Subsection
includes the actual indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation
building, as well as any accessory structures and parking areas. The indoor
adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility building entrance shall
be clearly and legibly posted with a notice indicating that smoking, ingesting,
or consuming cannabis or alcohol on the premises or in the vicinity of the
facility is prohibited.
         Q.   Signage for an indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis
cultivation facility shall be limited to name of business only, shall be in
compliance with the City's sign code, and shall contain no advertising of any
companies, brands, products, goods, or services. Signage shall not include any
drug-related symbols.
         R.   Alcoholic beverages shall not be sold, stored, distributed, or
consumed on the premises. An indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis
cultivation facility shall not hold or maintain a license from the State
Department of Alcohol Beverage Control to sell alcoholic beverages, or operate
a business that sells alcoholic beverages. In addition, alcohol shall not be
provided, stored, kept, located, sold, dispensed, or used on the premises of
any indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility.
         S.   Physician services shall not be provided on the premises.
“Physician services” does not include social services, including counseling,
help with housing and meals, hospice, and other care referrals which may be
provided on site.
         T.   The building in which any indoor adult-use and/or medical
cannabis cultivation facility is located, as well as the operations as
conducted therein, shall fully comply with all applicable rules, regulations,
and laws including, but not limited to, zoning and building codes, the City's
business license ordinances, the Revenue and Taxation Code, the Americans with
Disabilities Act, and the MAUCRSA. Compliance with all requirements of State
law pertaining to indoor cannabis cultivation is also required.
         U.   An indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility
shall not manufacture, process, distribute, transport, sell, dispense, or
administer cannabis from the facility, unless expressly and affirmatively
authorized by State law and permitted by local law. An indoor adult-use and/or
medical cannabis cultivation facility shall not be operated as a cannabis
manufacturing, distribution, transportation, or testing facility, or as a
cannabis dispensary, unless expressly and affirmative authorized by State law
and permitted by local law.
         V.   The operators of an indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis
cultivation facility shall provide the City Manager or the City Manager’s
designee with the name, phone number, facsimile number, and email address of an
on-site representative to whom the City and the public can provide notice if
there are any operational problems associated with the indoor adult-use and/or
medical cannabis cultivation facility. An indoor adult-use and/or medical
cannabis cultivation facility shall make every good faith effort to encourage
residents and the public to call this representative to resolve any operational
problems before any calls or complaints are made to the City or law
enforcement.
         W.   An indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility
shall be operated in accordance with the conditions of approval associated with
the applicable CUP for the parcel of real property upon which the indoor adult-
use and/or medical cannabis cultivation activities occur.
         X.   An indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility
shall have a security plan including the following measures:
            1.   Security cameras shall be installed and maintained in good
condition, and used in an on-going manner with at least 120 concurrent hours of
digitally recorded documentation in a format approved by the City Manager or
the City Manager’s designee. The cameras shall be in use 24 hours per day, 7
days per week. The areas to be covered by the security cameras include, but are
not limited to, the storage areas, cultivation areas, all doors and windows,
and any other areas as determined by the City Manager or the City Manager’s
designee. Remote log-in information shall be provided to the City Manager, the
City Manager’s designee, the Manager of Code Enforcement, and law enforcement
to allow them to view the security camera images and recordings from their own
facilities at any time. Any disruption in security camera images shall be cured
expeditiously.
            2.   The indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation
facility shall be alarmed with an alarm system that is operated and monitored
by a reputable security company.
            3.   Entrance to the cultivation area, and all storage areas, shall
be locked at all times, and under the control of the indoor adult-use and/or
medical cannabis cultivation facility’s staff.
            4.   The entrances and all window areas shall be illuminated during
evening hours. The facility shall comply with the City's lighting standards
regarding fixture type, wattage, illumination levels, shielding, etcetera, and
shall secure the necessary lighting approvals and permits as needed.
            5.   All windows on the building that houses the indoor adult- use
and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility shall be appropriately secured and
all cannabis securely stored.
         Y.   Recordings made by the security cameras shall be made available
to the City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, the City’s Code Enforcement
Manager, and law enforcement upon verbal request—no search warrant or subpoena
shall be needed to view the recorded materials.
         Z.   The City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, or the Code
Enforcement Manager shall have the right to enter the adult-use and/or cannabis
cultivation facility for the purpose of making reasonable inspections to
observe and enforce compliance with this Section and all laws of the City and
the State. The City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, or the Code
Enforcement Manager shall maintain a log tracking the time and date of all
inspections, the individuals requesting the inspection, and the result of each
inspection. Individuals participating in any such inspection must take
precautions and comply with standard safeguards and procedures in place at the
facility regarding security, clean room/clean area access and anti-
contamination measures.
         AA.   All batches of final cultivated cannabis must be inspected and
quality tested by a qualified third party distributor and testing facility
prior to distribution to a dispensary as required by the MAUCRSA, Business and
Professions Code section26100, the Department of Food and Agriculture
regulations, and the State Department of Public Health regulations.
      (2)   Cultivation Permit Applications. All applicants wishing to obtain a
Cultivation Permit from the City shall file an application with the City upon a
form provided by the City and shall pay a Cultivation Permit Application Fee as
established by the City. An application for a Cultivation Permit shall include
at least the following information:
         A.   An estimate of the size of the proposed indoor adult-use and/or
medical cannabis cultivation facility.
         B.   The address of the location for which the Cultivation Permit is
sought.
         C.   A site plan and floor plan for the proposed premises denoting the
use of all areas on the premises, including storage, cultivation areas,
lighting, signage, etcetera.
         D.   A proposed security plan in compliance with the Indoor Adult-Use
and Medical Cannabis Cultivation Standards.
         E.   The names, addresses, and relevant criminal histories of all
potential employees, facility managers, and other relevant parties for the
indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility. Relevant
criminal histories shall include any drug-related or felony convictions, the
nature of such offenses, and the sentences received for such convictions.
         F.   The name and address of the owner and lessor of the real property
upon which the indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation activity is
proposed to be conducted. In the event the applicant is not the legal owner of
the property, the application must be accompanied with a notarized
acknowledgement from the owner of the property that an indoor adult-use and/or
medical cannabis cultivation facility will be operated on the property.
         G.   Authorization for the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee
to seek verification of the information contained within the application.
         H.   Evidence that the indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis
cultivation facility will be located in a legal structure that is compliant
with all applicable State and local laws.
         I.   A statement in writing by the applicant that the applicant
certifies under penalty of perjury that all the information contained in the
application is true and correct.
         J.   Any such additional and further information as is deemed
necessary by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee to administer this
Section.
         K.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee shall conduct a
background check of any applicant seeking a Cultivation Permit, including all
potential employees and any person who may be a facility manager or otherwise
responsible for the activities of the indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis
cultivation facility (“Applicant’s Agents”), and shall prepare a report on the
acceptability of the applicant and the Applicant’s Agents and the suitability
of the proposed location.
         L.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee shall rank all
qualified applications in order of those that best satisfy the requirements of
this Section and provide the highest level of service and opportunities for
residents of the City based on the requirements of this Section and the
following criteria (“Merit List”):
            1.   The operational plan for the facility.
            2.   The security plan for the facility.
            3.   The experience of the operators of the facility.
            4.   The adequacy of capitalization for the facility and its
operations.
            5.   The employment of City residents and other public benefits to
the City.
      (3)   Cultivation Permit. The following conditions apply to each
Cultivation Permit:
         A.   Cultivation Permit will not be awarded to an applicant if:
            1.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents made one or more false
or misleading statements or omissions in the application or during the
application process.
            2.   The proposed indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis
cultivation facility is not allowed by State or local law.
            3.   The applicant is not a legal representative of the indoor
adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility.
            4.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents have been convicted of
a felony, or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or the illegal use,
possession, transportation, distribution, or any such similar activity related
to controlled substances, with the exception of cannabis related offenses for
which the conviction occurred prior to passage of Compassionate Use Act. A
conviction within the meaning of this Section means a plea or verdict of guilty
or a conviction following a plea of nolo contendere.
            5.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents have engaged in
unlawful, fraudulent, unfair, or deceptive business acts or practices.
            6.   The applicant has not satisfied each and every requirement of
this Section.
         B.   A Cultivation Permit shall be awarded by the City to eligible
Cultivation Permit applicants in order of the Merit List as established by the
City Manager or the City Manager’s designee. The number of Cultivation Permits
shall be limited to those that may be reasonably accommodated within the
Cultivation Zone as determined by the City Manager or the City Manager’s
designee.
         C.   Before a Cultivation Permit can be issued to an applicant,
Cultivation Permit fees must be paid to offset all related costs to the City,
and the proposed indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility
location must pass all applicable inspections.
         D.   A Cultivation Permit is subject to the conditions of approval in
the applicable CUP for the parcel of real property upon which the indoor adult-
use and/or medical cannabis cultivation activity occurs.
         E.   A Cultivation Permit is subject to any additional conditions that
may be applied by the City at the time of issuance or renewal as necessary to
properly regulate the activity and protect the public.
         F.   All cultivation activities shall be subject to an excise tax to
be established by the City and the voters.
         G.   A Cultivation Permittee may not hold or use any other cannabis
activity permits or licenses that would otherwise be a violation of this
Section, the MAUCRSA, or Business and Professions Code section 26050.
         H.   A Cultivation Permittee shall enter into an agreement with the
City to fully reimburse the City for all fiscal impacts, costs, expenses, fees,
and attorneys’ fees incurred by the City related to the Cultivation Permit and
the indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation activity.
         I.   Cultivation Permittees who are in good standing with the City and
who were previously authorized to engage in indoor medical cannabis
cultivation, may request an abbreviated application for a permit to engage in
indoor adult-use cannabis cultivation within the same cultivation facility, and
they may operate under both permits in the same space, subject to state and
local laws. The abbreviated permit process will allow Cultivation Permittees to
submit certain previously approved application materials for their adult-use
Cultivation Permit. The City reserves the right to request the Cultivation
Permittee to submit a new Cultivation Permit application if the resubmitted
materials do not satisfy the City’s Cultivation Permit requirements. The City
Manager will determine the appropriate fees for the adult-use permit, and the
City Manager shall issue the adult-use permits on an expedited basis based on
the prior applications and approvals.
         J.   A Cultivation Permittee shall:
            1.   Carry liability insurance in the amounts and types set by the
City Manager or the City Manager’s designee, and name the City as an additional
insured on all such insurance policies.
            2.   Execute an Indemnification Agreement prepared by the City that
fully indemnifies the City for all liabilities associated with the Cultivation
Permit, the Cultivation Permittee’s cannabis related activities, and any action
taken by the Cultivation Permittee pursuant to this Section.
            3.   Agree to defend the City, at the Cultivation Permittee’s sole
expense, in any action against the City or its agents, officers, or employees
associated with the Cultivation Permit, the Cultivation Permittee’s cannabis
related activities, or any action taken by the Cultivation Permittee pursuant
to this Section.
            4.   Agree to reimburse the City for all costs, expenses, fees, and
attorney fees incurred by the City related to any action against the City or
its agents, officers, or employees associated with the Cultivation Permit, the
Cultivation Permittee’s cannabis related activities, or any action taken by the
Cultivation Permittee pursuant to this Section. The City may, at its sole
discretion, participate in the defense of any such action, but such
participation shall not relieve the operator of its obligation hereunder.
         K.   A Cultivation Permittee shall keep the City and law enforcement
updated with the names, addresses, and relevant criminal histories of all
employees, facility managers, and other relevant parties for the indoor adult-
use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility at all times. Relevant
criminal histories shall include any drug-related or felony convictions, the
nature of such offenses, and the sentences received for such convictions.
         L.   A Cultivation Permittee shall account for job creation in the
City and shall commit to employing a workforce that resides in the City. A
minimum of 50% of all employees employed by the Cultivation Permittee at the
indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility shall be
residents of the City. A Cultivation Permittee shall use good faith efforts to
comply with this subsection and shall report the residential composition of its
workforce to the City every year and at any other time upon demand by the City
Manager or the City Manager’s designee.
         M.   A Cultivation Permit issued pursuant to this Section may be
transferred so long as the Permittee satisfies the City’s Cultivation Permit
application requirements and is in good standing with the city under the
following circumstances:
            1.   The transfer results from the existing Permittee changing the
corporation type or business type on file with the California Secretary of
State,
            2.   The transfer is necessary to reflect the death or disability
of an owner and/or person on file with the City as being responsible for the
permitted operations, or
            3.   To reflect a bona-fide transfer of the permit as a part of a
transfer of the permitted operation.
         N.   All Cultivation Permit transfers are subject to the City
Manager’s or his or her designee’s prior approval, which shall not be
unreasonably withheld. A Cultivation Permit shall expire and be null and void
12 months after issuance to the Cultivation Permittee unless properly renewed.
Upon payment of the applicable Cultivation Permit fees and passing the
requisite Cultivation Permit inspections, a Cultivation Permittee that has
maintained compliance with all City, State, and other applicable cannabis and
business related laws shall be entitled to renew its Cultivation Permit subject
to all prevailing laws at the time of renewal.
         O.   To the fullest extent permitted by law, the City does not assume
any liability, and expressly does not waive sovereign immunity, with respect to
any adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation activities or for the
activities of any adult-use and/or indoor medical cannabis cultivation
facility.
      (4)   Conditional Use Permit. All parcels of real property in the
Cultivation Zone upon which indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis
cultivation activities may occur must obtain a CUP from the City for all such
activities.
      (5)   Oversight Consultants. The City Manager or the City Manager’s
designee may establish an Oversight Consultant List to provide advice to City
staff regarding the practical regulation of adult-use and medical cannabis
activities in the City on an as needed basis. The Oversight Consultant List
will consist of experts and experienced participants in various disciplines
related to commercial adult-use and/or medical cannabis activities. The
Oversight Consultants will not be a public body, will not meet on a regular
schedule, and will not make or influence policy decisions by City staff. Rather
specific individuals from the Oversight Consultant List will be contacted as
necessary to provide specific advice based on their experience and expertise as
a resource for City staff. The Oversight Consultants, as private citizens, may
also proactively monitor adult-use and medical cannabis activities in the City
and report findings as necessary to City staff.
   (e)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Any cannabis cultivation within the City in violation of this
Section is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance.
      (2)   Any party who engages in a violation of this Section, or who owns,
possesses, controls, or has charge of any parcel of real property in the City
upon which a violation of the Section is maintained, shall be subject to the
penalties and remedies provided by this Section.
      (3)   Any violation of this Section shall constitute a separate offense
for each and every day the violation occurs or persists.
      (4)   Any person in violation of any provision of this Section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of up to $ 1,000 and
up to six months imprisonment per offense.
      (5)   Any person in violation of any provision of this Section shall be
punishable by an administrative fine of up to a $1,000 per offense.
      (6)   Any violation of this Section or any other City or State cannabis
law by a Cultivation Permittee or a Cultivation Permittee’s agent is grounds
for revoking the Cultivation Permittee’s Cultivation Permit. In addition, the
City Manager or the City Manager’s designee may revoke a Cultivation Permit if
any of the following occur subject to a reasonable opportunity for the
permittee to cure the deficiency during a period of no more than 30 days:
         A.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee determines that
the indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility has failed to
comply with this Section, any condition of approval, or any agreement or
covenant as required pursuant to this Section.
         B.   The indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation
operations cease for more than 90 calendar days.
         C.   Ownership of the indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis
cultivation facility is changed or transferred to a third party, without prior
City approval.
         D.   The indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility
fails to maintain 120 hours of security recordings.
         E.   The indoor adult-use and/or medical cannabis cultivation facility
fails to provide remote access to the security cameras to the City Manager, the
City Manager’s designee, the Code Enforcement Manager, or law enforcement, or
fails to allow inspection of the security recordings, the activity logs, or of
the premises by authorized City officials.
      (7)   Any decision regarding the revocation of a Cultivation Permit may
be appealed to an independent neutral third party administrative hearing
officer appointed by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee (“Hearing
Officer”). Said appeal shall be made by a notice of appeal from the person
appealing within 15 days from the date of the decision. The appeal shall be
accompanied by a written verified declaration setting forth the basis for the
claim that the Cultivation Permit was improperly revoked. The Hearing Officer’s
decision shall be final and binding upon the City and the appellant.
      (8)   These penalties and remedies are cumulative, and in addition to any
other penalties and remedies available to the City.
[Ord. No. 539, Section 2, 11/23/15; Ord. No. 545, Section 2, 5/25/16; Ord. No.
556, Section 2, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 558, Section 2, 12/14/16; Ord. 553, Section
2, 5/24/17; Ord. No. 564, Section 2, 6/28/17; Ord. No. 579, Section 2, 12/13/
17; Ord. No. 588, Section 2, 5/23/18; Ord. No. 602, Sections 2 - 4, 6/12/19.]
17.80.081 Cannabis Cultivation Water Requirements.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this Section is to measure and
monitor the amount of water used for the cultivation of adult-use and medical
cannabis that is grown in accordance with State law within the City in order to
comply with State water reporting requirements.
   (b)   Water Meters. In addition to all applicable State and local laws and
regulations, the following provisions shall apply to medical cannabis
cultivation within the City that is conditionally permitted under Section
17.80.080 of this Code:
      (1)   Each Cultivation Permittee shall maintain a standard curbside water
meter for consumption and billing purposes (“Standard Meter”).
      (2)   In addition to a Standard Meter, each Cultivation Permittee shall
install and maintain a separate water meter that exclusively measures and
monitors the amount of water used for cultivation purposes (“Cultivation
Meter”).
   (c)   Water Reporting. In addition to the requirements under Subsection (b),
Cultivation Permittees shall comply with the following reporting requirements:
      (1)   Each Cultivation Permittee shall report to the City the monthly
quantity of water registered by its Cultivation Meter and used for cultivation
purposes no later than the 10th day of the following month.
      (2)   Each monthly report submitted by a Cultivation Permittee shall also
include the following information:
         A.   The total amount of water used for cannabis cultivation (measured
in gallons and in acre-feet) for each month for each of the preceding 12
months. The report shall also tabulate the total amount of water used for
cannabis cultivation for the combined preceding 12 months, as well as the
combined months to date for the current calendar year.
         B.   The total irrigated acreage of cannabis cultivated (measured in
square feet) for the year to date.
         C.   For outdoor, indoor, and mixed light cultivation, the average
cultivated canopy size (measured in square feet) for the calendar year to date,
the total number of plants harvested for the calendar year to date, and the
total number of harvests for the calendar year to date.
         D.   Specify all the irrigation methods used for cannabis cultivation
including, but not limited to; hand watering; drip or micro spray irrigation;
flood irrigation; and row irrigation.
      (3)   Within 30 days of the effective date of this Section, each
Cultivation Permitee shall submit to the City individual monthly water reports
specifying all the information required under Section 17.80.081(c)(2) for each
month since, and including, January 2016.
   (d)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Any cannabis cultivation within the City in violation of this
Section is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance.
      (2)   Any party who engages in a violation of this Section, or who owns,
possess, controls, or has charge of any parcel of real property in the City
upon which a violation of this Section is maintained, shall be subject to the
penalties and remedies provided by AMC section
17.80.080(e).
[Ord. No. 567, Section 2, 7/12/17; Ord. No. 588, Section 3, 5/23/18.]
17.80.090 Cannabis Manufacturing.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this Section is to regulate the
manufacturing of adult-use and medical cannabis that is processed in accordance
with State law in order to promote the health, safety, morals, and general
welfare of the residents and businesses within the City. The City intends to be
on the forefront of medical cannabis research and manufacturing. The City is
authorized to regulate this activity pursuant to the MAUCRSA.
   (b)   Definitions. For purposes of this Section, the following definitions
shall apply, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
      (1)   “Cannabis” means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa Linnaeus,
Cannabis indica, or Cannabis ruderalis, whether growing or not; the seeds
thereof; the resin, whether crude or purified, extracted from any part of the
plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the plant, its seeds, or resin. “Cannabis” also means the
separated resin, whether crude or purified, obtained from cannabis. “Cannabis”
does not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the
stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound,
manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks
(except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized
seed of the plant which is incapable of germination. For the purpose of this
division, “cannabis” does not mean “industrial hemp” as defined by Section
11018.5 of the Health and Safety Code.
      (2)   “CUP” means a Conditional Use Permit issued by the City in
accordance with this Code.
      (3)   “Fully enclosed and secure structure” means a space within a
building, greenhouse or other structure which has a complete roof enclosure
supported by connecting walls extending from the ground to the roof, which is
secure against unauthorized entry, provides complete visual screening, and
which is accessible only through one or more lockable doors and is inaccessible
to minors.
      (4)   “Manufacturer” and “manufacturing” shall be defined in accordance
with the MAUCRSA, Business and Professions Code section 26001, and other
applicable State laws.
      (5)   “Manufacturing Permit” means a City permit to operate an adult-use
and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility pursuant to the terms and
conditions of this Section and the conditions of approval for the permit.
      (6)   “Manufacturing Permittee” means an applicant who has applied for
and has been issued a Manufacturing Permit by the City pursuant to the terms
and conditions of this Section.
      (7)   “MAUCRSA” means the Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis Regulation and
Safety Act (MAUCRSA). (Bus & Prof. Code, section 26000 et seq.)
      (8)   “Medicinal cannabis” or “medicinal cannabis product” means cannabis
or a cannabis product, respectively, intended to be sold for use pursuant to
the Compassionate Use Act of 1996 (Proposition 215), found at Section 11362.5
of the Health and Safety Code and other applicable State laws, by a medicinal
cannabis patient in California who possesses a physician’s recommendation. For
purposes of this definition, “medical cannabis” also means “medical marijuana.”
   (c)   Cannabis Manufacturing Prohibited. All cannabis manufacturing within
the City is prohibited except as expressly permitted by this Section.
   (d)   Cannabis Manufacturing Conditionally Permitted. Adult-use and medical
cannabis manufacturing is conditionally permitted in the City only as expressly
specified in this Section.
      (1)   Cannabis Manufacturing Standards. Adult-use and medical cannabis
manufacturing, within the City, shall be in conformance with the following
standards:
         A.   Adult-use and medical cannabis manufacturing shall only be
allowed upon application and approval of a Manufacturing Permit and a CUP in
accordance with the criteria and process set forth in this Section and this
Code.
         B.   Adult-use and medical cannabis manufacturing is a conditionally
permitted use only on properties within the City’s Cannabis Overlay Zones.
         C.   No cannabis manufacturing shall be established, developed, or
operated within 600 feet of a school, public playground or park, child care or
day care facility, youth center, or church. All distances shall be measured in
a straight line, without regard to intervening structures, from the nearest
point of the building or structure in which the adult-use and/or medical
cannabis manufacturing is, or will be located, to the nearest property line of
those uses described in this Subsection.
         D.   An adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility may
not be located within the same unit a cannabis testing facility.
         E.   Subject to the further requirements of this Section, only State
manufacturer license classification “M” and “A” type 6 level 1 and type 7 level
2 will be allowed to operate in the City in accordance with the MAUCRSA, and
Business and Professions Code sections 26050 and 26130.
         F.   Adult-use and medical cannabis manufacturing is allowed only
within fully enclosed and secure structures that are inaccessible to minors.
         G.   Adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing shall not exceed
the square footage authorized pursuant to the CUP.
         H.   From any public right-of-way, there shall be no visible exterior
evidence of any adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing activity.
         I.   Adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing shall not
adversely affect the health or safety of the nearby residents by creating dust,
glare, heat, noise, smoke, traffic, vibration, or other impacts, and shall not
be hazardous due to use or storage of materials, processes, products, or
wastes.
         J.   Each adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility
shall fully comply with all of the applicable restrictions and mandates set
forth in State law. An adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility
shall comply with all size requirements for such facility as imposed by State
law. An adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility shall not
engage in any activities not allowed by an adult-use and/or medical cannabis
manufacturing facility pursuant to State law. An adult-use and/or medical
cannabis manufacturing facility shall comply with all horticultural, labeling,
processing, and other standards required by State law.
         K.   There is no set restriction on the hours of operation of an
adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility; however, restricted
hours of operation may be established as a condition of approval of the
Manufacturing Permit or the applicable CUP.
         L.   All cannabis shall be kept in a secured manner during all
business and nonbusiness hours.
         M.   An adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility shall
operate within a legal structure that is compliant with all applicable State
and local laws.
         N.   An adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility must
pay all applicable sales taxes pursuant to all federal, State, and local laws.
         O.   On-site smoking, ingestion, or consumption of cannabis or alcohol
shall be prohibited on the premises of an adult-use and/or medical cannabis
manufacturing facility, except as may be permitted by applicable state laws and
regulations pertaining to product testing and quality control. The term
“premises” as used in this Subsection includes the actual adult-use and/or
medical cannabis manufacturing building, as well as any accessory structures
and parking areas. The adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility
building entrance shall be clearly and legibly posted with a notice indicating
that smoking, ingesting, or consuming cannabis or alcohol on the premises or in
the vicinity of the facility is prohibited.
         P.   Signage for an adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing
facility shall be limited to name of business only, shall be in compliance with
the City’s sign code, and shall contain no advertising of any companies,
brands, products, goods, or services. Signage shall not include any drug-
related symbols.
         Q.   Alcoholic beverages shall not be sold, stored, distributed, or
consumed on the premises. An adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing
facility shall not hold or maintain a license from the State Department of
Alcohol Beverage Control to sell alcoholic beverages, or operate a business
that sells alcoholic beverages. In addition, alcoholic beverages shall not be
provided, stored, kept, located, sold, dispensed, or used on the premises of
any medical cannabis manufacturing facility.
         R.   Physician services shall not be provided on the premises.
“Physician services” does not include social services, including counseling,
help with housing and meals, hospice, and other care referrals which may be
provided on site.
         S.   The building in which any adult-use and/or medical cannabis
manufacturing facility is located, as well as the operations as conducted
therein, shall fully comply with all applicable rules, regulations, and laws
including, but not limited to, zoning and building codes, the City's business
license ordinances, the Revenue and Taxation Code, the Americans with
Disabilities Act, and the MAUCRSA. Compliance with all requirements of State
law pertaining to adult-use and medical cannabis manufacturing is also
required.
         T.   An adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility shall
not grow, cultivate, distribute, transport, sell, dispense, or administer
cannabis from the facility, unless expressly and affirmatively authorized by
State law and permitted by local law. An adult- use and/or medical cannabis
manufacturing facility shall not be operated as a cannabis cultivation,
distribution, transportation, or testing facility, or as a cannabis dispensary,
unless expressly and affirmatively authorized by State law and permitted by
local law.
         U.   The operators of an adult-use and/or medical cannabis
manufacturing facility shall provide the City Manager or the City Manager's
designee with the name, phone number, facsimile number, and email address of an
on-site representative to whom the City and the public can provide notice if
there are any operational problems associated with the adult-use and/or medical
cannabis manufacturing facility. An adult-use and/or medical cannabis
manufacturing facility shall make every good faith effort to encourage
residents and the public to call this representative to resolve any operational
problems before any calls or complaints are made to the City or law
enforcement.
         V.   An adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility shall
be operated in accordance with the conditions of approval associated with the
applicable CUP for the parcel of real property upon which the adult-use and/or
medical cannabis manufacturing activities occur.
         W.   An adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility shall
have a security plan including the following measures:
            1.   Security cameras shall be installed and maintained in good
condition, and used in an on-going manner with at least 120 concurrent hours of
digitally recorded documentation in a format approved by the City Manager or
the City Manager’s designee. The cameras shall be in use 24 hours per day, 7
days per week. The areas to be covered by the security cameras include, but are
not limited to, the storage areas, manufacturing areas, all doors and windows,
and any other areas as determined by the City Manager or the City Manager’s
designee. Remote log-in information shall be provided to the City Manager, the
City Manager’s designee, the Code Enforcement Manager, and law enforcement to
allow them to view the security camera images and recordings from their own
facilities at any time. Any disruption in security camera images shall be cured
expeditiously.
            2.   The adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility
shall be alarmed with an alarm system that is operated and monitored by a
reputable security company.
            3.   Entrance to the manufacturing area, and all storage areas,
shall be locked at all times, and under the control of the adult-use and/or
medical cannabis manufacturing facility’s staff.
            4.   The entrances and all window areas shall be illuminated during
evening hours. The facility shall comply with the City’s lighting standards
regarding fixture type, wattage, illumination levels, shielding, etcetera, and
shall secure the necessary lighting approvals and permits as needed.
            5.   All windows on the building that houses the adult-use and/or
medical cannabis manufacturing facility shall be appropriately secured and all
cannabis securely stored.
         X.   Recordings made by the security cameras shall be made available
to the City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, or law enforcement upon
verbal request—no search warrant or subpoena shall be needed to view the
recorded materials.
         Y.   The City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, or the Code
Enforcement Manager shall have the right to enter the adult-use and/or cannabis
manufacturing facility for the purpose of making reasonable inspections to
observe and enforce compliance with this Section and all laws of the City and
the State. The City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, or the Code
Enforcement Manager shall maintain a log tracking the time and date of all
inspections, the individuals requesting the inspection, and the result of each
inspection. Individuals participating in any such inspection must take
precautions and comply with standard safeguards and procedures in place at the
facility regarding security, clean room/clean area access and anti-
contamination measures.
         Z.   An adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility must
employ full time quality control personnel. The Manufacturing Permittee must
establish Standard Operating Procedures and Batch Records that comply with
current Good Manufacturing Practices and the MAUCRSA for all food products, as
outlined by the State Department of Public Health and the Food and Drug
Administration.
         AA.   All finished products produced by an adult-use and/or medical
cannabis manufacturing facility must be labeled in compliance with the MAUCRSA,
Business and Profession Code sections 26106 and 26120, and the labeling
requirements outlined by the State Department of Public Health.
         BB.   All finished products produced by an adult-use and/or medical
cannabis manufacturing facility must be packaged in child resistant containers
prior to leaving the facility or becoming commercially available in accordance
with the MAUCRSA, Business and Profession Code sections 26106 and 26120, the
State Department of Public Health regulations, and other applicable State laws.
         CC.   All batches of final cannabis products must be inspected and
quality tested by a qualified third party distributor and testing facility
prior to distribution to a dispensary as required by the MAUCRSA, Business and
Professions Code section 26100, the Department of Food and Agriculture
regulations, and the State Department of Public Health regulations.
         DD.   All processing and analytical testing devises used by an adult-
use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility must be UL listed, or
otherwise approved for the intended use by the City's Building Official or the
Fire Department. Any processing devices using only non-pressurized water are
exempt from such approval.
         EE.   Unless otherwise prohibited, all processing devices used by an
adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility that utilize
hydrocarbons or otherwise flammable solvents must operate in a closed loop, or
in such a way that all solvent material is recovered in the process. All
hazardous material must be disposed of in a manner which is compliant with all
local, State, and federal guidelines for the disposal of hazardous materials.
      (2)   Manufacturing Permit Applications. All applicants wishing to obtain
a Manufacturing Permit from the City shall file an application with the City
upon a form provided by the City and shall pay a Manufacturing Permit
Application Fee as established by the City. An application for a Manufacturing
Permit shall include at least the following information:
         A.   An estimate of the size of the proposed adult-use and/or medical
cannabis manufacturing facility.
         B.   The address of the location for which the Manufacturing Permit is
sought.
         C.   A site plan and floor plan for the proposed premises denoting the
use of all areas on the premises, including storage, manufacturing areas,
lighting, signage, etcetera.
         D.   A proposed security plan in compliance with the Adult-Use and
Medical Cannabis Manufacturing Standards.
         E.   The names, addresses, and relevant criminal histories of all
potential employees, facility managers, and other relevant parties for the
adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility. Relevant criminal
histories shall include any drug-related or felony convictions, the nature of
such offenses, and the sentences received for such convictions.
         F.   The name and address of the owner and lessor of the real property
upon which the adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing activity is
proposed to be conducted. In the event the applicant is not the legal owner of
the property, the application must be accompanied with a notarized
acknowledgement from the owner of the property that an adult- use and/or
medical cannabis manufacturing facility will be operated on the property.
         G.   Authorization for the City Manager or the City Manager's designee
to seek verification of the information contained within the application.
         H.   Evidence that the adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing
facility will be located in a legal structure that is compliant with all
applicable State and local laws.
         I.   A statement in writing by the applicant that the applicant
certifies under penalty of perjury that all the information contained in the
application is true and correct.
         J.   Any such additional and further information as is deemed
necessary by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee to administer this
Section.
         K.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee shall conduct a
background check of any applicant seeking a Manufacturing Permit, including all
potential employees and any person who may be a facility manager or otherwise
responsible for the activities of the adult-use and/or medical cannabis
manufacturing facility (“Applicant’s Agents”), and shall prepare a report on
the acceptability of the applicant and the Applicant’s Agents and the
suitability of the proposed location.
         L.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee shall rank all
qualified applications in order of those that best satisfy the requirements of
this Section and provide the highest level of service and opportunities for
residents of the City based on the requirements of this Section and the
following criteria (“Merit List”):
            1.   The operational plan for the facility.
            2.   The security plan for the facility.
            3.   The experience of the operators of the facility.
            4.   The adequacy of capitalization for the facility and its
operations.
            5.   The employment of City residents and other public benefits to
the City.
      (3)   Manufacturing Permit. The following conditions apply to each
Manufacturing Permit:
         A.   A Manufacturing Permit will not be awarded to an applicant if:
            1.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents made one or more false
or misleading statements or omissions in the application or during the
application process.
            2.   The proposed adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing
facility is not allowed by State or local law.
            3.   The applicant is not a legal representative of the adult-use
and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility.
            4.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents have been convicted of
a felony, or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or the illegal use,
possession, transportation, distribution, or any such similar activity related
to controlled substances, with the exception of cannabis related offenses for
which the conviction occurred prior to passage of the Compassionate Use Act. A
conviction within the meaning of this Section means a plea or verdict of guilty
or a conviction following a plea of nolo contendere.
            5.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents have engaged in
unlawful, fraudulent, unfair, or deceptive business acts or practices.
            6.   The applicant has not satisfied each and every requirement of
this Section.
         B.   A Manufacturing Permit shall be awarded by the City to eligible
Manufacturing Permit applicants in order of the Merit List as established by
the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee. The number of Manufacturing
Permits shall be limited to those that may be reasonably accommodated within
the Manufacturing Zone as determined by the City Manager or the City Manager’s
designee.
         C.   Before a Manufacturing Permit can be issued to an applicant,
Manufacturing Permit fees must be paid to offset all related costs to the City,
and the proposed adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility
location must pass all applicable inspections.
         D.   A Manufacturing Permit is subject to the conditions of approval
in the applicable CUP for the parcel of real property upon which the adult-use
and/or medical cannabis manufacturing activity occurs.
         E.   A Manufacturing Permit is subject to any additional conditions
that may be applied by the City at the time of issuance or renewal as necessary
to properly regulate the activity and protect the public.
         F.   All manufacturing activities shall be subject to an excise tax to
be established by the City and the voters.
         G.   A Manufacturing Permittee may not hold or use any other cannabis
activity permits or licenses that would otherwise be a violation of the MAUCRSA
or Business and Professions Code section 26050.
         H.   A Manufacturing Permittee shall enter into an agreement with the
City to fully reimburse the City for all fiscal impacts, costs, expenses, fees,
and attorneys’ fees incurred by the City related to the Manufacturing Permit
and the adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing activity.
         I.   Manufacturing Permittees who are in good standing with the City
and who were previously authorized to engage in medical cannabis manufacturing,
may request an abbreviated application for a permit to engage in adult-use
cannabis manufacturing within the same manufacturing facility, and they may
operate under both permits in the same space, subject to state and local laws.
The abbreviated permit process will allow Manufacturing Permittees to submit
certain previously approved application materials for their adult-use
Manufacturing Permit. The City reserves the right to request the Manufacturing
Permittee to submit a new Manufacturing Permit application if the resubmitted
materials do not satisfy the City’s Manufacturing Permit requirements. The City
Manager will determine the appropriate fees for the adult-use permit, and the
City Manager shall issue the adult-use permits on an expedited basis based on
the prior applications and approvals.
         J.   A Manufacturing Permittee shall:
            1.   Carry liability insurance in the amounts and types set by the
City Manager or the City Manager’s designee, and name the City as an additional
insured on all such insurance policies.
            2.   Execute an Indemnification Agreement prepared by the City that
fully indemnifies the City for all liabilities associated with the
Manufacturing Permit, the Manufacturing Permittee’s cannabis related
activities, and any action taken by the Manufacturing Permittee pursuant to
this Section.
            3.   Agree to defend the City, at the Manufacturing Permittee’s
sole expense, in any action against the City or its agents, officers, or
employees associated with the Manufacturing Permit, the Manufacturing
Permittee’s cannabis related activities, or any action taken by the
Manufacturing Permittee pursuant to this Section.
            4.   Agree to reimburse the City for all costs, expenses, fees, and
attorney fees incurred by the City related to any action against the City or
its agents, officers, or employees associated with the Manufacturing Permit,
the Manufacturing Permittee’s cannabis related activities, or any action taken
by the Manufacturing Permittee pursuant to this Section. The City may, at its
sole discretion, participate in the defense of any such action, but such
participation shall not relieve the operator of its obligation hereunder.
         K.   A Manufacturing Permittee shall keep the City and law enforcement
updated with the names, addresses, and relevant criminal histories of all
employees, facility managers, and other relevant parties for the adult-use and/
or medical cannabis manufacturing facility at all times. Relevant criminal
histories shall include any drug-related or felony convictions, the nature of
such offenses, and the sentences received for such convictions.
         L.   A Manufacturing Permittee shall account for job creation in the
City and shall commit to employing a workforce that resides in the City. A
minimum of 50% of all employees employed by the Manufacturing Permittee at the
adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility shall be residents of
the City. A Manufacturing Permittee shall use good faith efforts to comply with
this subsection and shall report the residential composition of its workforce
to the City every year and at any other time upon demand by the City Manager or
the City Manager’s designee.
         M.   A Manufacturing Permit issued pursuant to this Section may be
transferred so long as the Permittee satisfies the City’s Manufacturing Permit
application requirements and is in good standing with the city under the
following circumstances:
            1.   The transfer results from the existing Permittee changing the
corporation type or business type on file with the California Secretary of
State,
            2.   The transfer is necessary to reflect the death or disability
of an owner and/or the person on file with the City as being responsible for
the permitted operations, or
            3.   To reflect a bona-fide transfer of the permit as a part of a
transfer of the permitted operation.
            All Manufacturing Permit transfers are subject to the City
Manager’s or his or her designee’s prior approval, which shall not be
unreasonably withheld.
         N.   A Manufacturing Permit shall expire and be null and void 12
months after issuance to the Manufacturing Permittee unless properly renewed.
Upon payment of the applicable Manufacturing Permit fees and passing the
requisite Manufacturing Permit inspections, a Manufacturing Permittee that has
maintained compliance with all City, State, and other applicable cannabis and
business related laws shall be entitled to renew its Manufacturing Permit
subject to all prevailing laws at the time of renewal.
         O.   To the fullest extent permitted by law, the City does not assume
any liability, and expressly does not waive sovereign immunity, with respect to
any adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing activities or for the
activities of any adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility.
      (4)   Conditional Use Permit. All parcels of real property in the
Manufacturing Zone upon which adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing
activities may occur must obtain a CUP from the City for all such activities.
   (e)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Any cannabis manufacturing within the City in violation of this
Section is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance.
      (2)   Any party who engages in a violation of this Section, or who owns,
possess, controls, or has charge of any parcel of real property in the City
upon which a violation of the Section is maintained, shall be subject to the
penalties and remedies provided by this Section.
      (3)   Any violation of this Section shall constitute a separate offense
for each and every day the violation occurs or persists.
      (4)   Any person in violation of any provision of this Section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of up to $1,000 and
up to six months imprisonment per offense.
      (5)   Any person in violation of any provision of this Section shall be
punishable by an administrative fine of up to a $ 1,000 per offense.
      (6)   Any violation of this Section or any other City or State cannabis
law by a Manufacturing Permittee or a Manufacturing Permittee’s agent is
grounds for revoking the Manufacturing Permittee’s Manufacturing Permit. In
addition, the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee may revoke a
Manufacturing Permit if any of the following occur, subject to a reasonable
opportunity for the permittee to cure the deficiency during a period of no more
than 30 days:
         A.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee determines that
the adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility has failed to
comply with this Section, any condition of approval, or any agreement or
covenant as required pursuant to this Section.
         B.   The adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing operations
cease for more than 90 calendar days.
         C.   Ownership of the adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing
facility is changed or transferred to a third party, without prior City
approval.
         D.   The adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility
fails to maintain 120 hours of security recordings.
         E.   T The adult-use and/or medical cannabis manufacturing facility
fails to provide remote access to the security cameras to the City Manager, the
City Manager’s designee, the Code Enforcement Manager, or law enforcement, or
fails to allow inspection of the security recordings, the activity logs, or of
the premises by authorized City officials.
      (7)   Any decision regarding the revocation of a Manufacturing Permit may
be appealed to an independent neutral third party administrative hearing
officer appointed by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee (“Hearing
Officer”). Said appeal shall be made by a notice of appeal from the person
appealing within 15 days from the date of the decision. The appeal shall be
accompanied by a written verified declaration setting forth the basis for the
claim that the Manufacturing Permit was improperly revoked. The Hearing
Officer’s decision shall be final and binding upon the City and the appellant.
      (8)   These penalties and remedies are cumulative, and in addition to any
other penalties and remedies available to the City.
[Ord. No. 545, Section 2, 5/25/16; Ord. No. 556, Section 3, 12/14/16; Ord. No.
558, Section 3, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 553, Section 3, 5/24/17; Ord. No. 564,
Section 3, 6/28/17; Ord. No. 588, Section 4, 5/23/18; Ord. No. 602, Sections 5
- 7, 6/12/19.]
17.80.100 Cannabis Distribution.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this Section is to regulate the
distribution of adult-use and medical cannabis between Medical Cannabis
Permittees in accordance with State law in order to promote the health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the residents and businesses within the City.
The City is authorized to regulate this activity pursuant to the MAUCRSA.
   (b)   Definitions. For purposes of this Section, the following definitions
shall apply, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
      (1)   “Cannabis” means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa Linnaeus,
Cannabis indica, or Cannabis ruderalis, whether growing or not; the seeds
thereof; the resin, whether crude or purified, extracted from any part of the
plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the plant, its seeds, or resin. “Cannabis” also means the
separated resin, whether crude or purified, obtained from cannabis. “Cannabis”
does not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the
stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound,
manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks
(except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized
seed of the plant which is incapable of germination. For the purpose of this
division, “cannabis” does not mean “industrial hemp” as defined by Section
11018.5 of the Health and Safety Code.
      (2)   “City” means the City of Adelanto, California.
      (3)   “City Manager” means the individual duly appointed by a majority of
the City Council to serve in the capacity as executive officer of the City on a
permanent or interim basis.
      (4)   “CUP” means a Conditional Use Permit issued by the City in
accordance with this Code.
      (5)   “Distribute” “Distribution” and “Distributor” shall be defined in
accordance with the MAUCRSA, Business and Professions Code section 26001, and
other applicable State laws, Distribution shall include the commercial acts of
shipping, storing, and warehousing medical cannabis.
      (6)   “Distribution Permit” means a City permit to distribute adult-use
and/or medical cannabis between Cannabis Permittees in accordance with the
terms and conditions of this Section and the conditions of approval for the
permit.
      (7)   “Distribution Permittee” means a person or entity that has been
issued a Distribution Permit by the City pursuant to the terms and conditions
of this Section.
      (8)   “Fully enclosed and secure structure” means a space within a
building, greenhouse or other structure which has a complete roof enclosure
supported by connecting walls extending from the ground to the roof, which is
secure against unauthorized entry, provides complete visual screening, and
which is accessible only through one or more lockable doors and is inaccessible
to minors.
      (9)   “MAUCRSA” means the Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis Regulation and
Safety Act (MAUCRSA). (Bus. & Prof. Code, section 26000 et seq.)
      (10)   “Medicinal cannabis” or “medicinal cannabis product” means
cannabis or a cannabis product, respectively, intended to be sold for use
pursuant to the Compassionate Use Act of 1996 (Proposition 215), found at
Section 11362.5 of the Health and Safety Code and other applicable State laws,
by a medicinal cannabis patient in California who possesses a physician’s
recommendation. For purposes of this definition, “medical cannabis” also means
“medical marijuana.” “Cannabis Permittee” means a person or entity that has
been issued a permit by the City, or another city in the State of California in
accordance with the MAUCRSA, or other applicable State laws, to participate in
a commercial adult-use and/or medical cannabis activity, such as cultivation,
manufacturing, distribution, transportation, testing, dispensing, or
delivering.
      (11)   “Physical Location” means a physical place of business, facility,
office, or warehouse owned or operated by a Distribution Permittee for the
distribution or storage of cannabis.
   (c)   Cannabis Distribution Prohibited. All cannabis distribution within the
City is prohibited except as expressly permitted by this Section.
   (d)   Distribution of Medical Cannabis Conditionally Permitted. Distribution
of adult-use and/or medical cannabis is conditionally permitted in the City
only as expressly specified in this Section.
      (1)   Cannabis Distribution Standards. Adult-use and medical cannabis
distribution within the City shall be in conformance with the following
standards:
         A.   Adult-use and medical cannabis distribution shall only be allowed
upon application and approval of a Distribution Permit and a CUP in accordance
with the criteria and process set forth in this Section and this Code.
         B.   Physical Location. A Distribution Permittee shall not be required
to own or operate a Physical Location within the City. Provisions in this
Section pertaining solely to a Physical Location within the City shall not
apply to Distribution Permittees who do not have a Physical Location within the
City. The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee shall have sole and
ultimate authority to determine whether a provision in this Section solely
pertains to a Physical Location, and, therefore, is not applicable to
Distribution Permittees who do not have a Physical Location within the City.
         C.   Adult-use and medical cannabis distribution is a conditionally
permitted use only on properties within the City’s Cannabis Overlay Zones,
except for shipping activities, which shall be permitted upon established
commercial trucking routes.
         D.   Adult-use and medical cannabis distribution activities may
include the receiving and releasing of cannabis plants, flowers, and products
for inspection, testing, and quality assurance.
         E.   No cannabis distribution shall be established, developed, or
operated within 600 feet of a school, public playground or park, child care or
day care facility, youth center, or church, except for shipping activities,
which must follow to established commercial trucking routes. All distances
shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures,
from the nearest point of the building or structure in which the cannabis
distribution activity is, or will be, located to the nearest property line of
those uses described in this Subsection.
         F.   Cannabis distribution may not be located within the same unit of
a building or structure as an indoor cannabis testing facility.
         G.   Subject to the further requirements of this Section, only State
Distributor license classification “M” or “A” Type 11 will be allowed to
operate in the City in accordance with the MAUCRSA, and Business and
Professions Code sections 26050 and 26070 Permittee and other applicable State
and local laws.
         H.   Except for commercial shipping operations, adult-use and/or
medical cannabis distribution shall only be allowed within fully enclosed and
secure structures that are inaccessible to minors, and shall not exceed the
square footage authorized pursuant to the applicable CUP.
         I.   From any public right-of-way, there shall be no visible exterior
evidence of any cannabis distribution activity.
         J.   Cannabis distribution shall not adversely affect the health or
safety of the nearby residents by creating dust, glare, heat, noise, smoke,
traffic, vibration, or other impacts, and shall not be hazardous due to use or
storage of materials, processes, products, or wastes.
         K.   Any cannabis distribution facility shall fully comply with all of
the applicable restrictions and mandates set forth in State law. Any cannabis
distribution facility shall operate within a legal structure that is compliant
with all applicable State and local laws. Any cannabis distribution facility
shall comply with all size requirements for such facility as imposed by State
law. Any cannabis distribution facility shall not engage in any activities not
allowed by adult-use and/or medical cannabis distribution facilities pursuant
to State law. Any cannabis distribution facility shall comply with all
horticultural, labeling, processing, and other standards required by State law.
         L.   There is no set restriction on the hours of operation of an
adult-use and/or medical cannabis distribution activities; however, restricted
hours of operation may be established as a condition of approval of the
Distribution Permit or the applicable CUP.
         M.   All cannabis shall be kept in a secured manner during all
business and nonbusiness hours.
         N.   Each Distribution Permittee must pay all applicable sales taxes
pursuant to all federal, State, and local laws. Each Distribution Permittee
shall pay the City’s Cannabis Excise Tax provided in AMC chapter 3.60.
         O.   On-site smoking, ingestion, or consumption of cannabis or alcohol
shall be prohibited on the premises of any cannabis distribution facility. The
term “premises” as used in this Subsection includes the actual cannabis
distribution building, as well as any accessory structures and parking areas.
The cannabis distribution facility building entrance shall be clearly and
legibly posted with a notice indicating that smoking, ingesting, or consuming
cannabis or alcohol on the premises, or in the vicinity of the facility, is
prohibited.
         P.   Signage for any cannabis distribution facility shall be limited
to name of business only, shall be in compliance with the City’s sign code, and
shall contain no advertising of any companies, brands, products, goods, or
services. Signage shall not include any drug-related symbols.
         Q.   Alcoholic beverages shall not be sold, stored, distributed, or
consumed on the premises. Distribution Permittees shall not hold or maintain a
license from the State Department of Alcohol Beverage Control to sell alcoholic
beverages, or operate a business that sells alcoholic beverages. In addition,
alcohol shall not be provided, stored, kept, located, sold, dispensed, or used
on the premises of any cannabis distribution facility.
         R.   Physician services shall not be provided on the cannabis
distribution premises.
         S.   The building in which any cannabis distribution facility is
located, as well as the operations conducted therein, shall fully comply with
all applicable rules, regulations, and laws including, but not limited to,
zoning and building codes, the City’s business license ordinances, the Revenue
and Taxation Code, the Americans with Disabilities Act, and the MAUCRSA.
Compliance with all requirements of State law pertaining to medical cannabis
distribution is also required.
         T.   A Distribution Permittee shall not grow, cultivate, manufacture,
process, transport, dispense, or administer cannabis, unless expressly and
affirmatively authorized by State law. Any cannabis distribution facility shall
not be operated as a cannabis testing facility unless expressly and
affirmatively authorized by State and local law.
         U.   The operators of any cannabis distribution facility shall provide
the City Manager, or the City Manager’s designee, with the name, phone number,
facsimile number, and email address of an on-site representative to whom the
City and the public can provide notice if there are any operational problems
associated with the cannabis distribution facility. Any cannabis distribution
facility shall make every good faith effort to encourage residents and the
public to call this representative to resolve any operational problems before
any calls or complaints are made to the City or law enforcement.
         V.   Any cannabis distribution facility shall be operated in
accordance with the conditions of approval associated with the applicable CUP
for the parcel of real property upon which the cannabis distribution activities
occur.
         W.   Any cannabis distribution facility shall have a security plan
including the following measures:
            1.   Security cameras shall be installed and maintained in good
condition, and used in an on-going manner with at least 120 concurrent hours of
digitally recorded documentation in a format approved by the City Manager or
the City Manager’s designee. The cameras shall be in use 24 hours per day,
seven days per week. The areas to be covered by the security cameras include,
but are not limited to, the storage areas, distribution areas, all doors and
windows, and any other areas as determined by the City Manager or the City
Manager’s designee. Remote log-in information shall be provided to the City
Manager, the City Manager’s designee, the Code Enforcement Manager, and law
enforcement to allow them to view the security camera images and recordings
from their own facilities at any time. Any disruption in security camera images
shall be cured expeditiously.
            2.   The cannabis distribution facility shall be secured with an
alarm system that is operated and monitored by a reputable security company.
            3.   Entrance to the distribution area, and all storage areas,
shall be locked at all times, and under the control of the medical cannabis
distribution facility’s staff.
            4.   The entrances and all window areas shall be illuminated during
evening hours. The facility shall comply with the City’s lighting standards
regarding fixture type, wattage, illumination levels, shielding, etcetera, and
shall secure the necessary lighting approvals and permits as needed.
            5.   All windows on the building that houses the cannabis
distribution facility shall be appropriately secured and all cannabis securely
stored.
         X.   Recordings made by the security cameras shall be made available
to the City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, or law enforcement upon
verbal request—no search warrant or subpoena shall be needed to view the
recorded materials.
         Y.   The City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, or the Code
Enforcement Manager shall have the right to enter the adult-use and/or cannabis
distribution facility for the purpose of making reasonable inspections to
observe and enforce compliance with this Section and all laws of the City and
the State. The City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, or the Code
Enforcement Manager shall maintain a log tracking the time and date of all
inspections, the individuals requesting the inspection, and the result of each
inspection. Individuals participating in any such inspection must take
precautions and comply with standard safeguards and procedures in place at the
facility regarding security, clean room/clean area access and anti-
contamination measures.
         Z.   A Distribution Permittee shall only distribute adult-use and/or
medical cannabis between the business locations of Medical Cannabis Permittees.
         AA.   A Distribution Permittee shall inspect all cannabis and cannabis
products received for quality assurance prior to distributing to any Cannabis
Permittee.
         BB.   A Distribution Permittee shall distribute batches of cultivated
cannabis and cannabis products to dispensaries only after those batches have
been inspected and quality tested by a qualified third party testing facility
as required by the MAUCRSA, Business and Professions Code section 26100, the
Department of Food and Agriculture regulations, and the State Department of
Public Health regulations.
         CC.   A Distribution Permittee shall not distribute or arrange for the
distribution to a dispensary of any batch of adult-use and/or medical cannabis
or cannabis products that a qualified third party testing facility has
determined fails to comply with the health and safety standards promulgated by
the State Department of Public Health, unless remedial measures can bring the
cannabis into compliance.
         DD.   A Distribution Permittee must destroy any batch of adult-use
and/or medical cannabis or cannabis products that a qualified third party
testing facility has determined fails to comply with health and safety
standards promulgated by the State Department of Public Health, unless remedial
measures can bring the cannabis into compliance.
         EE.   Each Distribution Permittee shall register with the City every
Physical Location the Distribution Permittee owns or operates within the City.
         FF.   A Distribution Permittee shall identify in its application for a
Distribution Permit every Physical Location the Distribution Permittee owns or
operates throughout the State.
         GG.   Storage of Cannabis. A Distribution Permittee may store adult-
use and/or medical cannabis and adult-use and/or medical cannabis products
subject to the following requirements:
            1.   Each batch of cannabis shall be stored separately and
distinctly from every other batch of cannabis.
            2.   Each batch of stored cannabis shall have a label attached
thereto that includes at least the following information: the Distribution
Permittee’s name and Distribution Permit number; the date of entry into the
Distribution Permittee’s storage area; the unique identifiers and batch number
associated with the batch; description of the cannabis product with enough
detail to easily identify the batch; and the weight of the batch, or quantity
of units in the batch.
            3.   Each batch of cannabis or cannabis products shall be stored in
a building that is designed to permit control of temperature and humidity, and
also prevents the entry of environmental contaminants such as smoke or dust.
The storage area shall not be exposed to direct sunlight. Employee breakrooms,
changing facilities, and bathrooms shall be completely separated from each
storage area.
            4.   Distribution Permittees may store vehicles and cannabis or
cannabis products in facilities located offsite from their permitted
distribution facility so long as the offsite facilities are located in the
applicable Cannabis Overlay Zone, the facilities meet the requirements of this
Section, and the City approves the offsite facilities through its entitlement
process for the specific use of cannabis distribution.
            5.   Cannabis shall not be stored outdoors.
         HH.   Packaging and Labeling of Cannabis. Each Distribution Permittee
must comply with all applicable adult-use and/or medical cannabis packaging and
labeling laws, including, but not limited to, Business and Professions Code
sections 26106 and 26120. A Distribution Permittee may package, re-package,
label, and re-label adult-use and/or medical cannabis in the form of dried
flower on behalf of a cultivator or another distributor. A Distribution
Permittee shall not package, re-package, label, or relabel manufactured adult-
use and/or medical cannabis or adult-use and/or medical cannabis products.
Prior to distributing any adult-use and/or medical cannabis or adult-use and/or
medical cannabis products to a dispensary, each Distribution Permittee shall
ensure that the label and packaging of each batch of adult-use and/or medical
cannabis or adult-use and/or medical cannabis products complies with all
applicable adult-use and/or medical cannabis packaging and labeling laws,
including, but not limited to, Business and Professions Code sections 26106 and
26120.
         II.   Inventory Log. Each Distribution Permittee shall maintain an
inventory log, containing at least the following information for each batch of
adult-use and/or medical cannabis distributed or stored: information regarding
the origin of the batch; the date and time of physical transfer to the
Distribution Permittee; the unique identifiers of the batch; the total weight
or amount of the batch; the storage conditions the batch is held in; the best-
by, sell-by, or expiration date of each batch, if any; shipping manifests and
bills of lading; a copy of the service or sale contract pertaining to the
batch; and warehouse receipts. Each Distribution Permittee shall reconcile all
of its inventories of adult-use and/or medical cannabis or adult-use and/or
medical cannabis products at least once per week.
         JJ.   A Distribution Permittee shall notify the City Manager or the
City Manager’s designee within 24 hours of discovering any of the following:
            1.   Significant discrepancies identified during inventory. The
level of significance shall be determined by the City Manager or the City
Manager’s designee.
            2.   Diversion, theft, loss, or any criminal activity involving the
distribution facility or any agent or employee of the Distribution Permittee.
            3.   The loss or unauthorized alteration of records related to
adult-use and/or medical cannabis distribution activity.
            4.   Any other breach of security.
      (2)   Distribution Permit Applications. All applicants wishing to obtain
a Distribution Permit from the City shall file an application with the City
upon a form provided by the City and shall pay a Distribution Permit
Application Fee as established by the City. An application for a Distribution
Permit shall include at least the following information:
         A.   The address of the applicant’s headquarters.
         B.   The names, addresses, and relevant criminal histories of all
potential employees, facility managers, and other relevant parties for the
proposed distribution activities. Relevant criminal histories shall include any
drug-related or felony convictions, the nature of such offenses, and the
sentences received for such convictions.
         C.   Evidence that the applicant has identified every Physical
Location the applicant owns or operates throughout the State.
         D.   Authorization for the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee
to seek verification of the information contained within the application.
         E.   A statement in writing by the applicant that the applicant
certifies under penalty of perjury that all the information contained in the
application is true and correct.
         F.   Any such additional and further information as is deemed
necessary by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee to administer this
Section.
         G.   An application for a Distribution Permit involving a Physical
Location shall also include at least the following information:
            1.   An estimate of the size of the proposed adult-use and/or
medical cannabis distribution facility.
            2.   The address of the location for which the Distribution Permit
is sought.
            3.   A site plan and floor plan for the proposed premises denoting
the use of all areas on the premises, including storage, distribution areas,
lighting, signage, etcetera.
            4.   A proposed security plan in compliance with the Adult-use and
Medical Cannabis Distribution Standards.
            5.   The name and address of the owner and lessor of the real
property upon which the adult-use and/or medical cannabis distribution activity
is proposed to be conducted. In the event the applicant is not the legal owner
of the property, the application must be accompanied with a notarized
acknowledgement from the owner of the property that an adult- use and/or
medical cannabis distribution facility will be operated on the property.
            6.   Evidence that the adult-use and/or medical cannabis
distribution facility will be located in a legal structure that is compliant
with all applicable State and local laws.
            7.   Evidence that the applicant has registered with the City every
Physical Location the applicant owns or operates within the City.
         H.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee shall conduct a
background check of any applicant seeking a Distribution Permit, including all
potential employees and any person who may be a facility manager or otherwise
responsible for the proposed distribution activities (“Applicant’s Agents”),
and shall prepare a report on the acceptability of the applicant and the
Applicant’s Agents and the suitability of the proposed Physical Location, if
any.
         I.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee shall rank all
qualified applications in order of those that best satisfy the requirements of
this Section and provide the highest level of service and opportunities for
residents of the City based on the requirements of this Section and the
following criteria (“Merit List”):
            1.   The operational plan for the distribution activities.
            2.   The security plan for the distribution activities.
            3.   The experience of the operators of the distribution
activities.
            4.   The adequacy of capitalization for the Physical Location, if
any, and its operations.
            5.   The employment of City residents and other public benefits to
the City.
      (3)   Distribution Permit. The following conditions apply to Distribution
Permits:
         A.   A Distribution Permit will not be awarded to an applicant if:
            1.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents made one or more false
or misleading statements or omissions in the application or during the
application process.
            2.   The proposed adult-use and/or medical cannabis distribution
activity or Physical Location, if any, is not allowed by State or local law.
            3.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents have been convicted of
a felony, or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or the illegal use,
possession, distribution, transportation, or any such similar activity related
to controlled substances, with the exception of cannabis related offenses for
which the conviction occurred prior to passage of Compassionate Use Act. A
conviction within the meaning of this Section means a plea or verdict of guilty
or a conviction following a plea of nolo contendere.
            4.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents have engaged in
unlawful, fraudulent, unfair, or deceptive business acts or practices.
            5.   The applicant has not satisfied each and every requirement of
this Section.
         B.   A Distribution Permit shall be awarded by the City to eligible
Distribution Permit applicants in order of the Merit List as established by the
City Manager or the City Manager’s designee. The number of Distribution Permits
shall be limited to those that may be reasonably accommodated within the City’s
Cannabis Overlay Zones as determined by the City Manager or the City Manager’s
designee.
         C.   Before a Distribution Permit can be issued to an applicant,
Distribution Permit fees must be paid to offset all related costs to the City,
and the proposed Physical Location, if any, must pass all applicable
inspections.
         D.   Each Distribution Permit involving a Physical Location is subject
to the conditions of approval in the applicable CUP for the parcel of real
property upon which the medical cannabis distribution activity occurs.
         E.   Each Distribution Permit is subject to any additional conditions
that may be applied by the City at the time of issuance or renewal as necessary
to properly regulate the cannabis distribution activities and to protect the
public.
         F.   All distribution activities shall be subject to the City’s
Cannabis Excise Tax provided in AMC
chapter 3.60.
         G.   Each Distribution Permittee shall enter into an agreement with
the City to fully reimburse the City for all fiscal impacts, costs, expenses,
fees, and attorneys’ fees incurred by the City related to the Distribution
Permit and the cannabis distribution activity.
         H.   Distribution Permittees who are in good standing with the City
and who were previously authorized to engage in medical cannabis distribution,
may request an abbreviated application for a permit to engage in adult-use
cannabis distribution within the same distribution facility, and they may
operate under both permits in the same space, subject to state and local laws.
The abbreviate permit process will allow Distribution Permittees to submit
certain previously approved application materials for their adult-use
Distribution Permit. The City reserves the right to request the Distribution
Permittee to submit a new Distribution Permit application if the resubmitted
materials do not satisfy the City’s Distribution Permit requirements. The City
Manager will determine the appropriate fees for the adult-use permit, and the
City Manager shall issue the adult-use permits on an expedited basis based on
the prior applications and approvals.
         I.   Each Distribution Permittee shall:
            1.   Carry liability insurance in the amounts and types set by the
City Manager or the City Manager’s designee, and name the City as an additional
insured on all such insurance policies.
            2.   Execute an Indemnification Agreement prepared by the City that
fully indemnifies the City for all liabilities associated with the Distribution
Permit, the Distribution Permittee’s cannabis related activities, and any
action taken by the Distribution Permittee pursuant to this Section.
            3.   Defend the City, at the Distribution Permittee’s sole expense,
in any action against the City or its agents, officers, or employees associated
with the Distribution Permit, the Distribution Permittee’s cannabis related
activities, or any action taken by the Distribution Permittee pursuant to this
Section. The City may, at its sole discretion, participate in the defense of
any such action, but such participation shall not relieve the Distribution
Permittee of its indemnification and reimbursement obligations.
            4.   Reimburse the City for all costs, expenses, fees, and attorney
fees incurred by the City related to any action against the City or its agents,
officers, or employees associated with the Distribution Permit, the
Distribution Permittee’s cannabis related activities, or any action taken by
the Distribution Permittee pursuant to this Section.
         J.   A Distribution Permittee shall keep the City and law enforcement
updated with the names, addresses, and relevant criminal histories of all
employees, facility managers, and other relevant parties for the adult-use and/
or medical cannabis distribution activities at all times. Relevant criminal
histories shall include any drug-related or felony convictions, the nature of
such offenses, and the sentences received for such convictions.
         K.   A Distribution Permittee shall account for job creation in the
City and shall commit to employing a workforce that resides in the City. For
Distribution Permittees with a Physical Location, a minimum of 50% of all
employees employed by the Distribution Permittee at the Physical Location shall
be residents of the City. A Distribution Permittee shall use good faith efforts
to comply with this Subsection and shall report the residential composition of
its workforce to the City every year and at any other time upon demand by the
City Manager or the City Manager’s designee.
         L.   A Distribution Permit issued pursuant to this Section may be
transferred so long as the Permittee satisfies the City’s Distribution Permit
application requirements and is in good standing with the city under the
following circumstances:
            1.   The transfer results from the existing Permittee changing the
corporation type on file with the California Secretary of State,
            2.   The transfer is necessary to reflect the death or disability
of an owner and/or the person on file with the City as being responsible for
the permitted operations, or
            3.   To reflect a bona-fide transfer of the permit as a part of a
transfer of the permitted operation.
            All Distribution Permit transfers are subject to the City Manager’s
or his or her designee’s prior approval, which shall not be unreasonably
withheld.
         M.   A Distribution Permit shall expire and be null and void 12 months
after issuance to the Distribution Permittee unless properly renewed. Upon
payment of the applicable Distribution Permit fees, and passing any requisite
Distribution Permit inspections, a Distribution Permittee that has maintained
compliance with all City, State, and other applicable cannabis and business
related laws shall be entitled to renew its Distribution Permit subject to all
prevailing laws at the time of renewal.
         N.   To the fullest extent permitted by law, the City does not assume
any liability, and expressly does not waive sovereign immunity, with respect to
any cannabis distribution activities, or for the activities of any Distribution
Permittee.
      (4)   Conditional Use Permit. All parcels of real property within the
City’s Cannabis Overlay Zones, upon which cannabis distribution activities may
occur, must obtain a CUP from the City for all such activities.
   (e)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Any cannabis distribution within the City in violation of this
Section is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance.
      (2)   Any party who engages in a violation of this Section, or who owns,
possesses, controls, or has charge of any parcel of real property in the City
upon which a violation of this Section is maintained, shall be subject to the
penalties and remedies provided by this Section.
      (3)   Any violation of this Section shall constitute a separate offense
for each and every day the violation occurs or persists.
      (4)   Any person in violation of any provision of this Section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of up to $ 1,000 and
up to six months imprisonment per offense per day.
      (5)   Any person in violation of any provision of this Section shall be
punishable by an administrative fine of up to a $1,000 per offense per day.
      (6)   Any violation of this Section or any other City or State cannabis
law by a Distribution Permittee, or a Distribution Permittee’s agent, is
grounds for revoking the relevant Distribution Permit. In addition, the City
Manager or the City Manager’s designee may revoke a Distribution Permit if any
of the following occur subject to a reasonable opportunity for the permittee to
cure the deficiency during a period of no more than 30 days:
         A.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee determines that
the Distribution Permittee has failed to comply with this Section, any
condition of approval, or any agreement or covenant as required pursuant to
this Section.
         B.   The adult-use and/or medical cannabis distribution operations
cease for more than 90 calendar days.
      (7)   For Distribution Permits involving a Physical Location, the City
Manager or the City Manager’s designee may also revoke the Distribution Permit
if any of the following occur:
         A.   Ownership of the Physical Location is changed or transferred to a
third party, without prior City approval.
         B.   The Physical Location fails to maintain 120 hours of security
recordings.
         C.   The Physical Location fails to provide remote access to the
security cameras to the City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, the Code
Enforcement Manager, or law enforcement, or fails to allow inspection of the
security recordings, the activity logs, or of the premises by authorized City
officials.
      (8)   Any decision regarding the revocation of a Distribution Permit may
be appealed to an independent neutral third party administrative hearing
officer appointed by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee (“Hearing
Officer”). Said appeal shall be made by a notice of appeal from the person
appealing within 15 days from the date of the decision to revoke the
Distribution Permit. The appeal shall be accompanied by a written verified
declaration setting forth the basis for the claim that the Distribution Permit
was improperly revoked. The Hearing Officer’s decision shall be final and
binding upon the City and the appellant.
      (9)   These penalties and remedies are cumulative, and in addition to any
other penalties and remedies available to the City.
[Ord. No. 548, Section 2, 10/12/16; Ord. No. 556, Section 4, 12/14/16; Ord. No.
558, Section 4, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 564, Section 4, 6/28/17; Ord. No. 573,
Section 2, 7/12/17; Ord. No. 588, Section 5, 5/23/18; Ord. No. 602, Sections 8
- 11, 6/12/19.]
17.80.101   Cannabis Transportation.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this Section is to regulate the
transportation of adult-use and medical cannabis between Cannabis Permittees in
accordance with State law in order to promote the health, safety, morals, and
general welfare of the residents- and businesses within the City. The City is
authorized to regulate this activity pursuant to the MAUCRSA.
   (b)   Definitions. For purposes of this Section, the following definitions
shall apply, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
      (1)   “Cannabis” means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa Linnaeus,
Cannabis indica, or Cannabis ruderalis, whether growing or not; the seeds
thereof; the resin, whether crude or purified, extracted from any part of the
plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the plant, its seeds, or resin. “Cannabis” also means the
separated resin, whether crude or purified, obtained from cannabis. “Cannabis”
does not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the
stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound
manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks
(except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized
seed of the plant which is incapable of germination. For the purpose of this
division, “cannabis” does not mean “industrial hemp” as defined by Section
11018.5 of the Health and Safety Code.
      (2)   “City” means the City of Adelanto, California.
      (3)   “City Manager” means the individual duly appointed by a majority of
the City Council to serve in the capacity as executive officer of the City on a
permanent or interim basis.
      (4)   “CUP” means a Conditional Use Permit issued by the City in
accordance with this Code.
      (5)   “Fully enclosed and secure structure” means a space within a
building, greenhouse or other structure which has a complete roof enclosure
supported by connecting walls extending from the ground to the roof, which is
secure against unauthorized entry, provides complete visual screening, and
which is accessible only through one or more lockable doors and is inaccessible
to minors.
      (6)   “MAUCRSA” means the Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis Regulation and
Safety Act (MAUCRSA). (Bus. & Prof. Code, seciton 26000 et seq.)
      (7)   “Medicinal cannabis” or “medicinal cannabis product” means cannabis
or a cannabis product, respectively, intended to be sold for use pursuant to
the Compassionate Use Act of 1996 (Proposition 215), found at Section 11362.5
of the Health and Safety Code and other applicable State laws, by a medicinal
cannabis patient in California who possesses a physician’s recommendation. For
purposes of this definition, “medical cannabis” also means “medical marijuana.”
“Cannabis Permittee” means a person or entity that has been issued a permit by
the City, or another city in the State of California in accordance with the
MAUCRSA or other applicable State laws, to participate in a commercial adult-
use and/or medical cannabis activity, such as cultivation, manufacturing,
distribution, transportation, testing, dispensing, or delivering.
      (8)   “Physical Location” means a physical place of business, facility,
office, or warehouse owned or operated by a Transportation Permittee for the
transportation or storage of cannabis.
      (9)   “Transport,” “Transporter,” and “Transportation” shall be defined
and “Distribution” is defined in accordance with the MAUCRSA, Business and
Professions Code section 26001, and other applicable State laws.
      (10)   “Transportation Permit” means a City permit to distribute or
transport adult-use and/or medical cannabis between Cannabis Permittees in
accordance with the terms and conditions of this Section and the conditions of
approval for the permit.
      (11)   “Transportation Permittee” means a person or entity that has been
issued a Distribution/Transportation Permit by the City pursuant to the terms
and conditions of this Section.
      (12)   “Transport Vehicle” means a commercial vehicle or trailer owned or
operated by a Transportation Permittee to transport adult-use and/or medical
cannabis that has been approved by the Bureau of Cannabis Control for adult-use
and/or medical cannabis transportation and complies with all of the
requirements of this Section. Transport vehicle does not include aircrafts,
watercrafts, drones, rails, human powered vehicles, or unmanned vehicles.
   (c)   Cannabis Transportation Prohibited. All cannabis transportation within
the City is prohibited except as expressly permitted by this Section.
   (d)   Transportation of Cannabis Conditionally Permitted. Transportation of
adult- use and/or medical cannabis is conditionally permitted in the City only
as expressly specified in this Section.
      (1)   Cannabis Transportation Standards. Adult-use and medical cannabis
transportation within the City shall be in conformance with the following
standards:
         A.   Adult-use and medical cannabis transportation shall only be
allowed upon application and approval of a Transportation Permit and a CUP in
accordance with the criteria and process set forth in this Section and this
Code.
         B.   Physical Location. A Transportation Permittee shall not be
required to own or operate a Physical Location within the City. Provisions in
this Section pertaining solely to a Physical Location within the City shall not
apply to Transportation Permittees who do not have a Physical Location within
the City. The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee shall have sole and
ultimate authority to determine whether a provision in this Section solely
pertains to a Physical Location, and, therefore, is not applicable to
Transportation Permittees who do not have a Physical Location within the City.
         C.   Adult-use and/or medical cannabis transportation is a
conditionally permitted use only on properties within the City’s Cannabis
Overlay Zones, except for shipping activities, which shall be permitted upon
established commercial trucking routes.
         D.   Adult-use and/or medical cannabis transportation activities may
include the receiving and releasing of cannabis plants, flowers, and products
for inspection, testing, and quality assurance.
         E.   No cannabis transportation shall be established, developed, or
operated within 600 feet of a school, public playground or park, child care or
day care facility, youth center, or church, except for shipping activities,
which must follow to established commercial trucking routes. All distances
shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures,
from the nearest point of the building or structure in which the cannabis
transportation activity is, or will be, located to the nearest property line of
those uses described in this Subsection.
         F.   Cannabis transportation may not be located within the same unit
as a cannabis testing facility.
         G.   Subject to the further requirements of this Section, only State
Transporter license classifications “M” or “A” Type 11 will be allowed to
operate in the City in accordance with the MAUCRSA and Business and Professions
Code sections 26050 and 26070.
         H.   Adult-use and medical cannabis transportation is allowed only
within Transport Vehicles or fully enclosed and secure structures that are
inaccessible to minors.
         I.   Except for commercial shipping operations, adult-use and/or
medical cannabis transportation activities shall not exceed the square footage
authorized pursuant to the applicable CUP.
         J.   From any public right-of-way, there shall be no visible exterior
evidence of any cannabis transportation activity.
         K.   Cannabis transportation shall not adversely affect the health or
safety of the nearby residents by creating dust, glare, heat, noise, smoke,
traffic, vibration, or other impacts, and shall not be hazardous due to use or
storage of materials, processes, products, or wastes.
         L.   Any cannabis transportation facility shall fully comply with all
of the applicable restrictions and mandates set forth in State law. Any
cannabis transportation facility shall operate within a legal structure that is
compliant with all applicable State and local laws. Any cannabis transportation
facility shall comply with all size requirements for such facility as imposed
by State law. Any cannabis transportation facility shall not engage in any
activities not allowed by an adult-use and/or medical cannabis transportation
facilities pursuant to State law. Any cannabis transportation facility shall
comply with all horticultural, labeling, processing, and other standards
required by State law.
         M.   There is no set restriction on the hours of operation of adult-
use and/or medical cannabis transportation activities; however, restricted
hours of operation may be established as a condition of approval of the
Transportation Permit or the applicable CUP.
         N.   All cannabis shall be kept in a secured manner during all
business and nonbusiness hours.
         O.   Each Transportation Permittee must pay all applicable sales taxes
pursuant to all federal, State, and local laws. Each Transportation Permittee
shall pay the City’s Cannabis Excise Tax provided in AMC chapter 3.60.
         P.   On-site smoking, ingestion, or consumption of cannabis or alcohol
shall be prohibited on the premises of any cannabis transportation facility or
on any Transport Vehicle. The term, “premises” as used in this Subsection
includes the actual cannabis transportation building, as well as any accessory
structures and parking areas. The cannabis transportation facility building
entrance shall be clearly and legibly posted with a notice indicating that
smoking, ingesting, or consuming cannabis or alcohol on the premises, or in the
vicinity of the facility, is prohibited.
         Q.   Signage for any cannabis transportation facility shall be limited
to name of business only, shall be in compliance with the City’s sign code, and
shall contain no advertising of any companies, brands, products, goods, or
services. Signage shall not include any drug-related symbols.
         R.   Alcoholic beverages shall not be sold, stored, distributed, or
consumed on the premises of any cannabis transportation facility or on a
Transport Vehicle. Transportation Permittees shall not hold or maintain a
license from the State Department of Alcohol Beverage Control to sell alcoholic
beverages, or operate a business that sells alcoholic beverages. In addition,
alcohol shall not be provided, stored, kept, located, sold, dispensed, or used
on the premises of any cannabis transportation facility or on a Transport
Vehicle.
         S.   Physician services shall not be provided on the cannabis
transportation premises.
         T.   The building in which any cannabis transportation facility is
located, as well as the operations conducted therein, shall fully comply with
all applicable rules, regulations, and laws including, but not limited to,
zoning and building codes, the City’s business license ordinances, the Revenue
and Taxation Code, the Americans with Disabilities Act, and the MAUCRSA.
Compliance with all requirements of State law pertaining to adult-use and/or
medical cannabis transportation is also required.
         U.   Transportation Permittees shall not grow, cultivate, manufacture,
process, distribute, dispense, or administer cannabis, unless expressly and
affirmatively authorized by State law and local law. Any cannabis
transportation facility shall not be operated as a cannabis cultivation,
manufacturing, distribution, or testing facility, or as cannabis dispensary,
unless expressly and affirmatively authorized by State and local law.
         V.   The operators of any cannabis transportation facility shall
provide the City Manager, or the City Manager’s designee, with the name, phone
number, facsimile number, and email address of an on-site representative to
whom the City and the public can provide notice if there are any operational
problems associated with the cannabis transportation facility. Any cannabis
transportation facility shall make every good faith effort to encourage
residents and the public to call this representative to resolve any operational
problems before any calls or complaints are made to the City or law
enforcement.
         W.   Any cannabis transportation facility shall be operated in
accordance with the conditions of approval associated with the applicable CUP
for the parcel of real property upon which the cannabis transportation
activities occur.
         X.   Any cannabis transportation facility shall have a security plan
including the following measures;
            1.   Security cameras shall be installed and maintained in good
condition, and used in an on-going manner with at least 120 concurrent hours of
digitally recorded documentation in a format approved by the City Manager or
the City Manager’s designee. The cameras shall be in use 24 hours per day,
seven days per week. The areas to be covered by the security cameras include,
but are not limited to, the storage areas, transportation areas, all doors and
windows, and any other areas as determined by the City Manager or the City
Manager’s designee. Remote log-in information shall be provided to the City
Manager, the City Manager’s designee, the Code Enforcement Manager, and law
enforcement to allow them to view the security camera images and recordings
from their own facilities at any time. Any disruption in security camera images
shall be cured expeditiously.
            2.   The cannabis transportation facility shall be secured with an
alarm system that is operated and monitored by a reputable security company.
            3.   Entrance to the transportation area, and all storage areas,
shall be locked at all times, and under the control of the adult-use and/or
medical cannabis transportation facility’s staff.
            4.   The entrances and all window areas shall be illuminated during
evening hours. The facility shall comply with the City’s lighting standards
regarding fixture type, wattage, illumination levels, shielding, etcetera, and
shall secure the necessary lighting approvals and permits as needed.
            5.   All windows on the building that houses the cannabis
transportation facility shall be appropriately secured and all cannabis
securely stored.
         Y.   Recordings made by the security cameras shall be made available
to the City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, or law enforcement upon
verbal request. No search warrant or subpoena shall be needed to view the
recorded materials.
         Z.   The City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, or the Code
Enforcement Manager shall have the right to enter the adult-use and/or cannabis
transportation facility for the purpose of making reasonable inspections to
observe and enforce compliance with this Section and all laws of the City and
the State. The City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, or the Code
Enforcement Manager shall maintain a log tracking the time and date of all
inspections, the individuals requesting the inspection, and the result of each
inspection. Individuals participating in any such inspection must take
precautions and comply with standard safeguards and procedures in place at the
facility regarding security, clean room/clean area access and anti-
contamination measures.
         AA.   A Transportation Permittee shall only transport adult-uses and/
or medical cannabis between the business locations of Medical Cannabis
Permittees.
         BB.   A Transportation Permittee shall inspect all cannabis and
cannabis products received for quality assurance prior to transporting to any
Cannabis Permittee.
         CC.   A Transportation Permittee shall transport batches of cultivated
cannabis and cannabis products to dispensaries only after those batches have
been inspected and quality tested by a qualified third party testing facility
as required by the MAUCRSA, Business and Professions Code section 26100, the
Department of Food and Agriculture regulations, and the State Department of
Public Health regulations.
         DD.   Each Transportation Permittee shall register with the City every
Physical Location the Transportation Permittee owns or operates within the
City.
         EE.   A Transportation Permittee shall identify in its application for
a Transportation Permit every Physical Location the Transportation Permittee
owns or operates throughout the State.
         FF.   Transport Vehicles. Transportation of cannabis by means of
aircraft, watercraft, drones, rail, human powered vehicles, and unmanned
vehicles is prohibited. Transportation of cannabis shall only occur inside of a
Transport Vehicle. Transportation of cannabis shall not be visible or
identifiable from outside a Transport Vehicle. Cannabis goods shall be locked
in a box that is secured to the inside of a Transport Vehicle. While left
unattended, a Transport Vehicle shall be locked and secured. A Transportation
Permittee shall not leave a Transport Vehicle carrying medical cannabis goods
unattended at any time or parked overnight. Each Transport Vehicle shall be
equipped with, and utilize, a vehicle alarm system. Each Transport Vehicle
shall have an internal partition between the driver and all passengers from the
cannabis storage containers that prevents access by the driver and passengers
to all cannabis products from inside the Transport Vehicle. A Transport Vehicle
shall not carry more cannabis than allowed by State law.
         GG.   A Transportation Permittee shall only travel to and from the
business of another Cannabis Permittee when engaged in the transportation of
adult-use and/or medical cannabis or medical cannabis products.
         HH.   A Transportation Permittee may transport multiple shipments of
adult-use and/or medical cannabis or medical cannabis products at once in
accordance with State law and the requirements of this Section.
         II.   Packages or containers containing adult-use and/or medical
cannabis or adult-use and/or medical cannabis products shall not be tampered
with during transport.
         JJ.   During Transport, only a Transportation Permittee shall be
allowed inside of a Transport Vehicle. No person under the age of 21 years old
shall be allowed inside of a Transport Vehicle at any time.
         KK.   Storage of Cannabis. A Transportation Permittee may store adult-
use and/or medical cannabis and adult-use and/or medical cannabis products at
its transportation facility subject to the following requirements:
            1.   Cannabis may be stored for a maximum of 72 hours.
            2.   Each batch of cannabis shall be stored separately and
distinctly from every other batch of cannabis.
            3.   Each batch of stored cannabis shall have a label attached
thereto that includes at least the following information: the Transportation
Permittee’s name and Transportation Permit number; the date of entry into the
Transportation Permittee’s storage area; the unique identifiers and batch
number associated with the batch; description of the cannabis product with
enough detail to easily identify the batch; and the weight of the batch, or
quantity of units in the batch.
            4.   Each batch of cannabis or cannabis products shall be stored in
a building that is designed to permit control of temperature and humidity, and
also prevents the entry of environmental contaminants such as smoke or dust.
The storage area shall not be exposed to direct sunlight. Employee breakrooms,
changing facilities, and bathrooms shall be completely separated from each
storage area.
            5.   Cannabis shall not be stored outdoors.
         LL.   Shipment Manifest. Before transporting any cannabis goods, each
Transportation Permittee shall complete an electronic shipment manifest
(“Shipment Manifest”). Every Shipment Manifest shall be maintained for three
years from the date created and shall be open to inspection by the City
Manager, the City Manager’s designee, Code Enforcement, and law enforcement.
The Shipment Manifest shall include at least the following information:
            1.   The Transportation Permittee’s name.
            2.   The names of authorized drivers.
            3.   The type, weight, and quantity or amount of adult-use and/or
medical cannabis or adult-use and/or medical cannabis products being
transported.
            4.   The time and location of departure, as well as the time and
location of expected arrival.
            5.   The make, model, and license plate number of the Transport
Vehicle.
         MM.   During transport, each Transport Vehicle driver shall carry a
copy of the Transportation Permit, a copy of the Shipment Manifest, a form of
government-issued identification, a valid commercial driver’s license, and all
other information required by State law. The driver shall present these
documents upon the request of law enforcement, Code Enforcement, the City
Manager, or the City Manager’s designee.
         NN.   Each Transportation Permittee shall do regular monthly
inventories, and shall record the total quantity of cannabis transported. These
records shall be maintained for three years from the date created and shall be
open to inspection by the City Manager, the City Manager’s Designee, Code
Enforcement, and law enforcement.
         OO.   Each Transportation Permittee shall maintain maintenance and
ownership records for every Transport Vehicle. These records shall be open to
inspection by the City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, Code Enforcement,
and law enforcement.
      (2)   Transportation Permit Applications. All applicants wishing to
obtain a Transportation Permit from the City shall file an application with the
City upon a form provided by the City and shall pay a Transportation Permit
Application Fee as established by the City. An application for a Transportation
Permit shall include at least the following information:
         A.   The address of the applicant’s headquarters.
         B.   The names, addresses, and relevant criminal histories of all
potential employees, facility managers, and other relevant parties for the
proposed transportation activities. Relevant criminal histories shall include
any drug-related or felony convictions, the nature of such offenses, and the
sentences received for such convictions.
         C.   Evidence that the applicant has identified every Physical
Location the applicant owns or operates throughout the State.
         D.   Information regarding Transport Vehicles including, but not
limited to: proof of ownership or lease of each Transport Vehicle; the year,
make, model, license plate number, and Vehicle Identification Number (“VIN”)
for each Transport Vehicle; and proof of insurance in the amount of $1,000,000
for each Transport Vehicle. Transportation Permittees shall provide the City
with the information required by this Subsection of any new Transport Vehicle
prior to using the Transport Vehicle to transport cannabis goods. A
Transportation Permittee shall provide the City with any changes to the
information required by this Subsection in writing within 30 calendar days of
such change.
         E.   Authorization for the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee
to seek verification of the information contained within the application.
         F.   A statement in writing by the applicant that the applicant
certifies under penalty of perjury that all the information contained in the
application is true and correct.
         G.   Any such additional and further information as is deemed
necessary by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee to administer this
Section.
         H.   An application for a Transportation Permit involving a Physical
Location shall also include at least the following information:
            1.   An estimate of the size of the proposed adult-use and/or
medical cannabis transportation facility.
            2.   The address of the location for which the Transportation
Permit is sought. A site plan and floor plan for the proposed premises denoting
the use of all areas on the premises, including storage, transportation areas,
lighting, signage, etcetera.
            3.   A proposed security plan in compliance with the Adult-Use and
Medical Cannabis Transportation Standards.
            4.   The name and address of the owner and lessor of the real
property upon which the adult-use and/or medical cannabis transportation
activity is proposed to be conducted. In the event the applicant is not the
legal owner of the property, the application must be accompanied with a
notarized acknowledgement from the owner of the property that an adult-use and/
or medical cannabis transportation facility will be operated on the property.
            5.   Evidence that the adult-use and/or medical cannabis
transportation facility will be located in a legal structure that is compliant
with all applicable State and local laws.
            6.   Evidence that the applicant has registered with the City every
Physical Location the applicant owns or operates within the City.
         I.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee shall conduct a
background check of any applicant seeking a Transportation Permit, including
all potential employees and any person who may be a facility manager or
otherwise responsible for the proposed transportation activities (“Applicant’s
Agents”), and shall prepare a report on the acceptability of the applicant and
the Applicant’s Agents and the suitability of the proposed Physical Location,
if any.
         J.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee shall rank all
qualified applications in order of those that best satisfy the requirements of
this Section and provide the highest level of service and opportunities for
residents of the City based on the requirements of this Section and the
following criteria (“Merit List”):
            1.   The operational plan for the transportation activities.
            2.   The security plan for the transportation activities.
            3.   The experience of the operators of the transportation
activities.
            4.   The adequacy of capitalization for the Physical Location, if
any, and its operations.
            5.   The employment of City residents and other public benefits to
the City.
      (3)   Transportation Permit. The following conditions apply to
Transportation Permits:
         A.   A Transportation Permit will not be awarded to an applicant if:
            1.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents made one or more false
or misleading statements or omissions in the application or during the
application process.
            2.   The proposed adult-use and/or medical cannabis transportation
activity or Physical Location, if any, is not allowed by State or local law.
            3.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents have been convicted of
a felony, or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or the illegal use,
possession, distribution, transportation, or any such similar activity related
to controlled substances, with the exception of cannabis related offenses for
which the conviction occurred prior to passage of Compassionate Use Act. A
conviction within the meaning of this Section means a plea or verdict of guilty
or a conviction following a plea of nolo contendere.
            4.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents have engaged in
unlawful, fraudulent, unfair, or deceptive business acts or practices.
            5.   The applicant has not satisfied each and every requirement of
this Section.
         B.   A Transportation Permit shall be awarded by the City to eligible
Transportation Permit applicants in order of the Merit List as established by
the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee. The number of Transportation
Permits shall be limited to those that may be reasonably accommodated within
the City’s Cannabis Overlay Zones as determined by the City Manager or the City
Manager’s designee.
         C.   Before a Transportation Permit can be issued to an applicant,
Transportation Permit fees must be paid to offset all related costs to the
City, and the proposed Physical Location, if any, must pass all applicable
inspections.
         D.   Each Transportation Permit involving a Physical Location is
subject to the conditions of approval in the applicable CUP for the parcel of
real property upon which the adult-use and/or medical cannabis transportation
activity occurs.
         E.   Each Transportation Permit is subject to any additional
conditions that may be applied by the City at the time of issuance or renewal
as necessary to properly regulate the cannabis transportation activities and to
protect the public.
         F.   All transportation activities shall be subject to the City’s
Cannabis Excise Tax provided in AMC
Chapter 3.60.
         G.   Each Transportation Permittee shall enter into an agreement with
the City to fully reimburse the City for all fiscal impacts, costs, expenses,
fees, and attorneys’ fees incurred by the City related to the Transportation
Permit and the cannabis transportation activity.
         H.   Transportation Permittees who are in good standing with the City
and who were previously authorized to engage in medical cannabis
transportation, may request an abbreviated application for a permit to engage
in adult-use cannabis transportation within the same transportation facility,
and they may operate under both permits in the same space, subject to state and
local laws. The abbreviated permit process will allow Transportation Permittees
to submit certain previously approved application materials for their adult-use
Transportation Permit. The City reserves the right to request the
Transportation Permittee to submit a new Transportation Permit application if
the resubmitted materials do not satisfy the City’s Transportation Permit
requirements. The City Manager will determine the appropriate fees for the
adult-use permit, and the City Manager shall issue the adult-use permits on an
expedited basis based on the prior applications and approvals.
         I.   Each Transportation Permittee shall:
            1.   Carry liability insurance in the amounts and types provided in
this Section or set by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee, and
name the City as an additional insured on all such insurance policies.
            2.   Execute an Indemnification Agreement prepared by the City that
fully indemnifies the City for all liabilities associated with the
Transportation Permit, the Transportation Permittee’s cannabis related
activities, and any action taken by the Transportation Permittee pursuant to
this Section.
            3.   Defend the City, at the Transportation Permittee’s sole
expense, in any action against the City or its agents, officers, or employees
associated with the Transportation Permit, the Transportation Permittee’s
cannabis related activities, or any action taken by the Transportation
Permittee pursuant to this Section. The City may, at its sole discretion,
participate in the defense of any such action, but such participation shall not
relieve the Transportation Permittee of its indemnification and reimbursement
obligations.
            4.   Reimburse the City for all costs, expenses, fees, and attorney
fees incurred by the City related to any action against the City or its agents,
officers, or employees associated with the Transportation Permit, the
Transportation Permittee’s cannabis related activities, or any action taken by
the Transportation Permittee pursuant to this Section.
         J.   A Transportation Permittee shall keep the City and law
enforcement updated with the names, addresses, and relevant criminal histories
of all employees, facility managers, and other relevant parties for the adult-
use and/or medical cannabis transportation activities at all times. Relevant
criminal histories shall include any drug-related or felony convictions, the
nature of such offenses, and the sentences received for such convictions.
         K.   A Transportation Permittee shall account for job creation in the
City and shall commit to employing a workforce that resides in the City. For
Transportation Permittees with a Physical Location, a minimum of 50% of all
employees employed by the Transportation Permittee at the Physical Location
shall be residents of the City. A Transportation Permittee shall use good faith
efforts to comply with this Subsection and shall report the residential
composition of its workforce to the City every year and at any other time upon
demand by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee.
         L.   A Transportation Permit issued pursuant to this Section may be
transferred so long as the Permittee satisfies the City’s Transportation Permit
application requirements and is in good standing with the city under the
following circumstances:
            1.   The transfer results from the existing Permittee changing the
corporation type or business type on file with the California Secretary of
State,
            2.   The transfer is necessary to reflect the death or disability
of an owner and/or the person on file with the City as being responsible for
the permitted operations, or
            3.   To reflect a bona-fide transfer of the permit as part of a
transfer of the permitted operation.
            All Transportation Permit transfers are subject to the City
Manager’s or his or her designee’s prior approval, which shall not be
unreasonably withheld.
         M.   A Transportation Permit shall expire and be null and void 12
months after issuance to the Transportation Permittee unless properly renewed.
Upon payment of the applicable Transportation Permit fees, and passing the
requisite Transportation Permit inspections, a Transportation Permittee that
has maintained compliance with all City, State, and other applicable cannabis
and business related laws shall be entitled to renew its Transportation Permit
subject to all prevailing laws at the time of renewal.
         N.   To the fullest extent permitted by law, the City does not assume
any liability, and expressly does not waive sovereign immunity, with respect to
any cannabis transportation activities, or for the activities of any
Transportation Permittee.
      (4)   Conditional Use Permit. All parcels of real property within the
City’s Cannabis Overlay Zones, upon which cannabis transportation activities
may occur, must obtain a CUP from the City for all such activities.
   (e)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Any cannabis transportation within the City in violation of this
Section is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance.
      (2)   Any party who engages in a violation of this Section, or who owns,
possesses, controls, or has charge of any parcel of real property in the City
upon which a violation of this Section is maintained, shall be subject to the
penalties and remedies provided by this Section.
      (3)   Any violation of this Section shall constitute a separate offense
for each and every day the violation occurs or persists.
      (4)   Any person in violation of any provision of this Section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of up to $ 1,000 and
up to six months imprisonment per offense per day.
      (5)   Any person in violation of any provision of this Section shall be
punishable by an administrative fine of up to a $1,000 per offense per day.
      (6)   Any violation of this Section or any other City or State cannabis
law by a Transportation Permittee, or a Transportation Permittee’s agent, is
grounds for revoking the relevant Transportation Permit. In addition, the City
Manager or the City Manager’s designee may revoke a Transportation Permit if
any of the following occur subject to a reasonable opportunity for the
permittee to cure the deficiency during a period of no more than 30 days:
         A.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee determines that
the Transportation Permittee has failed to comply with this Section, any
condition of approval, or any agreement or covenant as required pursuant to
this Section.
         B.   The adult-use and/or medical cannabis transportation operations
cease for more than 90 calendar days.
      (7)   For Transportation Permits involving a Physical Location, the City
Manager or the City Manager’s designee may also revoke the Transportation
Permit if any of the following occur:
         A.   Ownership of the Physical Location is changed or transferred to a
third party, without prior City approval.
         B.   The Physical Location fails to maintain 120 hours of security
recordings.
         C.   The Physical Location fails to provide remote access to the
security cameras to the City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, the Code
Enforcement Manager, or law enforcement, or fails to allow inspection of the
security recordings, the activity logs, or of the premises by authorized City
officials.
      (8)   Any decision regarding the revocation of a Transportation Permit
may be appealed to an independent neutral third party administrative hearing
officer appointed by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee (“Hearing
Officer”). Said appeal shall be made by a notice of appeal from the person
appealing within 15 days from the date of the decision to revoke the
Transportation Permit. The appeal shall be accompanied by a written verified
declaration setting forth the basis for the claim that the Transportation
Permit was improperly revoked. The Hearing Officer’s decision shall be final
and binding upon the City and the appellant.
      (9)   These penalties and remedies are cumulative, and in addition to any
other penalties and remedies available to the City.
[Ord. No. 573, Section 3, 7/12/17; Ord. No. 588, Section 6, 5/23/18; Ord. No.
602, Sections 12 - 15, 6/12/19.]
17.80.110 Cannabis Testing
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this Section is to regulate the
testing of adult- use and medical cannabis prior to manufacturing or dispensing
to the public in accordance with State law in order to promote the health,
safety, morals, and general welfare of the residents and businesses within the
City. The City intends to be on the forefront of adult-use and medical cannabis
research and testing. The City is authorized to regulate this activity pursuant
to the MAUCRSA.
   (b)   Definitions. For purposes of this Section, the following definitions
shall apply, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
      (1)   “Cannabis” means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa Linnaeus,
Cannabis indica, or Cannabis ruderalis, whether growing or not; the seeds
thereof; the resin, whether crude or purified, extracted from any part of the
plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative,
mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds, or resin. “Cannabis” also
means the separated resin, whether crude or purified, obtained from cannabis.
“Cannabis” does not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from
the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound,
manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks
(except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized
seed of the plant which is incapable of germination. For the purpose of this
division, “cannabis” does not mean “industrial hemp” as defined by Section
11018.5 of the Health and Safety Code.
      (2)   “City” means the City of Adelanto, California.
      (3)   “City Manager” means the individual duly appointed by a majority of
the City Council to serve in the capacity as executive officer of the City on a
permanent or interim basis.
      (4)   “CUP” means a Conditional Use Permit issued by the City in
accordance with this Code.
      (5)   “Fully enclosed and secure structure” means a space within a
building, greenhouse or other structure which has a complete roof enclosure
supported by connecting walls extending from the ground to the roof, which is
secure against unauthorized entry, provides complete visual screening, and
which is accessible only through one or more lockable doors and is inaccessible
to minors.
      (6)   “MAUCRSA” means the Medicinal and Adult-use Cannabis Regulation and
Safety Act (MAUCRSA). (Bus. & Prof. Code, section 26000 et seq.)
      (7)   “Medicinal cannabis” or “medicinal cannabis product” means cannabis
or a cannabis product, respectively, intended to be sold for use pursuant to
the Compassionate Use Act of 1996 (Proposition 215), found at Section 11362.5
of the Health and Safety Code and other applicable State laws, by a medicinal
cannabis patient in California who possesses a physician’s recommendation. For
purposes of this definition, “medical cannabis” also means “medical marijuana.”
“Cannabis permittee” means a person or entity that has been issued a permit by
the City, or another city in the State of California in accordance with the
MAUCRSA or other applicable State laws, to participate in a commercial adult-
use and/or medical cannabis activity, such as cultivation, manufacturing,
distribution, transportation, testing, dispensing, or delivering.
      (8)   “Testing,” “Testing Facility” and “Testing laboratory” means a
laboratory, facility, or entity in the state that offers or performs tests of
cannabis or cannabis products and that is both of the following:
         A.   Accredited by an accrediting body that is independent from all
other person involved in commercial cannabis activity in the state.
         B.   Licensed by the bureau.
      (9)   “Testing Permit” means a City permit to test the quality of adult-
use and/or medical cannabis produced by cultivation and manufacturing
Permittees pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Section and the
conditions of approval for the permit.
      (10)   “Testing Permittee” means an applicant who has applied for and has
been issued a Testing Permit by the City pursuant to the terms and conditions
of this Section.
   (c)   Cannabis Testing Prohibited. All commercial cannabis testing within
the City is prohibited except as expressly permitted by this Section.
   (d)   Cannabis Testing Conditionally Permitted. Commercial medical cannabis
testing is conditionally permitted in the City only as expressly specified in
this Section.
      (1)   Cannabis Testing Standards. Commercial cannabis testing, within the
City, shall be in conformance with the following standards:
         A.   Commercial cannabis testing shall only be allowed upon
application and approval of a Testing Permit and a CUP, or Minor Conditional
Use Permit (CUPm) for proposed uses within existing buildings requiring no more
than Tenant Improvements, in accordance with the criteria and process set forth
in this Section and this Code.
         B.   Commercial cannabis testing is a conditionally permitted use only
on properties within the City’s Cannabis Overlay Zones.
         C.   No commercial cannabis testing facility shall be established,
developed, or operated within 600 feet of a school, public playground or park,
child care or day care facility, youth center, or church. All distances shall
be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures, from
the nearest point of the building or structure in which the commercial cannabis
testing is, or will be, located to the nearest property line of those uses
described in this Subsection.
         D.   A commercial cannabis testing facility may not be located within
the same unit as an indoor cannabis cultivation facility, manufacturing
facility, distribution facility, transportation facility, or dispensary.
         E.   Subject to the further requirements of this Section, only Type 8
State testing licenses, as specified in the MAUCRSA and Business and
Professions Code section 26050, will be allowed to operate in the City.
         F.   Commercial cannabis testing is allowed only within fully enclosed
and secure structures that are inaccessible to minors.
         G.   Commercial cannabis testing shall not exceed the square footage
authorized pursuant to the applicable CUP.
         H   From any public right-of-way, there shall be no visible exterior
evidence of any cannabis testing activity.
         I.   Cannabis testing shall not adversely affect the health or safety
of the nearby residents by creating dust, glare, heat, noise, smoke, traffic,
vibration, or other impacts, and shall not be hazardous due to use or storage
of materials, processes, products, or wastes.
         J.    Each commercial cannabis testing facility shall fully comply
with all of the applicable restrictions and mandates set forth in State law. A
commercial cannabis testing facility shall comply with all size requirements
for such facility as imposed by State law. A cannabis testing facility shall
not engage in any activities not allowed by a cannabis testing facility
pursuant to State law. A cannabis testing facility shall comply with all
horticultural, labeling, processing, and other standards required by State law.
         K.   There is no set restriction on the hours of operation of a
commercial cannabis testing facility; however, restricted hours of operation
may be established as a condition of approval of the Testing Permit or the
applicable CUP.
         L.   All cannabis shall be kept in a secured manner during all
business and nonbusiness hours.
         M.   A cannabis testing facility shall operate within a legal
structure that is compliant with all applicable State and local laws.
         N.   A cannabis testing facility must pay all applicable sales taxes
pursuant to all federal, State, and local laws.
         O.   On-site smoking, ingestion, or consumption of cannabis or alcohol
shall be prohibited on the premises of a cannabis testing facility. The term
“premises” as used in this Subsection includes the actual cannabis testing
building, as well as any accessory structures and parking areas. The cannabis
testing facility building entrance shall be clearly and legibly posted with a
notice indicating that smoking, ingesting, or consuming cannabis or alcohol on
the premises or in the vicinity of the facility is prohibited.
         P.   Signage for a cannabis testing facility shall be limited to name
of business only, shall be in compliance with the City’s sign code, and shall
contain no advertising of any companies, brands, products, goods, or services.
Signage shall not include any drug-related symbols.
         Q.   Alcoholic beverages shall not be sold, stored, distributed, or
consumed on the premises. A cannabis testing facility shall not hold or
maintain a license from the State Department of Alcohol Beverage Control to
sell alcoholic beverages, or operate a business that sells alcoholic beverages.
In addition, alcoholic beverages shall not be provided, stored, kept, located,
sold, dispensed, or used on the premises of any cannabis testing facility.
         R.   Physician services shall not be provided on the cannabis testing
facility premises.
         S.   The building in which any cannabis testing facility is located,
as well as the operations as conducted therein, shall fully comply with all
applicable rules, regulations, and laws including, but not limited to, zoning
and building codes, the City’s business license ordinances, the Revenue and
Taxation Code, the Americans with Disabilities Act, and the MAUCRSA. Compliance
with all requirements of State law pertaining to cannabis testing is also
required.
         T.   A cannabis testing facility shall not grow, cultivate, process,
distribute, transport, sell, dispense, or administer cannabis from the facility
to the public. A cannabis testing facility shall not be operated as a cannabis
dispensary.
         U.   The operators of a cannabis testing facility shall provide the
City Manager, or the City Manager’s designee, with the name, phone number,
facsimile number, and email address of an on-site representative to whom the
City and the public can provide notice if there are any operational problems
associated with the cannabis testing facility. A cannabis testing facility
shall make every good faith effort to encourage residents and the public to
call this representative to resolve any operational problems before any calls
or complaints are made to the City or law enforcement.
         V.   Each cannabis testing facility shall be operated in accordance
with the conditions of approval associated with the applicable CUP for the
parcel of real property upon which the cannabis testing activities occur.
         W.   Each cannabis testing facility shall have a security plan
including the following measures:
            1.   Security cameras shall be installed and maintained in good
condition, and used in an on-going manner with at least 120 concurrent hours of
digitally recorded documentation in a format approved by the City Manager or
the City Manager’s designee. The cameras shall be in use 24 hours per day,
seven days per week. The areas to be covered by the security cameras include,
but are not limited to, the storage areas, testing areas, all doors and
windows, and any other areas as determined by the City Manager or the City
Manager’s designee. Remote log-in information shall be provided to the City
Manager, the City Manager’s designee, the Code Enforcement Manager, and law
enforcement to allow them to view the security camera images and recordings
from their own facilities at any time. Any disruption in security camera images
shall be cured expeditiously.
            2.   The cannabis testing facility shall be secured with an alarm
system that is operated and monitored by a reputable security company.
            3.   Entrance to the cannabis testing area, and all storage areas,
shall be locked at all times, and under the control of the cannabis testing
facility’s staff.
            4.   The entrances, and all window areas, shall be illuminated
during evening hours. The cannabis testing facility shall comply with the
City’s lighting standards regarding fixture type, wattage, illumination levels,
shielding, etcetera, and shall secure the necessary lighting approvals and
permits as needed.
            5.   All windows on the building that houses the cannabis testing
facility shall be appropriately secured and all cannabis securely stored.
         X.   Recordings made by the security cameras shall be made available
to the City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, or law enforcement upon
verbal request-no search warrant or subpoena shall be needed to view the
recorded materials.
         Y.   The City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, or the Code
Enforcement Manager shall have the right to enter the adult-use and/or cannabis
testing facility for the purpose of making reasonable inspections to observe
and enforce compliance with this Section and all laws of the City and the
State. The City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, or the Code Enforcement
Manager shall maintain a log tracking the time and date of all inspections, the
individuals requesting the inspection, and the result of each inspection.
Individuals participating in such an inspection must take precautions and
comply with standard safeguards and procedures in place at the facility
regarding security, clean room/clean area access and anti-contamination
measures.
         Z.   Each cannabis testing facility must employ full time quality
control personnel.
         AA.   All cultivated cannabis, and manufactured cannabis products,
must be properly tested prior to being dispensed to the public as required by
the MAUCRSA, Business and Professions Code section 26100, and the State
Department of Public Health regulations.
         BB.   Each Testing Permittee shall be independent from all other
persons and entities involved in the cannabis industry including, but not
limited to, cannabis cultivators, manufacturers, distributors, transporters,
and dispensaries.
         CC.   A cannabis testing facility shall not acquire or receive
cannabis or cannabis products except from a Cannabis Permittee. A Testing
Permittee shall not cultivate, manufacture, distribute, transport, deliver, or
dispense cannabis or cannabis products.
         DD.   A cannabis testing facility must adopt a standard operating
procedure using methods consistent with general requirements for the competence
of testing and calibration activities, including sampling. A Testing Permittee
must use testing standards and methods established specifically for cannabis
testing by the State.
         EE.   A cannabis testing facility must establish standard operating
procedures that provide for adequate chain of custody controls for samples
transferred to the cannabis testing facility for testing.
         FF.   A Testing Permittee must obtain testing samples according to a
statistically valid sampling method. All testing samples must be picked
independently and at random by the Testing Permittee. Testing samples cannot be
pre-selected by outside persons or entities involved in the cultivation,
manufacturing, distribution, transportation, delivery, or dispensing of
cannabis.
         GG.   Cannabis from dried flower must, at minimum, be tested for
concentration, pesticides, mold, and other contaminants. Cannabis extracts
must, at minimum, be tested for concentration and purity of the product.
         HH.   A cannabis testing facility must analyze samples according to
either the most current version of the cannabis inflorescence monograph
(“Monograph”) published by the American Herbal Pharmacopoeia or other
scientifically valid methodology that is equal or superior to the Monograph.
         II.   If a test result falls outside the specifications authorized by
law or regulation, the cannabis testing facility shall follow a standard
operating procedure to confirm or refute the original result.
         JJ.   A cannabis testing facility must destroy the remains of any
sample of cannabis or cannabis product upon completion of the testing analysis.
         KK.   A cannabis testing facility must destroy cannabis batches whose
testing samples indicate noncompliance with health and safety standards
promulgated by the State Department of Public Health, unless remedial measures
can bring the cannabis into compliance.
         LL.   A Testing Permittee shall issue a certificate of analysis for
each sample tested to report whether the chemical profile of the sample
conforms to the specifications for the sample for compounds. Compounds tested
include, but are not limited to, the compounds listed under Business and
Professions Code section 26100.
         MM.   A Testing Permittee shall issue a certificate of analysis for
each sample tested to report whether the presence of contaminants in the sample
does or does not exceed the levels that are the lesser of either the most
current version of the Monograph or those set by the State Department of Public
Health. Contaminants tested include, but are not limited to, the contaminants
listed under Business and Professions Code section 26100.
         NN.   Each cannabis testing facility must analyze whether residual
levels of volatile organic compounds in each sample tested are below the lesser
of either the specifications set by the United States Pharmacopeia (U.S.P.
Chapter 467) or those set by the State Department of Public Health.
         OO.   All testing devises used by a cannabis testing facility must be
UL listed, or otherwise approved for the intended use by the City’s Building
Official or the Fire Department. Any testing devices using only non-pressurized
water are exempt from such approval.
         PP.   Unless otherwise prohibited, all testing devices used by a
cannabis testing facility that utilize hydrocarbons or otherwise flammable
solvents must operate in a closed loop, or in such a way that all solvent
material is recovered in the process. All hazardous material must be disposed
of in a manner that is compliant with all local, State, and federal guidelines
for the disposal of hazardous materials.
         QQ.   Each cannabis testing facility must notify the State Department
of Public Health and the City Manager, or the City Manager’s designee, within
one business day after the receipt of notice of any kind that its accreditation
has been denied, suspended, or revoked.
      (2)   Testing Permit Applications. All applicants wishing to obtain a
Testing Permit from the City shall file an application with the City upon a
form provided by the City and shall pay a Testing Permit Application Fee as
established by the City. An application for a Testing Permit shall include at
least the following information:
         A.   An estimate of the size of the proposed cannabis testing
facility.
         B.   The address of the location for which the Testing Permit is
sought. Only one Testing Permit will be issued per location.
         C.   A site plan and floor plan for the proposed premises denoting the
use of all areas on the premises, including storage, testing areas, lighting,
signage, et cetera.
         D.   A proposed security plan in compliance with the Cannabis Testing
Standards.
         E.   The names, addresses, and relevant criminal histories of all
potential employees, facility managers, and other relevant parties for the
cannabis testing facility. Relevant criminal histories shall include any drug-
related or felony convictions, the nature of such offenses, and the sentences
received for such convictions.
         F.   The name and address of the owner and lessor of the real property
upon which the cannabis testing activity is proposed to be conducted. In the
event the applicant is not the legal owner of the property, the application
must be accompanied with a notarized acknowledgement from the owner of the
property that a cannabis testing facility will be operated on the property.
         G.   Evidence that the cannabis testing facility is independent from
all other persons and entities involved in the cannabis industry, as required
by Business and Professions Code section 26001.
         H.   Evidence that the cannabis testing facility follows the
methodologies, ranges, and parameters that are contained in the scope of the
accreditation for testing cannabis and cannabis products. The cannabis testing
facility shall also comply with any other requirements specified by the State
Department of Public Health.
         I.   Authorization for the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee
to seek verification of the information contained within the application.
         J.   Evidence that the cannabis testing facility will be located in a
legal structure that is compliant with all applicable State and local laws.
         K.   A statement in writing by the applicant that the applicant
certifies under penalty of perjury that all the information contained in the
application is true and correct.
         L.   Any such additional and further information as is deemed
necessary by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee to administer this
Section.
         M.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee shall conduct a
background check of any applicant seeking a Testing Permit, including all
potential employees and any person who may be a facility manager or otherwise
responsible for the activities of the cannabis testing facility (“Applicant’s
Agents”), and shall prepare a report on the acceptability of the applicant and
the Applicant’s Agents and the suitability of the proposed location.
         N.   The City Manager, or the City Manager’s designee, shall rank all
qualified applications in order of those that best satisfy the requirements of
this Section and provide the highest level of service and opportunities for
residents of the City based on the requirements of this Section and the
following criteria (“Merit List”):
            1.   The operational plan for the facility.
            2.   The security plan for the facility.
            3.   The experience of the operators of the facility.
            4.   The adequacy of capitalization for the facility and its
operations.
            5.   The employment of City residents and other public benefits to
the City.
      (3)   Testing Permit. The following conditions apply to each Testing
Permit:
         A.   A Testing Permit will not be awarded to an applicant if:
            1.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents made one or more false
or misleading statements or omissions in the application or during the
application process.
            2.   The proposed cannabis testing facility is not allowed by State
or local law.
            3.   The applicant is not a legal representative of the cannabis
testing facility.
            4.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents have been convicted of
a felony, or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or the illegal use,
possession, distribution, transportation, or any such similar activity related
to controlled substances, with the exception of cannabis related offenses for
which the conviction occurred prior to passage of Compassionate Use Act. A
conviction within the meaning of this Section means a plea or verdict of guilty
or a conviction following a plea of nolo contendere.
            5.   The applicant or the Applicant’s Agents have engaged in
unlawful, fraudulent, unfair, or deceptive business acts or practices.
            6.   The applicant has not satisfied each and every requirement of
this Section.
         B.   A Testing Permit shall be awarded by the City to eligible Testing
Permit applicants in order of the Merit List as established by the City Manager
or the City Manager’s designee. The number of Testing Permits shall be limited
to those that may be reasonably accommodated within the Testing Zone as
determined by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee.
         C.   Before a Testing Permit can be issued to an applicant, Testing
Permit fees must be paid to offset all related costs to the City, and the
proposedcannabis testing facility location must pass all applicable
inspections.
         D.   A Testing Permit is subject to the conditions of approval in the
applicable CUP for the parcel of real property upon which the cannabis testing
activity occurs.
         E.   A Testing Permit is subject to any additional conditions that may
be applied by the City at the time of issuance or renewal as necessary to
properly regulate the cannabis testing activity and to protect the public.
         F.   All cannabis testing activities shall be subject to an excise tax
to be established by the City and the voters.
         G.   A Testing Permittee may not hold or use any other cannabis
activity permits or licenses that would otherwise be a violation of this
Section, the MAUCRSA, or Business and Professions Code section 26050.
         H.   A Testing Permittee may not own or have an ownership interest in
any activity or facility related to cannabis cultivation, manufacturing,
distribution, transportation, delivery, or dispensing.
         I.   A Testing Permittee shall enter into an agreement with the City
to fully reimburse the City for all fiscal impacts, costs, expenses, fees, and
attorneys’ fees incurred by the City related to the Testing Permit and the
cannabis testing activity.
         J.   Testing Permittees who are in good standing with the City and who
were previously authorized to engage in medical cannabis testing, may request
an abbreviated application for a permit to engage in adult-use cannabis testing
within the same testing facility, and they may operate under both permits in
the same space, subject to state and local laws. The abbreviated permit process
will allow Testing Permittees to submit certain previously approved application
materials for their adult-use Testing Permit. The City reserves the right to
request the Testing Permittee to submit a new Testing Permit application if the
resubmitted materials do not satisfy the City’s Testing Permit requirements.
The City Manager will determine the appropriate fees for the adult-use permit,
and the City Manager shall issue the adult-use permits on an expedited basis
based on the prior applications and approvals.
         K.   A Testing Permittee shall:
            1.   Carry liability insurance in the amounts and types set by the
City Manager or the City Manager’s designee, and name the City as an additional
insured on all such insurance policies.
            2.   Execute an Indemnification Agreement prepared by the City that
fully indemnifies the City for all liabilities associated with the Testing
Permit, the Testing Permittee’s cannabis related activities, and any action
taken by the Testing Permittee pursuant to this Section.
            3.   Defend the City, at the Testing Permittee’s sole expense, in
any action against the City or its agents, officers, or employees associated
with the Testing Permit, the Testing Permittee’s cannabis related activities,
or any action taken by the Testing Permittee pursuant to this Section. The City
may, at its sole discretion, participate in the defense of any such action, but
such participation shall not relieve the Testing Permittee of its
indemnification and reimbursement obligations.
            4.   Reimburse the City for all costs, expenses, fees, and attorney
fees incurred by the City related to any action against the City or its agents,
officers, or employees associated with the Testing Permit, the Testing
Permittee’s cannabis related activities, or any action taken by the Testing
Permittee pursuant to this Section.
         L.   Each Testing Permittee shall keep the City and law enforcement
updated with the names, addresses, and relevant criminal histories of all
employees, facility managers, and other relevant parties for the cannabis
testing facility at all times. Relevant criminal histories shall include any
drug-related or felony convictions, the nature of such offenses, and the
sentences received for such convictions.
         M.   Each Testing Permittee shall account for job creation in the City
and shall commit to employing a workforce that resides in the City. A minimum
of 50% of all employees employed by the Testing Permittee at the cannabis
testing facility shall be residents of the City. A Testing Permittee shall use
good faith efforts to comply with this subsection and shall report the
residential composition of its workforce to the City every year and at any
other time upon demand by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee.
         N.   A Testing Permit issued pursuant to this Section may be
transferred so long as the Permittee satisfies the City’s Testing Permit
application requirements and is in good standing with the city under the
following circumstances:
            1.   The transfer results from the existing Permittee changing the
corporation type or business type on file with the California Secretary of
State,
            2.   The transfer is necessary to reflect the death or disability
of an owner and/or the person on file with the City as being responsible for
the permitted operations, or
            3.   To reflect a bona-fide transfer of the permit as a part of a
transfer of the permitted operation.
         O.   All Testing Permit transfers are subject to the City Manager’s or
his or her designee’s prior approval, which shall not be unreasonably withheld.
A Testing Permit shall expire and be null and void 12 months after issuance to
the Testing Permittee unless properly renewed. Upon payment of the applicable
Testing Permit fees and passing the requisite Testing Permit inspections, a
Testing Permittee that has maintained compliance with all City, State and other
applicable adult-use and/or medical cannabis and business related laws shall be
entitled to renew its Testing Permit subject to all prevailing laws at the time
of renewal.
         P.   To the fullest extent permitted by law, the City does not assume
any liability, and expressly does not waive sovereign immunity, with respect to
any cannabis testing activities or for the activities of any cannabis testing
facility.
      (4)   Conditional Use Permit. All parcels of real property in the Testing
Zone upon which cannabis testing activities may occur must obtain a CUP from
the City for all such activities.
   (e)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Any cannabis testing within the City in violation of this Section
is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance.
      (2)   Any party who engages in a violation of this Section, or who owns,
possess, controls, or has charge of any parcel of real property in the City
upon which a violation of the Section is maintained, shall be subject to the
penalties and remedies provided by this Section.
      (3)   Any violation of this Section shall constitute a separate offense
for each and every day the violation occurs or persists.
      (4)   Any person in violation of any provision of this Section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of up to $ 1,000 and
up to six months imprisonment per offense.
      (5)   Any person in violation of any provision of this Section shall be
punishable by an administrative fine of up to a $1,000 per offense.
      (6)   Any violation of this Section or any other City or State cannabis
law by a Testing Permittee or a Testing Permittee’s agent is grounds for
revoking the relevant Testing Permit. In addition, the City Manager or the City
Manager’s designee may revoke a Testing Permit if any of the following occur
subject to a reasonable opportunity for the permittee to cure the deficiency
during a period of no more than 30 days:
         A.   The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee determines that
the cannabis testing facility has failed to comply with this Section, any
condition of approval, or any agreement or covenant as required pursuant to
this Section.
         B.   The cannabis testing operations cease for more than 90 calendar
days.
         C.   Ownership of the cannabis testing facility is changed or
transferred to a third party, without prior City approval.
         D.   The cannabis testing facility fails to maintain 120 hours of
security recordings.
         E.   The cannabis testing facility fails to provide remote access to
the security cameras to the City Manager, the City Manager’s designee, the Code
Enforcement Manager, or law enforcement, or fails to allow inspection of the
security recordings, the activity logs, or of the premises by authorized City
officials.
      (7)   Any decision regarding the revocation of a Testing Permit may be
appealed to an independent neutral third party administrative hearing officer
appointed by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee (“Hearing
Officer”). Said appeal shall be made by a notice of appeal from the person
appealing within 15 days from the date of the decision to revoke the Testing
Permit. The appeal shall be accompanied by a written verified declaration
setting forth the basis for the claim that the Testing Permit was improperly
revoked. The Hearing Officer’s decision shall be final and binding upon the
City and the appellant.
      (8)   These penalties and remedies are cumulative, and in addition to any
other penalties and remedies available to the City.
[Ord. No. 548, Section 3, 10/12/16; Ord. No. 556, Section 5, 12/14/16; Ord. No.
558, Section 5, 12/14/16; Ord. No. 564, Section 5, 6/28/17; Ord. No. 588,
Section 7, 5/23/18; Ord. No. 602, Sections 16 - 18, 6/12/19.]
17.80.120 Cannabis Retail.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this Section is to regulate the
retail sale of adult-use and medicinal cannabis in order to promote the health,
safety, and general welfare of the residents and businesses within the City.
The City is authorized to regulate this activity pursuant to the MAUCRSA.
   (b)   Definitions. For purposes of this Section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Unless otherwise
defined herein, the terms in this Section shall have the same meaning as set
forth in MAUCRSA and any rules promulgated pursuant thereto:
      (1)   “Applicant” or “Applicants” means the individual, entity, or any of
their authorized agents or employees, applying for a Retail Permit or
Conditional Use Permit.
      (2)   “Cannabis” means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa Linnaeus,
Cannabis indica, or Cannabis ruderalis, whether growing or not; the seeds
thereof; the resin, whether crude or purified, extracted from any part of the
plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the plant, its seeds, or resin. “Cannabis” also means the
separated resin, whether crude or purified, obtained from cannabis. “Cannabis”
does not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the
stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound,
manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks
(except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized
seed of the plant which is incapable of germination. For the purpose of this
division, “cannabis” does not mean “industrial hemp” as defined by Section
11018.5 of the Health and Safety Code.
      (3)   “Cannabis Retail Overlay Zone” means the area bounded by Air
Expressway to the north, Rancho Road to the south, Adelanto Street and Permain
Street and to the west, and Mesa Linda Road to the east (Cannabis Retail
Overlay Zone 1), and the area bounded by Violet Road to the north, Powerline
Road to the south, Jonathan Road to the west, and Highway 395 to the east. The
easterly boundary to Highway 395 is setback 600' from the highway. (Cannabis
Retail Overly Zone 2).
      (4)   “CUP” means a Conditional Use Permit issued by the City in
accordance with this Code.
      (5)   “Deliver,” “Delivering,” and “Delivery” shall be defined in
accordance with the MAUCRSA, Business and Professions Code section 26001, and
other applicable State laws.
      (6)   “MAUCRSA” means the Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis Regulation and
Safety Act (MAUCRSA). (Bus. & Prof. Code, section 26000 et seq.)
      (7)   “Medicinal cannabis” or “medicinal cannabis product” means cannabis
or a cannabis product, respectively, intended to be sold for use pursuant to
the Compassionate Use Act of 1996 (Proposition 215), found at Section 11362.5
of the Health and Safety Code and other applicable State laws, by a medicinal
cannabis patient in California who possesses a physician's recommendation. For
purposes of this definition, “medicinal cannabis” also means “medical
marijuana.”
      (8)   “Premises” means and pertains to a physical place of business,
building, facility, office, or warehouse owned or operated by a retail
permittee falling within the jurisdiction of the City of Adelanto.
      (9)   “Retailer” means a person authorized to engage in the retail sale
of cannabis goods to customers.
         A.   “Non-Storefront Retailer” means a retailer that sells cannabis
goods to customers only through delivery and with a Type 9 retail license from
the State of California Department of Cannabis Control.
         B.   “Storefront Retailer” means a retailer that has a physical
location where customers can purchase cannabis goods and with a Type 10 retail
license from the State of California Department of Cannabis Control. A
storefront retailer may also deliver Cannabis goods to customers.
      (10)   “Retail Permit” means a City permit to conduct retail sales of
adult-use and/or medical cannabis in accordance with the terms and conditions
of this Section and the conditions of approval for the permit. A Retail Permit
will be designated as either a Non-Storefront Retail Permit or a Storefront
Retail Permit.
      (11)   “Retail Permittee” means a person or entity that has been issued a
Retail Permit by the City pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Section.
   (c)   Unauthorized Cannabis Retail Prohibited. The retail sale of cannabis
within the City is prohibited without a valid Conditional Use Permit and Retail
Permit as provided for in this Section.
   (d)   Conditional Use Permit. Retailers are conditionally permitted in the
Cannabis Retail Overlay Zone. The provisions of chapter 17.130 of this code
shall govern applications for a conditional use permit for cannabis retail
sales. An applicant for a cannabis retail conditional use permit must possess a
valid Retail Permit at the time the conditional use permit is approved.
   (e)   Retail Permit.
      (1)   Cannabis Retail Operating Standards. Cannabis retail within the
City shall be in conformance with the following standards:
         A.   All retail sales of cannabis and cannabis products shall be in
conformance with all applicable State laws and regulations.
         B.   Retailers shall only engage in sales and deliveries between the
hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
         C.   All cannabis shall be kept in a secured manner during all
business and nonbusiness hours.
         D.   Each retailer shall operate within a legal structure that is
compliant with all applicable State and local laws.
         E.   Each retailer must pay all applicable taxes pursuant to all
federal, State, and local laws. Each retail shall pay the City's Cannabis
Excise Tax provided for retailers in AMC Chapter 3.60.
         F.   On-site smoking, ingestion, or consumption of cannabis or alcohol
is prohibited at all non-storefront retailer premises. The building entrance
shall be clearly and legibly posted with a notice indicating that smoking,
ingesting, or consuming cannabis or alcohol on the premises, or in the vicinity
of the non-storefront retailer, is prohibited. The term "premises" as used in
this Subsection and the following Subsection includes the cannabis retail
building, as well as any accessory structures and parking areas.
         G.   Smoking, ingestion and consumption of cannabis and cannabis
products may occur on the premises of a storefront retailer if specifically
permitted by the Retail Permit and the CUP for the premises, and subject to the
following regulations.
            1.   Access to the area where cannabis consumption is allowed must
be restricted to persons twenty-one years of age and older. The dispensary
shall be responsible for checking identification and ensuring that underaged
individuals do not enter.
            2.   Cannabis consumption shall not be visible from any place where
persons under the age of twenty-one are permitted.
            3.   Cannabis consumption must occur only within the areas
designated for consumption by the license.
            4.   The cannabis business must install and maintain in good
working order an odor control system. Odors caused by the consumption of
cannabis at the retail premises must not be detectable from any public place.
The cannabis business shall submit and abide by an odor control plan approved
by the city as a part of the retail permit application and approval process.
The plan shall include the use of a Vapor Phase System utilizing an odor
neutralizer, such as Cannabolish or a similarly effective technology.
            5.   Only cannabis and cannabis products purchased from the
retailer during the same visit by the customer may be consumed within the
retail premises. Individuals may not bring cannabis or cannabis products into a
retailer for the purposes of consumption.
            6.   Cannabis and cannabis products that are only partially
consumed on the premises of the dispensary must be repackaged in accordance
with this Section prior to leaving the retail premises.
            7.   Representatives of the city, including, but not limited to,
law enforcement officers, must be permitted to enter the premises, including
all areas where consumption is allowed, at any time during the regular business
hours of the retailer and/or whenever consumption is occurring on site.
         H.   Signage for each retailer shall be limited to name of the
business only, shall be in compliance with the City's sign code. Signage shall
not include any drug-related symbols.
         I.   Alcoholic beverages shall not be sold, stored, distributed, or
consumed on the premises. A retailer shall not hold or maintain a license from
the State Department of Alcohol Beverage Control to sell alcoholic beverages or
operate a business that sells alcoholic beverages. In addition, alcohol shall
not be provided, stored, kept, located, sold, dispensed, or used on the
premises of any retailer.
         J.   Physician services and medical cannabis recommendations shall not
be provided at a cannabis retailer premises.
         K.   The building and premises in which any retailer is located, as
well as the operations as conducted therein, shall fully comply with all
applicable rules, regulations, and laws including, but not limited to, zoning
and building codes, the City's business license ordinances, the Revenue and
Taxation Code, the Americans with Disabilities Act, and the MAUCRSA. Compliance
with all requirements of State law pertaining to adult-use and/or medical
cannabis dispensing and delivery is also required.
         L.   A cannabis retailer shall not grow, cultivate, manufacture, or
process cannabis, unless expressly and affirmatively authorized by State and
local law. A cannabis retailer shall not be operated as a cannabis cultivation,
manufacturing, distribution, transportation, or testing facility, unless
expressly and affirmatively authorized by State and local law.
         M.   The operators of a cannabis retailer shall provide the City
Manager or the City Manager's designee with the name, cell phone number,
facsimile number, and email address of an on-site representative to whom the
City and the public can provide notice if there are any operational problems
associated with the retailer. Each cannabis retailer shall make every good
faith effort to encourage residents and the public to call this representative
to resolve any operational problems before any calls or complaints are made to
the City or law enforcement.
         N.   A cannabis retailer shall be operated in accordance with the
conditions of approval associated with the applicable CUP for the parcel of
real property upon which the cannabis retailer activities occur.
         O.   Retail permittees shall implement sufficient security measures to
both deter and prevent unauthorized entrance into areas containing cannabis
products and theft of cannabis products from the retail premises.
         P.   A cannabis retail premises shall implement a security plan
including the following measures:
            1.   Security cameras shall be installed and maintained in good
condition, and used in an on-going manner with at least 120 concurrent hours of
digitally recorded documentation in a format approved by the City Manager or
the City Manager's designee. The cameras shall be in use 24 hours per day,
seven days per week. The areas to be covered by the security cameras include,
but are not limited to, the storage areas, dispensing areas, delivery areas,
all doors and windows, and any other areas as determined by the City Manager or
the City Manager's designee. Remote log-in information shall be provided to the
City Manager, the City Manager's designee, and law enforcement to allow them to
view the security camera images and recordings from their own facilities at any
time. Any disruption in security camera images shall be cured expeditiously.
            2.   The cannabis retailer shall be secured with an alarm system
that is operated and monitored by a reputable security company.
            3.   Entrances to all storage areas shall be locked at all times,
and under the control of the retailer’s staff.
            4.   All cannabis shall be stored in a secured and locked space,
and in a manner as to prevent diversion, theft, or loss.
            5.   The entrances and all window areas to storefront retailers
shall be illuminated during evening hours. All retailers shall comply with the
City’s lighting standards regarding fixture type, wattage, illumination levels,
shielding, et cetera, and shall secure the necessary lighting approvals and
permits as needed.
            6.   All windows on the building that houses the cannabis Retailer
shall be appropriately secured.
            7.   Recordings made by the security cameras shall be made
available to the City Manager, the City Manager's designee, and law enforcement
upon verbal request—no search warrant or subpoena shall be needed to view the
recorded materials.
         Q.   The City Manager, the City Manager's designee, shall have the
right to enter the Retailer for the purpose of making reasonable inspections to
observe and enforce compliance with this Section and all laws of the City and
the State. The City Manager, the City Manager's designee, shall maintain a log
tracking the time and date of all inspections, the individuals requesting the
inspection, and the result of each inspection. Individuals participating in any
such inspection must take precautions and comply with standard safeguards and
procedures in place at the facility regarding security, clean room/clean area
access and anti-contamination measures.
         R.   A retailer shall notify the City Manager or the City Manager's
designee within 24 hours of discovering any of the following:
            1.   Any discrepancies identified during routine inventory checks.
            2.   Diversion, theft, loss, or any criminal activity involving the
Retailer or any agent or employee of the retailer.
            3.   The loss or unauthorized alteration of records related to
medical cannabis, registered qualifying patients, primary caregivers, or
retailer agents or employees.
            4.   Any other breach of security.
         S.   A retailer shall not dispense or deliver medicinal cannabis to
any person without government-issued identification and adequate documentation
demonstrating qualification to purchase, obtain, or possess medical cannabis.
Physician's recommendations shall be verified by retailer’s staff prior to
dispensing or delivering any medicinal cannabis to a qualified patient or
primary caregiver, and at least every six months thereafter.
         T.   Each retailer shall do regular monthly inventories, and shall
record and account for the total quantity of cannabis retained, sold, and
delivered on or from the premises. These records shall be maintained for three
years from the date created and shall be open to inspection by the City
Manager, the City Manager's Designee, and law enforcement.
         U.   A retailer shall maintain medicinal cannabis customer records in
a secure location within the City, available for inspection upon demand by the
City Manager, the City Manager's designee, or law enforcement. Such records
shall include, without limitation, a copy of the physician's recommendation
and, if using a primary caregiver, a notarized written authorization from the
patient to be represented by such primary caregiver.
         V.   During the delivery of cannabis, each vehicle driver shall carry
a copy of the Retail Permit, a copy of the delivery request, a form of
government-issued identification, and all other information required by State
law. The driver shall present these documents upon the request of law
enforcement, the City Manager, or the City Manager's designee.
         W.   Prior to sale, cannabis products shall be labeled and placed in a
tamper-evident package. Labels and packages of adult-use and/or medical
cannabis products shall, at minimum, meet the requirements specified under
Business and Professions Code Sections 26106 and 26120 and other applicable
State laws.
         X.   All cannabis delivery vehicles shall:
            1.   Be equipped with, and utilize, a vehicle alarm system.
            2.   Have and utilize a direct communication system with the
retailer.
            3.   Keep all cannabis in a secure and locked container.
            4.   Have an internal partition between the driver and all
passengers from the cannabis storage containers that prevents access by the
driver and passengers to all cannabis products from inside the vehicle.
            5.   Not carry more cannabis than allowed by State law and required
to fulfill all immediate delivery requests.
         Y.   Retailers must be compliant in the State mandated Seed-to-Sale
Tracking system METRC.
      (2)   Retail Permit Applications. All applicants wishing to obtain a
Retail Permit from the City shall file an application with the City upon a form
provided by the City and shall pay a Retail Permit application fee as
established by the City. An applicant for a Retail Permit shall submit the
following information with their application for a Retail Permit:
         A.   The address of the location for which the Retail Permit is
sought, and number of delivery vehicles employed in the retail delivery of
cannabis, if any. If delivery is proposed, a detailed delivery plan
demonstrating how the applicant will comply with State and local delivery
requirements must be included.
         B.   A site plan and floor plan for the proposed premises denoting the
use of all areas on the premises, including storage, dispensing and delivery
areas, lighting, signage, ingress and egress points and security camera
locations. The site plan shall also show the odor control measures that will be
installed and information regarding the effectiveness of those measures shall
accompany the site plan.
         C.   A proposed security plan in compliance with the retail operating
standards in this Section.
         D.   The name and address of the owner and lessor of the real property
upon which the Retailer is proposed to be located. In the event the applicant
is not the legal owner of the property, the application must be accompanied
with a notarized acknowledgement from the owner of the property that a cannabis
Retailer may be operated on the property.
         E.   Proof of the nature of the applicant’s organizational status,
such as articles of incorporation, by-laws, organizational minutes, partnership
agreements, and other documentation that may be required by the City to verify
the ownership of the applicant.
         F.   Written authorization for the City Manager or the City Manager's
designee to verify the information contained in the application and to conduct
a background check on all “owners” (as defined by MAUCRSA) of the applicant.
         G.   Any such additional and further information as is deemed
necessary by the City Manager or the City Manager's designee to administer this
Section.
         H.   A statement in writing by the applicant that the applicant
certifies under penalty of perjury that all the information contained in the
application is true and correct.
      (3)   Retail Permit Issuance, Transfer, Renewal.
         A.   A Retail Permit will not be awarded to an applicant if:
            1.   The applicant made one or more false or misleading statements
or omissions in the application or during the application process.
            2.   The proposed Retailer is not allowed by State or local law.
            3.   The applicant is not a legal representative of the retailer.
            4.   Any “owner” of the applicant has been convicted of a felony,
or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or the illegal use, possession,
distribution, transportation, or any such similar activity related to
controlled substances, with the exception of cannabis-related offenses for
which the conviction occurred prior to passage of Compassionate Use Act. A
conviction within the meaning of this Section means a plea or verdict of guilty
or a conviction following a plea of nolo contendere.
            5.   The applicant has engaged in unlawful, fraudulent, unfair, or
deceptive business acts or practices.
            6.   The application and accompanying materials demonstrates that
the applicant would not comply with one or more of the requirements of this
Section.
            7.   The cannabis retailer is proposed to be located at a premises
within 600 feet of a school, public playground or park, child care or day care
facility, youth center. All distances shall be measured in a straight line,
without regard to intervening structures, from the nearest point of the
building or structure in which the cannabis retailer is, or will be located, to
the nearest property line of those uses described in this Subsection.
         B.   A Retail Permit is subject to any additional conditions that may
be applied by the City at the time of issuance or renewal as necessary to
properly regulate the retail activities and to protect the public.
         C.   Before a Retail Permit will be issued to an applicant, Retail
Permit fees must be paid to offset all foreseeable regulatory costs to the City
for all retail related operations.
         D.   A Retail Permittee shall:
            1.   Carry liability insurance in the amounts and types set by the
City Manager or the City Manager's designee, and name the City as an additional
insured on all such insurance policies.
            2.   Execute an Indemnification Agreement prepared by the City that
fully indemnifies the City for all liabilities associated with the Retail
Permit, the Retail Permittee's cannabis related activities, and any action
taken by the Retail Permittee pursuant to this Section.
            3.   Defend the City, at the Retail Permittee's sole expense, in
any action against the City or its agents, officers, or employees associated
with the Retail Permit, the Retail Permittee's cannabis-related activities, or
any action taken by the Retail Permittee pursuant to this Section. The City
may, at its sole discretion, participate in the defense of any such action, but
such participation shall not relieve the Retail Permittee of its
indemnification and reimbursement obligations.
            4.   Reimburse the City for all costs, expenses, fees, and
attorneys' fees incurred by the City related to any action against the City or
its agents, officers, or employees associated with the Retail Permit, the
Retail Permittee's cannabis related activities, or any action taken by the
Retail Permittee pursuant to this Section.
         E.   Subsequent to the issuance of a Retail Permit, the Retail
Permittee shall report any change of ownership in the business to the City. A
change of ownership that solely involves a previously approved owner no longer
being an owner of the cannabis business shall be reported to the City within
thirty days of the change. A change in ownership that involves adding a new
owner to the previously approved ownership, or a transfer of the Retail Permit
to a new ownership group, must be approved by the City in advance. All proposed
new owners must submit to a background check. The City shall approve the change
in ownership unless one or more of the grounds to deny a retail permit listed
in Subsection A. above are present.
         F.   A Retail Permit shall expire and be null and void 12 months after
issuance to the Retail Permittee unless properly renewed. Upon payment of the
applicable Retail Permit fees, and passing any requisite retail inspections, a
Retail Permittee that is fully operational and engaging in retail sales to the
public shall be entitled to renew their Retail Permit, provided that the
permittee maintained compliance with all City, State, and other applicable
cannabis and business-related laws during the term of their permit, and subject
to all prevailing laws at the time of renewal. A Retail Permittee that is not
fully operational and engaging in retail sales to the public may apply for a
renewal of their Retail Permit but a renewal shall only be approved if the City
finds that there is good cause for the permittee’s failure to be fully
operational.
         G.   To the fullest extent permitted by law, the City does not assume
any liability, and expressly does not waive sovereign immunity, with respect to
any cannabis retail activities, or for the activities of any cannabis retailer.
      (1)   Any cannabis retail activities within the City in violation of this
Section are hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance.
      (2)   Any party who engages in any violation of this Section, or who
owns, possesses, controls, or has charge of any parcel of real property in the
City upon which a violation of the Section is maintained, shall be subject to
the penalties and remedies provided by this Section.
      (3)   Any violation of this Section shall constitute a separate offense
for each and every day the violation occurs or persists.
      (4)   Any person in violation of any provision of this Section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of up to $1,000 and
up to six months imprisonment per offense per day.
      (5)   A.   Any person in violation of any provision of this Section shall
be punishable by an administrative fine of up to $1,000 per offense per day.
Aggregate daily fines shall not exceed $10,000 per day if administrative fines
are imposed immediately without prior issuance of a Notice of Violation.
         B.   If the City imposes fines immediately without prior issuance of a
Notice of Violation, the property owner or their agent shall have five days in
which to submit evidence to the City of the following: i) a tenant is in
possession of the property; ii) the rental or lease agreement with the tenant
prohibits commercial cannabis activity; and iii) the property owner or agent
did not know the tenant was engaging in illegal commercial cannabis activity
and no complaint, property inspection, or other information alerted the rental
property owner or agent to the illegal commercial cannabis activity.
         C.   The City Manager or their designee must determine whether the
evidence submitted by the property owner or rental agent proves items i, ii,
and iii above to be true. If the City Manager or their designee so finds, the
City will suspend the fines and provide the property owner or their agent with
ten days to remedy the violations before fines are reinstated.
      (6)   Any violation of this Section or any other City or State cannabis
law by a Retail Permittee is grounds for revoking the relevant Retail Permit.
In addition, the City Manager or the City Manager's designee may revoke a
Retail Permit if any of the following occur subject to a reasonable opportunity
for the Retail Permittee to cure the deficiency during a period of no more than
30 days:
         A.   The City Manager or the City Manager's designee determines that
the cannabis retailer has failed to comply with this Section, any condition of
approval, or any agreement or covenant as required pursuant to this Section.
         B.   Ownership of the retailer is changed or transferred to a third
party, without prior City approval.
         C.   The retailer fails to maintain 120 hours of security recordings.
         D.   The retailer fails to provide remote access to the security
cameras to the City Manager, the City Manager's designee, or law enforcement,
or fails to allow inspection of the security recordings, the activity logs, or
of the premises by authorized City officials.
      (7)   Any decision regarding the revocation of a Retail Permit may be
appealed to an independent neutral third party administrative hearing officer
appointed by the City Manager or the City Manager's designee ("Hearing
Officer"). Said appeal shall be made by a notice of appeal from the person
appealing within 15 days from the date of the decision to revoke the Retail
Permit. The appeal shall be accompanied by a written verified declaration
setting forth the basis for the claim that the Retail Permit was improperly
revoked. The Hearing Officer's decision shall be final and binding upon the
City and the appellant.
      (8)   These penalties and remedies are cumulative, and in addition to any
other penalties and remedies available to the City.
         [Ord. No. 553, Section 5, 5/24/17; Ord. No. 557-A, Section 2, 5/24/17;
Ord. No. 588, Section 8, 5/23/18; Ord. No. 602, Sections 19 - 21, 6/12/19; Ord.
No. 650, Section 4, 5/8/24.]
CHAPTER 17.85
ADULT BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   
17.85.010   Definitions - Adult-Oriented Business
   
17.85.020   Definitions - Related Words and Phrases
   
17.85.030   Definitions - Specified Anatomical Areas and Specified Sexual
Activities
   
17.85.040   Conditional Use Permit - Adult-Oriented Business - Application
   
17.85.050   Referral of Application for Investigation
   
17.85.060   Reservation of Right to Review Conditional Use Permit - Changed
Conditions
   
17.85.070   Time Limit For Land Use Review and Decisions - First Amendment
Protected Businesses
   
17.85.080   Applicability and Non-Conforming Period
   
17.85.090   Extension of Non-Conforming vs. Amortization Period (Adult-Oriented
Businesses)
   
17.85.100   Continuation of Nonconforming Buildings and Uses
   
17.85.110   Location, Design, and Performance Standards
   
17.85.120   Couch Dancing/Straddle Dancing and Other Sexual Activities
Prohibited
17.85.010 Definitions - Adult-Oriented Business
   (a)   An "Adult-Oriented Business" is any business where employees or
patrons expose "specified anatomical areas" or engage in "specified sexual
activities," or any business which offers to its patrons services or
entertainment characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, exposing,
describing, discussing, or relating to "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas."
   Adult-Oriented Businesses do not include bona fide medical establishments
operated by properly licensed and registered medical personnel with appropriate
medical credentials for the treatment of patients.
   (b)   In determining whether a use is an Adult-Oriented Business, only
conduct or activities which constitute a regular and substantial course of
conduct or a use which has a majority of its floor area, stock-in-trade, or
revenue derived from material characterized by an emphasis on matters
depicting, exposing, describing, discussing, or relating to "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas" shall be considered. Isolated
instances of conduct or activities described in this Section as characterizing
an Adult-Oriented Business shall not be considered except where such
activities, taken together, constitute a regular and substantial course of
conduct.
   (c)   Adult-Oriented Businesses include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Adult Arcade
         An "Adult Arcade" shall mean any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin-operated or slug-operated, or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines,
projections, or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to
five (5) or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
      (2)   Adult Bookstore
         "Adult Bookstore" is an establishment having, as a substantial portion
of its stock-in-trade, and offering for sale for any form of consideration, any
one or more of the following:
         A.   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter,
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other visual
representations which are characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or
description of "specified anatomical areas;"
         B.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use
in connection with "specified sexual activities;" or
         C.   Goods which are replicas of, or which simulate, "specified
anatomical areas" or "specified sexual activities" or goods which are designed
to be placed on or in "specified anatomical areas," or to be used in
conjunction with "specified sexual activities," to cause sexual excitement.
      (3)   Adult Cabaret
         An "Adult Cabaret" is a bar, nightclub, or similar establishment which
features dancers, strippers, or similar entertainers who expose "specified
anatomical areas" of their bodies.
      (4)   Adult Motel
         An "Adult Motel" means a hotel, motel, or similar commercial
establishment which:
         A.   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of
consideration; provides patrons with closed circuit television transmissions,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" and has a sign
visible from the public right-of-way which advertises the availability of this
adult type of photographic reproductions; or
         B.   Offers a room for rent for a period of time that is less than ten
(10) hours; or
         C.   Allows a tenant or occupant of a room to subrent the room for a
period of time that is less than (10) hours.
      (5)   Adult Motion Picture Theater
         An "Adult Motion Picture Theater" shall mean a commercial
establishment where, for any form of consideration, films, motion pictures,
video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions are regularly
shown which are characterized by the depictions or description of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
      (6)   Adult Tanning Salon
         An "Adult Tanning Salon" or "Parlor" shall mean a business
establishment where patrons receive tanning services in groups of two (2) or
more and where patrons or employees of the establishment expose specified
anatomical areas. "Adult Tanning Salon" or "Parlor" shall also include a
business establishment where a patron and an employee of the establishment are
nude or expose specified anatomical areas. An "Adult Tanning Salon" or "Parlor"
shall also include a business establishment where the employees thereof are
nude or expose "specified anatomical areas."
      (7)   Adult Theater
         An "Adult Theater" is any place, building, enclosure, theater, concert
hall, auditorium, or structure, partially or entirely used for live
performances or presentations, which place, building, enclosure, theater,
concert hall, auditorium, or structure is used for presenting matter
characterized by an emphasis on depicting, exposing, describing, or relating to
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" for observation
by patrons therein. Such place shall also include an adult theater wherein
persons are regularly featured appearing in a state of nudity or giving live
performances which are characterized by the exposure of "specified sexual
activities" or by "specified anatomical areas."
      (8)   Escort Agency
         An "Escort Agency" means a person or business entity which furnishes,
offers to furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary
business purposes, for any form of consideration.
      (9)   Nude Model Studio
         A "Nude Model Studio" means any place where a person who appears in a
state of nudity or displays "specified anatomical areas" is provided to be
conversed with or be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured,
photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons, for any form of
consideration. "Nude Model Studio" shall not include any classroom of any
school licensed under State law to provide art education while such classroom
is being used in a manner consistent with such State license.
      (10)   Sex Supermarket/Sex Mini-Mall
         A "Sex Supermarket/Sex Mini-Mall" shall mean the establishment or
operation of more than one type of Adult-Oriented Business or use as defined in
this Zoning Code within the same building.
      (11)   Sexual Encounter Center
         "Sexual Encounter Center" means a business or commercial enterprise
that, as one of its primary business purposes, offers for any form of
consideration:
         (A)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of
nudity or is semi-nude or is exhibiting specified anatomical areas; or
         (B)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or is semi-
nude or is exhibiting specified anatomical areas.
      (12)   Sexual Novelty Store
         A "Sexual Novelty Store" is an establishment having, as a substantial
portion of its stock-in-trade, goods which are replicas of, or which simulate
"specified anatomical areas" or "specified sexual activities," or goods which
are designed to be placed on or in "specified anatomical areas" or to be used
in conjunction with "specified sexual activities," to cause sexual excitement.
      (13)   Sexually Oriented Business
         A "Sexually Oriented Business" is any business, where employees or
patrons expose "specified anatomical areas" or engage in or simulate "specified
sexual activities," or any business which offers to its patrons services or
entertainment characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, exposing,
describing, discussing, or relating to "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas."
17.85.020 Definitions - Related Words and Phrases
   In addition to the terms defined in Sections
17.85.010 and
17.85.030, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning set forth
below:
   (a)   Escort
      An "Escort" means any person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to
act as a companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers
to privately model lingerie or to privately perform a "striptease" for another
person. Escort shall not include any person hired by a State licensed school
for purposes of modeling in any art education class while such person acts in
that capacity.
   (b)   Establishment
      An "Establishment" means and includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any Adult-Oriented Business as a new
business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not an Adult-
Oriented Business, to any Adult-Oriented Business;
      (3)   The addition of any Adult-Oriented Business to any other existing
Adult-Oriented Business; or to another existing non-Adult-Oriented Business,
with or without expansion of floor area;
      (4)   The relocation of any Adult-Oriented Business; or
      (5)   The expansion or enlargement of the premises by ten (10) percent or
more of the existing floor area.
   (c)   Nudity or a State of Nudity
      "Nudity" or a "State of Nudity" means the appearance of a human bare
buttock, anus, male genitals, female genitals, or female breast.
   (d)   Private Viewing Area
      "Private Viewing Area" means an area or areas in an Adult-Oriented
Business designed to accommodate no more than five (5) or less patrons or
customers for purposes of viewing or watching a performance, picture, show,
film, videotape, slide, movie, or other presentation. No private viewing areas
shall be established, maintained, or authorized, and there shall be no doors,
curtains, stalls, or other enclosures creating a private viewing area.
   (e)   Semi-Nude
      "Semi-Nude" means a state of dress in which clothing, including
supporting straps or devices, covers no more than the genitals, pubic region,
and areolae of the female breast.
   (f)   "Specified Criminal Act"
      A "Specified Criminal Act" shall also mean "Specified Criminal Acts" and
include sexual crimes against children; sexual abuse; rape; or crimes connected
with another Adult-Oriented Business including, but not limited to, the
distribution of obscenity; violations involving the distribution, display, or
sale of material harmful to minors; prostitution; or pandering. "Specified
Criminal Acts" shall exclude those acts which are authorized or required to be
kept confidential pursuant to Welfare and Institutions Code Sections 600-900.
17.85.030 Definitions - Specified Anatomical Areas and Specified Sexual
Activities
   The following words and phrases when used in this Zoning Code shall have the
meaning set forth below:
   (a)   "Specified Anatomical Areas" shall include any of the following human
anatomical areas:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks, anuses, or female breasts below a point immediately above the top of
the areolae; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   (b)   "Specified Sexual Activities" include all of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of the following human
anatomical areas: genitals, pubic regions, buttocks, anuses, or female breasts;
      (2)   Human sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
      (3)   Human masturbation, actual or simulated;
      (4)   The actual or simulated infliction of pain by one human upon
another, or by an individual upon himself or herself, for the purpose of the
sexual gratification or release of either individual, as a result of
flagellation, beating, striking, or touching of an erogenous zone, including
without limitation, the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if such
person is a female, a breast;
      (5)   Sexual intercourse, actual or simulated, between a human being and
an animal; or
      (6)   Human excretory functions.
17.85.040 Conditional Use Permit - Adult-Oriented Business - Application
   In order to operate an Adult-Oriented Business within this City, the
applicant or proprietor of the business must obtain any license required by the
Municipal Code and a Conditional Use Permit as required herein. All applicants
for such a permit shall file a written, signed, and verified application on a
form provided by the Planning Director evidencing the following:
   (a)   The name and permanent address of the applicant;
   (b)   The name and business address of the applicants. If the applicant is a
corporation, the applicant shall provide the name of and the State of
Incorporation. The name shall be exactly as set forth in its Articles of
Incorporation, and the applicant shall show the name and address each of the
officers, directors, and controlling stockholders owning no less than ten (10 )
percent of the stock of the corporation. If the applicant is a partnership, the
application shall show the name and address of each of the partners, including
limited partners;
   (c)   Location and address of the proposed Adult-Oriented Business;
   (d)   Legal description of the subject property;
   (e)   A detailed description of the manner of providing proposed
entertainment, including type of entertainment and the number of persons
engaged in the entertainment;
   (f)   Proposed hours of operation;
   (g)   A floor plan showing where the specific entertainment uses are
proposed to be conducted within the building;
   (h)   The name or names of the person or persons having responsibility for
the management or supervision of the applicant's business and of any
entertainment; and
   (i)   Statement of the nature and character of the applicant's business, if
any, to be carried on in conjunction with such entertainment.
   Notwithstanding the fact that an application filed hereunder may be a
"public record" under Government Code Section 6250 et seq., certain portions of
such application contain information vital to the effective administration and
enforcement of the licensing and/or permit scheme established herein which is
personal, private, confidential, or the disclosure of which could expose the
applicant to a risk of harm. Such information includes, but is not limited to,
the applicant's residence address and telephone number, the applicant's date of
birth and/or age, the applicant's driver's license and/or Social Security
Number, and/or personal financial data. The City Council in adopting the
application and licensing and/or permit system set forth herein has determined
in accordance with Government Code Section 6255 that the public interest in
disclosure of the information set forth above is outweighed by the public
interest in achieving compliance with this Chapter by ensuring that the
applicant's privacy, confidentially, or security interests are protected. The
City Clerk shall cause to be obliterated from any copy of a completed license
application made available to any member of the public, the information set
forth above.
17.85.050 Referral of Application for Investigation
   The Planning Director shall refer the permit application to the designated
head of the law enforcement agency providing police services to the City for an
investigation to be made of such information as is contained on the
application.
   (a)   After an investigation, including obtaining the information pursuant
to the Municipal Code, the designated head of the law enforcement agency
providing police services to the City shall issue a report to the Planning
Director or the Planning Commission, as appropriate, and the Planning Director
or the Planning Commission, as appropriate, shall approve the permit unless one
or more of the following findings is true:
      (1)   That the applicant, his or her employee, agent, partner, director,
officer, controlling stock holder, or manager has knowingly made any false,
misleading, or fraudulent statement of material fact in the application for a
permit, or in any report or record required to be filed with any City or County
agency or department.
      (2)   That on the date that the business for which a permit is required
herein commences, or thereafter, there will be no responsible person on the
premises to act as manager at all times during which the Adult-Oriented
Business is open.
      (3)   That an applicant is under 18 years of age.
      (4)   That an applicant has been convicted of a "Specific Criminal Act"
for which:
         A.   Less than two (2) years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is of a misdemeanor offense for the "Specified Criminal Acts" which
are sexual crimes against children; sexual abuse; rape; or crimes connected
with another Adult-Oriented Business including, but not limited to,
distribution of obscenity; distribution, display, or sale of material harmful
to minors; prostitution; or pandering.
         B.   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later
date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; for the "Specified Criminal
Acts" which are sexual crimes against children; sexual abuse; rape; or crimes
connected with another Adult-Oriented Business including, but not limited to,
distribution of obscenity; distribution, display, or sale of material harmful
to minors; prostitution; or pandering.
         C.   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later
date, if the convictions are of two (2) or more misdemeanors for the "Specified
Criminal Acts" which are sexual crimes against children; sexual abuse; rape; or
crimes connected with another Adult-Oriented Business including, but not
limited to, distribution of obscenity; distribution, display, or sale of
material harmful to minors; prostitution; or pandering; or conviction of any
such offense occurring within twenty-four (24) months prior to application.
         D.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on disqualification of the applicant.
         E.   An applicant who has been convicted of any of the above described
"Specified Criminal Acts" may qualify to own, operate, or manage an Adult-
Oriented Business only when the required time period has elapsed.
   (b)   In the event the information is not immediately available, the
designated head of the law enforcement entity providing police services to the
City shall, if the application otherwise meets the requirements of the
Municipal Code and the investigation conducted reveals none of the factors set
forth in subsection (a) above, issue a report thereon and the permit shall
issue therefrom. Where upon, the City Manager, or designee thereof, shall issue
the permit. Should the information obtained materially vary from that on the
application, such variance shall be cause to revoke the permit. Any license
issued prior to the City receiving the information required by the Municipal
Code shall state clearly on its face that the license is subject to suspension
or revocation pursuant to the Municipal Code.
   (c)   The City's decision to grant or deny the permit shall not include
information authorized or required to be kept confidential pursuant to Welfare
and Institutions Code Sections 600 to 900.
17.85.060 Reservation of Right to Review Conditional Use Permit - Changed
Conditions
   Any Conditional Use Permit granted or approved hereunder shall be granted or
approved with the City and its City Council and Planning Commission retaining
and reserving the right and jurisdiction to review and modify the permit,
including the conditions of approval, based on changed circumstances. Changed
circumstances include, but are not limited to, the modification of the
business, the change in scope, emphasis, size, or nature of the business, and
the expansion, alteration, or change of use. The reservation of the right to
review any permit granted or approval hereunder by the City, its City Council,
and Planning Commission is in addition to, and not in lieu of, the right of the
City, its City Council, and Planning Commission to review and revoke or modify
any permit granted or approved hereunder for any violations of the conditions
imposed on such permit.
17.85.070 Time Limit For Land Use Review and Decisions - First Amendment
Protected Businesses
   (a)   Interim CUP
      (1)   The Planning Director shall accept as complete, or deny as
incomplete, the application for a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) for a business
protected by the First Amendment of the United States Constitution within ten
(10) days from the date on which an application is submitted to the Director.
      (2)   In order to avoid undue delay or suppression of any protected
expression, the Planning Director shall make an initial determination that the
required information is contained in the application to process an Interim CUP
within five (5) days of the date of filing the application. If the application
is sufficient to issue an Interim CUP, such shall be issued by the Planning
Director within ten (10) days of the date the application was filed. A
sufficient application shall include, but not be limited to, the applicant's
meeting the requirements to be issued an Adult-Oriented Business License
required by the Adelanto Municipal Code and the proposed business must be
located in the Manufacturing District, and subject to the locational and
setback requirements of Section
17.30.040 of the Adelanto Municipal Code. The granting of the Interim CUP by
the Planning Director is without prejudice to and does not preclude the denial
of the Final CUP application filed by the applicant. The Interim CUP shall
terminate upon the Planning Commission taking action on the Final CUP. No right
to operate beyond the termination of the Interim CUP for a First Amendment
Protected Business shall vest in the applicant if the applicant is unable or
unwilling to obtain the Adult-Oriented Business License required by the
Adelanto Municipal Code and the Final CUP required by this Section.
   (b)   Final CUP
      The Planning Commission shall approve or disapprove the completed CUP
application within ninety (90) days of its acceptance as complete by the
Director. The time limit established by this Section may be extended once for a
period not to exceed ninety (90) days upon consent of the Planning Director and
the applicant.
      (1)   To approve the Final CUP, the Planning Commission, or City Council
on appeal, must first make the following findings:
         A.   That all applicable filing fees have been paid.
         B.   That the applicant is not overdue in payment to the City of any
taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against or imposed in relation to an
existing or former Adult-Oriented Business.
         C.   That the building, structure, equipment, and location used by the
business for which an Adult-Oriented Business License is required complies with
the requirements and standards of the health, building, zoning, fire, and
safety laws of the State of California, the Adelanto Fire Department, and the
City of Adelanto.
         D.   That the conduct of the Adult-Oriented Business as proposed by
the applicant, if permitted, will comply with all applicable laws; including
but not limited to, the City's building, zoning, fire, and health and safety
regulations.
         E.   That the City currently has no evidence demonstrating that the
applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading, or fraudulent statement of
material facts in the CUP application or any other document required by the
City in conjunction therewith.
         F.   That the use is permitted in the zone, district, or area in which
it is proposed to be located and is in conformity with the applicable
development standards of that zone, district, or area, including the provision
of required parking.
         G.   That the use is in conformity with the locational criteria set
forth in Section 17.85.110 of this Zoning Code.
         H.   That the design of the site and the proposed improvements are in
compliance with all applicable design provisions of Section 17.85.110 of this
Zoning Code.
         I.   That the proposed conduct of the Adult-Oriented Business is in
compliance with all applicable performance standards of Section 17.85.110 of
this Zoning Code.
      (2)   In the event the Planning Commission, or the City Council on
appeal, denies the Final CUP application, the business shall cease its
operations as an Adult-Oriented Business and no further activities regulated by
this Zoning Code or the Adelanto Municipal Code shall be conducted on the
premises unless and until a CUP and a license required by the Adelanto
Municipal Code is obtained. The Interim CUP shall also terminate on the date
the CUP application is denied.
   (c)   If the permit requested is for a development project for construction
or reconstruction subject to the Permit Streamlining Act (Government Code
§65920 et seq.), the time limits provided in the Permit Streamlining Act shall
apply to the Conditional Use Permit's approval or denial.
   (d)   Upon the filing of an appeal, the Planning Commission or the City
Council shall render its decision on the appeal within sixty (60) days.
17.85.080 Applicability and Non-Conforming Period
   (a)   All design and performance standards set forth in this Chapter are
deemed to be necessary for the protection of the public health, safety, and
welfare and shall be applicable and govern all existing and proposed Adult-
Oriented Businesses immediately upon adoption and passage of this Chapter.
   (b)   In the event that there is any Adult-Oriented Business lawfully in
existence prior to the adoption of this Chapter and is not in compliance with
the design and performance standards of this Chapter, any such Adult-Oriented
Business shall conform to all design and performance standards within twelve
(12) months of the effective date of this Chapter.
17.85.090 Extension of Non-Conforming vs. Amortization Period (Adult- Oriented
Businesses)
   (a)   An application for extension of the amortization period for an Adult-
Oriented Business which is a nonconforming use shall be made as provided in
Chapter 17.165 of this Zoning Code.
   (b)   The owner of the property on which an Adult-Oriented Business is
located or the owner of the Adult-Oriented Business who desires to extend the
amortization period must apply for approval of an extension not later than six
(6) months prior to expiration of the amortization period, unless the Planning
Director determines that good cause is shown for late filing of the
application. Such application shall be made in writing on a form as prescribed
by the Planning Director and shall be accompanied by the required fee as
established by Resolution of the City Council. The party requesting the
extension of the amortization period shall bear the burden of proof in
establishing that the amortization period established by Section
17.85.100 of the Adelanto Municipal Code is unreasonable and that the requested
extension is a reasonable amortization period for the owner to receive a fair
rate of return on the investment in the business. The party applying for the
extension shall furthermore be required in order to meet its burden of proof to
submit the documentation set forth in this Section.
   (c)   Not later than thirty (30) days after submittal of an application to
extend the amortization period, the Planning Director shall notify the
applicant, in writing, if the application is not complete. A complete
application shall include:
      (1)   The applicant's signature;
      (2)   A written request for an extension of the amortization period which
shall include information relevant to the factors listed in subsection (f)
below and shall identify the term of the requested extension;
      (3)   The required fees;
      (4)   A mailing list and a set of gummed labels with the names,
addresses, and tax assessor parcel numbers of all owners of real property
within a radius of three hundred (300) feet from the external boundaries of the
property on which the Adult-Oriented Business is located; and
      (5)   A tax assessor's parcel map identifying the properties to be
notified within the three hundred (300) foot radius.
   If the application is not complete, the Planning Director shall specify in
writing those parts which are incomplete and shall identify the manner by which
the application can be made complete. If a written determination is not
provided to the applicant within thirty (30) calendar days after it is
submitted, the application shall be deemed complete.
   (d)   In determining whether to grant an extension of the amortization
period for an Adult-Oriented Business which is a nonconforming use, and in
determining the appropriate length of such an extension, the reviewing
authority shall consider the amount of investment in the business, the
opportunities for relocation to a legally permissible site, the costs of
relocation, the effects of the business on the surrounding area, and the
following additional factors:
      (1)   The present actual and depreciated value of business improvements;
      (2)   The applicable Internal Revenue Service depreciation schedule or
functional non-confidential equivalents;
      (3)   The remaining useful life of the business improvements;
      (4)   The remaining lease term;
      (5)   The ability of the business and/or land owner to change the use to
a conforming use; and
      (6)   The date upon which the property owner and/or business operator
received notice of the non-conforming status of the Adult-Oriented Business and
the amortization requirements.
   (e) The Planning Commission, or City Council on appeal, shall receive and
consider evidence presented by the applicant and any other persons, and shall
make findings that the amortization period it establishes is reasonable in view
of the evidence and the criteria set forth above.
17.85.100 Continuation of Nonconforming Buildings and Uses
   Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections
17.85.080 and
17.85.090 of this Chapter, the following provisions shall apply to Adult-
Oriented Businesses:
   (a)   Any Adult-Oriented Business which is a nonconforming use on January 1,
1999, shall be subject to an amortization period expiring January 1, 2003, and
any Adult-Oriented Business which becomes a nonconforming use after January 1,
1999, shall be subject to an amortization period of three (3) years commencing
on the date the use becomes nonconforming.
   (b)   The owner of any Adult-Oriented Business which is a nonconforming use
may apply for extension of the amortization period, pursuant to Section
17.165 of this Zoning Code. Such application shall be made prior to the
expiration of the amortization period unless the reviewing authority determines
that good cause is shown for late filing of the application.
   (c)   Upon the conclusion of the amortization period, any Adult-Oriented
Business which is a nonconforming use shall cease all business operations and
all signs, advertising, and displays relating to said business shall be removed
within thirty (30) days.
17.85.110 Location, Design, and Performance Standards
   (a)   An Adult-Oriented Business shall not be established or located within
one thousand feet (1,000') of:
      (1)   Any County or City zone or land use district which contains the
words "Residence," "Residential," “Ranches,” “Mobile Home” or "Desert Living"
within its title;
      (2)   Any residential use;
      (3)   Any church, chapel, or similar place of worship, or property zoned,
planned, or otherwise designated for such use by City action;
      (4)   Any funeral parlor, mortuary, cemetery, or similar facility, or
property zoned, planned, or otherwise designated for such use by City action;
      (5)   Any school, nursery school, day care center, park, or public or
private playground, or property zoned, planned, or otherwise designated for
such use by City action; or
      (6)   Any other recreational facility where minors congregate, or
property zoned, planned, or otherwise designated for such use by City action.
   (b)   An Adult-Oriented Business shall not be established or located within
one thousand feet (1,000') of an existing Adult-Oriented Business. If two (2)
or more existing Adult-Oriented Businesses are located in closer proximity to
each other than one thousand feet (1,000'), then in determining which of the
businesses is or are nonconforming, preference shall be given in the order of
the respective lengths of continuous uninterrupted operation of the businesses.
   (c)   For the purposes of this Section, all distances shall be measured in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures, from the nearest point
of the building, or structure in which the Adult-Oriented Business is or will
be located to the nearest property line of any land use, land use district, or
zone described in subsection (a) above, or to the nearest point of the building
or structure in which an existing Adult-Oriented Business described in
subsection (b) above is located.
   (d)   No advertising sign or structure, advertisement, display, or other
promotional material depicting "specified anatomical areas" or "specified
sexual activities" or displaying instruments, devices, or paraphernalia
designed for use in connection with "specific sexual activities," shall be
shown or exhibited so as to be visible from any exterior area.
   (e)   All building openings, entries, and windows shall be located, covered,
or screened to prevent viewing the interior from any exterior area.
   (f)   No loudspeaker or sound equipment audible to persons in any public
exterior area shall be used in connection with an Adult-Oriented Business, and
the business shall be so conducted that sounds associated with the business are
not emitted into any public exterior area.
   (g)   The establishment of an Adult-Oriented Business shall comply with the
applicable site development standards, including parking,of the zone, district,
or area in which the Adult-Oriented Business is located, the Building Code,
Fire Code, and the Health and Safety Code of the City of Adelanto. An Adult-
Oriented Business shall comply with the applicable City of Adelanto permit and
inspection procedures. In addition, Adult-Oriented Businesses shall comply with
the following performance standards:
      (1)   Each Adult-Oriented Business shall have a business entrance
separate from any other non-adult business located in the same building.
      (2)   No Adult-Oriented Business shall be operated in any manner that
permits the observation by the public of any material depicting, describing, or
relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" from
any public way or from any location beyond the walls of the building or portion
thereof in which the Adult-Oriented Business is conducted.
      (3)   The building entrance to the Adult-Oriented Business shall be
clearly and legibly posted with a notice indicating that minors are precluded
from entering the premises.
      (4)   Each Adult-Oriented Business shall be provided with a manager's
station for the purpose of supervising activities within the business. A
manager shall be on duty on the premises during all times that the Adult-
Oriented Business is open to the public.
      (5)   Any viewing room shall be visible from the manager's station of the
Adult-Oriented Business, and visibility of the entire viewing room from the
manager's station shall be neither obscured nor obstructed by any curtain,
door, wall, or other structure.
      (6)   All exterior areas of Adult-Oriented Businesses, including
buildings, landscaping, and parking areas, shall be maintained in a clean and
orderly manner free of trash, weeds, and debris.
      (7)   The maximum occupancy load, fire exits, fire lanes, and fire
suppression equipment shall be regulated, designed, and provided in accordance
with the regulations and standards of the Adelanto Fire Department and the
City's Building Department.
      (8)   No Adult-Oriented Business shall operate between the hours of 2:00
a.m. and 9:00 a.m. of any particular day. The Planning Commission, or City
Council on appeal, shall establish the actual permitted hours of operation for
each permit approved or granted. No owner, operator, manager, or employee of an
Adult-Oriented Business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued
for said business under the provisions of this Zoning Code, shall allow such
business to remain open for business, or to permit any employee to engage in a
performance, solicit a performance, make a sale, solicit a sale, provide a
service, or solicit a service between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. of
any particular day or in violation of the actual permitted hours of operation
established in the Conditions of Approval for the permit.
      (9)   Any person who operates or causes to be operated an Adult-Oriented
Business, other than an Adult Motel and regardless of whether or not an Adult-
Oriented Business License has been issued to said business under this Zoning
Code, which exhibits on the premises in a viewing room or viewing booth of less
than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette, or other video reproduction which depicts "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas," shall comply with the following
requirements:
         A.   Upon application for an Adult-Oriented Business License, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager's stations, the location
of all overhead lighting fixtures, and designating any portion of the premises
in which patrons shall not be permitted. A manager's station(s) shall not
exceed thirty-two (32) square feet of floor area.
         B.   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station shall be made without the prior written approval of the Planning
Director.
         C.   It is the duty of the licensee to insure that at least one (1)
employee is on duty and situated at each manager's station at all times that
any patron is present inside the premises.
         D.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms shall not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two (2) or more manager's stations designed, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one (1) of the manager's stations. The view required
in this subsection shall be by direct line of sight from the manager's station.
         E.   It shall be the duty of the licensee and any employees present on
the premises to insure that the view area remains unobstructed by any doors,
walls, merchandise, display racks, or other materials at all times and to
insure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises which has
been designed as an area in which patrons shall not be permitted in the
application filed pursuant to this Chapter.
      (10)   An on-site security program shall be prepared and implemented
including the following items:
         A.   All off-street parking areas and building entries serving the
Adult-Oriented Business shall be illuminated during all hours of operation with
a lighting system designed to provide an average maintained horizontal
illumination of one (1) foot candle of light on the parking surface and/or
walkway. This required lighting level is established in order to provide
sufficient illumination of the parking areas and walkways serving the Adult-
Oriented Business for the personal safety of patrons and employees and to
reduce the incidence of vandalism and theft. The lighting shall be shown on the
required site or plot plan and shall be subject to review for compliance
through the Design Review process by the Planning Director and the designated
head of the entity providing law enforcement services to the City.
         B.   All interior portions of the Adult-Oriented Business, except
those areas devoted to mini-motion or motion pictures, shall be illuminated
during all hours of operation with a lighting system designed to provide a
minimum maintained horizontal illumination of not less than two (2) footcandles
of light.
         C.   For Adult-Oriented Businesses which exceed an occupant load of
one hundred twenty-five (125) persons, the provision of on-site security
personnel shall be required during all business hours pursuant to a plan to be
reviewed and approved for adequacy by the designated head of the law
enforcement entity providing law enforcement services to the City. Security
personnel shall be licensed in accordance with the California Business and
Professions Code, to the satisfaction of the designated head of the entity
providing law enforcement services to the City.
      (11)   Adult Motion Picture Theater
         A.   A manager's station shall be located near the main entrance and
the station shall be provided with an unobstructed view of all motion picture
private viewing areas.
         B.   No adult motion picture arcade shall be maintained or operated
unless the complete interior of the adult motion picture theater is visible
upon entrance to such adult motion picture theater. No partially or fully
enclosed booths or partially or fully concealed booths shall be maintained.
         C.   Maximum Number of Devices. No person shall operate an adult
motion picture theater in which the number of image producing devices exceeds
the maximum occupancy load permitted in any room or partitioned portion of a
room in which an image producing device is located.
      (12)   Adult Hotel/Motel
         A.   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or a similar
commercial establishment has been rented or subrented and vacated two (2) or
more times in a period of time that is less than ten (10) hours on a recurring
basis, creates a rebuttable presumption that the establishment is an adult
hotel/motel as that term is defined in this Zoning Code.
         B.   A person is in violation of the provisions of this Zoning Code if
such person rents or sub-rents a sleeping room at a location without an Adult-
Oriented Business License and a CUP-Adult-Oriented Business to a person or
persons and within ten (10) hours thereafter rents or sub-rents the same room
to another person(s), or sub-rents the same room to the prior renter.
   (h)   All persons on the premises of the establishment who are engaged in
specified sexual activities or are exposing specified anatomical areas must be
located upon a stage that is at least eighteen inches (18") above the immediate
floor level and is at least six feet (6') from the nearest patron.
   (i)   Patrons of establishments are prohibited from directly or indirectly
giving tips (money or anything else of value) to performers, owners, employees,
or agents of an establishment, and said performers, owners, employees and
agents are prohibited from directly or indirectly accepting from patrons of an
establishment tips (money or anything else of value).
   (j)   Establishments, except adult theaters, shall be illuminated at a
minimum of 1.00 foot-candle, maintained and evenly distributed at ground level,
excluding only those areas shielded by tables or similar obstructions.
17.85.120 Couch Dancing/Straddle Dancing and Other Sexual Activities Prohibited
   For purposes of this Section, couch dancing or straddle dancing shall be
defined as an activity involving at least two persons where at least one of the
persons is a patron who is sitting or resting on an object or the floor and at
least one of the persons is dancing or moving such that said person’s genitals,
pubic region, buttock or female breast, regardless of whether such body area is
covered or uncovered, is positioned for any period of time within three feet
(3') of, and at a level between, the chin and forehead of, the person(s) who
is/are sitting or resting on an object or the floor.
   (a)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated an Adult-Oriented
Business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued under this
Zoning Code, knowingly, or with reason to know, permitting, suffering, or
allowing any employee:
      (1)   To engage in a couch dance or straddle dance with a patron at the
business;
      (2)   To contract or otherwise agree with a patron to engage in a couch
dance or straddle dance with a person at the business;
      (3)   To intentionally touch any patron at an Adult-Oriented Business
while engaged in the display or exposure of "specified anatomical area," or
engaged in or simulating a "specified sexual activity"; or
      (4)   To voluntarily be within six (6) feet of any patron while engaged
in the display or exposure of any "specified anatomical area" or engaged in or
simulating a "specified sexual activity."
   (b)   No employee of an Adult-Oriented Business shall:
      (1)   Engage in a couch dance or straddle dance with a patron at the
business;
      (2)   Contract or otherwise agree to engage in a couch dance or straddle
dance with a patron at the business;
      (3)   Engage in the display or exposure of any "specified anatomical
area" or engage in or simulate a "specified sexual activity" while
intentionally touching a patron at the Adult-Oriented Business; or
      (4)   Engage in the display or exposure of any "specified anatomical
area" or engage in or simulate a "specified sexual activity" closer than six
(6) feet from any patron.
   (c)   No person at any Adult-Oriented Business, regardless of whether or not
said business is permitted under this Zoning Code, shall intentionally touch an
employee who is displaying or exposing any "specified anatomical area" or
engaging in or simulating a "specified sexual activity" at the Adult-Oriented
Business.
   (d)   No person at any Adult-Oriented Business, regardless of whether or not
said business is permitted under this Zoning Code, shall engage in a couch
dance or straddle dance with an employee at the business who is displaying or
exposing any "specified anatomical area" or engaging in or simulating a
"specified sexual activity."
   (e)   No employee of an Adult-Oriented Business, regardless of whether or
not a permit has been issued for said business under this Chapter, shall engage
in a performance, solicit a performance, make a sale, solicit a sale, provide a
service, or solicit a service between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. of
any particular day.
CHAPTER 17.90
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
   
17.90.010   Intent and Purpose
   
17.90.020   Noise
   
17.90.030    Vibration
   
17.90.040   Lighting
   
17.90.050   Smoke
   
17.90.060   Mechanical and Electrical Equipment
   
17.90.070   Electrical Interference
   
17.90.080   Fire or Explosive Hazard
   
17.90.090   Liquid and Solid Wastes
   
17.90.100   Heat or Cold
   
17.90.110   Odors
   
17.90.120   Fissionable or Radioactive Materials
17.90.010 Intent and Purpose
   (a)   Performance standards are designed to minimize and mitigate the
environmental impacts of existing and proposed land uses within a community.
Environmental impacts include noise, air quality, glare, heat, waste disposal,
and runoff control. Performance standards protect the health and safety of
workers, nearby residents, and businesses, and prevent damaging effects to
surrounding properties.
   (b)   The performance standards contained in this Chapter shall apply to all
land uses, including permanent and temporary uses.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08.]
17.90.020 Noise
   (a)   Noise Measurement
   Noise shall be measured with a sound level meter which meets the standards
of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) Section SI4-1979, Type 1 or
Type 2. Noise levels shall be measured using the "A" weighted sound pressure
level scale in decibels (reference pressure = 20 micronewtons per meter
squared). The unit of measure shall be designated as dB(A). Code Enforcement
shall be the noise control officer.
   (b)   Noise Standards
      (1)   The noise standards contained in Table VIII-2, "Land Use
Compatibility Guidelines Related to Noise Exposure" in the Noise Element of the
General Plan shall apply to land uses city-wide and shall be used to define
acceptable and unacceptable noise levels.
      (2)   No person shall operate or cause to operate any source of sound at
any location or allow the creation of any noise on property owned, leased,
occupied or otherwise controlled by such person, which causes the noise level,
when measured on any other property, either incorporated or unincorporated, to
exceed:
         A.   The noise standard plus three (3) dBA for that receiving land use
specified in Table VIII-2 of the General Plan Noise Element for a cumulative
period of more than thirty (30) minutes in any hour; or
         B.   The noise standard plus five (5) dBA for a cumulative period of
more than five (5) minutes in any hour; or
         C.   The noise standard plus ten (10) dBA for a cumulative period of
more than three (3) minutes in any hour; or
         D.   The noise standard plus fifteen (15) dBA for a cumulative period
of more than one (1) minute in any hour; or
         E.    The noise standard plus twenty (20) dBA for any period of time.
      (3)   If the measured ambient level exceeds any of the first four (4)
noise limit categories above, the allowable noise exposure standard shall be
increased to reflect the ambient noise level. If the ambient noise level
exceeds the fifth noise limit category, the maximum allowable noise level under
this category shall be increased to reflect the maximum ambient noise level.
      (4)   If the alleged offense consists entirely of impact noise or simple
tone noise, each of the noise levels in Section
17.90.020(b)(2)A. shall be reduced by five (5) dBA.
   (c)   Exempt Noises
   The following activities shall be exempted from the provisions of this
Chapter:
      (1)   All mechanical devices, apparatus or equipment used, and related to
or connected with emergency machinery, vehicles or activities.
      (2)   The provisions of this regulation shall not preclude the
construction, operation, maintenance and repairs of equipment, apparatus or
facilities of park and recreation projects, public works projects or essential
public works services and facilities, including those utilities subject to the
regulatory jurisdiction of the California Public Utilities Commission.
      (3)   Normal activities associated with and conducted on the grounds of
any elementary, intermediate, secondary school or college.
      (4)   Outdoor gatherings, public dances and shows, provided said events
are conducted pursuant to a permit as required by this Zoning Code.
      (5)   Activities conducted in public parks and public playgrounds,
provided said events are conducted pursuant to a permit as required by this
Zoning Code.
      (6)   Any activity to the extent regulation thereof has been preempted by
State or Federal law.
      (7)   Traffic on any roadway or railroad right-of-way.
      (8)   Construction activity on private properties that are determined by
the Building Official to be essential to the completion of a project, and are
in compliance with Section
17.90.020(d)(1) of this Chapter.
   (d)   Construction Practices
   To reduce potential noise and air quality nuisances, the following items
shall be listed as "General Notes" on the construction drawings:
      (1)   Construction activity and equipment maintenance is limited to the
hours between 7:00 a.m. to dusk on weekdays. Construction may not occur on
weekends or State holidays, without prior consent of the Building Official.
Non-noise generating activities (e.g. interior painting) are not subject to
these restrictions. City and State construction projects, such as road re-
building or resurfacing, and any construction activity that is in response to
an emergency, shall be exempt from this requirement.
      (2)   Stationary construction equipment that generates noise in excess of
sixty-five (65) dBA at the project boundaries must be acoustically shielded and
located at least one hundred feet (100') from occupied residences. The
equipment area with appropriate acoustic shielding shall be designated on
building and grading plans. Equipment and shielding shall remain in the
designated location throughout construction activities.
      (3)   Construction routes are limited to City of Adelanto designated
truck routes.
      (4)   Water trucks or sprinkler systems shall be used during clearing,
grading, earth moving, excavation, or transportation of cut or fill materials
to prevent dust from leaving the site and to create a crust after each day's
activities cease. At a minimum, this would include wetting down such areas in
the later morning and after work is completed for the day and whenever wind
exceeds fifteen (15) miles per hour.
      (5)   A person or persons shall be designated to monitor the dust control
program and to order increased watering as necessary to prevent transport of
dust off-site. The name and telephone number of such person(s) shall be
provided to the City.
      (6)   All grading equipment shall be kept in good working order per
factory specifications.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08.]
17.90.030 Vibration
   (a)   Vibration Standard
   No ground vibration shall be allowed which can be felt without the aid of
instruments at or beyond the subject property line, nor will any vibration be
permitted which produces a particle velocity greater than or equal to two-
tenths of an inch (0.2") per second measured at or beyond the lot line.
   (b)   Vibration Measurement
   Vibration velocity shall be measured with a seismograph or other instrument
capable of measuring and recording displacement and frequency, particle
velocity, or acceleration. Readings are to be made at points of maximum
vibration along any lot line next to a lot within a residential, commercial, or
industrial land use district.
   (c)   Exempt Vibrations
   Except as provided in the Municipal Code, the following sources of vibration
are not regulated by this Zoning Code:
      (1)   Motor vehicles subject to regulation under the California Vehicle
Code.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08.]
17.90.040 Lighting
Except for residential light fixtures using less than a 75-watt bulb, the
following shall apply to all outdoor lighting fixtures:
   (a)   All on-site lighting shall be energy efficient, stationary and
directed away from adjoining properties and public rights-of-way.
   (b)   Light fixtures shall be shielded so no light is emitted above the
horizontal plane of the bottom of the light fixture.
   (c)   Light fixtures shall be shielded so no light above 0.5 footcandle
spills over onto adjacent properties and rights-of-way. There shall be no
spillover (0.0 footcandle) onto adjacent residential used or zoned properties.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08.]
17.90.050 Smoke
No operation or activity is permitted to have operations which emit excessive
smoke, fumes, or dust, or which exceed the requirements or levels as specified
by the Air Quality Management District (AQMD).
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08.]
17.90.060 Mechanical and Electrical Equipment
All such equipment, including air conditioners, antennas, pumps, transformers,
and heating and ventilating equipment, shall be located and operated in a
manner that does not disturb adjacent uses and activities. Typical equipment
(air conditioners, heat pumps, pool filters, etc.) used for residential service
installed and operated in conformance with manufacturer's guidelines and the
requirements of this Zoning Code shall be exempt from this requirement.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08.]
17.90.070 Electrical Interference
No operation or activity shall transmit, generate, or otherwise cause any
electrical, magnetic, or electromagnetic radiation disturbance that affects the
operation of any use, equipment, or process employed by any use beyond the
boundary of the site.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08.]
17.90.080 Fire or Explosive Hazard
All operations or activities shall conform with the minimum requirements of the
Uniform Fire Code, as adopted and amended by the Adelanto Fire Department, and
with the provisions of Title 19 of the California Code of Regulations.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08.]
17.90.090 Liquid and Solid Wastes
There shall be no discharge at any point into any public or private sewage
disposal system or stream, or into the ground, of any liquid or solid materials
except in conformance with the regulations of the City of Adelanto, and other
responsible agencies.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08.]
17.90.100 Heat or Cold
No operation or activity shall emit heat which would cause a temperature
increase or decrease on any adjacent property in excess of ten (10) degrees
Fahrenheit, whether the change is in the air, on the ground, or in any
structure.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08.]
17.90.110 Odors
No operation or activity shall be permitted to emit odorous gases or other
odorous matter in such quantities as to be dangerous, injurious, noxious, or
otherwise objectionable and readily detectable without the aid of instruments
at or beyond the lot line.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08.]
17.90.120 Fissionable or Radioactive Materials
No operation or activity shall be permitted which results at any time in the
release or emission of any fissionable or radioactive materials into the
atmosphere, the ground, or sewage systems.
[Ord. No. 474, Section 5, 5/28/08.]
CHAPTER 17.91
GRADING REGULATIONS
   
17.91.020   Scope of Regulations
   
17.91.030   Grading Guidelines Applicable to All Projects
   
17.91.050   Landscaping Adjacent to Open Space Areas
17.91.020 Scope of Regulations
Where the words "shall" or "will" are used in this Chapter, the stated
standards shall be mandatory. Where the words "should," "could," or similar
language is used, the provisions shall be considered guidelines only, unless
required by the City Engineer, Planning Commission, or City Council through a
discretionary approval process.
17.91.030 Grading Guidelines Applicable to All Projects
The grading standards listed in this Section shall be required of all
development projects, as approved by the City Engineer.
   (a)   The overall shape, height, and grade of any cut or fill slope shall be
designed to simulate the existing natural contours and scale of the natural
terrain of the site.
   (b)   The angle of the graded slope shall be gradually adjusted to the angle
of the natural terrain.
   (c)   Sharp, angular forms shall be rounded and smoothed to blend with the
natural terrain.
   (d)   Graded slopes shall be landscaped.
   (e)   Natural drainage courses shall be preserved whenever practicable,
consistent with the need to minimize flood and erosion hazards. Stream banks
shall be stabilized with landscaping, rock, or other materials that harmonize
with the natural setting and contain flows and control erosion.
   (f)   During construction, measures shall be taken to control runoff from
construction sites consistent with National Pollution Discharge Elimination
Systems (NPDES) requirements imposed by the State Regional Water Quality
Control Board and
Chapter 17.93 of this Code.
   (g)   Grading shall be phased so that prompt revegetation or construction
can control erosion. Where possible, only those areas which will later be
resurfaced, landscaped, or built on should be disturbed. Resurfacing of parking
lots and roadways shall take place as soon as practicable and not at the
completion of construction.
   (h)   Grading operations should be planned to avoid the rainy season.
Grading during the rainy season shall comply with the requirements of
Chapter 17.93 of this Code.
17.91.050 Landscaping Adjacent to Open Space Areas
The transition zone between development and the natural terrain shall be
landscaped to accomplish the following general functions as required:
   (a)   Screening or edge treatment, i.e., berming and planting to buffer and
soften the land use transition. Planting shall be consistent with the character
established for the area in which the project is located.
CHAPTER 17.92
CONDITIONAL GRADING COMPLIANCE
   
17.92.010   Purpose
   
17.92.020   Scope
   
17.92.030   Quality Control Engineer's Responsibilities
   
17.92.040   Developer's Deposit
   
17.92.050   Director of Public Works Authority
   
17.92.060   Authority to Contract
   
17.92.070   Noncompliance
17.92.010 Purpose
The purpose of the Chapter is to assure compliance with conditions of approval
on projects involving earthwork grading by providing continuous on-site
inspections as required by the Director of Public Works of grading projects or
developments for which adopted conditions of approval require any specific or
general features to be incorporated into the earthwork, or restrict or limit
the earthwork in any way which is more restrictive than the grading provisions
as prescribed in the Uniform Building Code.
17.92.020 Scope
The provisions of this Chapter apply to projects which have been conditionally
approved and which involve grading in excess of five thousand (5,000) cubic
yards and when grading will occur on or adjacent to 1) Natural pregraded slopes
of fifteen percent (15%) or greater, or 2) property required for natural open
space retention. The provisions and conditions of this chapter are in addition
to the provisions of the Uniform Building Code and the recommendations of any
site-specific geotechnical investigation report on file with the Planning
Department.
17.92.030 Quality Control Engineer's Responsibilities
The quality control engineer shall be on-site as determined necessary by the
Director of Public Works. This may include a series of inspections or a
continuous inspection.
The quality control engineer shall not be employed by, have any relationship
(financial or otherwise) to, or financial interest in the developer, or any
contracting, engineering or geotechnical companies performing work on or
providing services to the project being inspected.
The quality control engineer shall be responsible for inspection of the work in
progress to assure compliance with the conditions of approval which may
include, but are not limited to slope ratio, slope height, slope location,
areas of land disturbance and/or set provisions regarding archeology,
paleontology, landscaping, erosion control, protection of native plants and
animals, or any other conditions of approval which will control or impact
grading. The quality control engineer shall report to and file reports after
each inspection or (if continuous inspections are necessary) weekly with the
Director of Public Works as required by the Director of Public Works.
17.92.040 Developer's Deposit
Prior to the issuance of the grading permit, the developer shall post a deposit
with the Director of Public Works in the amount and in the form specified by
the Director of Public Works. The deposit funds held in trust shall be
dispersed to the quality control engineer by the Director of Public Works under
the terms of the agreement between the City and the quality control engineer to
pay for the services of the quality control engineer. The Director of Public
Works will notify the developer if and when it becomes apparent that the
deposit will be exhausted and the developer shall make such additional deposit
as required by the Director of Public Works. If the developer fails to submit
such additional deposit by the date specified by the Director of Public Works,
the Director of Public Works shall suspend or revoke the grading permit, in
accordance with the provisions of the Uniform Building Code and order that work
on the project cease. Upon completion of the work, unused funds shall be
returned to the developer within sixty (60) days following the final grading
and quality control inspection approvals. Billings shall be in accordance with
the City's accounting procedures.
17.92.050 Director of Public Works Authority
The Director of Public Works shall have authority to adopt reasonable rules and
regulations to clarify, interpret and enforce the provisions of this Chapter.
The Director of Public Works may approve variations when such variations are
not detrimental to the life, health, safety or welfare of the public and are
necessary because of particular or peculiar circumstances, and will achieve the
same level of protection as the original condition. Variations of the
environmental conditions shall be applied for and processed in the same manner
as other grading variations.
17.92.060 Authority to Contract
For the purpose of the Chapter, the Director of Public Works may retain, on
behalf of the City, independent engineers to serve as the quality control
engineer on projects regulated by this Chapter using a standard form contract
approved by the City.
17.92.070 Noncompliance
The Director of Public Works is authorized and directed to enforce the
provisions of this Chapter and may use any legal means to affect such
enforcement, including suspending and/or revoking any permits that have been
issued by the Director of Public Works for the project, whether or not the
permits are for the earthwork grading, and withholding issuance of any permits
on the project for which applications have been filed. The Director of Public
Works is further authorized to expend any remaining funds in the developer's
deposit to obtain compliance herewith.
CHAPTER 17.93
EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
   
17.93.010   Purpose
   
17.93.020   Scope
   
17.93.030   General Provisions
   
17.93.040   Project Design Considerations
   
17.93.050   Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Plan
   
17.93.060   Runoff Control
   
17.93.070   Land Clearing
   
17.93.080   Winter Operations
   
17.93.090   Continued Responsibility
   
17.93.100   Exemptions
   
17.93.110   Variances
   
17.93.120   Inspection and Compliance
   
17.93.130   Applicable Laws and Regulations
   
17.93.140   Appeals
17.93.010 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to eliminate and prevent accelerated erosion
that has led to, or could lead to, degradation of water quality, loss of fish
habitat, damage to property, loss of topsoil and vegetation cover, disruption
of water supply, increased danger from flooding and the deposition of sediments
and associated nutrients.
17.93.020 Scope
This chapter requires control of all existing and potential conditions of
human-induced accelerated erosion within all areas of the City. This chapter
sets forth required provisions for project planning, preparation of erosion
control plans, runoff control, land clearing and winter operations and
establishes procedures for administering those provisions.
17.93.030 General Provisions
   (a)   No person shall cause or allow the continued existence of a condition
on any site that is causing or is likely to cause accelerated erosion as
determined by the Director of Public Works.
   (b)   Upon citation by the Director of Public Works, the responsible person,
shall take all appropriate measures to control erosion on the site specified in
the notification within the period of time determined by the Director of Public
Works.
   (c)   The Director of Public Works may require that a property owner whose
property has been cited in accordance with Subsection
17.93.030(b) file and obtain approval of a Soil Erosion and Sediment Control
Plan and/or Permit in accordance with Section
17.93.050.
   (d)   The Director of Public Works may direct that any particular operation,
process or construction be stopped during periods of inclement weather if he or
she determines that erosion problems are not adequately being controlled.
17.93.040 Project Design Considerations
The following shall be incorporated into design considerations of all land use
projects that are subject to the provisions of this chapter:
   (a)   Identify building and access construction envelopes and identify areas
which will not be disturbed by construction activity in order to minimize
disturbance of erodible areas of any proposed development site.
   (b)   The preservation of existing streams and drainage courses in their
natural condition in order to retain their ability to accommodate runoff and
water drainage with a minimum of erosion.
   (c)   All appropriate measures that will facilitate the preparation of an
adequate Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Plan and/or Permit measures as
specified by this chapter.
17.93.050 Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Plan
   (a)   No land clearing or grading other than those activities listed as
exemptions by this chapter or as determined by the Director of Public Works
shall occur unless the said land clearing or grading is in compliance with an
approved Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Plan and/or Permit issued in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (b)   A Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Plan shall be submitted and
approved in accordance with the provisions of this chapter prior to the
issuance of building permits, soil erosion and sediment control permits,
grading permits or any other permit where, in the opinion of the Director of
Public Works, erosion can reasonably be expected to occur.
   (c)   Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Plans shall include the measures
required by this chapter. Additional measures or modifications of proposed
measures may be required by the Director of Public Works prior to the approval
of a Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Plan.
   (d)   The Director of Public Works shall specify the application requirement
for Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Plans and Permits including, but not
limited to:
      (1)   Requirements for the submittal of plans and supporting data as
required by the Director of Public Works to accompany applications for Soil
Erosion and Sediment Control Plans and/or Permits;
      (2)   Licensing and/or certification requirements for those preparing
Soil Erosion and Sediment control Plan and/or Permit submittal; and
      (3)   The incorporation and coordination of Soil Erosion Control Plans
and/or Permits with other plan requirements.
   (e)   If in the Director of Public Works’ sole discretion he/she determines
that no land disturbance will take place, the applicant shall not be required
to include a Soil Erosion and Sediment control Plan and/or Permit. Such
activities may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Change of use permits where there would be no expansion of land-
disturbing activities.
      (2)   Construction within an existing structure.
17.93.060 Runoff Control
Runoff from activities subject to a development permit shall be properly
controlled to prevent erosion. Erosion control and surface flow containment
facilities shall be constructed and maintained to prevent discharge of sediment
into surface waters or storm drainage systems. The following measures shall be
used for runoff control, and shall be designed and maintained to control runoff
from a ten-year storm:
   (a)   Where soils having a permeability rate of more than two inches per
hour, runoff in excess of predevelopment levels shall be retained on the site
by methods and in quantities approved by the Director of Public Works. This may
be accomplished through the use of infiltration basins, percolation pits or
trenches, or other suitable means. This requirement may be waived where the
Director of Public Works determines that high groundwater, slope stability
problems, etc., would inhibit or be aggravated by on-site retention, or where
retention will provide no benefits for groundwater recharge or erosion control.
   (b)   Where soils have a permeability rate of two inches per hour or less
and on-site percolation is not feasible, runoff should be detained or dispersed
over nonerodible vegetated surfaces so that the runoff rate does not exceed the
predevelopment level. When the runoff rate must exceed the predevelopment
level, the runoff water shall be discharged over nonerodible surfaces or at a
velocity that will not erode. On-site detention shall be required by the
Director of Public Works unless the applicant shows that the runoff which is
created will not contribute to downstream erosion, flooding or sedimentation.
   (c)   Any concentrated runoff which cannot be effectively dispersed over
nonerodible channels or conduits to the nearest drainage course shall be
contained within on-site percolation devices. Where water will be discharged to
natural ground or channels, appropriate energy dissipators shall be installed
to prevent erosion at the point of discharge.
   (d)   Runoff from disturbed areas shall be detained or filtered by berms,
vegetated filter strips, catch basins, or other means as necessary to prevent
the escape of sediment from the disturbed area.
   (e)   No earth, organic or construction material shall be deposited or
placed where it may be directly carried into a stream, lake, marsh, slough,
lagoon or body of water.
   (f)   Where land-disturbing activities are in proximity to lakes or natural
watercourses, a buffer zone is required along the land-water margin of
sufficient width to confine visible siltation within twenty-five (25%) per cent
of the buffer zone nearest the land-disturbing activities.
17.93.070 Land Clearing
Land clearing shall be kept to a minimum. Vegetation removal shall be limited
to that amount necessary for building, access, fire protection and construction
as shown on the approved Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Plan or as allowed
by the Director of Public Works through a Soil Erosion and Sediment Control
Permit.
   (a)   All disturbed surfaces shall be prepared and maintained to control
erosion and to establish vegetative growth compatible with the area. This
control shall consist of any one or a combination of the following:
      (1)   Effective temporary planting such as rye grass, or some other fast-
germinating native seed, and/or mulching with straw, chippings or other slope
stabilization material.
      (2)   Permanent planting of compatible drought-resistant species of
ground cover, shrubs, trees, or other vegetation.
      (3)   Mulching, fertilizing, watering or other methods necessary to
establish new vegetation.
   (b)   The protection required by this section shall be installed prior to
calling for final approval of the project and at all times between October 15
and April 15. Such protection shall be maintained for at least one year or
until permanent protection is established.
   (c)   No land clearing activities except as otherwise allowed by this
chapter shall take place prior to approval of the erosion control plan and/or
permit. Vegetation removal between October 15 and April 15 shall not precede
subsequent grading or construction activities by more than fifteen (15) days.
During the period of October 15 to April 15, erosion and sediment control
measures shall be in place.
17.93.080 Winter Operations
   (a)   The Director of Public Works shall only authorize the following
between October 15 and April 15 when it is found that such projects comply with
the provisions and are consistent with the purposes of this chapter:
      (1)   Contiguous land clearing operations involving greater than one acre
in a one-year period of time; and
      (2)   Major grading operations (greater than 1,000 cubic yards).
         When construction will be delayed due to the limitation on winter
operations, the date for expiration of the permit shall be extended by that
amount of time that work is delayed by the requirements of this chapter.
   (b)   The Director of Public Works shall stamp or attach the following
statement to all development permits and plans issued within areas subject to
the provisions of this chapter.
NOTICE: IF THE CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY WILL EXTEND INTO THE WINTER OPERATIONS
PERIOD (OCTOBER 15 THROUGH APRIL 15), ADDITIONAL SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENT
CONTROL MEASURES MAY BE REQUIRED.
ANY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT WHICH IS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT AN APPROVED SOIL EROSION
CONTROL PLAN SHALL HAVE SUCH APPROVED PLAN AMENDED IF IT DOES NOT COMPLY WITH
THE PROVISIONS ESTABLISHED FOR WINTER OPERATION BY SECTION 17.93.080 OF THE
CITY OF ADELANTO ZONING CODE. ALL REQUIRED WINTER OPERATION EROSION CONTROL
DEVICES SHALL BE INSTALLED PRIOR TO OCTOBER 15 FOR ONGOING CONSTRUCTION
PROJECTS AND PRIOR TO ANY CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY FOR THOSE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
COMMENCING BETWEEN OCTOBER 15 AND APRIL 15.
   (c)   The following winter operation measures shall be taken to prevent
accelerated erosion. Additional measures may be required by the Director of
Public Works, when determined to be necessary by field inspection:
      (1)   Between October 15 and April 15, disturbed surfaces not involved in
the immediate operation shall be protected by mulching or other effective means
of soil protection;
      (2)   All roads and driveways shall have drainage facilities sufficient
to prevent erosion on or adjacent to the roadway or on downhill properties.
Erosion-resistant surfacing may include, but is not limited to slag, crushed
rock or natural soil when compacted to ninety percent (90%) of maximum density
as determined by Test D1557-58T of the American Society for Testing and
Materials, as amended from time to time, for the top 12 inches;
      (3)   Runoff from a site shall be detained or filtered by berms,
vegetated filter strips, or catch basins to prevent the escape of sediment from
the site. These drainage controls shall be maintained by the permittee or
property owner as necessary to achieve their purpose throughout the life of the
project; and
      (4)   Erosion control measures shall be in place at all times and by the
end of each day's work on surfaces under construction.
17.93.090 Continued Responsibility
It shall be the responsibility of the property owner and the permittee to
ensure that accelerated erosion does not occur from any activity during and
after project construction. Additional measures, beyond those specified in any
approved soil Erosion and Sediment Control Plan, may be required by the
Director of Public Works as deemed necessary to control erosion after project
completion.
17.93.100 General Exemptions
Conditions of accelerated erosion existing prior to adoption of this chapter
are not exempted. The intent of this section is not to invalidate existing
permits, but rather to prevent or mitigate accelerated erosion. The following
work is exempted from all provisions of this chapter except Sections
17.93.030, General Provisions, and
17.93.140, Appeals:
   (a)   Agriculture Activities. Agricultural grading, routine agricultural
activities such as plowing, harrowing, discing, ridging, listing, land planning
and similar operations to prepare a field for a crop, including routine
clearing to maintain existing rangeland.
   (b)   Quarrying. Quarrying done pursuant to a valid conditional use permit
and is in compliance with the Surface Mining and Reclamation Act..
   (c)   Septic Systems and Wells. Work done pursuant to a valid permit for
septic system installation and repair or well drilling; however, Subsections
17.93.070 Land Clearing, and
17.93.080, Winter Operations, shall apply, and sediment from these activities
shall not be allowed to enter any stream or body of water.
   (d)   Soil Tests. Routine testing of soil type and characteristics to
determine soil suitability, water percolation or similar soil tests; provided,
however, that sediment from these activities shall not be allowed to enter any
stream, drainage course or body of water.
   (e)   Resource Management. Clearing, fuel management, reforestation, erosion
control or other resource management programs carried out under the auspices of
a government agency which include appropriate erosion control measures.
Agencies should notify the Director of Public Works of such projects.
   (f)   Land Clearing for Fire Protection. Land clearing and vegetation
clearance around structures as required by state and local fire codes and fire
prevention guidelines. Land clearing exempted under the provisions of the
subsection shall be limited to that required to comply with applicable fire
codes and regulations.
      Road construction and maintenance as well as installation of utilities in
accordance with plans and procedures approved by the City Engineer or his
designated representative are exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
17.93.110 Variances
A request for a variance from the provisions of this chapter, the permit
conditions or the plan specifications may be approved, conditionally approved
or denied by the Director of Public Works. The Director of Public Works may
refer any variance request filed in accordance with the provisions of this
section to the appeal authority as defined in Section
17.93.140. A request for a variance must state in writing: the provision from
which a variance is sought, the proposed substitute provisions, when it would
apply, and an analysis of the effects of the variance if granted. In granting a
variance, the Director of Public Works shall be guided by the following
criteria:
   (a)   Special circumstances or conditions affecting the property;
   (b)   The necessity of the variance for the proper design and/or function of
a reasonable project for the property; and
   (c)   Adequate measures will be taken to ensure consistency with the purpose
of this chapter.
17.93.120 Inspection and Compliance
The Director of Public Works shall conduct inspections to ensure compliance
with this Chapter.
   (a)   Inspection. The following inspections may be performed by the Director
of Public Works:
      (1)   Pre-Site Inspection. To determine the potential for erosion
resulting from the proposed project;
      (2)   Operation Progress Inspections. To determine ongoing compliance and
the necessity of additional erosion control measures; and
      (3)   Final Inspection. To determine compliance with approved plans and
specifications.
   (b)   Notification. The permittee shall notify the Director of Public Works
at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the start of authorized work on the
project, and also nine (9) business hours prior to any inspection requested by
permittee or permittee's authorized agent.
   (c)   Right of Entry. The filing of an application for a development permit
constitutes a grant of permission for the City to enter the permit area for the
purpose of administering this chapter from the date of the application to the
termination of the erosion control maintenance period.
17.93.130 Applicable Laws and Regulations
Any person doing work in conformance with this chapter must also abide by all
other applicable local, state and federal laws and regulations. Where there is
a conflict with other pre-existing City regulations, that conflict shall be
resolved before the project is allowed to proceed.
17.93.140 Appeals
Any property owner or other person aggrieved, or any person who believes his/
her interests are adversely affected by any act or determination of the
Director of Public Works under the provisions of this chapter, or by any act or
determination of any other authorized employee charged with the administration
and enforcement of this chapter, may appeal the act or determination to the
Planning Commission.
CHAPTER 17.95
HOME OCCUPATION PERMITS
   
17.95.010   Purpose
   
17.95.020   Permitted Home Occupation Uses
   
17.95.030   Permit Required
   
17.95.040   Procedure for Obtaining Permit
   
17.95.050   Performance Standards
   
17.95.060   Inspections
   
17.95.070   Suspension/Revocation of Permit
   
17.95.080   Penalties
17.95.010 Purpose
It is the purpose of this Chapter to:
   (a)   Recognize that a residential property owner or resident has a limited
right to conduct a non-obtrusive business from his/her residence, and that the
average neighbor will generally prefer to have that business conducted in such
a fashion that he/she is unaware of its existence;
   (b)   Maintain the residential character of residential neighborhoods;
   (c)   Prevent the use of home occupations from transforming a residential
neighborhood into a commercial one; and
   (d)   Encourage and promote efforts to reduce traffic congestion and
generation of pollutants by allowing and recognizing changing work environments
including telecommuting and work-at-home options.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit L, 5/22/13.]
17.95.020 Permitted Home Occupation Uses
   (a)   Home Occupations are uses that generally do not interrupt or interfere
with the general nature or residential character of the residential
neighborhood. The following uses are permitted home occupations:
      (1)   Architectural services;
      (2)   Art restoration;
      (3)   Art studio;
      (4)   Catering service (one vehicle only);
      (5)   Consulting services;
      (6)   Contracting (administrative office only);
      (7)   Computer programming;
      (8)   Day Care/Babysitting (eight (8) or fewer children)
      (9)   Data processing;
      (10)   Direct sale product distribution (Amway, Avon, Jaffra, Tupperware,
Herbalife, etc.);
      (11)   Drafting and graphic services;
      (12)   Dressmaking, sewing, tailoring, contract sewing (one sewing
machine, no assembly);
      (13)   Engineering service;
      (14)   Financial planning;
      (15)   Flower arranging;
      (16)   Home crafts (including ceramics with kiln up to six (6) cubic
feet; silk screening. However, storage of flammable or hazardous materials is
prohibited. Proposed materials are subject to the review and approval of the
Adelanto Fire Department);
      (17)   Home photographer;
      (18)   House cleaning service;
      (19)   Insurance sales or broker;
      (20)   Interior design;
      (21)   Jewelry making; jeweler (storage of flammable or hazardous
materials is prohibited. Proposed materials are subject to the review and
approval of the Adelanto Fire Department);
      (22)   Laundry; ironing service;
      (23)   Locksmith;
      (24)   Mail order (not including retail sales from site);
      (25)   Private investigator;
      (26)   Sales representative (administrative office only);
      (27)   Swimming pool cleaning (storage of flammable or hazardous
materials is prohibited. Proposed materials are subject to the review and
approval of the Adelanto Fire Department);
      (28)   Telephone answering, switchboard, call forwarding;
      (29)   Typing, word-processing service;
      (30)   Writing.
   (b)   Any business or home occupation not specifically described above or
subsequently authorized by the Planning Director or Planning Commission shall
be prohibited.
   (c)   If a resident believes that his/her proposed Home Occupation is
similar to those described above and would not violate any performance standard
established herein, the resident may apply for a determination by the Planning
Director that the proposed Home Occupation is consistent with the provisions of
this Chapter. If the Planning Director concurs with the applicant, the Planning
Director shall approve the application and issue the permit. If the Planning
Director does not believe the proposed Home Occupation is consistent with those
home occupations described in this Chapter or that it violates one or more
performance standards, the Planning Director shall deny the permit. The denial
of the permit by the Planning Director shall be subject to appeal first to the
Planning Commission and then to the City Council.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit L, 5/22/13.]
17.95.030 Permit Required
The establishment of a home occupation within a single-family or multi-family
neighborhood shall be regulated by a one-time application and fee, as set forth
by Resolution of the City Council for a Home Occupation Permit.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit L, 5/22/13.]
17.95.040 Procedure for Obtaining Permit
   (a)   An application for a Home Occupation Permit shall be submitted to the
Planning Department on the appropriate application form.
   (b)   The Planning Director or his/her designee shall review the application
to determine if the use and home occupations are authorized in the zone in
which it is proposed, and if the proposed use and home occupations otherwise
meet the requirements of this Zoning Code.
   (c)   If the application is for an authorized home occupation and use, and
meets the requirements of this Zoning Code, the Planning Director or his/her
designee shall issue the permit.
   (d)   If the use or home occupation are not authorized, or the application
and/or proposed use does not meet the requirements of this Zoning Code, the
Planning Director shall deny the permit. The decision of the Planning Director
shall be subject to appeal first to the Planning Commission and then to the
City Council.
   (e)   Unless suspended or revoked by the City, approval of the Home
Occupation Permit is for the lifetime of the Home Occupation. Renewal of a
Business License as required by the City shall be the only necessary action
that the permit-holder will need to continue the Home Occupation.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit L, 5/22/13.]
17.95.050 Performance Standards
The following performance standards shall apply to all business uses of a
single-family or multi-family residence and to all Home Occupations and shall
be in effect at all times:
   (a)   All businesses and Home Occupations shall obtain and have renewed
annually a Business License through the City of Adelanto.
   (b)   Home Occupation uses shall be incidental to the primary use of the
structure as a residential use and shall not detract from the residential
character of the neighborhood. No more than five hundred (500) square feet of
the floor area of the dwelling unit may be used in connection with a Home
Occupation or for storage purposes in connection with a Home Occupation.
   (c)   Only individuals permanently residing on the premises shall be
employed in the Home Occupation.
   (d)   There shall be no exterior indication of the home occupation or
variation from the residential character of the principal building.
   (e)   There shall be no exterior operations, storage, or display of
materials to be used in conjunction with a Home Occupation.
   (f)   There shall be no signs, banners, or flags displayed which would be
visible from outside the dwelling unit.
   (g)   There shall be no process, procedure, substance, or chemical used
which is hazardous to public health, safety, morals, or welfare.
   (h)   Visitors, customers, or deliveries associated with the permitted home
occupation use shall not shall not exceed a five (5) trips per day.
   (i)   No home occupation activity shall produce noxious matter, vibrations,
glare, dust, electrical interference, or perceptible noise beyond the lot line.
   (j)   No advertisement shall be placed in any media containing the address
of the property.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit L, 5/22/13.]
17.95.060 Inspections
The Planning Director or his/her designee shall have the right at any time,
upon reasonable request, to enter and inspect the premises.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit L, 5/22/13.]
17.95.070 Suspension/Revocation of Permit
   (a)   Upon a showing of probable cause by City Code Enforcement Staff of a
violation of this Chapter or the conditions of operations by a Home Occupation
permit-holder, the Planning Director/designee may issue an order suspending the
Home Occupation Permit pending a hearing before the Planning Commission. The
Director shall cause notice of the suspension order to be served on the permit-
holder by regular first-class U.S. mail and by posting the same on the property
where the Home Occupation is conducted.
   (b)   Whenever the Planning Director has issued a suspension order, or
whenever the Planning Director suspects a violation, but the requisite showing
has not been made, the Planning Director shall cause a noticed hearing to
consider the revocation of a Home Occupation permit to be held by the Planning
Commission within forty-five (45) days of the notice. Notice of the hearing
shall be mailed to the permit-holder, any party complaining of the violation,
and to all adjoining residents and property owners.
   (c)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Planning Commission may revoke
the Home Occupation Permit, or order the termination of the suspension or
revocation of the permit and order reinstatement thereof. The decision of the
Planning Commission may be appealed to the City Council.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit L, 5/22/13.]
17.95.080 Penalties
   (a)   It shall be unlawful and an infraction for any person, firm, or
corporation to violate, disobey, omit, neglect, refuse to comply with, or
resist the enforcement of any of the provisions of this Chapter. Such behavior
shall subject the violator, upon conviction, to a fine of not more than one
hundred dollars ($100) for each offense. Each day that a violation exists shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (b)   In addition to subsection (a) above, any violation of the provisions
of this Chapter or the conditions of operation of the permit are and shall be a
public nuisance subject to abatement by the City through obtaining a court
injunction from a court of competent jurisdiction.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit L, 5/22/13.]
CHAPTER 17.100
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
   
17.100.010   General Procedures
   
17.100.020   Application Procedures
   
17.100.030   Fees and Deposits
   
17.100.040   Notice of Public Hearings
   
17.100.050   Hearings and Effect of Actions
   
17.100.060   Appeals
   
17.100.070   City Council Review of Planning Commission Actions
   
17.100.080   Expirations, Extensions, and Revocations
   
17.100.090   Ministerial Review
17.100.010 General Procedures
   (a)   Introduction
      This Chapter establishes the regulations for the effective and efficient
implementation of the Adelanto Zoning Code. This Chapter contains the
procedures for discretionary review of development applications, criteria for
acceptance of applications for discretionary actions, standards for processing
of applications, and requirements for the notice and conduct of public
hearings. The provisions of this Chapter, used in combination with the
provisions of subsequent Chapters
17.115 through
17.165, provide for a system of development review that is open to the public
and responsive to the needs of the community.
   (b)   Types of Review Procedures in Effect in Adelanto
      
Table 100-1 outlines the types of review procedures in effect in Adelanto.
   (c)   Responsible Decision-Making Bodies
      Three (3) hearing bodies shall make decisions on the procedures
authorized by the Adelanto Municipal Code as follows:
      (1)   City Council - The City Council shall be responsible for the
decisions listed in
Table 100-1.
      (2)   Planning Commission - The Planning Commission shall be responsible
for the decisions listed in
Table 100-1.
      (3)   Planning Director - The Planning Director shall be responsible for
the decisions listed in
Table 100-1.
TABLE 100-1
REVIEW AUTHORITY
                                                                          Planning Director or Planning Commission         City Council
                                                                          Designee
Type of Action                                                            Authority Advisory   Authority Advisory Public   Public     No
                                                                          to        to         Approve   to City  Hearing  Hearing    Public
                                                                          Approve   Planning   or Deny   Council  Required Required   Hearing
                                                                          or Deny   Commission           Only                         Required
Tentative Tract Maps, Tentative Parcel Maps and associated Design Review           ∙        ∙                ∙
Final Subdivision Map for Recordation                                                                                      ∙
                                                                                                                           (Public
(Note: Final Maps are processed through the Public Works Department)                                                       Works
                                                                                                                           Dept.
                                                                                                                           Processes)
Reversion to Acreage                                                      ∙
Lot Line Adjustments                                                      ∙
(Note: Lot Line Adjustments are processed through the Public Works        (Public
Department)                                                               Works
                                                                          Dept.)
Lot or Parcel Merger                                                      ∙
(Note: Lot or Parcel Mergers are processed through the Public Works       (Public
Department)                                                               Works
                                                                          Dept.)
Extension of Time for Tentative Maps and Location and Development Plans             ∙        ∙
Certificate of Land Use Compliance                                        ∙
Minor Variance- Section                                                   ∙
17.140.020
Major Variance- Section                                                             ∙        ∙                ∙
17.135.020
Minor Conditional Use Permit, Section 17.132.020,                         ∙
Appendix A (CUPm)
Conditional Use Permit- Section
17.130.020,                                                                         ∙        ∙                ∙
Appendix A (CUP)
Minor Location and Development Plan (LDPm) and associated Design Review
   Residential- Single-family 1-4 units, second units, Multi-family 1- ∙
6 units, hangers less than 10,000 square feet
 
Notes:
1)   All decisions of the Planning Director may be appealed to the Planning
Commission.
2)   All decisions of the Planning Commission may be appealed to the City
Council.
        Planning Director or  Planning Commission          City Council
        Designee
Type of Authority  Advisory   Authority  Advisory Public   Public   No Public
Action  to Approve to         Approve or to City  Hearing  Hearing  Hearing
        or Deny    Planning   Deny       Council  Required Required Required
                   Commission            Only
                                                                            Planning Director or Planning Commission         City Council
                                                                            Designee
Type of Action                                                              Authority Advisory   Authority Advisory Public   Public   No
                                                                            to        to         Approve   to City  Hearing  Hearing  Public
                                                                            Approve   Planning   or Deny   Council  Required Required Hearing
                                                                            or Deny   Commission           Only                       Required
   Commercial
   Maximum 50 percent increase in the gross floor area of the existing
structure before the addition, or 2,500 square feet of gross floor area,    ∙
whichever is less.
   1-10,000 square feet of gross floor area (if all public services or
facilities available), maximum 4 buildings on a maximum of 5 acres, no      ∙
habitat, rare, or endangered species
   Industrial
   Maximum 50 percent increase in the gross floor area floor area of the
existing structure before the addition, or 2,500 square feet of gross floor ∙
area, whichever is less.
   Less than 10,000 square feet of gross floor area (if all public servic∙
or facilities available), maximum 4 buildings on a maximum of 5 acres
Location and Development Plan Approval (LDP) and associated Design Review
   Residential
   Multi-family 7 or more units, 2 or more buildings                                          ∙                ∙
   Commercial
   10,000 square feet of gross floor area or more, more than 4 buildings,          ∙        ∙                ∙
more than 5 acres, or if all public services/utilities not available
   Industrial
   10,000 square feet of gross floor area or more, more than 4 buildings,          ∙        ∙                ∙
or more than 5 acres, or if all public services/utilities not available
Temporary Use Permit                                                        ∙
 
Notes:
1)   All decisions of the Planning Director may be appealed to the Planning
Commission.
2)   All decisions of the Planning Commission may be appealed to the City
Council.
        Planning Director or  Planning Commission          City Council
        Designee
Type of Authority  Advisory   Authority  Advisory Public   Public   No Public
Action  to Approve to         Approve or to City  Hearing  Hearing  Hearing
        or Deny    Planning   Deny       Council  Required Required Required
                   Commission            Only
              Planning Director or Planning Commission         City Council
              Designee
Type of       Authority Advisory   Authority Advisory Public   Public   No
Action        to        to         Approve   to City  Hearing  Hearing  Public
              Approve   Planning   or Deny   Council  Required Required Hearing
              or Deny   Commission           Only                       Required
Zoning Code
Amendment/
Change of
Zone (See
also Section            ∙                  ∙      ∙      ∙
17.150.020
Location and
Development
Plan
Approval)
Specific
Plans and               ∙                  ∙      ∙      ∙
Specific Plan
Amendments
General Plan            ∙                  ∙      ∙      ∙
Amendments
CEQA:                              CEQA documents are approved/certified by the
Negative                ∙        body having decision-making authority on the
Declarations                       proposed project, as defined in this Section.
and EIRs
Redevelopment
Projects,               ∙                  ∙      ∙      ∙
Plans, and
Reports
Agricultural
Preserves and           ∙                  ∙      ∙      ∙
Amendments
Sign Program            ∙        ∙
Sign Plans-
(individual   ∙
signs/ sign
copy)
Landscape     ∙
Plans
Fence and     ∙
Wall Plans
 
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit M, 5/22/13.]
Notes:
1)   All decisions of the Planning Director may be appealed to the Planning
Commission.
2)   All decisions of the Planning Commission may be appealed to the City
Council.
17.100.020 Application Procedures
   (a)   Applications Required
      Applications shall be required on forms provided by the Planning
Department for all land use actions, subject to the provisions of this Zoning
Code. Such applications shall identify all requirements for submittal. The
accuracy of all information, maps, and lists submitted shall be the
responsibility of the applicant. The Planning Director may also require at his/
her discretion the submission of additional information as needed for a
particular project. The Director or his designee may reject any application
that is incomplete.
   (b)   Who May Initiate an Application
      Public review proceedings may be initiated by the City Council, Planning
Commission, or any person who is able to demonstrate a legal vested interest in
the proposed application. The authorized agent of any person with a legal
vested interest may also initiate an application. The Planning Director may
request proof of ownership or authorization to apply prior to the acceptance of
any application.
   (c)   Acceptance of Applications by the Planning Director
      The Planning Director or his/her designee shall accept applications with
all required items made by those persons with standing to make such an
application upon receipt of fees prescribed by Resolution of the City Council.
Pursuant to the California Government Code, Section 65943, no later than thirty
(30) days after an application has been received, the Director shall determine
whether the submitted application materials are complete and shall notify the
applicant in writing of his decision. No application shall be considered
complete until any and all additional information required by the Director is
received.
   (d)   Concurrent Applications
      When one or more land use decisions are required for a single project,
all required applications may be filed concurrently.
   (e)    Withdrawal of an Application
      Any application or petition for a land use action may be withdrawn at any
time prior to a public hearing by filing a written request for withdrawal with
the Planning Director. The request for withdrawal shall be signed by all
persons who signed the original application, or their designated agents or
successors. Any such application or petition may be withdrawn after
commencement of a hearing thereon, with approval of the hearing body.
   (f)   Inactive Applications
      Any application which has been inactive for six (6) months or longer,
shall be automatically deemed withdrawn. No notice, public hearing, or other
proceeding is required for such inactive applications to be deemed
automatically withdrawn.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit M, 5/22/13.]
17.100.030 Fees and Deposits
   (a)   Fees Established by Resolution
      Each applicant for a land use action authorized by this Zoning Code shall
pay those fees and costs as established by Resolution of the City Council.
   (b)   Refunds
      If an application is withdrawn prior to public hearing, the applicant
shall be entitled to a refund of any remaining deposit in accordance with City
policy.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit M, 5/22/13.]
17.100.040 Notice of Public Hearings
   (a)   Notice Required
      Unless otherwise required, no less than ten (10) days prior to the date
of a hearing on applications for a land use action requiring public hearing, as
specified in
Table 100-1, the Planning Director shall give notice of the scheduled hearing.
The notice shall include the time, place, identity of the hearing body or
officer, nature of the application, and the general location of the property
under consideration.
   (b)   Method of Noticing
      The Director shall observe the noticing requirements set forth as
follows:
      (1)    A copy of the notice shall be posted in two (2) places in the City
of Adelanto.
      (2)   The notice shall be mailed first-class postage prepaid to the
following parties: applicant; property owner or the owner's agent; all persons
whose names and addresses appear on the latest available assessment roll of the
County of San Bernardino as owners of property within a distance of seven
hundred feet (700’) for subdivisions of 20 acres or more, or for all other
projects, within a distance of three hundred feet (300’), from the exterior
boundaries of the property, or properties, for which the application is filed;
anyone filing a written request for notification; and, to such other persons
whose property might, in the Director's judgment, be affected by the
establishment of the use, development, or zone requested.
      (3)   If the Director finds that the posting and mailing of notices
prescribed elsewhere in this Section may not give sufficient notice to the
required property owners, then additional notices shall be posted. Such
additional notices may be posted at locations deemed best suited to reach the
attention of, and inform, those persons who may be affected.
      (4)   When the proposed use or amendment affects more than one thousand
(1,000) property owners, the City may provide notice by placing a display
advertisement in a newspaper circulated within the City of Adelanto.
      (5)   The notice shall be sent to public officers, departments, bureaus,
or agencies which are determined by the Director to be affected by the
application or otherwise appropriate. In the case of a hearing for the
manufacture or storage of hazardous materials, such notification must include
the Fire Chief.
      (6)   When a Negative Declaration or Environmental Impact Report is
recommended for adoption pursuant to Section 21080(C), 21083, 21091 of the
State Public Resources Code, notice of the hearing shall be given as set forth
in Section 21091 of the Public Resources Code, which sets forth minimum review
periods for Negative Declaration and Environmental Impact Reports.
   (c)   Evidence of Notice
      When notice of a hearing is given pursuant to this Chapter, the following
documentation shall be deemed sufficient to serve as proof that such notice was
given:
      (1)   Publication - An affidavit of publication by the newspaper in which
the publication was made.
      (2)   Mail or other delivery - An affidavit or proof of mailing/delivery
must be made, showing, at a minimum, the date or dates of mail/delivery and the
list of persons and groups to which the mail/delivery was made.
      (3)   Posting - An affidavit or proof of posting must show the date or
dates of posting and the location at which the posting was made.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit M, 5/22/13.]
17.100.050 Hearings and Effect of Actions
   (a)   Scheduling of Hearings
      For applications or proposals requiring public hearing before the
Planning Commission, the Secretary of the Planning Commission shall set the
date and time of the hearing. For applications or proposals requiring public
hearing before the City Council, the City Clerk shall set the date and time of
the hearing. Notices shall include the information required by the Adelanto
Municipal Code.
   (b)   Right of Persons to Comment
      (1)   During any public hearing, the applicant for the subject
application shall have the following rights:
         ·   The right to be represented;
         ·   The right to provide testimony under oath;
         ·   The right to present evidence; and,
         ·   The right to cross examine opposing witnesses.
      (2)   All other persons shall have the right to comment on any relevant
aspect of the application under consideration.
   (c)    Action of Hearing Body and Continuance of Hearings
      Following the completion of testimony at a public hearing, action shall
be taken to approve, conditionally approve, deny, continue, or take under
advisement the subject of the public hearing.
      If the action is taken to continue or take the matter under advisement,
before adjournment or recess, the person presiding at such public hearing shall
publicly announce the time and place at which the hearing will be continued. No
further notice shall be required.
   (d)    Conditions May Be Imposed
      The Planning Director or designee (for those cases the Planning Director
has authority to approve or deny), Planning Commission, and the City Council
shall have the authority to impose reasonable and necessary conditions on a
development to ensure that the development complies with the provisions of this
Zoning Code and the policies of the General Plan.
   (e)    Notice of Decision
      In accordance with the Adelanto Municipal Code, following the rendering
of a decision on an application, a copy of the decision and the findings
associated with the decision shall be mailed to the applicant at the address
shown on the application. In the case of any Variance or Conditional Use
Permit, a copy of the decision and findings shall also be mailed to all persons
of record (including name, address and city) who personally appeared at one or
more public hearings in opposition to the decision.
   (f)    Land Use Action Denial - Reapplication
      (1)   Whenever an application (or a portion of an application) has been
denied and all appeals provided in this Chapter are exhausted, no new
application for the same or similar request may be accepted within forty five
(45) days of the denial.
      (2)   Any application which is resubmitted pursuant to Section
17.100.050(1) shall be considered as a new project, subject to the same review
and approval process as the original application. Where appropriate, the
environmental documentation provided for the original application may be
applied to the new application.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit M, 5/22/13.]
17.100.060 Appeals
   (a)    Authority to Appeal
      (1)   All actions and decisions of the Planning Director authorized by
this Zoning Code may be appealed to the Planning Commission. All such appeals
shall be filed with the Planning Commission secretary.
      (2)   All actions of the Planning Commission authorized by this Zoning
Code may be appealed to the City Council. All appeals shall be filed in writing
with the City Clerk.
      (3)   Any person may appeal a decision of Planning Director or Planning
Commission in accordance with the terms of this Chapter.
      (4)   The City Council shall be the final approval authority for all
actions. Applications which are denied by the City Council are not subject to
appeal, but may be resubmitted pursuant to Section
17.100.050, above.
   (b)    Time Limit for an Appeal Filing
      All appeals must be filed within ten (10) working days of the date of the
final action by the Planning Director or Planning Commission.
   (c)   Fees
      Persons filing appeals shall pay all applicable fees in effect at the
time of the appeal as established by Resolution of the City Council.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit M, 5/22/13.]
17.100.070 City Council Review of Planning Commission Actions
The City Council is specifically empowered to review all actions of the
Planning Commission for any reason. Appeals of Planning Commission decisions by
the City Council shall be subject to the following requirements:
   ·   Appeals of actions of the Planning Commission by the City Council must
be filed with the City Clerk within ten (10) working days of the Commission’s
action.
   ·   Appeals pursuant to this section must be filed jointly by any two (2)
City Council members, who may request that an item be called for review by the
City Council.
   ·   The City Council shall review the same project as the Planning
Commission.
   ·   Items recalled by the City Council shall be subject to the same type of
public action (i.e., action item without public hearing or public hearing item)
and public noticing at the City Council as at the Planning Commission.
   ·   Appealed items shall be scheduled for the next available City Council
meeting.
   ·   No fee shall be required when an item is called for review by City
Council members in conformance with the requirements of this section.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit M, 5/22/13.]
17.100.080 Expirations, Extensions, and Revocations
   (a)   Expirations
      Any Variance, Conditional Use Permit, or Temporary Use Permit which is
not exercised within the time specified in the grant of approval or, if no time
is specified, within two (2) years of the effective date of such approval,
shall be terminated. For purposes of this Section, "exercised" means the
commencement of construction activity and/or establishment of the use or
activity authorized by the grant of approval.
   (b)   Extensions
      The Planning Commission may extend such approval for a period of time not
to exceed two (2) years, provided an application requesting the extension is
filed prior to the original expiration date.
   (c)   Revocations
      (1)   Authority
         The Planning Commission, or the City Council on appeal, may, after
required public hearings have been held and action has been taken in the manner
prescribed in this Zoning Code, revoke or modify any Variance, Conditional Use
Permit, or Temporary Use Permit, or revoke the status of a legal nonconforming
use or structure, on one or more of the following grounds:
         (A)   That the approval was obtained by fraud, or that the applicant
made a materially false representation on the subject application; or
         (B)    That the Variance, Conditional Use Permit, Temporary Use
Permit, or legal nonconforming status is being or recently has been exercised
contrary to, or in violation of, the terms or conditions of such approval or
other authorization; or
         (C)    That the Variance, Conditional Use Permit, Temporary Use
Permit, or legal nonconforming status is being or recently has been exercised
in violation of any statute, law, or regulation; or
         (D)    That the use for which approval was granted, or other use(s)
not directly related, is exercised in a manner detrimental to the public health
and safety or in a manner which constitutes a nuisance.
         (E)   Violations of any conditions of approval for any permit shall be
addressed in the same manner as violations of the Code.
      (2)   Proceedings
         (A)   Hearing Required
            The Planning Commission secretary shall schedule a hearing before
the Planning Commission to consider the revocation, pursuant to the provisions
of
Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning Code. Noticing shall be required only of the
owner or owners of the property affected by the variance, permit, or
nonconformity, notwithstanding the provisions of Section
17.100.040.
         (B)   Findings Required
            In acting to revoke a Variance, Conditional Use Permit, Temporary
Use Permit, or legal nonconforming status of a use or structure, the Planning
Commission shall make written findings citing the reasons for the revocation.
      (3)   Effective Date
         (A)   A revocation of a Variance, Conditional Use Permit, Temporary
Use Permit, or legal nonconforming status of a use or structure shall not
become effective until the Planning Commission has adopted a Resolution
revoking such approval or status, and until the time period to appeal the
Commission's decision to the City Council has lapsed with no appeal being
filed.
         (B)   In the event an appeal of the Planning Commission's decision is
appropriately filed, the revocation will become effective when the City Council
adopts a Resolution revoking such approval or status.
         (C)   The City Clerk shall notify the property owner in writing of the
Planning Commission's and City Council's action.
      (4)   Right of Appeal
         The property owner, applicant, or other interested party may appeal to
the City Council a decision of the Planning Commission to revoke or not revoke
a Variance, Conditional Use Permit, Temporary Use Permit, or legal
nonconforming status of a use or structure. The appeal shall be filed and
considered in accordance with the provisions of the Adelanto Municipal Code.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit M, 5/22/13.]
17.100.090   Ministerial Review
Housing development projects that are required to undergo a ministerial review
procedure by provisions of this Zoning Code or state law (but not including
projects that are solely the development of accessory dwelling units) shall
follow the procedures set forth in this Section unless modified by state law.
Exception: for projects undergoing ministerial review due to housing element
law (e.g., in AHO zone), any subdivision of a site shall be subject to all
laws, including, but not limited to, the local government ordinance
implementing the Subdivision Map Act, thus the subdivision action is not
subject to the procedures in this section.
   (a)   Application
      An application for Location and Development Plan shall be submitted for
projects subject to this Section. An additional application for design review
may also be required. Projects subject to this Section shall not require a
conditional use permit, planned unit development permit, or other discretionary
local government review or approval that would constitute a “project” for
purposes of Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources
Code, also known as the California Environmental Quality Act.
   (b)   No Public Hearing
      A public hearing, including public hearing notice, is not required.
   (c)   Decision Authority
      The Planning Director or Designee has the authority to approve or deny
the Location and Development Plan and associated Design Review.
   (d)   Decision Criteria
      The findings that are listed as a basis of approval or denial of a
Location and Development Plan shall not be used. Instead, the decision maker
shall determine whether the project is consistent with the objective,
quantifiable, written development standards, plans, and policies applicable to
the project. The decision maker, in approving a project may impose conditions
as are reasonably necessary to ensure the project is consistent with the
objective, quantifiable, written development standards, plans, and policies
applicable to the project.
   (e)   Environmental Review
      As the decision maker exercises little or no discretion, an approval of
an application subject to the procedures in this section is not a “project” for
the purposes of the California Environmental Quality Act. A project subject to
this section may be subject to mitigation measures or other environmental
requirements.
   (f)   No Appeal or Review
      The decision on the application is not subject to appeal or to review by
a higher body. Within ten (10) working days of a decision, any person believing
the decision includes an error may submit to the decision maker or designee a
request to revise the decision. The decision maker or designee may issue a
revised decision within thirty (30) calendar days of the request.
[Ord. No. 652, Exhibit 1, 7/24/24.]
CHAPTER 17.110
GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENTS
   
17.110.010   Initiation
   
17.110.020   Proceedings
   
17.110.030   Findings Required
   
17.110.040   Associated Project Required
   
17.110.050   Technical Revisions and Updates to the General Plan
   
17.110.060   City-Initiated General Plan Amendments
17.110.010 Initiation
Amendments to the General Plan text or land use policy map may be initiated as
provided for in Section
17.100.020 of this Zoning Code.
17.110.020 Proceedings
Applications to amend the General Plan shall be processed as provided for in
the California Government Code, Sections 65350-653517.
17.110.030 Findings Required
Prior to approving or recommending approval of a General Plan amendment, the
responsible hearing body shall make the following findings:
   (a)    That the proposed amendment is in the public interest, and that there
will be a community benefit resulting from the amendment;
   (b)    That the proposed amendment is consistent with the goals, policies,
and objectives of the General Plan;
   (c)    That the proposed amendment will not conflict with provisions of the
Zoning Code, subdivision regulations, or any applicable specific plan; and
   (d)    In the event that the proposed amendment is a change to the land use
policy map, that the amendment will not adversely affect surrounding
properties.
17.110.040 Associated Project Required
No private application for a General Plan amendment will be accepted unless
accompanied by a development proposal for all or a portion of the area included
in the General Plan amendment. A development proposal may include a, a
Tentative Tract Map, or a Location and Development Plan Application.
17.110.050 Technical Revisions and Updates to the General Plan
The General Plan may be revised or updated by the Planning Department to
include new information, changes in information (such as population or housing
unit counts) and the like, at the discretion of the Planning Director. Such
revisions and updates may not affect any of the following:
   (a)   The intent or direction of written policy
   (b)   Mapped land use policy
   (c)   Mapped circulation policy
   All such revisions shall be submitted to the Planning Commission as an
informational item. The Planning Commission shall be empowered to revoke any
such revisions.
17.110.060 City-Initiated General Plan Amendments
The City may initiate amendments to the General Plan, including the Land Use
Policy Map. In the case of City-initiated General Plan amendments, no
associated project is required.
CHAPTER 17.115
ZONING CODE AND ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
   
17.115.010   Initiation
   
17.115.020   Proceedings - Planning Commission
   
17.115.030   Proceedings - City Council
   
17.115.040   Findings Required
17.115.010 Initiation
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section
17.100.020 of this Zoning Code, initiation of amendments to the zoning map or
modification of the provisions of this Zoning Code shall be as follows:
   (a)   By Resolution of intention of the City Council; or
   (b)   By Resolution of intention of the Planning Commission; or
   (c)   By application by one or more property owners of property proposed for
rezoning. Such application shall be filed as required by Section
17.100.020. Furthermore, the application shall explain the reason of public
necessity, convenience, health, safety, or general welfare requiring such
amendment.
17.115.020 Proceedings - Planning Commission
   (a)   Upon the acceptance of a completed application or upon the adoption of
a Resolution as described in Section
17.115.010, the Planning Director or his/her designee shall review the
application for conformance with the provisions of this Zoning Code. The
Director shall prepare a recommendation and forward the recommendation,
application, or resolution and other relevant materials to the Planning
Commission secretary. The secretary shall schedule the matter for public
hearing before the Planning Commission pursuant to the provisions of this
Zoning Code.
   (b)   The Planning Commission shall hear and take action upon the
application or Resolution pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 17.100. The Commission may continue the hearing from time to time, and
no additional notification shall be required.
   (c)   The Commission shall act by Resolution to recommend approval, approval
with modifications, or denial of the application or resolution.
   (d)   The Commission's Resolution shall be filed with the City Clerk not
more than five (5) days following the Commission's final action.
17.115.030 Proceedings - City Council
   (a)   Upon receipt of a Planning Commission Resolution recommending denial
of a zone change or amendment, the City Clerk shall place the Commission's
resolution on an agenda of the City Council for consideration within 20 days of
the Resolution filing. The Commission's decision will be considered final and
no further action by the Council will be required unless, within 10 days after
the item appears on the Council's agenda, an appeal is filed pursuant to
Section
17.100.060 of this Zoning Code, or unless the City Council sets the matter for
Council hearing. All such hearings shall be noticed and conducted as provided
for in
Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning Code.
   (b)   Upon receipt of the Resolution of the Planning Commission recommending
approval of a zone change or amendment, the City Clerk shall set the matter for
hearing before the City Council as provided for in
Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning Code.
   (c)   The City Council shall hear and take action upon the application or
resolution pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning Code.
   (d)   The Council shall act to approve, conditionally approve, or deny the
application for a zone change or amendment.
17.115.040 Findings Required
The Planning Commission and City Council shall be required to make the
following findings of fact before approving a zone change or Zoning Code
amendment:
   (a)    That the proposed amendment is consistent with the goals, policies,
and objectives of the General Plan; and
   (b)   That a proposed zone change will not adversely affect surrounding
properties.
CHAPTER 17.120
SPECIFIC PLAN ADOPTION AND AMENDMENT
   
17.120.010   Purpose
   
17.120.020   Application Requirements
   
17.120.030   Amendments
   
17.120.040   Changes to Specific Plans Requiring an Amendment
   
17.120.050   Associated Project Required
   
17.120.060   Technical Revisions and Updates to a Specific Plan
   
17.120.070   City-Initiated Specific Plan Amendments
17.120.010 Purpose
The City recognizes that certain large properties in Adelanto may benefit from
focused planning efforts wherein infrastructure, land use relationships, land
use intensities, public service needs, and resource protection goals can be
carefully examined and planned in a comprehensive manner. The specific plan
provides a mechanism to carry out such planning efforts. The purpose of this
Chapter is to establish uniform procedures and guidelines for specific plans
prepared pursuant to Title 7, Division 1, Chapter 3, Article 8 of the
California Government Code.
17.120.020 Application Requirements
   (a)   A minimum project size of twenty (20) acres is required for a specific
plan.
   (b)   A pre-application meeting with the Planning Director is required prior
to the formal submission of a specific plan application. The purpose of the
meeting is to review with the applicant the City's requirements for specific
plan content, applicable policies, infrastructure needs, and other information
as determined by the Planning Director.
   (c)   In addition to a formal application completed pursuant to the
requirements of Section
17.100.020 of this Zoning Code, the applicant shall submit a draft specific
plan containing text and diagrams containing all information specified in
Sections 65451 and 65452 of the Government Code, as well as to any other
information, standards, requirements, etc., required by the City.
17.120.030 Amendments
Amendments to a specific plan shall be processed similar to a General Plan
amendment, as provided for in
Chapter 17.110 of this Zoning Code.
17.120.040 Changes to Specific Plans Requiring an Amendment
The following changes to specific plans shall require an amendment to the
specific plan:
   (a)   Changes to the text or maps of a specific plan other than the addition
of new information that does not change the effect of any regulation.
   (b)   Changes in specific plan land use district boundaries.
   (c)   Increase or decrease in the specified density range for any area.
   (d)   Changes in standards or regulations, including landscaping and design
standards and development regulations.
17.120.050 Associated Project Required
No private application for a Specific Plan amendment will be accepted unless
accompanied by a development proposal for all or a portion of the area included
in the Specific Plan amendment. A development proposal may include a Tentative
Tract Map, or a Location and Development Plan Approval.
17.120.060 Technical Revisions and Updates to Specific Plans
   A Specific Plan may be revised or updated by the Planning Department to
include new information, changes in information (such as population or housing
unit counts) and the like, at the discretion of the Planning Director. Such
revisions and updates may not affect any of the following:
   (a)   The intent or direction of written policy
   (b)   Mapped land use policy
   All such revisions shall be submitted to the Planning Commission as an
informational item. The Planning Commission shall be empowered to revoke any
such revisions.
17.120.070 City-Initiated Specific Plan Amendments
The City may initiate amendments to any portion of any Specific Plan. In the
case of City-initiated Specific Plan amendments, no associated project is
required.
CHAPTER 17.130
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
   
17.130.010   Purpose
   
17.130.020   Application Requirements
   
17.130.030   Conditional Use Permit (CUP) Proceedings
   
17.130.040   Finality of Commission Decision and Effective Date
   
17.130.050   Basis for Approval or Denial of Conditional Use Permit
   
17.130.060   Inactive Applications and Expiration of Permits
   
17.130.070   Conditional Use Permit Approval Attached to the Property
   
17.130.080   Reservation of Right to Review Conditional Use Permit - Changed
Circumstances
   
17.130.090   Revocation
17.130.010 Purpose
   (a)   The City recognizes that certain uses, due to the nature of use,
intensity, or size, require special review to determine if the use proposed, or
the location of that use, is compatible with surrounding uses, or, through the
imposition of development and use conditions, can be made compatible with
surrounding uses. The Conditional Use Permit is provided for this purpose.
   (b)   The City has established two types of Conditional Use Permit (CUP)
applications- CUP and Minor CUPs (identified as CUPm in
Appendix A).
17.130.020 Application Requirements
Applications for Conditional Use Permits may be submitted only for those uses
specified as conditional uses (CUP and CUPm) in the applicable zoning district
in
Appendix A: Regulation of Uses by Zoning District. The proposed project shall
comply with all applicable development standards, unless a separate Variance
application is filed, and reviewed and approved. Conditional Use Permit and
Variance applications may be processed concurrently. A Conditional Use Permit
is not a substitute for a zone change or zone text amendment.
17.130.030 Conditional Use Permit (CUP) Proceedings
   (a)    Minor Conditional Use Permit (CUPm).
      An application shall be filed pursuant to the provisions of Sections
17.100 and this Section of this Zoning Code. Upon acceptance of a Minor
Conditional Use Permit (CUPm) application as complete, the Planning Director or
his/her designee shall review the application for conformance with the
provisions of this Zoning Code. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of a
completed application, the Director, or designee, shall prepare and issue a
decision letter to the applicant.
   (b)   Conditional Use Permit (CUP).
      An application shall be filed pursuant to the provisions of Sections
17.100 and this Section of this Zoning Code. Upon acceptance of a Conditional
Use Permit (CUPm) application as complete, the Planning Director, or his/her
designee, shall review the application for conformance with the provisions of
this Zoning Code. The Director, or designee, shall review the application for
completeness. Once the application has been deemed complete:
      (1)   The Director, or designee, shall prepare a recommendation and
forward the recommendation, application, and other relevant materials to the
Planning Commission secretary. The secretary shall schedule the matter for
public hearing pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning Code.
      (2)    The Planning Commission shall hear and take action upon the
application pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning Code.
      (3)    The Commission shall act to approve, conditionally approve, or
deny the application.
      (4)    The Commission shall adopt a Resolution containing its findings
and decisions. The Resolution shall recite, among other things, the facts and
reasons which make the granting or denial of the Conditional Use Permit
necessary to carry out the provisions and general purpose of this Zoning Code.
If the Conditional Use Permit is granted, the report shall recite the
conditions and limitations imposed, if any.
17.130.040 Finality of Commission Decision and Effective Date
   (a)   Minor Conditional Use Permit (CUPm)
      The decision of the Planning Director is considered final on the date the
Planning Director issues a decision letter. The decision shall become effective
upon issuance of the Planning Director's decision letter, unless an appeal is
filed to the Planning Commission.
   (b)   Conditional Use Permit
      The decision of the Planning Commission is considered final on the date
the Planning Commission adopts a Resolution setting forth its decision. The
decision shall become effective upon adoption of the Resolution, unless an
appeal has been filed with the City Council.
17.130.050 Basis for Approval or Denial of Conditional Use Permit
The Planning Director (for Minor CUPs), the Planning Commission, and City
Council on appeal, in acting to approve a Conditional Use Permit application,
may impose conditions as are reasonably necessary to ensure the project is
consistent with the General Plan, compatible with surrounding land use, and
meets the provisions and intent of this Zoning Code. In making such a
determination, the hearing body shall find that the proposed use is generally
in accord with the following principles and standards:
   (a)    That the proposed Conditional Use is consistent with the General
Plan;
   (b)    That the nature, condition, and development of adjacent uses,
buildings, and structures have been considered, and that the use will not
adversely affect or be materially detrimental to these adjacent uses,
buildings, or structures;
   (c)    That the site for the proposed Conditional Use is of adequate size
and shape to accommodate the use and buildings proposed;
   (d)    That the proposed Conditional Use complies with all applicable
development standards of the zoning district; and
   (e)    That the proposed Conditional Use observes the spirit and intent of
this Zoning Code.
17.130.060 Inactive Applications and Expiration of Permits
   (a)   Inactive Applications
      Any application which has been inactive for six (6) months or longer,
shall be automatically deemed withdrawn. No notice, public hearing, or other
proceeding is required for such inactive applications to be deemed
automatically withdrawn.
   (b)   Expiration of Permits
      Any Conditional Use Permit which is not exercised within the time
specified in the grant of approval or, if no time is specified, within two (2)
years of the effective date of such approval, shall be terminated. The Planning
Commission may extend such approval for a period of time not to exceed five (5)
years (two (2) two-year extensions and one (1) one-year extension), provided an
application requesting the extension is filed prior to the original expiration
date. For purposes of this Section, "exercised" means the commencement of
construction activity and/or establishment of the use or activity authorized by
the grant of approval.
[Ord. No. 475, Section 5, 5/28/08.]
17.130.070 Conditional Use Permit Approval Attached to the Property
Any Conditional Use Permit that is valid and in effect and granted pursuant to
the provisions of this Zoning Code shall run with the land and shall continue
to be valid upon change of ownership of the land or any lawfully existing
building or structure on the land.
17.130.080 Reservation of Right to Review Conditional Use Permit - Changed
Circumstances
Any Conditional Use Permit granted or approved hereunder shall be granted or
approved, with the City, Planning Commission, and City Council retaining and
reserving the right and jurisdiction to review and to modify the permit -
- including the conditions of approval, based on changed circumstances. Changed
circumstances include, but are not limited to, the modification of the
business, a change in scope, emphasis, size, or nature of the business, or the
expansion, alteration, reconfiguration, or change of use. The reservation of
right to review any permit granted or approved hereunder by the City, Planning
Commission, and City Council is in addition to, and not in lieu of, the right
of the City, Planning Commission, and City Council to review and revoke or
modify any permit granted or approved hereunder for any violations of the
conditions imposed on such permit.
17.130.090 Revocation
   (a)   Authority
      The Planning Commission, or the City Council on appeal, may, after
required public hearings have been held and action has been taken in the manner
prescribed in this Zoning Code, revoke or modify any Conditional Use Permit on
one or more of the following grounds:
      (1)   That the approval was obtained by fraud, or that the applicant made
a materially false representation on the subject application; or
      (2)    That the Conditional Use Permit is being or recently has been
exercised contrary to, or in violation of, the terms or conditions of such
approval or other authorization; or
      (3)    That the Conditional Use Permit is being or recently has been
exercised in violation of any statute, law, or regulation; or,
      (4)    That the use for which approval was granted, or other use(s) not
directly related, is exercised in a manner detrimental to the public health and
safety or in a manner which constitutes a nuisance.
      (5)   Violations of any conditions of approval for any permit shall be
addressed in the same manner as violations of the Code.
   (b)   Proceedings
      (1)   Hearing Required
         The Planning Commission secretary shall schedule a hearing before the
Planning Commission to consider the revocation, pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning Code. Noticing shall be required only of the
owner or owners of the property affected by the Conditional Use Permit,
notwithstanding the provisions of Section
17.100.040.
      (2)   Findings Required
         In acting to revoke a Conditional Use Permit, the Planning Commission
shall make written findings citing the reasons for the revocation.
   (c)   Effective Date
      (1)   A revocation of a Conditional Use Permit shall not become effective
until the Planning Commission has adopted a Resolution revoking such approval
or status, and until the time period to appeal the Commission's decision to the
City Council has lapsed with no appeal being filed.
      (2)   In the event an appeal of the Planning Commission's decision is
appropriately filed, the revocation will become effective when the City Council
adopts a Resolution revoking such approval or status.
      (3)   The Community Development Department shall issue written
notification to the property owner of any Planning Commission and/or City
Council action.
   (d)   Right of Appeal
      The property owner, applicant, or other interested party may appeal to
the City Council a decision of the Planning Commission to revoke or not revoke
a Conditional Use Permit. The appeal shall be filed and considered in
accordance with the provisions of the Adelanto Municipal Code.
CHAPTER 17.135
VARIANCES - MAJOR
   
17.135.010   Purpose
   
17.135.020   Proposed Actions Requiring Major Variance Application
   
17.135.030   Special Application Requirements
   
17.135.040   Proceedings
   
17.135.050   Finality of Commission Decision and Effective Date
   
17.135.060   Required Findings
   
17.135.070   Major Variance Approval Attached to the Property
17.135.010 Purpose
   (a)   The Variance procedure is provided pursuant to Section 65906 of the
California Government Code to grant relief from zoning provisions when, because
of special circumstances applicable to a property, including size, shape,
topography, location, or surroundings, the strict application of this Zoning
Code deprives such property of privileges enjoyed by other property in the
vicinity and under the identical zoning classification.
   (b)   The City has established two (2) types of Variance applications: Major
Variances and Minor Variances. This Chapter addresses Major Variances. Minor
Variances are addressed in
Chapter 17.140 of this Zoning Code.
   (c)   Variances shall not be granted to authorize a use or activity on a
property which is not otherwise expressly authorized by the provisions of this
Zoning Code governing that property. A Variance is not a substitute for a zone
change or zone text amendment.
17.135.020 Proposed Actions Requiring Major Variance Application
A Major Variance application shall be filed pursuant to the provisions of
Section
17.100.020 whenever any of the following deviations from the provisions of this
Zoning Code are proposed:
   (a)   A greater than thirty percent (30%) reduction in the number of
required parking or loading spaces.
   (b)   A greater than forty percent (40%) reduction of the required front
yard or side yard setback.
   (c)   A greater than thirty percent (30%) reduction of the required rear
yard setback.
   (d)   A greater than thirty percent (30%) reduction of the required minimum
lot coverage standard.
   (e)   A greater than (30%) increase in the maximum building height.
   (f)   Any change related to the size, placement, number, or illumination of
on-site and off-site signs.
   (g)   Any reduction in required driveway length as defined in Section
17.65.070(c) of this Zoning Code.
   (h)   Any other change not classified as a Minor Variance in Section
17.140.020 of this Zoning Code.
17.135.030 Special Application Requirements
In addition to the application information required under Section
17.100.020 of this Zoning Code, an application for a Major Variance shall
include:
   (a)    A description of the special circumstances or conditions applicable
to the property;
   (b)    The reasons as to why a Variance request has been filed; and
   (c)    A statement that the application meets the findings specified in
Section
17.135.060.
17.135.040 Proceedings
   (a)    An application shall be filed pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning Code. Upon acceptance of a Major Variance
application as complete, the Director of Community Development or his/her
designee shall review the application for conformance with the provisions of
this Zoning Code. The Director shall prepare a recommendation and forward the
recommendation, application, and other relevant materials to the Planning
Commission secretary. The secretary shall schedule the matter for public
hearing pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning Code.
   (b)    The Planning Commission shall hear and take action upon the
application pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning Code.
   (c)    The Commission shall act to approve, conditionally approve, or deny
the application.
   (d)    The Commission shall adopt a Resolution containing its decisions and
findings. The Resolution shall recite, among other things, the facts and
reasons which make the granting or denial of the Major Variance necessary to
carry out the provisions and general purpose of this Zoning Code. Conditions
may be imposed on the Major Variance.
17.135.050 Finality of Commission Decision and Effective Date
The decision of the Commission is considered final on the date the Commission
adopts a Resolution setting forth its decision. The decision shall become
effective thirty (30) days after the adoption of the Resolution unless an
appeal has been filed with the City Council.
If a Major Variance is not used (i.e., if construction in conformance with the
Major Variance is not completed, or a use is not established) within three (3)
years of the date of issuance, the Major Variance shall expire.
17.135.060 Required Findings
In granting a Major Variance, the Planning Commission, and City Council on
appeal, must make the following findings:
   (a)    That there are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or
conditions applicable to the property which do not apply generally to other
properties in the same vicinity and zone; and
   (b)    That such Variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of
substantial property rights possessed by other properties in the same vicinity
and zone, but which is denied the property in question; and
   (c)   That the granting of such Variance will not be materially detrimental
to the public welfare or injurious to properties or improvements in the
vicinity; and
   (d)   That in granting the Variance, the spirit and intent of this Zoning
Code will be observed; and
   (e)   That the Variance does not grant special privilege to the applicant;
and
   (f)   That the Variance request is consistent with the General Plan of the
City of Adelanto.
17.135.070 Major Variance Approval Attached to the Property
A Major Variance that is valid and in effect and granted pursuant to the
provisions of this Zoning Code and acted upon within the time frame established
in Section
17.135.050 shall run with the land and shall continue to be valid upon change
of ownership of the land or any lawfully existing building or structure on the
land.
CHAPTER 17.140
VARIANCES - MINOR
   
17.140.010   Purpose
   
17.140.020   Proposed Actions Subject to Minor Variance Application
   
17.140.030   Special Application Requirements
   
17.140.040   Proceedings
   
17.140.050   Finality of Director's Decision and Effective Date
   
17.140.060   Required Findings
   
17.140.070   Minor Variance Approval Attached to the Property
17.140.010 Purpose
   (a)   The Variance procedure is provided pursuant to Section 65906 of the
California Government Code to grant relief from zoning provisions when, because
of special circumstances applicable to a property, including size, shape,
topography, location, or surroundings, the strict application of this Zoning
Code deprives such property of privileges enjoyed by other property in the
vicinity and under the identical zoning classification.
   (b)   The City has established two (2) types of Variance applications: Major
Variances and Minor Variances. This Chapter addresses Minor Variances. Major
Variances are addressed in the preceding
Chapter 17.135.
   (c)   Variances shall not be granted to authorize a use or activity on a
property which is not otherwise expressly authorized by the provisions of this
Zoning Code governing that property. A Variance is not a substitute for a zone
change or zone text amendment.
17.140.020 Proposed Actions Subject to Minor Variance Application
A Minor Variance application shall be filed pursuant to the provisions of
Section
17.100.020 whenever any of the following deviations from the provisions of this
Zoning Code are proposed:
   (a)   Up to a thirty percent (30%) reduction in the number of required
parking or loading spaces.
   (b)   Up to a forty percent (40%) reduction of the required front yard,
provided that a setback of at least fifteen feet (15') to the front property
line is maintained
   (c)   Up to a forty percent (40%) reduction of the required side yard
setback, provided that a setback of at least three feet (3') is maintained,
consistent with the requirements of the applicable Fire Code.
   (d)   Up to a thirty percent (30%) reduction of the required rear yard
setback.
   (e)   Up to a thirty percent (30%) reduction of the required minimum lot
coverage standard.
   (f)   Up to a thirty percent (30%) increase in the maximum height. Any
height increase of not more than two feet (2') shall be considered a Minor
Variance.
      Any other deviation shall be considered a Major Variance and subject to
the provisions of
Chapter 17.135 of this Zoning Code.
17.140.030 Special Application Requirements
In addition to the application information required under Section
17.100.020 of this Zoning Code, an application for a Minor Variance shall
include:
   (a)   A description of the special circumstances or conditions applicable to
the property;
   (b)   The reasons as to why a Minor Variance request has been filed; and,
   (c)   A statement that the application meets the findings specified in
Section
17.140.060.
17.140.040 Proceedings
   (a)    An application shall be filed pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning Code. Upon acceptance of a Minor Variance
application as complete, the Planning Director or his/her designee shall review
the application for conformance with the provisions of this Zoning Code. No
public hearing shall be required. Based on this review, the Director shall act
to approve, conditionally approve, or deny the application.
   (b)    Within thirty (30) days of receiving a completed application, the
Director shall prepare a written report stating his/her decisions and findings.
The report shall recite, among other things, the facts and reasons which make
the granting or denial of the Minor Variance necessary to carry out the
provisions and general purpose of this Zoning Code. Conditions may be imposed
on the Minor Variance. The report shall be mailed to the applicant via
certified mail or by similar means guaranteeing proof of delivery.
17.140.050 Finality of Director's Decision and Effective Date
The decision of the Planning Director is considered final on the date that the
report is issued. The decision shall become effective immediately, unless an
appeal has been filed with the Planning Commission.
If a Minor Variance is not used (i.e., if construction in conformance with the
Minor Variance is not completed, or a use is not established) within three (3)
years of the date of issuance, the Minor Variance shall expire.
17.140.060 Required Findings
In granting a Minor Variance, the Director, and Planning Commission or City
Council on appeal, must make the following findings:
   (a)   That there are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or
conditions applicable to the property which do not apply generally to other
properties in the same vicinity and zone; and
   (b)   That such Variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of
substantial property rights possessed by other properties in the same vicinity
and zone but which is denied the property in question; and
   (c)   That the granting of such Variance will not be materially detrimental
to the public welfare or injurious to properties or improvements in the
vicinity; and
   (d)   That in granting the Variance, the spirit and intent of this Zoning
Code will be observed; and,
   (e)   That the Variance does not grant special privilege to the applicant;
and
   (f)   That the variance request is consistent with the General Plan of the
City of Adelanto.
17.140.070 Minor Variance Approval Attached to the Property
A Minor Variance that is valid and in effect and granted pursuant to the
provisions of this Zoning Code and acted upon within the time frame established
in Section
17.140.050 shall run with the land and shall continue to be valid upon change
of ownership of the land or any lawfully existing building or structure on the
land.
CHAPTER 17.150
LOCATION AND DEVELOPMENT PLAN
   
17.150.010   Purpose
   
17.150.020   Application Requirements
   
17.150.030   Location and Development Plan Applications
   
17.150.040   Location and Development Plan Proceedings
   
17.150.050   Finality of Planning Commission Decision and Effective Date
   
17.150.060   Basis for Approval or Denial of a Location and Development Plan
   
17.150.070   Inactive Applications and Expiration of Permits
   
17.150.080   Location and Development Plan Attached to the Property
   
17.150.090   Revocation
17.150.010 Purpose
   (a)   The City recognizes that in order to provide safe and efficient
circulation, compatibility with surrounding uses, attractive and efficient
designs, and required landscaping, open space, and other areas, all new
development, establishment of new uses require the formal review and approval
of a detailed Location and Development Plan. The Location and Development Plan
approval process is provided for this purpose.
   (b)   Based on the size and type of new development, the City has
established two types of Location and Development Plan (LDP) applications- LDP
and Minor LDPs (identified as LDPm in
Appendix A).
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit N, 5/22/13.]
17.150.020 Application Requirements
Applications for Location and Development Plan shall be submitted for all
projects and all allowable uses and structures permitted by this Code and
listed in the use charts for the various zoning districts, including the
following:
   (a)   New structures, including accessory structures and satellite dishes;
   (b)   Expansion or conversion of an existing use or structure, including
tenant improvements;
   (c)   Construction or conversion of a structure(s) to allow a mixed-use
development;
   (d)   Enlargement of an existing structure for which a Location and
Development Plan has not previously been issued;
   (e)   Movement and relocation of any structure, including factory built and
manufactured housing, to any parcel within the City.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit N, 5/22/13.]
17.150.030 Location and Development Plan Applications
All Location and Development Plan applications (both LDP and LDPm) shall be
required, on forms provided by the Planning Department, for all land use
actions subject to the provisions of this Zoning Code. Such applications shall
identify all requirements for submittal. The accuracy of all information, maps,
and lists submitted shall be the responsibility of the applicant. The Planning
Director may also require at his/her discretion the submission of additional
information as needed for a particular project. The Director, or designee, may
reject any application that is incomplete.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit N, 5/22/13.]
17.150.040 Location and Development Plan Proceedings
   (a)   Minor Location and Development Plan (LDPm)  
      An application shall be filed pursuant to the provisions of Section
17.100.020 of this Zoning Code. Upon acceptance of a Location and Development
Plan application as complete, the Planning Director or his/her designee shall
review the application for conformance with the provisions of this Zoning Code
and add conditions of approval to ensure compliance with Section
17.150.060.
      (1)   Within thirty (30) days of receipt of a completed application, the
Director, or designee, shall prepare and issue a decision letter to the
applicant.
      (2)   Such decision letter shall reflect the Planning Director’s
determination to approve, conditionally approve, or deny the application. If
the Location and Development Plan is approved, the decision letter shall recite
the conditions and limitations imposed, if any.
   (b)   Location and Development Plan (LDP) 
      An application shall be filed pursuant to the provisions of Section
17.100.020 of this Zoning Code. Upon acceptance of a Location and Development
Plan application as complete, the Planning Director or his/her designee shall
review the application for conformance with the provisions of this Zoning Code.
      (1)   The Planning Director shall prepare a recommendation and forward
the recommendation, application, and other relevant materials to the Planning
Commission secretary. The secretary shall schedule the matter for public
hearing pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning Code.
      (2)    The Planning Commission shall hear and take action upon the
Application pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning Code.
      (3)    The Planning Commission shall act to approve, conditionally
approve, or deny the application.
      (4)    The Planning Commission shall adopt a Resolution containing its
findings and decisions. The Resolution shall recite, among other things, the
facts and reasons which make the granting or denial of the Location and
Development Plan necessary to carry out the provisions and general purpose of
this Zoning Code. If the Location and Development Plan is approved, the report
shall recite the conditions and limitations imposed, if any.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit N, 5/22/13.]
17.150.050 Finality of Planning Commission Decision and Effective Date
The decision of the Planning Commission is considered final on the date the
Planning Commission adopts a Resolution setting forth a decision. The decision
shall become effective upon adoption of the Resolution, unless an appeal is
filed.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit N, 5/22/13.]
17.150.060 Basis for Approval or Denial of a Location and Development Plan
The Planning Director, Planning Commission, and City Council on appeal, in
acting to approve a Location and Development Plan Application, may impose
conditions as are reasonably necessary to ensure the project is consistent with
the General Plan, compatible with surrounding land uses, and meets the
provisions and intent of this Zoning Code. In making such a determination, the
hearing body shall find that the proposed use is, in general, in accord with
the following principles and standards:
   (a)    That the proposed uses are consistent with the General Plan;
   (b)    That the nature, condition, and development of adjacent uses,
buildings, and structures have been considered, and that the use will not
adversely affect or be materially detrimental to these adjacent uses,
buildings, or structures;
   (c)    That the site for the proposed use is of adequate size and shape to
accommodate the use and buildings proposed;
   (d)    That the proposed use complies with all applicable development
standards of the Zoning District; and
   (e)    That the proposed use observes the spirit and intent of this Zoning
Code.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit N, 5/22/13.]
17.150.070 Inactive Applications and Expiration of Permits
   (a)   Inactive Applications
      Any application which has been inactive for six (6) months or longer,
shall be automatically deemed withdrawn. No notice, public hearing, or other
proceeding is required for such inactive applications to be deemed
automatically withdrawn.
   (b)   Expiration of Permits
      Any Location and Development Plan which is not exercised within the time
specified in the grant of approval or, if no time is specified, within two (2)
years of the effective date of such approval, shall be terminated. The Planning
Commission may extend such approval for a period of time not to exceed five (5)
years (two (2) two-year extensions and one (1) one-year extension), provided an
application requesting the extension is filed prior to the original expiration
date. For purposes of this Section, "exercised" means the commencement of
construction activity and/or establishment of the use or activity authorized by
the grant of approval.
[Ord. No. 475, Section 5, 5/28/08; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit N, 5/22/13.]
17.150.080 Location and Development Plan Approval Attached to the Property
An approved Location and Development Plan which is valid and in effect and
granted pursuant to the provisions of this Zoning Code shall run with the land
and shall continue to be valid upon change of ownership of the land or any
lawfully existing building or structure on the land.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit N, 5/22/13.]
17.150.090 Revocation
   (a)   Authority
      The Planning Commission, or the City Council on appeal, may, after
required public hearings have been held and action has been taken in the manner
prescribed in this Zoning Code, revoke or modify any Location and Development
Plan on one or more of the following grounds:
      (1)   That the approval was obtained by fraud, or that the applicant made
a materially false representation on the subject application; or
      (2)    That the Location and Development Plan is being or recently has
been exercised contrary to, or in violation of, the terms or conditions of such
approval or other authorization; or
      (3)    That the Location and Development Plan is being or recently has
been exercised in violation of any statute, law, or regulation; or,
      (4)    That the construction and development, activity, or use for which
approval was granted, or other use(s) not directly related, is exercised in a
manner detrimental to the public health and safety or in a manner which
constitutes a nuisance.
      (5)   Violations of any conditions of approval for any permit shall be
addressed in the same manner as violations of the Code.
   (b)   Proceedings
      (1)   Hearing Required
         The Planning Commission secretary shall schedule a hearing before the
Planning Commission to consider the revocation, pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning Code. Noticing shall be required only of the
owner or owners of the property affected by the Location and Development Plan,
notwithstanding the provisions of Section
17.100.040.
      (2)   Findings Required
         In acting to revoke a Location and Development Plan, the Planning
Commission shall make written findings citing the reasons for the revocation.
   (c)   Effective Date
      (1)   A revocation of a Location and Development Plan shall not become
effective until the Planning Commission has adopted a Resolution revoking such
approval or status, and until the time period to appeal the Commission's
decision to the City Council has lapsed with no appeal being filed.
      (2)   In the event an appeal of the Planning Commission's decision is
appropriately filed, the revocation will become effective when the City Council
adopts a Resolution revoking such approval or status.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall notify the property owner in writing of the
Planning Commission's and City Council's action.
   (d)   Right of Appeal
      The property owner, applicant, or other interested party may appeal to
the City Council a decision of the Planning Commission to revoke or not revoke
a Location and Development Plan. The appeal shall be filed and considered in
accordance with the provisions of the Adelanto Municipal Code.
[Ord. No. 515, Exhibit N, 5/22/13.]
CHAPTER 17.155
TEMPORARY USE PERMIT
   
17.155.010   Purpose
   
17.155.020   Proceedings
   
17.155.030   Conditions of Approval
   
17.155.040   Finality of Planning Director's Decision and Effective Date
17.155.010 Purpose
The Temporary Use Permit is established to allow certain uses to operate for
limited, defined periods at locations throughout the City, provided the uses
are regulated so as to avoid adverse impacts on the neighborhoods in which they
locate.
Appendix A: Regulation of Uses by Zoning District indicates the temporary uses
permitted within the City of Adelanto.
17.155.020 Proceedings
   (a)   An application shall be filed pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 17.100 of this Zoning Code. Upon acceptance of a Temporary Use Permit
application as complete, the Planning Director or his/her designee shall review
the application for conformance with the provisions of this Zoning Code. No
public hearing shall be required. Based on this review, the Planning Director
shall act to approve, conditionally approve, or deny the application.
   (b)   Within fifteen (15) days of receiving a completed application, the
Planning Director shall prepare a written report stating his/her decisions and
findings. The report shall recite, among other things, the facts and reasons
for granting or denying the application. The report shall be mailed to the
applicant via certified mail or by similar means guaranteeing proof of
delivery.
   (c)   The Planning Director may, at his/her discretion, refer the Planning
Use Permit to the Planning Commission for review and approval. In this case,
the Planning Commission shall have the authority to approve or deny the
application. Noticing and appeal procedures in this case shall be the same as
for a Staff-approved application.
17.155.030 Conditions of Approval
In granting a Temporary Use Permit, the Planning Director may impose
conditions. Certain mandatory conditions shall apply to specific uses, as
outlined in
Chapter 17.75 of this Zoning Code.
17.155.040 Finality of Planning Director's Decision and Effective Date
The decision of the Planning Director is considered final on the date that the
report is issued. The decision shall become effective immediately unless an
appeal has been filed with the Planning Commission.
CHAPTER 17.165
NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES
   
17.165.001   Definitions
   
17.165.010    General Provisions
   
17.165.020   Nonconforming Uses
   
17.165.030    Nonconforming Structures
   
17.165.040    Exceptions for Residential Structures
   
17.165.050   Notice of Nonconformity and Amortization
   
17.165.052   Hearing Body Designated; Hearing
   
17.165.054   Decision and Findings
   
17.165.056   Right of Appeal
   
17.165.057   Recordation of Order
   
17.165.058   Revocation
   
17.165.059   Public Nuisance
   
17.165.060   Nonconforming Signs
   
17.165.070   Nonconforming Adult Businesses
17.165.001 Definitions.
Nonconforming structure. A "legal nonconforming structure" is a structure which
was legally established according to the applicable zoning and building laws of
the time, but which does not meet current zoning and building regulations. A
use or structure can become "legal nonconforming" due to rezoning, annexation
or revisions to the Zoning Code.
Nonconforming use. A "legal nonconforming use" is a use of land which was
legally established according to the applicable zoning and building laws of the
time, but which dose not meet current zoning and building regulations. A use or
structure can become "legal nonconforming" due to rezoning, annexation or
revisions to the Zoning Code.
[Ord. No. 578, 10/17/17.]
17.165.010 General Provisions
The regulations in this Chapter shall apply to all existing nonconforming uses
and structures and to any uses or structures made nonconforming upon adoption
of subsequent ordinances.
[Ord. No. 544, Exhibit A, 3/23/16.]
17.165.020 Nonconforming Uses
   The following regulations shall apply to the legal, nonconforming use of any
building or structure. Regulations applicable to nonconforming structures are
provided in Section
17.165.030.
   (a)   Continuation
      Any nonconforming use may be continued through the amortization period,
provided that the use shall not be increased, enlarged, extended, or altered
except as provided in this chapter.
   (b)   Termination Due to Cessation of Use
      Any part of a building or land occupied by a nonconforming use in which
that use is discontinued for one hundred eighty (180) days or more shall
thereafter lose its nonconforming use status. All subsequent uses shall be used
in conformity with the provisions of this Zoning Code.
   (c)   Amortization of Nonconforming Uses: General
      Every legal nonconforming use shall be terminated according to the
amortization time schedule established by Resolution of the City Council or the
provisions of this Chapter.
   (d)   Amortization of Nonconforming Use Where No Building Exists
      Except as otherwise provided herein, the legal nonconforrning use of land
where no structure exists may continue for a period of not more than ten (10)
years from the date the use became nonconforming, provided the nonconforming
use will not in any way be expanded or extended, either on the same or
adjoining property.
   (e)   Alteration of Nonconforming Uses
      (1)   A legal nonconforming use may not be enlarged, expanded, or
otherwise increased in scope unless a Conditional Use Permit has been issued
pursuant to
Chapter 17.130 of this Zoning Code.
      (2)   Any alteration required by governmental or court action shall be
exempt from these conditions.
      (3)   Restrictions and conditions affecting a nonconforming use shall
apply to the existing use, land, and structures, and shall not be affected by
ownership changes.
[Ord. No. 544, Exhibit A, 3/23/16.]
17.165.030 Nonconforming Structures
   (a)   Continuation
      Any nonconforming structure may be continued and maintained through the
amortization period, provided there are no structural alterations except as
provided in this Chapter.
   (b)   Alterations
      The following alterations are permitted to a nonconforming structure:
      (1)   When a subsequently adopted ordinance or regulation requires
specific alterations, those alterations shall be made.
      (2)   Additions to a nonconforming structure may be made, provided the
proposed addition meets all requirements in effect at the time the application
for the addition is made.
   (c)   Amortization
      (1)   Every legal nonconforming structure shall be completely removed or
altered to conform to the requirements of the zoning district in which it is
located according to the amortization time schedule established by Resolution
of the City Council or the provisions of this Chapter. Such time schedule for
removal or alteration may not be fixed for a date before the expiration of the
normal life of any building, as determined by the Planning Director. Such
determination of the normal life of a nonconforming building, and the fixing of
time for its removal or alteration, may only be made after notice to the owner.
      (2)   An order for removal or alteration shall require such action on a
date no less than five (5) years from the time such an order is made. It shall
be the duty of the Planning Department to give the owner of the affected
structure written notice of the required removal or alteration immediately upon
the order becoming final. A second notice shall be issued not less than sixty
(60) or more than one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the date such removal
or alteration is required to be completed. If the Planning Department fails to
give this second notice within the above time period, the owner shall be given
sixty (60) days from the notice's actual postmark date.
   (d)   Reconstruction of Damaged Structure
      Any nonconforming structure damaged by any natural or man-made
catastrophe subsequent to the effective date of this Zoning Code may be
reconstructed, provided that the cost of such reconstruction does not exceed
fifty percent (50%) of the appraised value of such structure at the time such
damage occurred.
      If, in the process of reconstructing a nonconforming structure pursuant
to this subsection, certain nonconformities can be brought into conformance,
they shall be brought into conformance.
[Ord. No. 544, Exhibit A, 3/23/16.]
17.165.040 Exceptions for Residential Structures
   (a)   A nonconforming residential structure which complied with the
applicable development standards at the time of its construction, and which is
utilized for residential purposes in a zoning district that allows such
residential uses, or is in the Business Park Zone (BP), is not subject to the
provisions of this Chapter.
   (b)   The requirement for a Conditional Use Permit shall not apply to
nonconforming residential uses where such uses are being expanded or modified
by no more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the floor space or ground area
existing at the time such use became a nonconforming use.
[Ord. No. 544, Exhibit A, 3/23/16.]
17.165.050 Notice of Nonconformity and Amortization
   (a)   Upon determination that the provisions in this Chapter apply to a
given parcel of land, the Planning Director or his/her designee shall send a
notice regarding this parcel by certified United States mail, return receipt
requested, to the owner of said parcel as shown on the last equalized
assessment roll. The Director shall also post this property with a similar
notice and shall publish such notice at least once in a newspaper of general
circulation. Should the certified mailed notice be returned to the City for any
reason, the City shall cause a copy of the same to be mailed to the property
owner shown on the last equalized assessment roll by regular first-class mail
with postage fully paid.
   (b)   The notice provided for in this Section shall state that the property
in question is a nonconformity and shall state the date of abatement
established in the Resolution of the City Council. The abatement date shall be
deemed to apply unless the property owner requests a hearing before the hearing
body. The property owner shall have sixty (60) days from the date of the notice
to request a hearing.
[Ord. No. 544, Exhibit A, 3/23/16.]
17.165.052 Hearing Body Designated; Hearing
   (a)   The City Council by Resolution shall designate the hearing body for
purposes of this Chapter.
   (b)   If a hearing is requested by the property owner in accordance with
Section
17.165.050, the hearing body shall hold a public hearing to determine whether
the nonconformity should be abated or whether a time extension should be
granted. Notice of the hearing shall be given to all property owners within a
three-hundred foot (300) radius of subject property.
   (c)   The hearing body shall receive written and oral testimony at such
hearing regarding the abatement or elimination of the nonconformity.
   (d)   At the close of the public hearing, the hearing body shall find and
determine whether the nonconformity should be abated and all facts in support
thereof, whether the owner of the property can amortize his/her investment in
the term for abatement provided in the Resolution of the City Council, and if
not, what term for abatement should be provided.
   (e)   The hearing body shall also find and determine whether the
nonconforming use or structure can economically be used in its present
condition or if the nonconformity can be successfully modified for a purpose
permitted in the zoning district in which it is located.
   (f)   The hearing body, or the City Council on appeal, shall base its
decision as to the length of the permitted amortization period on any competent
evidence presented, including but not limited to the depreciation schedule
attached to the owner's latest federal income tax return.
[Ord. No. 544, Exhibit A, 3/23/16.]
17.165.054 Decision and Findings
   The decision of the hearing body and the findings in support of said
decision shall be in the form of a written order and shall be served to the
property owner personally or by certified United States mail, return receipt
requested, within ten (10) days after the decision is rendered. Findings shall
be made as to whether or not the balancing of the public interest and the
request by the owner for continuance, alteration, or expansion of the
nonconformity of the subject property require a deviation from the development
standards of the City of Adelanto.
[Ord. No. 544, Exhibit A, 3/23/16.]
17.165.056 Right of Appeal
   (a)   The decision of the hearing body terminating the nonconformity or an
extension may be appealed to the City Council in accordance with the Adelanto
Municipal Code.
   (b)   After the expiration of the appeal period, the decision of the hearing
body shall be final and conclusive unless an appeal was timely filed in
accordance with the provisions of this Section.
   (c)   The City Council on appeal shall conduct the hearing in accordance
with Section
17.165.052 and may uphold, reverse, or amend any decision of the hearing body.
The decision of the City Council shall be final and conclusive. Notice of the
City Council's decision shall be mailed by the City Clerk to the property owner
or other appellant within ten (10) days of the City Council's decision by
certified United States mail, return receipt requested.
[Ord. No. 544, Exhibit A, 3/23/16.]
17.165.057 Recordation of Order
   After the conclusion of all appeals, the City Clerk shall cause notice of
the decision and order of the hearing body, or the City Council in the case of
an appeal, to be recorded with the County Recorder of the County of San
Bernardino. The notice shall consist of a Notice of Zoning Violation.
[Ord. No. 544, Exhibit A, 3/23/16.]
17.165.058 Revocation
   (a)   Whenever the use, maintenance, or continuation of nonconforming
conditions or use is granted through the means of Conditional Use Permits,
Variances, Location and Development Approval, Extensions, Expansions, or other
approved changes, the same may be revoked by the City Council whenever the City
Council finds that the terms or conditions of any CUP, Variance, Location and
Development Approval, Extension, Expansion, or other approval are being
violated, the condition or use of the property constitutes a public nuisance,
or the health, safety, or welfare of the surrounding property owners or
residents is being threatened by the continuation of said nonconforming use or
condition.
   (b)   The revocation process may be initiated by the order of the City
Council, or any person demonstrating that his/her health, safety, or welfare is
being adversely affected by the continuation of circumstances existing on
nonconforming property.
   (c)   The property owner shall be notified of the commencement of the
revocation process pursuant to Sections
17.165.050 and
17.165.054.
[Ord. No. 544, Exhibit A, 3/23/16.]
17.165.059 Public Nuisance
   Any nonconforming use or structure continuing beyond the date for abatement
set by the hearing body, or City Council on appeal, shall be deemed a public
nuisance, subject to abatement thereof and prosecution either through civil or
criminal action.
[Ord. No. 544, Exhibit A, 3/23/16.]
17.165.060 Nonconforming Signs
   Nonconforming signs shall comply with the applicable provisions contained in
Chapter 17.70 of this Zoning Code.
[Ord. No. 544, Exhibit A, 3/23/16.]
17.165.070 Nonconforming Adult Businesses
   Nonconforming adult businesses shall comply with the applicable provisions
contained in
Chapter 17.85 of this Zoning Code.
[Ord. No. 544, Exhibit A, 3/23/16.]
CHAPTER 17.170
COVENANTS FOR EASEMENTS
   
17.170.010   General
   
17.170.015   Procedures
   
17.170.020   Content of Covenant
   
17.170.025   Release of Covenant--Procedure
17.170.010 General
   (a)   Authority for Adoption - This Chapter is adopted pursuant to
Government Code Sections 65870 to 65875.
   (b)   Application of This Chapter to Development Projects - This Chapter
shall apply to all development projects approved by the City, its City Council,
Planning Commission, voters, officers, and employees, which are not a part of
the subdivision process, and acts independently from any other authority or
method for the City to require an easement.
      The provisions of this Chapter shall only apply when:
      (1)   The covenant for easement is for:
         A.   Parking;
         B.   Ingress, egress, or emergency access;
         C.   Light and/or air access;
         D.   Landscaping; and/or
         E.   Open space purposes.
      (2)   At the time of recording the covenant of easement, all the real
property benefitted or burdened by said covenant shall be in common ownership.
      (3)   When the development project for which the approval is sought is
not an approval under the Subdivision Map Act.
17.170.015 Procedures
Whenever the Planning Commission or City Council determines, independently or
based upon the recommendation of City staff, that a Covenant of Easement is
needed for one or more of the purposes identified in Section
17.170.010(b)(1), the approval, permit, or designation shall not become
effective unless or until said Covenant of Easement is recorded.
   (a)   Whenever a Covenant of Easement is required herein, the Covenant shall
either:
      (1)   Be in a form and manner approved by the City Attorney based upon
the advise of the City Engineer and Planning Director; or,
      (2)   Be prepared by the City Attorney. Whenever the City Attorney
prepares a Covenant of Easement, the City shall be entitled to reimbursement
from the applicant for the costs associated therewith.
17.170.020 Content of Covenant 
Any Covenant of Easement prepared pursuant to this Chapter shall contain, at a
minimum, the following elements:
   (a)   Identification of the owner and/or owners of the real property to be
burdened, including a statement that both the burdened and benefitted parcels
are under common ownership;
   (b)   A consent to said Covenant of Easement and the recording thereof by
the record owner and/or owners to the Covenant;
   (c)   Identification of the real property to be benefitted and to be
burdened by said Covenant including a legal description of the same;
   (d)   A statement that said Covenant shall act as an easement pursuant to
Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 801) of Title 2 of Part 2 of Division 2 of
the California Civil Code -- including an express statement that said easement
and Covenant of Easement shall not merge into any other interest in real
property pursuant to California Government Code Section 65871(b);
   (e)   State that said Covenant of Easement shall run with the land, be
binding upon all successors in interest to the burdened real property, inure to
all successors in interest to the real property benefitted, and shall be
subject to California Civil Code Section 1104;
   (f)   Identify the approval, permit, or designation granted which required
the Covenant;
   (g)   A statement identifying the Adelanto Municipal Code Section which sets
forth the procedure for release of the Covenant;
   (h)   An appropriate section for execution of said Covenant of Easement by
the record owner or owners of the subject real property.
17.170.025 Release of Covenant - Procedure
Any person may request that the City make a determination as to whether or not
the restriction imposed by the Covenant of Easement is still necessary to
achieve the City's land use goals. The determination of the need for the
Covenant of Easement shall be made by the body, i.e., City Council or Planning
Commission, that took final action on the original application. A person shall
be entitled to only one (1) such determination in any twelve (12) month period.
   (a)   To obtain a determination mentioned above, a "Request for
Determination" application shall be made and filed with the City Clerk. Said
application shall include a fee as set by Resolution of the City Council.
   (b)   Upon receipt of a completed application, the City Clerk shall set the
matter for Public Hearing before the Planning Commission or City Council, as
appropriate, and cause notice thereof to be given pursuant to Government Code
Section 65090, and a copy of the notice shall be mailed to the record property
owner or owners as shown on the Tax Assessor's latest equalized role if other
than the applicant and to all record property owners within three-hundred (300)
feet of the property.
   (c)   At the conclusion of the Public Hearing, the Planning Commission or
City Council, as appropriate, shall determine and make a finding, based upon
substantial evidence in the record, whether or not the restriction imposed by
the Covenant of Easement is still necessary to achieve the land use goals of
the City. If the Planning Commission or City Council, as appropriate,
determines that the Covenant for Easement is still required, the Planning
Commission or City Council, as appropriate, shall by Resolution determine that
the need still exists.
   (d)   If the Planning Commission or City Council, as appropriate, finds that
the Covenant of Easement is no longer necessary, the Planning Commission or
City Council, as appropriate, shall by Resolution make the determination and
finding and direct the City Attorney to prepare a release thereof and transmit
the same to the City Clerk for recording.
   (e)   Planning Commission action on the continuing need for the Covenant of
Easement is subject to appeal to the City Council.
   (f)   The City Council's determination in subsections (c) and (d) above
shall be final and conclusive.
CHAPTER 17.180
SUBDIVISION OF LAND
   
17.180.010   Adelanto Ordinance 277U
   
17.180.020   General Provisions
17.180.010 Adelanto Ordinance 277U
The provisions defining and regulating the review and approval of tentative,
final, and parcel maps; lot line adjustments; lot mergers; reversions to
acreage; certificates of subdivision compliance, and official maps shall be
governed by the City of Adelanto Ordinance No. 277U, adopted March 8, 1994.
Section 1 of this Ordinance adopts the Subdivision Map Act, as Amended by any
1993 or prior Statutes, by reference, as if set forth herein in full.
17.180.020 General Provisions
Authority for Local Regulations: Pursuant to the provisions of California
Government Code, Title 7, Division 2, referred to herein as the Subdivision Map
Act, and in addition to any regulations otherwise provided by law, the
regulations contained in this division shall apply to all subdivisions, parts
of subdivisions, lot line adjustments, lot mergers, reversions to acreage,
certificates of compliance, and official maps hereafter made entirely or
partially within the City of Adelanto.
CHAPTER 17.190
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
   
17.190.010   Adelanto Resolution No. 75-11
   
17.190.020   General Provisions
17.190.010 Adelanto Resolution No. 75-11
Under the California Environmental Quality Act of 1970 (CEQA) both public and
private projects which have a significant environmental effect require the
preparation, by the public agency, of an Environmental Impact Report (EIR). To
comply with the requirements of CEQA the City of Adelanto adopted Resolution
No. 75-11.
17.190.020 General Provisions
Authority for Local Regulations: CEQA is implemented pursuant to the provisions
of California Public Resources Code 21000 et seq. and pursuant to the
Guidelines adopted by the Secretary of Resources and incorporated into the
California Code of Regulations, Title 14, Section 15000 et seq. The City of
Adelanto will process and document both public and private projects in
accordance with the laws and Guidelines as may be amended from time to time.
CHAPTER 17.195
REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION IN HOUSING
17.195.010   General
17.195.020   Purpose
17.195.030   Intent
17.195.040   Definition of Reasonable Accommodation
17.195.050   Implementing Reasonable Accommodation
17.195.060   Disability Eligibility
17.195.070   Application Requirements
17.195.080   Review Authority
17.195.090   Findings and Decision
17.195.100   Appeal Determination
17.195.110   Non-Compliance
17.195.120   Accessibility Guidelines
17.195.010   General
Discrimination in housing on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, familial status, and disability is prohibited by federal and state law.
Under the Federal Fair Housing Act and the California Fair Employment and
Housing Act (the Acts), refusing residency to persons with disabilities, or
placing conditions on their residency, and refusal to make reasonable
accommodations in rules, policies, practices, or services when such
accommodations may be necessary to afford a person with a disability the equal
opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling is discrimination. The Acts requires
that housing providers allow residents to make reasonable structural
modifications to units and public/common areas in a dwelling when those
modifications may be necessary for a person with a disability to have full
enjoyment of a dwelling. With very few exceptions, the Acts apply to privately
and publicly owned housing, including housing subsidized by the federal
government or rented through the use of Section 8 voucher assistance.
[Ord. No. 623, Section 4, 4/27/22.]
17.195.020   Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to provide a formal procedure to request
reasonable accommodation for persons with disabilities seeking equal access to
housing under the Federal Fair Housing Act and the California Fair Employment
and Housing Act (the Acts) in the application of zoning laws and other land use
regulations, policies and procedures, and to establish relevant criteria to be
used when considering such requests.
[Ord. No. 623, Section 4, 4/27/22.]
17.195.030   Intent
Fair housing laws prohibit discrimination against people based on their race,
color, religion, national origin, sex, familial status, or disability. For
persons with disabilities, fair housing law extends further to make it illegal
to:
   (a)   Fail to make reasonable accommodation in rules, policies, and services
to give a person with a disability equal opportunity to occupy and enjoy the
full use of a housing unit; and
   (b)   Fail to allow reasonable modification to the premises if the
modification is necessary to allow full use of the premises.
[Ord. No. 623, Section 4, 4/27/22.]
17.195.040   Definition of Reasonable Accommodation
A deviation that provides a person with a disability relief from, and
flexibility in, the application of the City’s zoning, building, and land use
laws, regulations, policies or procedures, which is necessary to provide a
person with a disability an equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling.
[Ord. No. 623, Section 4, 4/27/22.]
17.195.050   Implementing Reasonable Accommodation
   (a)   Use of Service Animals. Individuals with disabilities have the right
to use the services of a guide, signal or trained dog (or other such designated
animal), and have such animals in or around their unit. No additional charges
or security deposits may be imposed for having a guide, signal or trained
animal. Tenants may be liable for any damage caused by their animals.
   (b)   Modifications in Policies and Practices by Housing Provider. At the
request of an individual with a disability, a housing provider must make
reasonable accommodations in rules, policies, practices or services to provide
the individual equal opportunity to use and enjoy the dwelling. This includes,
but is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Making an exemption to a "no pet" policy to enable a disabled
tenant to have a service animal.
      (2)   Changing parking rules to enable a disabled tenant to have parking
that meets his/her needs.
   (c)   Physical Modifications by Disabled Tenant. A housing provider must
allow disabled individuals to reasonably modify existing premises if the
modifications are necessary for the enjoyment of the amenities provided within
the premises. The tenant is responsible for the cost of the modification. In
some circumstances, a landlord may require that the tenant agree to restore the
interior of the premises to the original condition. Examples of reasonable
modifications include:
      (1)   Widening doorways;
      (2)   Lowering cabinets;
      (3)   Installing a wheelchair ramp; and
      (4)   Converting a bathtub to a shower.
[Ord. No. 623, Section 4, 4/27/22.]
17.195.060   Disability Eligibility
   (a)   Definition. This Chapter applies only to those persons who are defined
as disabled under the Acts. The Acts define a person with a disability to
include persons who are regarded as having an impairment, and persons with a
record of an impairment. The Federal Housing Administration (FHA) defines a
disabled person as an individual with a physical or mental impairment that
substantially limits one (1) or more major life activities, such as walking,
talking, seeing, hearing, breathing, performing manual tasks, caring for one's
self, learning, and working.
   (b)   Other Qualifying Disabilities. Disabilities are not always obvious. It
is important to recognize that disabilities do not always require a person to
have an assistive device, such as a cane or hearing aid; disabilities are not
always physical and therefore mental impairments such as chronic fatigue
syndrome, a learning disability, autism spectrum, and mental illness all fit
the FHA's definition. Also, the disease of addiction may qualify as a
disability.
   (c)   Proof of Disability. A housing provider may request reliable
disability-related information under the following conditions:
      (1)   When it is necessary to verify that the person meets the Act's
definition of disability (i.e., has a physical or mental impairment that
substantially limits one (1) or more major life activities);
      (2)   When the disability-related information describes the needed
accommodation; and
      (3)   When the disability-related information demonstrates the
relationship between the person's disability and the need for the requested
accommodation.
   (d)   Who Can Provide Proof of Disability. Proof of disability can be
provided by the individual, including documentation that they are under sixty-
five (65) years of age and receiving supplemental security income or Social
Security disability insurance benefits. A doctor or other medical professional,
a peer support group, a non-medical service agency, or a reliable third party
who is in a position to know about the individual's disability may also provide
verification of a disability. An individual's medical records or detailed
information about the nature of a person's disability is not usually necessary
for this inquiry and should not be requested.
   (e)   Confidentiality. Once a housing provider has established that a person
meets the Act's definition of disability, the provider's request for
documentation should be limited to the information necessary to evaluate if the
reasonable accommodation is needed because of a disability. Such information
must be kept confidential and must not be shared with other persons unless they
need the information to make or assess a decision to grant or deny a reasonable
accommodation request or unless disclosure is required by law (e.g., a court-
issued subpoena requiring disclosure).
[Ord. No. 623, Section 4, 4/27/22.]
17.195.070   Application Requirements
   (a)   Application and Fee. Requests for reasonable accommodation shall be
presented in a form approved by the Development Services Department, together
with the appropriate fee, as established by resolution adopted by the City
Council to be filed with the Planning Division. A minor location and
development plan application shall be filed for requests concerning one (1)
single family residence, and two (2) or more residential units.
   (b)   Combined Proceedings. When the project for which the request for
reasonable accommodation is being made includes a discretionary approval under
this Title (including but not limited to a conditional use permit, location and
development plan review, variance, general plan amendment or zone change), the
application shall be submitted and reviewed at the same time as the related
applications by the appropriate approval authority per
Chapter 17.100 Administrative Procedure.
[Ord. No. 623, Section 4, 4/27/22.]
17.195.080   Review Authority
Approval Authority
   A.   Administrative Review. Planning staff has the authority to review the
appropriate submitted application and approve requests at the public counter
for reasonable accommodation, including whether the applicant is a disabled
person within the meaning of this chapter, if the required findings in Section
17.195.090, Findings and Decision, can be made. The appropriate fee shall be
collected, and a building permit may be required.
   B.   Encroachment into Setback Areas. When a reasonable accommodation
request includes any encroachment into the front or side yard setback area that
results in a building size increase above what is allowed in the applicable
zoning district with respect to height, lot coverage and floor area ratio
maximums, or whenever a reduction in required parking is requested, the
Development Services Director or designee shall determine if the proposal
substantially conforms to the intent of the appropriate code section, in
addition to complying with these reasonable accommodation provisions.
   C.   Unpermitted Conversions. Unpermitted conversions of garages, play
rooms, storage rooms, accessory structures, etc., shall not be considered for
occupancy unless such a conversion meets development standards for the zone,
and the violation is corrected and/or permitted as required by the Development
Services Division through Planning and Building Division review and approval.
   D.   Decision. If an immediate decision cannot be made administratively, the
Development Services Director or designee shall render a decision within ten
(10) days after the application is complete, and shall approve, approve with
conditions or deny the application, based on the findings set forth below in
Section
17.195.090, Findings and Decision. The decision shall be in writing and mailed
to the applicant.
[Ord. No. 623, Section 4, 4/27/22.]
17.195.090   Findings And Decision
   (a)   Findings. Any decision on an application under this Chapter shall be
supported by written findings addressing the criteria set forth in this
subsection. An application under this chapter for a reasonable accommodation
shall be granted if all of the following findings are made:
      (1)   The housing, which is the subject of the request, will be used by
an individual disabled as defined under the Acts.
      (2)   The requested reasonable accommodation is necessary to make
specific housing available to an individual with a disability under the Acts.
      (3)   The requested reasonable accommodation would not impose an undue
financial or administrative burden on the City.
      (4)   The requested reasonable accommodation would not require a
fundamental alteration in the nature of a City program or law, including but
not limited to land use and zoning.
      (5)   The requested reasonable accommodation would not adversely impact
surrounding properties or uses.
      (6)   There are no reasonable alternatives that would provide an
equivalent level of benefit without requiring a modification or exception to
the City’s applicable rules, standards and practices.
   (b)   Conditions of Approval. In granting a request for reasonable
accommodation, the reviewing authority may impose any conditions of approval
deemed reasonable and necessary to ensure that the reasonable accommodation
would comply with findings requires by subsection (1) above.
   (c)   Time Limit. Improvements for reasonable accommodation granted by the
City to a property as provided in this Chapter shall run with the rental or
lease of the housing unit by the disabled person, and may remain indefinitely.
At any time in the future when such improvements are not required, they may be
removed by the property owner or housing provider.
[Ord. No. 623, Section 4, 4/27/22.]
17.195.100   Appeal Determination
Any decision on an application under this chapter shall be subject to appeal
pursuant to Section
17.100.060 of the Adelanto Municipal Code.
[Ord. No. 623, Section 4, 4/27/22.]
17.195.110   Non-Compliance
   (a)   Requirement for Completion of Improvements. When improvements to
housing (new or existing) associated with reasonable accommodation are a
condition of approval, such work shall be completed prior to building permit
sign-off or certificate of occupancy. If this has not occurred, and a disabled
person is waiting to occupy the housing unit, a notice will be issued by the
Development Services Department. The notice shall particularly specify the work
required to be done and shall state that if the work is not commenced within
five (5) days after the receipt of such notice and diligently and without
interruption prosecuted to completion, the City shall cause such work to be
done, in which case the cost of expense of such work, including incidental
expenses incurred by the City, will be assessed against the property or against
each separate lot and become a lien upon the property.
   (b)   Complaints. A disabled tenant or prospective tenant who believes they
are a victim of discrimination may lodge a complaint in the following ways:
      (1)   Contact the Regional Human Rights/Fair Housing Commission.
      (2)   Contact the Department of Fair Employment and Housing (DFEH). DFEH
is the state agency authorized to investigate housing discrimination complaints
and enforce state fair housing laws.
      (3)   Contact the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). HUD
is the federal agency authorized to investigate housing discrimination
complaints and enforce federal fair housing laws.
      (4)   File a private lawsuit in state or federal court.
[Ord. No. 623, Section 4, 4/27/22.]
17.195.120   Accessibility Guidelines
   (a)   New Housing. All new housing construction consisting of three (3) or
more dwelling units must be designed and constructed in a manner that allows
access to, and use by, disabled persons. See Section 1102A, Housing
Accessibility, of the California Building Code 2010.
   (b)   Existing Buildings. Building standards contained in Section 1102A,
Housing Accessibility, of the California Building Code 2010 do not apply to the
alteration, repair, rehabilitation or maintenance of multi-family dwellings
constructed for occupancy prior to March 13, 1991.
   (c)   Limited Exceptions for Single Rooms and Roommates. Reasonable
accommodation provisions do not apply when the owner of an owner-occupied,
single-family home rents out a room in the home to a roomer or a boarder, and
there are no other roomers or boarders living in the household. However, the
owner cannot make or written statements, or use notices or advertisements which
indicate any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on race, color,
religion, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, national origin, ancestry,
familial status, source of income, or disability. Further, the owner cannot
discriminate on the basis of medical condition or age.
[Ord. No. 623, Section 4, 4/27/22.]
CHAPTER 17.200
DEFINITIONS OF TERMS
   
17.200.010   General
   
17.200.020   "A"   Definitions
   
17.200.030   "B"    Definitions
   
17.200.040   "C"    Definitions
   
17.200.050   "D"    Definitions
   
17.200.060   "E"    Definitions
   
17.200.070   "F"    Definitions
   
17.200.080   "G"    Definitions
   
17.200.090   "H"    Definitions
   
17.200.100   "I"    Definitions
   
17.200.110   "J"    Definitions
   
17.200.120   "K"    Definitions
   
17.200.130   "L"    Definitions
   
17.200.140   "M"    Definitions
   
17.200.150   "N"    Definitions
   
17.200.160   "O"    Definitions
   
17.200.170   "P"    Definitions
   
17.200.180   "Q"    Definitions
   
17.200.190   "R"    Definitions
   
17.200.200   "S"    Definitions
   
17.200.210   "T"    Definitions
   
17.200.220   "U"    Definitions
   
17.200.230   "V"    Definitions
   
17.200.240   "W"    Definitions
   
17.200.250   "X"    Definitions
   
17.200.260   "Y"    Definitions
   
17.200.270   "Z"    Definitions
17.200.010 General
   For general terminology used throughout the Zoning Code, refer to Section
17.01.090 of this Zoning Code. For terminology used in the Zoning Code but not
defined in this Chapter or in Section
17.01.090, the definitions used in the Uniform Building Code or accepted
dictionaries of the English language shall govern.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]
17.200.020 "A" Definitions
Abandoned - The cessation of the use of a property by the owner with the
intention neither of transferring rights to the property to another owner nor
of resuming the use of the property.
Abutting Land - A parcel of land having a common boundary with another parcel
of land, including parcels which have no common boundary other than a common
comer.
Accessory Building or Structure - A building or structure detached from, on the
same lot as, and customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal
building.
Accessory Use - A use of a portion of land or building that is customarily and
clearly incidental and subordinate to the principal use of the land or building
and is located on the same lot with such principal use. Accessory uses
typically are very small in proportion to the principal use.
Acreage, Gross - The total land area within a defined boundary (i.e., before
the exclusion of areas including, but not limited to, slopes, public rights-of-
way, public parks, public school sites, and sites for other public facilities).
Acreage, Net - That portion of gross acreage exclusive of public streets and
all public lands and rights-of-way. The area within the lot lines of a lot
exclusive of any dedications for slopes, public rights-of-way, public parks,
public school sites, and sites for other public facilities.
Activity Street - A type of street designed to accommodate cyclists and
encourage pedestrian activity.
Addition - Any construction that is attached to an existing building or
facility and which increases the size or capacity of a building or facility in
terms of site coverage, height, length, width, or gross floor area.
Adjoining - Refers to a lot or parcel of land which shares all or part of a
common lot line with another lot or parcel of land.
Adult Business - Refer to the definitions contained in
Chapter 17.85 of this Zoning Code.
Adult Day Care Facility - See "Day Care Center, Adult."
Agent - Any person showing written verification that he/she is acting for, and
with the knowledge and consent of, a property owner.
Agriculture - The use of land for the production of food and fiber, including
the growing of crops and/or the glazing of animals on natural prime or improved
pasture land.
Alcoholic Beverage Offsite Sales - The sale of packaged alcoholic beverages for
consumption at an offsite location.
Alcoholic Beverage Onsite Sales - The sale of alcoholic beverages, including
beer, wine, and mixed drinks, for consumption at the point of sale. "Sales to
persons over the legal drinking age exclusively," refers to any facility which
restricts entry to persons of legal drinking age, as established by State law.
Alley - A narrow service way, either public or private, that provides a
permanently reserved but secondary means of public access. Alleys are not
intended for general traffic circulation, but for services and delivery access.
Alleys typically are located along rear property lines.
Alteration - Any change or rearrangement in the supporting members of an
existing building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders, or interior
partitions, as well as any change in doors or windows, or any enlargement to or
diminution of a building or structure, whether horizontally or vertically, or
the moving of a building or structure from one location to another.
Amateur Radio Antenna - Any antenna used to receive and/or transmit radio
signals on the amateur radio bandwidth, as designated by the Federal
Communications Commission.
Amenity - A natural or man-made feature which enhances a particular property.
Amusement Park - A commercial center comprised of a variety of family-oriented
entertainment uses, predominated by uses which occur outside. A local example
is the "Castle Park" amusement center in the City of Riverside.
Animal - Unless otherwise stated for a specific situation, "animal" includes
birds, fish, mammals, and reptiles.
Antenna - Any system of wires, poles, rods, reflecting discs, or similar
devices used for the transmission, reception, or both, of electromagnetic
radiation waves.
Antique Sales (Refinished) - Any premises used for the sale of articles that
are one hundred (100) or more years old or are collectable. An antique shop
does not include a secondhand store as defined in this Chapter.
Apartment - One or more rooms with private bath and kitchen facilities
comprising an independent, self-contained dwelling unit in a building
containing more than three (3) or more dwelling units for rent. See also
"Dwelling Unit."
Apartment Building - A structure containing three (3) or more apartment units
which is intended for rental purposes.
Applicant - A person who requests in writing the approval of a lease, permit,
license, certificate, or other entitlement from public agencies.
Application - The form, information, and fees submitted by an applicant for
purposes of requesting an entitlement from a public agency.
Arcade - A principal commercial entertainment land use consisting of five (5)
or more amusement machines located within one (1) building or structure and
operated in exchange for financial or other considerations. In addition to any
other principal use of the land, any use or business with five (5) or more
amusement machines shall be considered an arcade.
Automobile Detailing - Auto detailing means an establishment which performs
hand-washing, waxing, and interior cleaning of passenger vehicles.
Automobile Service Station - See "Service Station."
Automobile Wrecking - The dismantling or wrecking of two or more used motor
vehicles or trailers; or the storage, sale, or dumping of one or more
dismantled, partially dismantled, obsolete, or wrecked vehicles or their parts.
Automobile/Trailer Sales Area - The use of any building, land area, or other
premises for the display and sale of new or used automobiles, panel trucks,
vans, trailers, or recreation vehicles, including any repair service conducted
as an accessory service.
Automobile/Truck Dealers - A facility that sells automobiles and/or trucks of
one ton or less capacity, both new and used, including the repairing of same.
Trucks of more than one (1) ton or one-and-one-half (1.5) ton capacity are not
be included in this term.
Automobile/Truck Repairing - A facility that provides to such vehicles of any
capacity repair services, which may include tire shops, muffler shops,
transmission shops, upholstery shops, and accessory shops.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]
17.200.030 "B" Definitions
Backyard - See yard, rear. (Ord. 410, 2003)
Balcony - A structure with a walking surface at least 30 inches above adjacent
grade which extends from a building without support from the ground. See also
"Deck" and "Platform".
Basement - Basement shall be defined according to the definition contained in
the Uniform Building Code.
Bay Window - A group of windows projecting from a room in a floor-level recess.
Bed and Breakfast - A house, or portion thereof, where rooms and meals are
provided for short-term stays. The operator of the bed and breakfast shall live
on the premises or adjacent premises.
Bedroom - Any habitable room used for sleeping purposes other than a living
room, family room, or den.
Billiard/Pool Hall - Any place of business where any of several games are
played on a table by driving small balls against one another or into pockets
with a cue and where alcoholic beverages are offered for sale. Such place of
business may include, as an accessory use, any mechanical amusement device not
otherwise prohibited by a City ordinance. See also "Billiard Parlor, Family."
Billiard Parlor, Family - Any place of business where any of several games are
played on a table by driving small balls against one another or into pockets
with a cue and where no alcoholic beverages are offered for sale. Such place of
business may include, as an accessory use, any mechanical amusement device not
otherwise prohibited by a City ordinance.
Body or Hearing Body - The individual or group duly authorized by this Zoning
Code to grant changes to, relief from, or special consideration under the
Zoning Code.
Boulevard - A type of street designed for multiple users with a landscaped
center median separating directional traffic.
Brewery - A facility where beer is brewed for off-site distribution and
delivery. A brewery does not contain a restaurant or tavern.
Building - Building shall be defined according to the definition contained in
the Uniform Building Code.
Building Coverage - The percentage of the net lot area which is covered by all
the buildings on a lot, as seen from a plan view.
Building Height - Building Height shall be defined and measured according to
the definition contained in the Uniform Building Code.
Building Pad - The area of a lot designed for the construction of buildings and
structures.
Building Official - The officer or other designated authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of the Uniform Building Code, or the building
official's duly authorized representative. (Ord. 410, 2003)
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]
17.200.040 "C" Definitions
Caretaker's Residence - A dwelling unit accessory to the principal use on a
site which is intended for occupancy by a caretaker, security guard, worker, or
similar person generally requiring residence on the site.
Car Wash, Full Service - A structure containing employees and facilities for
washing automobiles using a chain conveyor or other method of moving the cars
along, and automatic or semiautomatic application of cleaner, brushes, rinse
water, and heat for drying.
Car Wash, Self Service - A structure containing facilities for washing
stationary automobiles, including the semiautomatic application of cleaner,
rinse water, and possibly heat for drying. No car-washing employees are located
at a self-service car wash.
Carport - A roofed structure providing space for the parking or storage of
motor vehicles and open on at least one side. A three-sided building with an
opening on the fourth which is not provided with a closable door is a carport.
Catering Service - An establishment that prepares and delivers food for
consumption off the premises, for example, for banquets or luncheons. A
catering establishment may contain kitchen facilities and may also provide
dining supplies such as place settings, tablecloths, and beverage dispensers.
Cellar - See "Basement."
Cemetery - Property, including columbariums and mausoleums, that is used for
the interring of the deceased.
Centerline - The centerline of a street, as referred to in this Zoning Code,
shall mean the right-of-way centerline as established by the County Engineer of
the County, by the City Engineer of the City, or by the State Division of
Highways of the State; in any case in which the foregoing definition is not
applicable, the Planning Commission shall designate the centerline.
Certificate of Occupancy - As defined by latest adopted edition of the Uniform
Building Code.
Child Day Care Facility - See "Day Care Center, Child."
Christmas Tree Sales Facility - A retail sales operation, generally conducted
wholly out-of-doors, that offers for sale on a temporary, limited basis
Christmas trees and related holiday items such as wreaths and Christmas tree
stands. The allowable sales period is defined in
Chapter 17.75 of this Code.
Church - An assemblage of people for worship, or an institution facilitating
worship, including personal counseling and education, and the building or
buildings where such activities take place.
City - The City of Adelanto. (Ord. 410, 2003)
City Manager - The City Manager or his/her designee(s). (Ord. 410, 2003)
Class I Bikeway (Bike Path) - A completely separate facility designated for the
exclusive use of bicycles and pedestrians, with vehicle and pedestrian cross-
flow minimized.
Class II Bikeway (Bike Lane) - A striped lane designated for the use of
bicycles on a street. Vehicle parking and vehicle/pedestrian cross-flow are
permitted at designated locations.
Class III Bikeway (Bike Route) - A route designated by signs or pavement
markings for bicyclists within the vehicular travel lane (i.e. shared use) of a
roadway.
Clinic - An organized outpatient health facility for patients who remain less
than twenty-four (24) hours. Clinics provide direct medical, surgical, dental,
optometric, podiatric, or psychological advice, services, or treatment. Clinics
may also provide diagnostic or therapeutic services to patients in the home as
an incident to care provided at the clinic.
Club - A group of people organized for a common purpose to pursue common goals,
interests, or activities and usually characterized by certain membership
qualifications, payment of dues, regular meetings, a constitution, and by-laws.
Code Enforcement Officer - Any person designated by the City as a law
enforcement officer who is qualified to perform such duties under the laws of
the State of California. (Ord. 410, 2003)
Commercial Animal Establishment - Any pet shop, grooming shop, guard dog
auction, riding school or stable, zoological park, circus, performing animal
exhibition, or boarding or breeding kennel open to the general public. This
definition does not apply to privately owned, not-for-hire ranches. (Ord. 410,
2003)
Commercial Horticulture - The growing of fruits, vegetables, flowers and
ornamental plants for sale. (Ord. 410, 2003)
Commercial Kennel - see "Kennel."
Commercial Use - An activity that includes the buying and selling of
commodities and services.
Common Area - Land in a residential development held in common and/or single
ownership which is not reserved for the exclusive use or benefit of an
individual tenant or owner.
Common Open Space - Land within or serving as part of a development, not
individually owned or dedicated for public use, which is designed and intended
for the common use or enjoyment of the residents of the development and may
include such complementary structures and improvements as are necessary and
appropriate. (Ord. 410, 2003)
Communal Housing - Housing for nonfamily groups with common kitchen and dining
facilities but without medical, psychiatric, or other care. Communal housing
includes boarding houses, lodging houses, dormitories, fraternity/sorority
houses, communes, and religious homes.
Community Care Facility - Any facility, place, or building which is maintained
and operated to provide nonmedical residential care, day treatment, adult day
care, or foster family agency services for children, adults, or children and
adults, including, but not limited to, physically handicapped, mentally
impaired, incompetent persons, and abused or neglected children; and which
includes residential facilities, adult day care facilities, day treatment
facilities, foster family homes, small family homes, social rehabilitation
facilities, community treatment facilities, and social day care facilities.
Community Center - A facility operated by the City which provides recreational,
cultural, or other similar community activities.
Conditional Use Permit - An approval that is required for a conditional use to
be carried out in a particular zoning district.
Conditional Use - A use permitted on a particular site and within a zoning
district only upon a finding that such use in a specified location will comply
with all the conditions and standards for the location or operation of such use
as specified in the Zoning Code and authorized by the Planning Commission.
Condominium - The interior airspace of two (2) or more dwelling units that are
individually owned and where the balance of the property is owned in common by
the owners of the units.
Conforming - Fully meeting the requirements of the City of Adelanto Building
Regulations and all property development regulations and requirements
prescribed for the applicable zoning district. See also "Nonconforming Land,"
"Nonconforming Structure," and "Nonconforming Use."
Congregate Residence - Housing, often for senior citizens, arranged in a group
setting that includes independent living and sleeping accommodations in
conjunction with shared dining and recreational facilities.
Convalescent Facility - A State-licensed facility that provides long-term
nursing, dietary, and other medical services, except surgery or primary
treatments customarily provided in a hospital, to convalescents or invalids.
Country Club - A facility operated primarily for social and outdoor recreation
purposes. Country Club includes incidental accessory uses and structures.
Court - Any open space, unobstructed from ground to sky other than a yard, that
is on the same lot and bounded on two (2) sides by the walls of a building.
Covered Parking - A parking space(s) that is within a garage or carport or
under the overhanging portion of a building.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]
17.200.050 "D" Definitions
Dance Floor - An area that is in excess of three hundred (300) square feet or
in excess of fifteen (15) percent of the public area of a building and is used
as a dance area, whether as a primary or accessory use.
Dance Hall - A public half that is primarily and predominately devoted to
dancing.
Day Care Center, Adult - Any facility that provides nonmedical care, on less
than a twenty-four (24) hour basis, to persons eighteen (18) years of age or
older who are in need of personal services, supervision, or assistance
essential for sustaining the activities of daily living or for the protection
of the individual.
Day Care Center, Child - Any child day care facility with a capacity of more
than twelve (12) children. Day care centers include infant centers, preschools,
and extended day care facilities. Such a facility provides nonmedical care, on
a less than a twenty-four (24) hour basis, to persons under eighteen (18) years
of age in need of personal services, supervision, or assistance essential for
sustaining the activities of daily living or for the protection of the
individual.
Day Care Home, Large Family - A residential home that provides family day care,
in the provider's own home, to seven (7) to twelve (12) children, inclusive,
including children under the age often (10) years who reside at the home.
Day Care Home, Small Family - A residential home that provides family day care,
in the provider's own home, to six (6) or fewer children, including children
under the age of ten (10) years who reside at the home.
Day Treatment Facility - Any facility that provides nonmedical care,
counseling, educational or vocational support, or social rehabilitation
services on less than a twenty-four (24) hour basis to persons under eighteen
(18) years of age who would otherwise be placed in foster care or who are
returning to families from foster care.
Decibel (db) - A unit used to express the intensity of a sound wave.
Deck - A structure projecting from a building (typically a home) at least 30
inches (30") above adjacent grade which is supported from the ground. See also
"Balcony" and "Platform."
Dedication - The release by an owner or developer of private land for public
use, and the acceptance of land for such use by the governmental agency having
jurisdiction over the public function for which it will be used.
Demolish - To remove more than seventy-five percent (75%) of the exterior walls
of an existing building or structure, as measured by the linear length of the
walls.
Density - The number of permanent residential dwelling units per gross acre of
land.
Dependent Housing - A dwelling unit provided either as a detached or attached
accessory unit to a primary residence on a parcel zoned for one (1) single-
family residence, provided the accessory unit is intended for:
   (a)   Occupancy by one (1) or two (2) adults of minimum age sixty (60) who
are dependents of the residents of the primary unit; or
   (b)   Are court-appointed conservatees of a resident of the primary unit; or
   (c)   Are members of a very-low-income household as specified in Section
50105 of the Health and Safety Code and are related to the primary unit
residents by birth, marriage, or adoption.
Detached Building - A building that does not have a building wall of four (4)
feet or more in length in common with another building.
Developer - The individual or organization who is responsible for the planning,
design, and construction of an applicable development project. A developer may
be responsible for implementing the provisions of this Zoning Code as
determined by the property owner.
Discount Store - A store advertising a wide variety of merchandise for sale at
less-than-retail cost.
Distribution Facility - A use engaged primarily in the storage and wholesale
distribution of manufactured products, supplies, and equipment, including
incidental sales activities, but excluding bulk storage of materials which are
flammable or explosive.
Drive-in Restaurant - See "Restaurant, Fast-Food."
Drive-in Theater - An outdoor movie theater where patrons view movies or any
other form of entertainment on a screen or stage from their vehicles. This
definition does not include an adult theater.
Driveway - A private roadway or accessway providing vehicular access to a
parking space, parking lot, garage, dwelling, or other structure.
Drug Abuse Recovery or Treatment Facility - Any facility, place, or building
which is maintained and operated exclusively to provide twenty-four (24) hour
residential, nonmedical services in a group setting to adults which may
include, but need not be limited to, mothers under eighteen (18) years of age
and their children, who are recovering from alcohol, drug, or drug and alcohol
misuse and are currently capable of meeting their life support needs
independently, but who temporarily need guidance, counseling, or other alcohol
or drug recovery services.
Drug Store - A store where the primary business is the filling of medical
prescriptions and the sale of drugs, medical devices and supplies, and
nonprescription medicines, but where nonmedical products such as cards, candy,
and cosmetics also are sold. Offsite sale of alcoholic beverages is permitted
as an incidental use in drug stores of at least ten thousand (10,000) square
feet in size.
Dry Cleaning Plant - A facility where dry cleaning is performed on the
premises. A dry cleaning plant may also contain retail laundry service.
Dwelling - As defined in the latest edition of the Uniform Building Code.
Dwelling, Duplex - A detached building that is designed for occupation as the
residence of two (2) families living individually from each other.
Dwelling, Multi-Family - A building or portion thereof used and/or designed as
a residence with three (3) or more separate dwellings units for (example,
apartments or cooperatives).
Dwelling, Single-Family Attached - A dwelling unit occupied or intended for
occupancy by only one (1) household which is structurally connected with at
least one (1) other such dwelling unit (for example, townhouse or condominium).
Dwelling, Single-Family Detached - A detached building containing no more than
one (1) dwelling unit which, regardless of form of ownership, is designed and/
or used to house not more than one (1) household including all domestic
employees of such family.
Dwelling, Two-Family - A building containing no more than two (2) dwelling
units.
Dwelling Unit - Any mobilehome or building or portion thereof, including a
manufactured home or portion thereof, which contains the following: sleeping
and eating areas, sanitation as required by the Uniform Building Code, and one
(1) kitchen area. For the purposes of this definition, a kitchen area intended
solely for use by the domestic employees of the household shall not be counted
in determining the number of dwelling units. (See also "Kitchen.")
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]
17.200.060 "E" Definitions
Easement - A grant of one or more of the property rights by the property owner
to and/or for the use of the public, a corporation, or another person or
entity.
Eave - See "Overhang, Roof."
Educational Institution - An institution such as a private or public school,
college, or university qualified by the State Board of Education to give
academic instruction.
Elevation -
   (a)   A scale drawing of the front, rear, or side of a building or
structure,
   (b)   Height above mean sea level.
Employee - Any person employed by a firm, person(s), business, educational
institution, nonprofit agency or corporation, government agency, or other
entity.
Employer - Any person(s), firm, business, educational institution, government
agency, nonprofit agency or corporation, or other entity which employs persons
at a single worksite, and may either be a property owner or tenant of an
applicable development project.
Emergency Shelter - A facility that provides immediate short-term housing and
supplemental services to homeless persons or families. Supplemental services
may include; food, counseling, and access to other social programs.
Enclosed Parking Structure - A building or structure used for the parking of
motor vehicles, having exterior enclosure walls which have less than twenty
five percent (25%) of the total wall area open to the atmosphere at each level
on at least two (2) sides of the structure.
Entertainment Center - A commercial center or complex containing a variety of
family-oriented entertainment uses, predominated by uses which occur indoors.
Examples of uses in this type of center could include motion picture theaters,
arcades, and gift shops.
Equestrian Facility - A structure or area the use of which is devoted to
activities involving horses, mules, donkeys, ponies, or similar barnyard
animals.
Equipment Storage Yard or Contractor Yard - A use providing for maintenance,
servicing, or storage of motor vehicles, equipment, or supplies; or for the
dispatching of service vehicles; or for distribution of supplies or
construction materials required in connection with a business activity, public
utility service, transportation services, or similar activity. The term
"contractor yard" shall include a construction materials yard, vehicular
service center, or similar use.
Erosion, Accelerated - Erosion of the soil, caused by human activity, which is
greater than that which would normally occur under natural conditions. Causes
of accelerated erosion may include, but not be limited to, diversion and/or
concentration of drainage flows, the removal of plant cover, any land
disturbing activity, or the creation of new drainage courses which are not
prepared to accommodate flows without erosion.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]
17.200.070 "F" Definitions
Facade - A building's exterior wall which is exposed to public view.
Facility(s) - The total of all buildings, structures and grounds that encompass
a worksite, at either single or multiple locations, which comprises or is
associated with an applicable development project.
Family - A group of one or more individuals living under one roof.
Farm - An area or parcels of land used for agricultural activities.
Fast-Food Restaurant - See "Restaurant, Fast-Food."
Fence - A solid or open barrier above ground intended to enclose or mark a
boundary.
Financial Institution - An establishment or facility for the custody, loan,
exchange, or issue of money; for the extension of credit; and for facilitating
the transmission of funds.
Fire Authority - That person or agency designated by the City of Adelanto as
the person or agency responsible for providing fire fighting and other
emergency response services to the City.
Flag Lot - see "Lot, Flag."
Flood - For the definition of Flood and related terms, the definitions
contained in the Adelanto Municipal Code shall apply.
Floor Area Ratio - The total gross floor area of all buildings on a lot divided
by the lot area.
Floor Area, Gross - The total horizontal area of a building, in square feet,
including the exterior walls of all floors.
Foster Family Home - Any residential facility providing twenty-four (24) hour
care for six (6) or fewer foster children which is owned, leased, or rented by,
and is the residence of, the foster parents, including their family, and in
whose care the foster children have been placed.
Front Yard - See "Yard, Front"
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]
17.200.080 "G" Definitions
Garage, Private - As defined in the latest edition of the Uniform Building
Code. Garage, Public - As defined in the latest edition of the Uniform Building
Code.
Garage - An enclosed deck, building, or structure, or part thereof, used or
intended to be used for the parking and storage of vehicles which is not a
carport. See also, "Carport."
General Plan - The General Plan of the City of Adelanto, adopted pursuant to
the State of California Government Code Section 65301 et seq. and adopted by
the City Council.
Government Offices - The working location of any department, commission,
independent agency, or instrumentality of the United States, of a state,
county, incorporated or unincorporated municipality, township, authority,
district, or other governmental unit.
Grade - Grade and all related terms shall be defined according to the
definition contained in the Uniform Building Code.
"Granny" Housing - See "Dependent Housing."
Greenbelt - Land devoted to the preservation of natural desert habitat
resources, drainages, utility easements, and/or use for outdoor recreation.
Group Home - Any residential care facility for six (6) or fewer persons which
is licensed by the State.
Guest House - Living quarters with bathroom plumbing only located on the same
lot as the primary dwelling unit and intended for temporary occupancy by family
members, guests, or persons employed on the premises.
Guest Parking - Parking spaces provided with a residential unit for
intermittent use by visitors.
Guest Room - Any room which is used or designed to provide transient occupancy
and sleeping accommodations for one (1) or more paying guests. Guest rooms
occur in hotels, motels, time-shares, bed and breakfasts, private clubs,
lodges, fraternal organizations, and other transient occupancy facilities.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]
17.200.090 "H" Definitions
Halloween Pumpkin Sales Facility - A retail sales operation, generally
conducted wholly out-of-doors, that offers for sale on a temporary, limited
basis pumpkins and related holiday items. The allowable sales period is defined
in
Chapter 17.75 of this Code.
Hardscape - Any inorganic decorative landscape materials, including but not
limited to, stones, boulders, cobbles, pavers, decorative concrete and/or
mulch, incorporated into an overall landscape design. (Ord. 410, 2003)
Hazardous Fire Area - Any land that is covered with grass, grain, brush, or
forest, whether privately or publicly owned, and which is so situated or
inaccessible that a fire originating upon such land would present an abnormally
difficult job of suppression or would result in great and unusual damage
through fire and resulting erosion.
Hazardous Waste - Defined pursuant to Section 25117 of the State Health and
Safety Code. (Ord. 410, 2003)
Hazardous Waste Facility - Defined pursuant to the State Health and Safety
Code, Section 25117.1.
Home Improvement Center - A retail service engaged in providing retail sale,
rental, service, or repair and installation of home improvement products
including building materials; paint and wallpaper; carpeting and floor
covering; decorating materials; heating, air conditioning, electrical,
plumbing, and mechanical equipment; roofing; yard and garden supplies; home
appliances; and similar home improvement products.
Home Occupation - A commercial activity conducted solely by the occupants of a
particular dwelling unit as defined in
Chapter 17.95 of this Zoning Code.
Horticultural Services - An establishment that provides gardening and
landscaping services. The establishment shall not contain a nursery.
Hospital, Chemical Dependency Recovery - A health facility that provides
twenty-four (24) hour inpatient care for persons who have a dependency on
alcohol or other drugs, or both alcohol and other drugs. Such care shall
include, but not be limited to,'the following basic services: patient
counseling, group therapy, physical conditioning, family therapy, outpatient
services, and dietetic services.
Hospital, General Acute Care - A health facility having a duly-constituted
governing body with overall administrative and professional responsibility and
an organized medical staff which provides twenty-four (24) hour inpatient care,
including the following basic services: medical, nursing, surgical, anesthesia,
laboratory, radiology, pharmacy, and dietary services.
Hotel - A building or group of buildings containing six (6) or more guest rooms
offering transient lodging accommodations to the general public and incidental
services that are customarily provided by a hotel, for the convenience of hotel
guests, such as food service, recreational facilities, and retail services; and
public banquet, reception, and meeting rooms. The incidental services that may
be provided by a hotel shall be limited to the services permitted under an
approved plan.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]
17.200.100 "I" Definitions
Impervious Surface - Any surface, including concrete, asphalt, paving blocks,
bricks, waterproof plastic, or other materials, which cover the soil with a
surface impervious to water.
Improvement - The addition of one or more features, structures, or utilities on
a parcel of land.
Irrigation System - A connection of system components, including the water
distribution network and the irrigation equipment downstream from the backflow
prevention device that is necessary to ensure that all landscape areas and
landscape materials are thoroughly and adequately watered. (Ord. 410, 2003)
Infrastructure - Basic facilities and services needed to sustain development.
Institutional Use - An organizational use or a public character including
governmental, educational, religious, medical, scientific research, cultural,
social, charitable, nonprofit, and sometimes recreational or entertainment
uses.
Interior Open Space - That open space enclosed by line extensions of the
exterior walls of one or more buildings constructed on a common building site.
(Ord. 410, 2003)
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]
17.200.110 "J" Definitions
Junk or Salvage Yard - Any area, lot, parcel, building, or structure, or part
thereof, used for the storage, collection, processing, purchase, sale, or
abandonment of wastepaper, rags, scrap metal, or other scrap or discarded
goods, materials, machinery, two or more unregistered and inoperable motor
vehicles, or other types of junk.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]
17.200.120 "K" Definitions
Kennel - Kennel shall be defined as established in the City's Animal Control
Ordinance.
Kitchen - In a dwelling unit, any room or portion of a room which contains the
following combination of facilities of sufficient size for the preparation of
meals for the household: (a) one or more sinks, (b) a stove, and (c) utilities
and location(s) for a refrigerator. (See also "Stove.")
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]
17.200.130 "L" Definitions
Landscaping - The planting and continuous maintenance of some combination of
trees, shrubs, vines, ground covers, flowers, lawns or other decorative
features to land. This may include the installation of natural landscape
features such as inorganic materials, rock and stone, earthen berms, walkways,
plazas, courtyards, and structural features including but not limited to
fountains, reflecting pools, art works, and benches. (Ord. 410, 2003)
Landscape Area - The entire yard areas less the footprint of legally erected
structures, driveways, non-irrigated portion of parking lots, and structures
such as desks and patios. Water Features (including pools and ponds) are
included in the calculation of the landscaped areas. Areas dedicated to edible
plants, such as orchards or vegetable gardens, are not included. (Ord. 410,
2003)
Landscape Materials - Trees, shrubs, vines, ground covers, flowers and/or
lawns. (Ord. 410, 2003)
Landscape Plan - A graphic representation of the development of a site that
illustrates the nature, design and location of all landscaping elements and
materials. (Ord. 410, 2003)
Laundromat - An establishment providing washing and drying machines on the
premises for rental use to the general public for laundering of family clothes.
Laundry Service - An establishment that dry cleans, washes, and dries clothes,
either brought in and carried away by the customer or collected and delivered
primarily by laundry employees.
Loading Space - An off-street space or berth which is on the same lot as the
building(s) it services; abuts a street, alley, or other appropriate means of
access; and is used for the temporary parking of a commercial vehicle that is
being loaded or unloaded with merchandise, materials, or people.
Lot - Land which abuts at least one public street or any numbered or otherwise
designated parcel of land which is shown on: 1) a recorded tract map, 2) a
record of survey map recorded pursuant to an approved division of land, or 3) a
parcel map.
Lot, Corner - A lot or parcel of laud abutting upon two (2) or more streets at
their intersection, or upon two (2) parts of the same street forming an
interior angle of less than one hundred thirty-five (135) degrees.
Lot Coverage - The area of a lot covered by the combination of buildings and
impervious surfaces. See also, "Building Coverage" and "Impervious Surface."
Lot, Cul-de-Sac - A lot located at any position on the circular portion of a
cul-de-sac street.
Lot, Flag - A lot having access to a street by means of a private driveway
access easement, or parcel of land not meeting the requirements of this Zoning
Code for lot width but having a dimension of at least twenty (20) feet at its
narrowest point.
Lot Frontage - The length of the defined front lot line measured at the street
right-of-way line.
Lot, Interior - A lot other than a corner lot.
Lot, Key - The first interior lot to the rear of a reversed corner lot which is
not separated therefrom by an alley.
Lot, Reversed Corner - A corner lot in which the rear lot line abuts the side
lot line of the nearest lot to its rear.
Lot, Substandard - Any lot that does not meet the minimum dimensions required
by the Municipal Code. The area of any easement which restricts the normal
usage of the lot may be included in the dimensions.
Lot, Through - A lot that fronts upon two (2) streets that do not intersect at
the boundaries of the lot.
Lot Area or Size, Net - The area within a lot exclusive of any dedications for
public rights-of-way, public parks, and public school sites.
Lot or Building Coverage - The percentage of the net lot area that is covered
by all the buildings on a lot, as seen from a plan view.
Lot Depth - The average linear measurement between the front and rear lot lines
when measured at ninety (90) degree angles from the front lot line.
Lot Line - The lines bounding a lot as defined herein.
Lot Line, Front - The line separating the narrowest street frontage of the lot
from the street right-of-way.
Lot Line, Rear - The lot line opposite and most distant from the front lot
line; or in the case of an irregularly shaped lot, a straight line not less
than ten (10) feet long within the lot and most nearly parallel to, and at the
maximum distance from, the front lot line.
Lot Line, Side - Any lot lines other than the front or rear lot lines.
Lot Merger - The joining of two (2) or more contiguous parcels of land under
one (1) ownership into one (1) parcel pursuant to the Subdivision Map Act.
Lot Width - The average linear distance between side lot lines when measured
parallel to the front lot line.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]
17.200.140 "M" Definitions
Major Street - A type of street designed for multiple users with a center
median separating directional traffic.
Manufactured Home - A dwelling unit certified under the National Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 and pursuant to Section
18551 of the Health and Safety Code.
Manufacturing - A use engaged in the manufacture, predominantly from previously
prepared materials, of finished products or parts, including processing,
fabrication, assembly, treatment, and packaging of such products, and
incidental processing of extracted or raw materials.
Map Act - The Subdivision Map Act of the State of California.
Merger - See "Lot Merger."
Mini-Warehouse - A structure containing separate storage spaces of three
hundred (300) square feet or less which are designed to be leased or rented
individually.
Minor - Not of legal age, or under 18 years old. (Ord. 410, 2003)
Mixed Use - The development in a compact urban form of a structure or site with
two (2) or more different uses such as, but not limited to, residential,
commercial, recreational, office, manufacturing, or public uses.
Mobilehome - A structure designed for single-family detached residential use
that has been manufactured pursuant to the National Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974.
Mobilehome Park or Subdivision - A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more mobilehome lots for sale or rent.
Motel - An establishment otherwise defined as a hotel with at least twenty-five
(25) percent of all rooms having direct access to the parking areas without the
necessity of persons passing through the main lobby of the building.
Motor Vehicle - A machine capable of self-propulsion, with or without human
guidance, whether for the performance of work or as a mode of transportation.
Mulch - Any material, organic or inorganic, such as leaves, bark, straw,
gravel, decomposed granite or other materials left loose and applied to the
soil surface to reduce evaporation. (Ord. 410, 2003)
Multi-Family - Where referenced in this Code to determine applicable
development standards and requirements, "multi-faimly" shall apply to all uses
in the R3-8, Zone Districts, regardless of the type of housing (i.e., attached
or detached).
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15; Ord. No.
650, Section 6, 5/8/24.]
17.200.150 "N" Definitions
Nightclubs, Taverns, Bars - Establishments providing the preparation and retail
sales of alcoholic beverages, as licensed by the Alcoholic Beverage Control
Department.
Noise - Any sound that is undesirable because it is annoying, interferes with
speech or hearing, or is intense enough to damage hearing.
Noise, Ambient - The ail-encompassing noise level associated with a given
environment, being a composite of sounds from all sources, excluding alleged
offensive noises, at the location and approximate time at which a comparison
with alleged offensive noises is to be made.
Nonconforming Land - A parcel -- the size, dimensions, or use of which was
lawful prior to the adoption of, revision of, or amendment to this Zoning Code
but which fails by reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment, to conform
to the present requirements of this Zoning Code.
Nonconforming Structure - A structure or building -- the size, dimensions, or
location of which was lawful prior to the adoption of, revision of, or
amendment to this Zoning Code -- but which fails by reason of such adoption,
revision, or amendment, to conform to the present requirements of this Zoning
Code.
Nonconforming Use - A use or activity which was lawful prior to the adoption
of, revision of, or amendment to this Zoning Code, but which tails, by reason
of such adoption, revision, or amendment, to conform to the present
requirements of this Zoning Code.
North of Holly Road - Includes all land uses north of Holly Road for the
purposes of the Adelanto North 2035 Comprehensive Sustainable Plan.
Nurseries and Horticulture, Retail - Land, gardens, orchards, or greenhouses
used to raise flowers, shrubs, and plants, including the sale of those items on
the premises.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]
17.200.160 "O" Definitions
Off-Street Parking Space - A permanent parking space for a motor vehicle which
is to City standards and not located on a dedicated street right-of-way.
Office, Professional - An office in which professional or consulting services
are provided, such as in the fields of law, architecture, design, engineering,
accounting, and similar professions.
On-Street Parking Space - A designated area for parking a motor vehicle which
is located on a dedicated street right-of-way.
Open Space - Any parcel or area of land or water set aside, dedicated,
designated, or reserved for public or private use or enjoyment.
Open Space, Active - Any parcel or area of land or water which is set aside,
dedicated, designated, or reserved for public or private use or enjoyment, or
for the use and enjoyment of owners and occupants of land adjoining or
neighboring such open space, and which contains recreational facilities such as
pools and swimming areas, courts and other game areas, playing fields and
equipment, or other required facilities for various active activities.
Open Space, Common - Land within or related to a development, not individually
owned or dedicated for public use, which is designed and intended for the
common use or enjoyment of the owners of the development and which may include
such complementary structures and improvements as are approved as necessary and
appropriate.
Open Space, Passive - Any parcel or area of land or water which is essentially
unimproved and set aside, dedicated, designated, or reserved for nonstructured
recreational activities in order to preserve the natural and aesthetic
qualities of the area.
Open Space, Private - An open space, fenced or otherwise, designed to promote
privacy, and which is reserved for the exclusive use of by the occupants of
specified dwelling units.
Open Space, Public - Open space owned and maintained by a public agency for the
use and enjoyment of the general public.
Overhang, Roof - The lower part of a roof which extends beyond the facade of a
lower wall.
Overhang, Vehicle - The allowed two foot (2') portion of a parked vehicle which
extends over a curb and/or planted area.
Overlay Zoning District - A zoning district established by ordinance which may
be applied to properties only when combined with a base zoning district.
Overspray - Water from an irrigation system that is delivered beyond the
landscaped area, wetting pavements, walks, walls, structures, or other non-
landscaped areas. (Ord. 410, 2003)
Owner of Property - The owner of record of any parcel of real property as
designated on the county assessor's tax roll, or a holder of a subsequently
recorded deed to the property.
Owner's Authorized Agent - Any person authorized to act for the owner of a
property by virtue of a notarized statement of authorization, or a proof of
contract to purchase.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]
17.200.170 "P" Definitions
Parcel - An area of land, the boundaries of which have been legally established
in conformance with the State Subdivision Map Act.
Parcel Map - A map that is made for the purpose of showing the design and
improvement of a proposed subdivision of four (4) or fewer lots and the
existing conditions in and around it, and which need not be based upon an
accurate or detailed final survey of the property.
Parcel Map, Vesting - A parcel map which meets the requirements of Section
66452 of the California Government Code and which confers a vested right to
develop in compliance with the standards described in Section 66474.2 of the
California Government Code.
Park, Public - An open space intended for public recreational use which is
operated by another government agency.
Parking Area, Private - An area, other than a sheet, designed or used primarily
for the parking of private vehicles and not open to general public use.
Parking Area, Public - An area, other than a private parking area or street,
used for the parking of vehicles and available for general public use, either
free or for a fee.
Parking Space - A permanent area for the parking of one (1) vehicle which meets
the minimum dimensions, access, and surfacing requirements established by the
City.
Parking Space, Covered - A parking space(s) within a garage, carport, or
parking structure.
Patio - Patio, open and closed, shall be defined according to the definition
contained in the Uniform Building Code.
Permitted Use - Any use allowed in a zoning district by right and subject to
the restrictions applicable to that zoning district.
Permit - Written governmental permission issued by an authorized official,
empowering the holder thereof to do some act not forbidden by law, but not
allowed without such authorization.
Person - Any individual, partnership, corporation, association or other
organization, however formed. (Ord. 410, 2003)
Pervious Surface - Any porous covering of the soil which allows water to pass
through. See also "Impervious Surface."
Pet Shop - Any premises primarily used for the sale of household pets and pet
supplies.
Phase - Any independent and contiguous part or portion of a project which is
developed as a unit in the same time period.
Planning Commission - The Planning Commission of the City of Adelanto,
established pursuant to the provisions of Section 65101 of the Government Code.
Platform - A structure less than 30 inches (30") above grade which extends
outward from a building (typically a home), and which has a walking surface.
Platforms do not require a building permit. See also "Balcony" and Deck."
Porch - A covered pedestrian entrance to a building which is located on the
first floor level.
Pre-Existing Use - The use of a lot or structure prior to the enactment of
specific Zoning Code provisions.
Premises - A lot or building site, or a specified portion of a lot or building
site, that meets the requirements needed for the location, maintenance, and
operation of a use on the property.
Principal Building/Structure - The primary or predominant building or structure
on a lot.
Principal Use - The primary or predominant use of any lot.
Project - The entire parcel of real property, including all structures thereon,
all or part of which undergoes or is proposed to undergo construction,
demolition, or a change in ownership status.
Property -   (a)   All nonresidential zoned real property and any building
located on such property (referred to as "nonresidential property"), and
      (b)   front yards, the unfenced portions of side yards, the unfenced
portion of back yards of corner lots, driveways, walkways and sidewalks of all
residential real property, including any building located on such property
(referred to as "residential property"). (Ord. 410, 2003)
Property Owner - The legal owner of the applicable development project who
serves as the lessor to an employer or tenant.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]
17.200.180 "Q" Definitions
Quasi-Public - A use owned or operated by a nonprofit, religious, or charitable
institution and providing educational, cultural, recreational, religious, or
similar types of public programs.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]
17.200.190 "R" Definitions
Rear Yard - See "Yard, Rear."
Rebuild - To undertake construction within and/or on an existing building that
has a valid construction permit.
Reception Window - Reception window means the area within the direct line
between a satellite antenna and those orbiting communications satellites
carrying available programming.
Reclaimed Water - Water which has been processed by a municipal or comparable
wastewater treatment plant and/or otherwise made available for reuse which has
been approved by federal, state or local regulatory agencies. (Ord. 410, 2003)
Recreational Vehicle - A vehicular portable structure without permanent
foundation which can be towed, hauled, or driven; which is primarily designed
as a temporaiy living accommodation for recreational, camping, and travel use;
and which may include, but is not limited to, travel trailers, truck campers,
camping trailers, boats, and self-propelled motor homes.
Recreational Vehicle Park - An area used or intended to be used for camping in
recreational vehicles.
Recycling Facilities - Any center for the collection of recyclable materials. A
recycling facility does not include storage containers on commercial property
which are used solely for the recycling of material generated by that business.
Recycling facilities include reverse vending machines, small collection
recycling facilities, mobile recycling units, and large collection recycling
facilities.
Recycling Facilities, Commercial - A for-profit recycling facility. See also
"Recycling Facilities."
Renewable Energy - Energy derived from sources which are continually
replenished on a human timescale such as sunlight (solar), wind and geothermal.
Replacement Cost - The actual cost to replace or reconstruct a damaged
structure, facility, or feature, as determined by the appraisal of a qualified
and approved appraiser.
Restaurant, Drive-In - A building or portion thereof in which food and/or
beverages are sold in a form ready for consumption and where all or a
significant portion of the consumption of food takes place outside the confines
of the building, often in a motor vehicle.
Restaurant, Sit-Down - An establishment where food and drink is prepared,
served, and consumed primarily within the principal building.
Restaurant, Fast-Food - A restaurant that supplies food and beverages primarily
in disposable containers, and which is characterized by high automobile
accessibility, self-service, and short stays by customers.
Restaurant, Walk-Up - Any establishment where food and/or beverages are sold to
the consumer and provision is made for the serving and consumption of food or
beverages outside the confines of the main building, but not usually in.
Retail - The selling of goods, wares, or merchandise directly to the ultimate
consumer.
Reverse Vending Machine - A machine that dispenses money to consumers in
exchange for glass bottles, aluminum cans, and other recyclable containers.
Riding and Hiking Trails - A trail or way designed for or used by equestrians,
pedestrians, and/or cyclists using non-motorized bicycles.
Right of Way - A defined area of land, either public or private, on which a
right of passage has been recorded.
Riparian Habitat - An environment associated with freshwater watercourses,
including perennial and intermittent steams, lakes, and other bodies of fresh
water, and characterized by plants and animals which are dependent upon the
availability of water in the resource.
Room - An area of a building fully enclosed by walls, windows, doors, a roof,
and a floor.
Room, Primary - A living room, dining room, or family room.
Room, Secondary - All rooms other than primary rooms.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]
17.200.200 "S" Definitions
Salvage - The recovery of waste materials.
Salvaged/Harvested Water - Storm water collected for landscape use. (Ord. 410,
2003)
Satellite Antenna - Any antenna used to receive and/or transmit radio or
television signals from orbiting communication satellites.
Scenic Highway - A highway, road, drive, or street which, in addition to its
transportation function, provides opportunities for the enjoyment of natural
and man-made scenic resources and access to, or direct views to, areas or
scenes of exceptional beauty or historic or cultural interest. The aesthetic
values of scenic routes often are protected and enhanced by regulations
governing the development of property or the placement of outdoor advertising.
Screening - A method of visually shielding or obscuring one abutting or nearby
structure or use from another by fencing, walls, berms, or densely planted
vegetation.
Secondhand Store - Any premises used for the sale or handling of used goods. A
secondhand store includes an establishment for the sale or trade of used
clothing, furniture, and appliances. A secondhand store does not include an
establishment selling primarily used jewelry, old coins, or old stamps.
Service Station - A retail place of business engaged primarily in the sale of
petroleum products, and goods and services required in the operation and
maintenance of motor vehicles under one-and-one-half (1.5) ton capacity as the
same is defined by the State Motor Vehicle Code and in which maintenance, minor
repairs, washing, and lubrication services are conducted wholly within the
service station building.
Setback - The distance from a defined point or line governing the placement of
buildings, structures, parking, or uses on a lot.
Setback Line - A line within a lot, parallel to and measured from a
corresponding lot line, forming the boundary of a required yard and governing
the placement of buildings, structures, parking, or uses on a lot.
Shopping Center - A group of three (3) or more commercial establishments
planned, constructed, and managed as a total entity including: customer and
employee parking provided on site; provision for goods delivery separated from
customer access; aesthetic design considerations; and protection from the
elements.
Side Yard - See "Yard, Side."
Sidewalk - A paved surface or leveled area used as a pedestrian walkway which
parallels and is usually separated from the street.
Sign - Signs are defined as established in
Chapter 17.70 of this Zoning Code.
Sign, Non-Commercial - Any sign which does not advertise a commercial
enterprise. This shall include signs advertising political parties or
candidates, ballot measures, or expressions of opinion.
Sign, Temporary - Any sign designed and/or manufactured to be displayed for a
period of one year or less. These signs will typically be made of fabric or
canvas, or of wood or a similar material.
Single Family - Where used in this Code to determine appropriate development
standards and requirements, "single family" shall refer only to development in
the R1, R1-.5, DL-2.5, DL-5 and DL-9 Zone Districts.
Site - Any lot or parcel of land, or combination of contiguous lots or parcels
of land, used or intended for a particular use or group of uses.
Site Coverage - The amount of a lot or lots covered by buildings, pavement, and
other impervious surfaces.
Site Plan - A plan drawn to scale, showing uses and structures proposed for a
property as required by the applicable regulations, including lot lines,
streets, grades, building sites, reserved open space, and other specific
development proposals.
Skilled Nursing Facility - A health facility that provides skilled nursing care
and supportive care to patients whose primary need is for availability of
skilled nursing care on an extended basis.
Slope - The degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, usually
expressed in percent or degrees.
Solid Fence - A wooden fence or wall with no openings.
South of Holly Road - Includes all land uses south of Holly Road for the
purposes of the Adelanto North 2035 Comprehensive Sustainable Plan.
Specific Plan - Under Article 8 of the Government Code (Section 65450 et seq.),
a legal tool for detailed design and implementation of a defined portion of the
area covered by a general plan. A specific plan may include all detailed
regulations, conditions, programs, and/or proposed legislation which may be
necessary or convenient for the systematic implementation of any general plan
element(s).
Stable, Private - A building or portion of a building used to shelter and feed
horses or ponies which are used exclusively by the occupants of the property on
which the stable is situated.
Stable, Public - A stable other than a private stable.
Standards, Development - Requirements in this Zoning Code that govern building
and development, including, but not limited to, lot area, height limits,
frontage, landscaping, and floor area ratio.
Stock Cooperative - A corporation that holds title to improved real property,
either in fee simple or for a term of years. All or substantially all of the
shareholders have a right of exclusive occupancy in a portion of the property,
and the right of occupancy is transferable only concurrently with the transfer
of the corporate stock.
Story - Story and all related terms shall be defined according to the
definition contained in the Uniform Building Code.
Stove - This includes any type of built-in or installed appliance utilizing gas
or electric heat for the external heating and cooking of food. A stove may
include a range top and an oven in a single unit or in separate units; the
presence of either a built-in or installed range top or oven shall qualify as a
stove. For the purposes of this definition, the following are not considered to
be stoves: (a) microwave ovens and (b) hot plates, toaster ovens, or other
countertop devices utilizing 120-volt current. (See also "Dwelling Unit" and
"Kitchen" as defined in this Zoning Code.)
Street - A publicly accessible vehicular right-of-way, other than an alley,
which affords a primary means of access to abutting property.
Streetscape - That portion of a lot's net area and improvements which is
exposed to view from the street.
Structure - A combination of materials which is assembled for use, occupancy,
or ornamentation, whether installed on, above, or below the surface of land or
water. Includes, but is not limited to, any building, road, pipe, flume,
conduit, siphon, aqueduct, telephone line, or electrical power transmission and
distribution area.
Subdivision - The division of a tract of land into defined lots, either
improved or unimproved, which can be separately conveyed by sale or lease, and
which can be altered or developed. "Subdivision" includes a condominium project
as defined in Section 1350 of the California Civil Code and a community
apartment project as defined in Section 11004 of the Business and Professions
Code.
Supermarket - A retail store of at least 15,000 square feet in size selling a
full range of food products for household use, including groceries, produce,
dairy products, meats, and related items. The sale of food products shall be
the primary use, in terms of floor area devoted to display space; the sale of
alcoholic beverages (for off-site consumption only) is permitted, so long as it
is incidental to the sale of groceries and food.
Supporting Uses - Uses of land or buildings which are important, but not
necessarily essential, to the primary use.
Supportive Housing - Housing with no limit on length of stay, that is occupied
by the target population, and that is linked to an onsite or offsite service
that assists the supportive housing resident in retaining the housing,
improving his or her health status, and maximizing his or her ability to live
and, when possible, work in the community.
Surface, Impervious - See "Impervious Surface."
Surface, Pervious - See "Pervious Surface."
Swap Meet - A business or businesses conducted for the purpose of selling new
or used merchandise in a parking lot, drive-in theater, or common room(s) where
two (2) or more individual sellers rent, lease, or otherwise purchase the right
to sell their products at the location. A flea market (open-air sale of used
goods) is considered a swap meet.
Swimming Pool, Private - A water-filled enclosure, permanently constructed or
portable, having a depth of more than twenty four inches (24") below the level
of the surrounding land, or an above-surface pool, having a depth of more than
twenty four inches (24"), designed, used, and maintained as an accessory use
for swimming and bathing by not more than three (3) owner families and their
guests and intended for non-commercial use.
Swimming Pool, Public - Any swimming pool other than a private pool.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]
17.200.210 "T" Definitions
Temporary Sign - See "Sign, Temporary."
Temporary Structure - A structure without any foundation or footings which will
be removed when the designated time period, activity, or use for which the
temporary structure was erected has ceased.
Temporary Use - A use established for a fixed period of time with the intent to
discontinue such use upon the expiration of the time period.
Tenant - The lessee of facility space at an applicable development project who
also serves as an employer.
Townhouse - A single-family attached dwelling organized in a row of at least
three (3) such units in which each unit has its own front and rear access to
the outside, no unit is located over another unit, and each unit is separated
from any other unit by one or more common and fire-resistant walls.
Tract - An area, parcel, site, piece of land, or property which is the subject
of a development application.
Tract House - A dwelling in a comprehensively designed residential development
that contains lots and houses similar in size and appearance.
Trailer - A structure standing on wheels which can be towed or hauled by
another vehicle and which is used for short-term human occupation; carrying of
materials, goods, or objects; or as a temporary office.
Trailer, Construction - A trailer, the use of which is incidental to new
construction on a site, including but not limited to temporary office space for
the direction of on-site construction activities.
Transitional Housing - Buildings configured as rental housing developments, but
operated under program requirements that require the termination of assistance
and recirculating of the assisted unit to another eligible program recipient at
a predetermined future point in time that shall be no less than six months from
the beginning of the assistance.
Truck Terminal - A lot, lot area, or parcel of land used, designed, or
maintained for the purpose of storing, parking, refueling, repairing,
dispatching, servicing, or keeping motor trucks and associated equipment
together with those facilities necessary to service, dispatch, store, or
maintain such vehicles, their cargos and crews.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]
17.200.220 "U" Definitions
Ultimate Right-of-Way - The defined future right-of-way shown on an adopted
precise plan of highway alignment, or the street rights-of-way shown within the
boundary of a recorded tract map, a recorded parcel map, or other recorded
permit. The latest adopted or recorded document in the above case shall take
precedence. If none of these exist, the ultimate right-of-way shall be
considered the right-of-way required by the roadway classification as shown in
the Circulation Element of the General Plan.
Underground or Subterranean Parking - Parking areas located below grade, used
solely for parking purposes.
Undeveloped Land - Land in its natural state without any infrastructure,
buildings, or other improvements.
Use - The purpose for which land or a building is used, arranged, designed, or
intended, or for which the land or building is or may be occupied or
maintained.
Use, Permitted - A use listed by the provisions of any particular district as a
permitted use within that district and permitted therein as a matter of right
and/or subject to Planning Use Permit review when conducted in accord with the
regulations established by the Zoning Code.
Use, Principal - A use that fulfills a primary function of a household,
establishment, institution, or other entity.
Utility, Private or Public - Any closely regulated agency which, under public
franchise or ownership, or under certificate of convenience and necessity,
provides the public with electricity, gas, heat, steam, communication, rail
transportation, water, sewage collection, or other similar service.
Utility Services - Establishments engaged in the generation, transmission, and/
or distribution of electricity, gas, or steam, including water and irrigation
systems, and sanitary systems used for the collection and disposal of garbage,
sewage, and other wastes by means of destroying or processing materials.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]
17.200.230 "V" Definitions
Variance - Permission to depart from the provisions of this Zoning Code when,
due to special circumstances applicable to the property, strict application of
the requirements deprives such property of privileges enjoyed by other property
in the vicinity which is under identical zoning (see
Chapters 17.135 and
17.140).
Vehicle - Device by which any person or property may be propelled, moved or
drawn upon a highway, excepting a device moved exclusively by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. 410, 2003)
Vested Right - A right which has been legally established and cannot be revoked
by subsequent conditions or changes in law without due process of law.
Veterinarian - A licensed doctor who operates a medical facility licensed by
the State Department of Public Health for the treatment of household pets,
excluding species of equine. The use may include the overnight care of
household pets.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]
17.200.240 "W" Definitions
Wall - A substantial solid barrier intended to enclose, separate, or surround,
and typically four (4) inches or more in thickness.
Wholesale - A sale of commodities or goods to others for resale and not
normally to the ultimate consumer.
Window - An opening which is in a wall of a building, designed to allow light
and/or ventilation into the building, enclosed by casement or sash, and
containing glass or other similar transparent or semitransparent material.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]
17.200.250 "X" Definitions
Xeriscape - Landscaping characterized by the use of vegetation that is drought-
resistant or low-water-use in character.
Xeriscape Landscaping - A water conservation concept that stresses the use of
the appropriate plant material and irrigation techniques which are well suited
for the local micro-climate. This concept incorporates native plants, selected
hardscapes, and proper planting and irrigation techniques that improve the
overall water efficiency of a landscape system. (Ord. 410, 2003)
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]
17.200.260 "Y" Definitions
Yard - An open space on a developed lot that, except as otherwise provided in
this Zoning Code, is unoccupied or unobstructed from the ground upwards; and,
when a yard dimension is given, it represents the minimum horizontal distance
between the lot line from which the distance must be measured and a line
parallel to the lot line.
Yard, Front - The open space extending across the full width of the front of
the lot, the depth of which is the horizontal distance between the front lot
line and the front setback line.
Yard, Rear - The open space extending across the full width of the rear of lot,
the depth of which is the horizontal distance between the rear lot line and the
rear setback line.
Yard, Side - The space between the side lot line and the side yard setback
line, extending from the front setback line to the rear setback line.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]
17.200.270 "Z" Definitions
Zoning District - A specifically delineated area or district within a
municipality in which regulations and requirements uniformly govern the use,
placement, spacing, and size of land and buildings. Also known as Zone
District.
Zoning Map - The map or maps which are a part of the Zoning Code and delineate
the boundaries of zoning districts.
[Ord. No. 528, Exhibit R, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit D, 5/27/15.]
APPENDICES
   
Appendix A: Regulation of Uses by Zoning District
Appendix A: Regulation of Uses by Zoning District
Click_here_to_view_Appendix_A_as_a_PDF_document.
KEY:
P = Use permitted by right with Location and Development Plan Approval (subject
to all local, State, and other applicable Code requirements)
C = Use requires Conditional Use Permit (
Chapter 17.30 Adelanto Zoning Code)
Cm = Use Requires a Minor Conditional Use Permit (
Chapter 17.30 Adelanto Zoning Code)
A = Use permitted as accessory use only (when such use is directly related to
the primary use)
T = Use permitted as temporary use only (see
Chapter 17.75)
                                                         Public Facility,
                   Commercial and   Business Park and    Public Utility, Open
Residential Zoning Mixed Use Zoning Manufacturing Zoning Space, Public Land
Districts:         Districts:       Districts:           and Schools and
                                                         Greenbelt Corridors
                                                         Districts:
                                                                  Public
                                                                  Facility,
                                                    Business Park Public
                                      Commercial    and           Utility, Open
Residential Zoning Districts:         and Mixed Use Manufacturing Space, Public
                                      Zoning        Zoning        Land and
                                      Districts:    Districts:    Schools and
                                                                  Greenbelt
                                                                  Corridors
                                                                  Districts:
DL-9 = Desert Living 1 unit/9 acres   C = General   LM = Light    PU = Public
                                      Commercial    Manufacturing Utility
                                      MU = Mixed    LMCO=Light    PF = Public
DL-5 = Desert Living 1 unit/5 acres   Use           Manufacturing Facility
                                                    Cannabis Only
DL-2.5 = Desert Living 1 unit/2.5                   MI =          OS = Open
acres                                              Manufacturing Space
                                                    Industrial
                                                                  DE =
                                                    ADD = Airport Greenbelt
R-S1 = Single Family Residential                   Development   Corridor:
                                                    District      Drainage
                                                                  Easement
                                                                  UE =
R1-.5 = Single Family Residential (½               BP = Business Greenbelt
Acre)                                              Park          Corridor:
                                                                  Utility
                                                                  Easement
R1 = Single Family Residential                                   
R-S5 = Single Family Residential                                 
R3-8 = Medium Density Residential                                
R-M12 = Medium Density Residential                               
R3-30 = High Density Residential                                 
AP = Airport Park                                                
 
     Zone District
                                                                          Public
                                                                          Facility,
                                                                          Public
                                             Commercial                   Utility, Open
LAND Residential                             and Mixed  Business and      Space, Public
USE                                          Use        Manufacturing     Land and
                                                                          Schools and
                                                                          Greenbelt
                                                                          Corridors
                                                                          Districts
     DL        R- R1-.5 R1 R- R3- R-  R3- AP MU C       LM LMCO MI ADD BP PU PF OS DE UE
     (9,5,2.5) S1          S5 8   M12 30
                            Zone District
                                                                                                 Public
                                                                                                 Facility,
                                                                                                 Public
                                                                    Commercial                   Utility, Open
                            Residential                             and Mixed  Business and      Space, Public
LAND USE                                                            Use        Manufacturing     Land and
                                                                                                 Schools and
                                                                                                 Greenbelt
                                                                                                 Corridors
                                                                                                 Districts
                            DL        R- R1-.5 R1 R- R3- R-  R3- AP MU C       LM LMCO MI ADD BP PU PF OS DE UE
                            (9,5,2.5) S1          S5 8   M12 30
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION and
ANIMAL SERVICES7
Animal Keeping (subject to
provisions of Title 7-      A         A  A     A  A  A   A   A   A
Animals)11
Animal Shelter (on lots
greater than 2.5 acres                                           Cm            C       C  C   C
only)
Cannabis Facilities                                                            C  C    C  C
excluding dispensaries
Feed and Grain Sales        C                                          P       P       P
Horses (Boarding and
Raising as a Business),
Kennels (subject to         C
provisions of Title 7-
Animals on lots greater
than 2.5 acres only)
Taxidermist                                                                    P       P  P
Veterinarian/Veterinary     C                                       P  P       P       P  P   P
Hospital/Pet Grooming
RESIDENTIAL
Bed and Breakfast           P                        P   P       P  P  P
Dwelling Unit, Multiple
Family, Two-Family                                   P   P   P      P
(Duplex), Condominium
Dwelling Unit, Single-      P         P  P     P  P      P       P                                     P
Family (detached)
Dwelling Unit - Second
Units/ Dependent Housing/   P         P  P     P  P  P   P       P
Granny Flats
Day Care Center, Adult Day
Health and Child Care
(Subject to California      C            C        C  C   C   C      C  C                      C  C  C
Department of Social
Services)
Day Care Home, Large Family
(14 or fewer children),
(Subject to California      C         C  C     C  C  C   C   C
Department of Social
Services)
Day Care Home, Small Family
(8 or fewer children,
(Subject to California      P         P  P     P  P  P   P   P      C
Department of Social
Services)
Group Homes not licensed by
the State with 2 or more    C         C  C     C  C
residents
Single Room Occupancy       P         P  P     P  P  P   P   P      P
Facilities
Transitional and Supportive P         P  P     P  P  P   P   P      P
Housing
Emergency and Homeless      P                                                  C       C  C
Shelters
Residential Care Facility   C         C  C     C  C  C   C
(7 or more persons)
Residential Care Facility
for 6 or fewer persons
(includes facilities        P         P  P     P  P  P   P   P
licensed and/or controlled
by California Department of
Social Services)
Home Occupation (Use
allowed subject to Chapter  A         A  A     A  A  A   A   A   A  A
17.95)
Fraternal/Sorority Hall,                                            P  P       C       C
Rooming
Manufactured Home, Mobile
Home (includes individual   P         P  P     P  P              P
unit placed in a
residential subdivision)
Manufactured/Mobile Home    C
Parks
Mobile Homes Sales                                                     P       P
Model Home                  T         T  T     T  T  T   T   T
Game Courts (Badminton/
Tennis/Racquetball/ Other)  A         A  A     A  A  A   A   A
and Swimming Pool, Private
INSTITUTIONAL
   Educational
Education Institution
(including private,
commercial, and vocational                                       C1 C  C       C       C      P
schools, **card room
related training only)
Education Institution,
Public (Subject to LDP      P         P  P     P  P  P   P             P       P              P  P  P
approval)
Prisons/Correctional                                                           C       C      C
Facilities
    Medical
Chiropractic/Physical                                               P  P       P              P
Therapy Office
Hospitals and Clinics                                               P  C       C          C   P  C  C
Medical/Dental Offices                                              P  P       P       P  P   P
Laboratories, Medical and                                              C       P       P  P   P
Dental
Pharmacy (see also                                                  P  P       P              P
Drugstore)2, 9
Convalescent Hospital,      C         C  C     C  C  C   C   C         P
Skilled Nursing Facility
    Public
Conference ro Convention                                            P          C       C  C   C  P  C
Centers
Parks, Plazas and Trails    P         P  P     P  P  P   P          P                         P     P  P  P  P
Visitor Centers                                                     P  P
  Religious/Non-Profit
Churches, Temples, other
religious institutions,
non-profits (except
administrative offices- see
Offices). In residential
zones, vehicular access     C         C  C     C  C  C   C   C      C  P       P          C   C  C  C
shall be only from major
arterial or major collector
as designated in the
General Plan Circulation
Element.
COMMERCIAL
    Alcoholic Beverage Establishments
Alcoholic Beverage Onsite
Sales in establishments
open to persons over the
legal drinking age
exclusively, not allowed                                            C
within 1,000 feet of any
residential zoning district
or residential use,
churches, parks, and/or
educational institutions3
Alcoholic Beverage Onsite
Sales in establishments
open to persons over the
legal drinking age
exclusively, more than                                              C  C       C       C  C   C  C
1,000 feet from any
residential zoning district
or residential use,
churches, parks, and/or
educational institutions3
Alcoholic Beverage Onsite
Sales as part of a bona                                             P  P       P       P  P   P  P
fide sit down (non-age-
restricted) restaurant3
Alcoholic Beverage Offsite
Sales within a supermarket                                          P  P       P       P  P   P  P
or drug store 2,3,9
Alcoholic Beverage Offsite
Sales in any store other                                            C  C       C       C  C   C  C
than a supermarket or drug
store 2,3,9
Wineries3                   C                                                  P       P  P
   Automobile, Vehicle Rentals and Sales Related Uses
Automobile Auction                                                             C       C  C
Automobiles/Recreational
Vehicles/Boats/Motorcycles/                                            P       P       P  P
Trucks4, Sales- New & Used,
and Rentals
Service Station/Gas Station
(Petroleum Products),                                               P  C       P       P  P   C
including automobile
service and Car Wash4,9
Parking Lot and Parking                                             C  P       P       P  P   C
Garages, Public4
  Automobile, Vehicle Service and Repair
Automobile Accessory Sales
and Installation, including
parts supply (No overnight                                          C  P       P       P  P               
outside storage or parking;
body work prohibited)4,6
Automobile Service
(Lubrication, Tune-ups,
emission tests, batteries,
mufflers, etc. No use of
impact wrenches or other                                            C  C       P       P  P               
equipment that could create
noise impacts; No overnight
outside storage or parking;
Paint, body work,
upholstery prohibited)4,6
Automobile Minor Repair
(Brakes, tires, radiators,
electrical, etc. No
overnight outside storage                                           C  C       P       P  P
or parking; Paint, body
work, upholstery
prohibited)4,6
Automobile Paint, Body, and                                         C          C       C  C
Upholstery Shops4,6
  Communications/Utilities Distribution and Transmission
Cellular, Microwave
Antenna/Towers and related                                          C  C       C       C  C   C  C  C  C     C
equipment buildings8
Gas Distribution, Meter,                                                       P       P  P         P        C
and Control Station
Electricity Distribution &
Transmission Substation     C         C  C     C  C  C   C   C   C     P       P       P  P      P  P  C     C
(<5,000 SF)
Electricity Distribution &
Transmission Substation                                                C       C       C  C         C  C     C
(>5,000 SF)
Power Generating
Facilities, Solar Energy
and/or Wind Energy                                                             C       C  C            C     C
Conversion Systems >500
Kw10
Solar Energy and/or Wind
Energy Conversion Systems                            Cm  Cm  Cm  Cm Cm Cm      Cm      Cm Cm  Cm Cm Cm C     Cm
<500 Kw
Solar Energy and/or Wind
Energy Conversion Systems   P         P  P     P  P  P   P   P   P  P                                  C
<25 Kw
Radio/Television
Broadcasting Studios                                                P  P       P       P  P   P  A  A
(including Recording
Studios)
Telephone Repeater Stations C         C  C     C  C  C   C   C      C  P       P       P  C   C  P  C        C
  Eating and Drinking Establishments
Bakery, Coffeehouse,
Delicatessen, Ice Cream                                          C  P  P       P       P  P   P  P
Parlor, and other similar
eating establishments2
Catering Service                                                 C  P  P       P       P  P   P
Nightclubs/Taverns/Bars3,9                                          C  C       C              C
Restaurant, No Alcohol                                           C  P  P       P       P  P   C     P
Sales
Restaurant, Drive-Thru2, no                                      C  C  C       C       C  C
alcohol sales
Restaurant, with Alcohol    See “Alcoholic Beverage Onsite Sales”
Sales3
    Entertainment/
Recreation
Adult Business (subject to                                                             C
Adult Business Ordinance)
Amusement Park,
Entertainment Center
(including Arcade, Live                                             C  C       C       C         C
Theater, Bowling, Ice and
Roller Skating, Indoor
Soccer and Hockey Arena)
Billiard/Pool Hall9                                                 C  C       C          C
Batting Cages, Indoor or                                               P       P       P  P      P
Outdoor
Card Rooms9                                                         C  C
Carnival, Circus, or Fair                                           T  T       T       T  T      T  T
Club - Athletic, Health, or
Recreation (including Dance                                         P  P       P       P  P   P  P
Studios)
Dance Hall/Dance Club                                               C  C       C       C  C
Game Courts, Commercial                                             P  P       P       P  P   P  P  P        C
Golf Course and Driving
Range, Clubhouse, Country   C         C  C     C  C  C   C             C       C          C         C        C
Club
Movie Theater                                                       P  P
Shooting Range, Indoor and
Outdoor (outdoor ranges                                                C       C       C            C        C
prohibited in the C and OS)
Stable, Public (Boarding/
Riding) and Private -       P                                    A                                  C        C
Boarding allowed as
accessory use in DL
Food and Beverage Stores
Convenience Market, Health                                       C  P  P       P              P
Food Store2,3,9
Drug store2,3,9                                                     P  P       P
Grocery Store, Retail,
Discount, and Club                                                  P  P       P       P  P
Stores2,3,9
    General Merchandise
Stores
Department Store, Specialty                                         P  P
Stores
Discount Stores, Home                                               P  P       P
Improvement Center
   Lodging
Hotel, Motel *(more than 50                                         P  P*      P              P
rooms requires a CUP)
Recreational Vehicle Park                                                      C       C                     C
and Campgrounds
   Offices
Administrative,
Professional, and Other                                             P  P       P       A  A   P  A
Related Offices
Financial Institutions
(Banks, Credit Unions,                                              P  P       P       P  P   P
Check Cashing, Pay Advance,
Money Transfer, etc.)2
   Business Services
Copy Services, Postal
Services, and Parcel                                                P  P       P       P  P   P
Delivery Service
  Personal Services7
Barber/Beauty Shop/
Cosmetologist/Massage                                               P  P       P
Parlor/ Acupuncturist
Cemetery/Mausoleums         C                                                                                C
Dressmaker/Tailor Shop                                              P  P       P              P
Dry Cleaner (Storefront                                             P  P       P          P   P
Type); Laundry Service2
Funeral Parlor, Mortuary                                            C  C       P          P
    Repair and Maintenance Services7
Shoe and Watch Repair/                                              P  P       P       P  P   P     A
Sales, Locksmith
Janitorial Service, Pest                                            P  P       P       P  P   P
Control Service
Retail7
Temporary Uses and
Structures (Subject to      T                                       T  T       T       T  T   T  T  T
Chapter 17.75)
General Retail Sales
(including the following:
Antiques, Appliance Sales/
Repairs; Art Gallery/
Supplies; Books/Music;
Clothing/Accessories;
Costumes; Coins/
Collectables; Food
Products; Glass Shops/
Studios; Hardware; Hobby,                                    C1  C1 P  P       P       P  P   C  A
Gift, and Floral Shops;
Home Improvement Goods/Home
Furnishings; Medical
Supplies; Newsstands;
Nursery/Garden Equipment;
Office Equipment/Supplies;
Pet Shop; Photography
Studio/Photofinishing;
Sporting Goods; Toy Stores9
Pawnshop, Secondhand Store                                          P  P       P
INDUSTRIAL7
Ambulance Service                                                              P       P
Printing, Publishing,
Bookbinding (including                                              P          P       P  P   P
Lithographic and Newspaper
Printing)
Recreational Vehicle                                             C1            P       P  P
Repair, Supplies
Laboratories, Chemical,                                                        C       C  C   C
Research, and Testing
Machine/Sheet Metal Shop,
Metal Engraving, Silk                                            C1 C          P       P  P   P
Screen Shop
Industrial/Heavy Equipment,
Sales, Service, and Rental
(including, but not limited                                                    C       P  P
to Construction Equipment;
Refrigeration; Vending
Machines)
Junk, Salvage, Vehicle                                                                 C  C
Wrecking, and Impound Yard
Outdoor Storage, as a                                                          C       C  C
Primary use
Recycling Facilities,                                                          C       C  C
Commercial
Recycling Facilities,                                                  P       C       C  C         C
Public (collection only)
Sanitary Landfill, Waste
Haulers, Material Recovery                                                             C
Facility
Sewage Treatment Plant                                                                 P  P         C        C
Upholstery Shop, Welding                                         C1            P       P  P
Shop
    Construction7
Building Materials/Lumber/                                                     P       P  P
Plumbing Supply Yard
Construction Office (on the
same site as the            T         T  T     T  T  T   T   T   T  T  T       T       T  T   T  T  T
construction activity)
Contractor Storage Yard,                 T                                     C       C  C
Machinery Storage Yard
Horticultural (Landscape    C                                       P  P       P       P  P
and Gardening) Services
Manufacture and wholesale7
Assembly, Manufacturing
(Including food and
beverage production and                                          C1            P       P  P   C
processing), Restoration of
Goods; Except Tires
Batch plants, aggregate
products and other similar                                                             C  C
manufacturing uses
Dry Cleaning Plant, Large-                                                     P       P  P
Scale Commercial Type
Oil Exploration, Drilling,
and Production (Limited to                                                                C
areas w/minimum lot size)
Sand and Gravel Pit,
subject to Surface                                                                     C  C
Materials and Reclamation
Act (SMARA)
Swap Meet9                                                          T  T       C       C  C      T  T
Wholesale Businesses
(Including Electrical,                                           C1 C          P       P  P   C
Mechanical, Carpentry,
Cabinetry)
  Warehouse/Distribution/Storage/Transportation7
Transfer, Moving, and                                                          C       C  C
Storage
Truck Terminals (includes
Freight to Freight, Cross                                                              C  C
Dock, Parcel Delivery
Terminals), Truck Parking
Truck and Trailer (and
similar heavy
transportation equipment)
Sales, Repair (all repair                                        C1            C       C  C
to be conducted entirely
within an enclosed
building)5
Mini-Warehouse/Storage
Facilities/Recreational
Vehicle Storage (in AP zone
- Aviation hangar less than
10,000 square feet is a                                          C1 C  C       C       C  C
permitted use, over 10,000
square feet requires a
CUP), may include one (1)
caretaker unit.
Warehouse/Distribution,
Cold Storage (in AP zone -
Aviation hangar less than                                        C1            P       P  P   C
10,000 square feet is a
permitted use, over 10,000
square feet requires a CUP)
 
Note: Uses not shown above as Permitted, Conditionally Permitted, Accessory, or
Temporary are prohibited in the zoning district as determined by the Director
of Planning or their designee.
Footnotes:
1.   Aviation/Aircraft related uses only in the AP zone.
2.   Drive-thru requires Conditional Use Permit (CUP). A minor Conditional Use
Permit (CUPm) may be allowed under certain circumstances, see
Chapter 17.25 .
3.   Use allowed subject to
Chapter 17.25 .
4.   Light duty trucks, less than 2 ton carrying capacity.
5.   Heavy duty trucks, greater than 2 tons carrying capacity.
6.   All uses shall be conducted in a fully enclosed building.
7.   Sales, storage, or use, of any materials classified as toxic or hazardous
by either the federal or state government as a substantial part of the total
use shall require a CUP, as shall the parking or storage of vehicles used to
carry such materials.
8.   Co-location and wall antennas require LDPm/CUPm when placed on existing
structures per Code, all other proposals require review and approval of an LDP/
CUP.
9.   No tobacco retailer shall be permitted to sell, donate, distribute, or
deliver to any person(s) tobacco products within 1,000 feet of any playground,
church, public library, school, or any childcare facility or similar entity
providing structured, organized care for youth; see Section
17.80.040 .
10.   Power Generating Facilities, Solar Energy and/or Wind Energy Conversion
Systems >500 Kw are allowed in all zones west of Richardson Road and/or north
of Calleja Avenue with approval of a LDP/CUP.
11.   Until referenced to R3-30 is included in Title 7 of the Municipal Code,
Animal Keeping shall be allowed in the R3-30 district the same as is allowed in
the R3-8 district.
12.   Only allowed in industrial parks.
(Amendment adopted May, 2008; Ord. No. 497, Section 5, 5/12/10; Ord. No. 502,
Section 5, 4/27/11; Ord. No. 511, Exhibit B, 3/28/12; Ord. No. 515, Exhibit C,
5/22/13; Ord. No. 528, Exhibit C, 9/10/14; Ord. No. 535, Exhibit E, 5/27/15;
Ord. No. 539, 11/23/15; Ord. No. 581, Sections 3, 4, 12/13/17; Ord. No. 586,
Section 5, 5/9/18, Ord. No. 587, Section 3, 5/23/18; Ord. No. 600, Section 3,
5/8/19; Ord. No. 635, Section 3, 10/14/22; Ord. No. 641, 5/10/23; Ord. No. 654,
Section 3, 10/23/24.)
CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES
References to California Codes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO CALIFORNIA CODES
Business and Professions Code
State Cite Code Section
State Cite                                   Code Section
Division 2 (commencing with § 500)          5.60.010
Ch. 2 (commencing with § 5299) of Division 317.70.115
Ch. 8 (commencing with § 6850) of Division 310.20.032
4600 et seq.                                 5.60.520
4600                                         5.60.520
4827                                         7.04.030
5402                                      17.70.115
5412                                         17.70.115
7581(e)                                      5.20.010
8771                                         16.04.050
11004                                        17.200.200
11010.8                                      16.44.020
11018                                        17.80.080,
                                             17.80.090
19300.5                                      8.60.020
21628                                        5.32.050
23000 et seq.                                9.90.025,
                                             9.90.030
23004                                        9.35.020
                                             17.80.080,
26000 et seq.                                17.80.090 -
                                             17.80.120
                                             17.80.080,
26001                                        17.80.090 -
                                             17.80.120
                                             17.80.080,
26050                                        17.80.090 -
                                             17.80.120
26070                                        17.80.100,
                                             17.80.101
                                             17.80.080,
26100                                        17.80.090 -
                                             17.80.120
                                             17.80.090,
26106                                        17.80.100,
                                             17.80.120
                                             17.80.090,
26120                                        17.80.100,
                                             17.80.120
26130                                        17.80.090
                                             
 
Civil Code
State Cite Code Section
State Cite                                                         Code Section
Title 6 (commencing with § 1350), Part 4, Division 2              16.44.030
Art. 3 (commencing with § 3114) Ch. 2, Title 15, Part 4, Division 16.04.070
3
Part 3 of Division 4                                               8.30.180
714(c)(3)                                                          14.38.020
714(d)(1)(A),(B)                                                   14.38.020
783                                                                16.080.010
798 et seq.                                                        16.44.030
798.56                                                             16.08.010
1350                                                               17.200.200
1714.1(b)                                                          9.45.090
1722(b)(1)-(6)                                                     5.40.080
3479                                                               9.80.020
4080                                                               10.40.050,
                                                                   14.38.040
 
Civil Procedure Code
State Cite Code Section
State Cite                                   Code Section
Title 7 (commencing with § 1230.010), Part 316.08.050
Chapter 2 of Part 2                          8.30.180
415.10                                       1.20.020
415.20                                       1.20.020
446                                          9.80.090
771.010                                      16.04.050
1094.5                                       5.64.070,
                                             5.04.120
1094.6                                       3.60.140,
                                             5.04.120
1094.6 et seq.                               8.05.110
1094.8                                       5.64.070
1204                                         3.40.190
1206                                         3.40.190
1822.50 through 1822.57                      8.40.100
                                             
 
Code of Regulations
State Cite Code Section
State Cite                            Code Section
Chapter 14, § 671                    7.04.010
Title 14, Div. 7, Chapter 12          8.70.010
Title 14, Div. 7, Chapter 12, Art. 12 8.70.100
Title 14, § 17855(a)(4)              8.70.010
Title 14, § 17896.2(a)(4)            8.70.010
Title 14, § 18982                    8.70.010
Title 14, § 18982(a)(7)              8.70.010
Title 14, § 18982(a)(8)              8.70.010
Title 14, § 18982(a)(18)             8.70.010
Title 14, § 18982(a)(55)             8.70.010
Title 14, § 18982(a)(61)             8.70.010
Title 14, § 18982(a)(73)             8.70.010
Title 14, § 18982(a)(74)             8.70.010
Title 14, § 18984.1                  8.70.010
Title 14, § 18984.1(a)(1)(A)         8.70.010
Title 14, § 18984.2(a)(1)(C)         8.70.010
Title 14, § 18984.9(c)               8.70.030
Title 19                              14.20.030,
                                      17.90.080
Title 22, §§ 66261.3 et seq.        8.05.020
22000 et seq.                         14.38.050
Title 23, Div. 2, Chapter 2.7         8.70.010,
                                      8.70.100
Title 23, § 492.6(a)(3)(B)           8.70.100
Title 23, § 492.6(a)(3)(C)           8.70.100
Title 23, § 492.6(a)(3)(D)           8.70.100
Title 23, § 492.6(a)(3)(G)           8.70.100
                                      14.38.020,
Title 24                              14.38.030,
                                      17.65.060
Title 24, Part 1                      14.14.010
Title 24, Part 2                      14.12.010
Title 24, Part 2.5                    14.13.010
Title 24, Part 3                      14.16.010
Title 24, Part 4                      14.26.010
Title 24, Part 5                      14.18.010
Title 24, Part 6                      14.28.010
Title 24, Part 8                      14.24.010
Title 24, Part 9                      14.20.010
Title 24, Part 10                     14.23.010
Title 24, Part 11                     8.70.090,
                                      14.27.010
Title 24, Part 12                     14.25.010
Title 25                              17.20.060
                                      
 
Corporations Code
 
State Cite Code Section
14502      7.04.110
 
Education Code
 
State Cite    Code Section
48205         9.60.020
48222         9.60.020
48224         9.60.020
49580 et seq. 8.70.050
              
 
Elections Code
 
State Cite Code Section
10403      1.15.010
10228      1.15.010
13307      1.15.030
13309      1.15.030
           
 
Financial Code
 
State Cite Code Section
21208      5.32.050
           
 
Fish & Game Code
 
State Cite Code Section
2116       7.04.010
2118       7.04.010
 
Food and Agricultural Code
 
State Cite               Code Section
Division 14              7.06.010
Chapter 9 of Division 14 7.06.160
17001 et seq.            7.04.095
 
Government Code
State Cite Code Section
State Cite                                                   Code Section
Title 1, Division 3.6, Part 3 (commencing with § 900)       3.20.010
Title 1, Division 3.6, Part 3, Chapter 1                     2.08.040
Title 1, Division 3.6, Part 3, Chapter 1 (commencing with § 3.20.010
900)
Title 1, Division 3.6, Part 3, Chapter 2 (commencing with § 3.20.010
910)
Title 4, Division 3, Part 3, Chapter 2                       2.08.040
Title 5, Chapter 2.5 (commencing with § 53311)              3.50.020
Title 5, Division 1, Chapter 7 (commencing § 51200)         16.08.040
Title 7, Division 2                                          16.04.020
Title 8, Chapter 12 (commencing with § 76000)               10.20.012
16.5                                                         14.38.050
Title 24                                                     17.65.060
Division 1, Chapter 4, Article 2.5 (commencing with § 65864)16.08.040
900 et seq.                                                  3.20.010
905                                                          3.20.010
910                                                          3.20.030
911.2                                                        3.60.110
935                                                          3.60.110
935(b)                                                       3.20.040,
                                                             3.60.140
940 - 949                                                    3.20.050
945.6                                                        3.20.040
950 - 951                                                    3.20.050
1090 et seq.                                                 2.20.020
6062a                                                        3.55.050
6063                                                         9.80.090
6151.5 et seq.                                               9.75.070
6250 et seq.                                                 5.80.050, 7.80.120
6700                                                         10.02.020
6701                                                         10.02.020
25845                                                        8.15.010
34882                                                        1.15.010
34900 - 34904                                                2.04.060
34903                                                        2.04.060
34904                                                        1.15.010
36516                                                        2.04.060
36516(a)                                                     2.04.060
36516(a)(4), (c)                                             2.04.060
36516(d)                                                     2.04.060
36516.1                                                      2.04.060
36516.5                                                      2.04.060
36518                                                        2.08.020
36523                                                        3.01.070
36524                                                        3.01.070
36900(a)                                                     5.60.460
37208                                                        3.20.080
38771                                                        9.80.030
38773 et seq.                                                9.45.070
38773.1                                                      1.22.090
38773.5                                                      1.22.100,
                                                             7.06.080
38773.5(b)                                                   1.20.040
38773.6                                                      9.45.090
40500 - 40592 et seq.                                        3.10.320
40802 - 40805                                                2.08.040,
                                                             2.10.050
40805.5                                                      2.08.040
41000 - 41007                                                2.10.050
50022.2                                                      5.56.010,
                                                             14.22.010
50022.9                                                      5.56.010
50030                                                        5.40.150
51243                                                        16.08.040
51243.5                                                      16.08.040
51245                                                        16.08.040
51282                                                        16.08.040
51501                                                        3.30.010
53054 et seq.                                                5.40.080 ,
                                                             5.40.140
53055                                                        5.40.140
53055.1                                                      5.40.140
53055.2                                                      5.40.140
53056(b)                                                     5.40.140
53066.3                                                      5.40.050
53069.4                                                      1.20.060
53069.5                                                      9.45.080
53075.5(b)(3)                                                5.48.020,
                                                             5.48.040
                                                             5.40.080,
53088 et seq.                                                5.40.140,
                                                             5.40.200
53088.2I, J and K                                            5.40.080
53088.2(o)                                                   5.40.140
53088.2(p)                                                   5.40.200
53088.2(q)                                                   5.40.140
53150 et seq.                                                9.70.020
53200 - 53210                                                2.04.060
53208.5                                                      2.04.060
53601                                                        3.01.020
53607                                                        3.01.010 
53608                                                        3.01.010,
                                                             3.01.060
53635                                                        3.01.020
65100                                                        2.20.080
65101                                                        17.200.170
65301 et seq.                                                17.200.080
65450 et seq.                                                17.200.200
65583                                                        17.20.100
65850.7                                                      10.40.030 -
                                                             10.40.050
65852.2                                                      17.20.080
65852.2(f)(3)                                                17.20.080
65852.3                                                      14.30.070
65852.22                                                     17.20.080
65852.26                                                     17.20.080
65950.55                                                     14.38.070
66015                                                        14.38.070
66016                                                        14.38.070
66412.6(a),(b)                                               16.04.090
                                                             16.08.010,
66427.1                                                      16.08.050,
                                                             17.20.070
66427.1(a)                                                   16.04.040
66427.4                                                      16.08.010
66428                                                        16.12.010
66452                                                        17.200.170
66452.8                                                      17.20.070
66452.9                                                      17.20.070
                                                             16.04.040,
66452.10                                                     16.08.010,
                                                             16.08.040
66456.1                                                      16.08.040
66473.3                                                      16.08.020
                                                             16.08.060,
66474.2                                                      16.16.040,
                                                             17.200.170
66499.35                                                     16.40.010
66499.52                                                     16.36.040
68632                                                     5.82.070
                                                             10.16.220,
70372(b)                                                     10.18.080,
                                                             10.20.040,
                                                             10.26.020
                                                             10.16.220,
76000(b)                                                     10.18.080,
                                                             10.20.040
                                                             
 
Health and Safety Code
State Cite Code Section
State Cite                                                 Code Section
Division 8                                                 16.08.010
Division 13, Part 2.1                                      17.20.060
Division 20, Ch. 6.7 (being §§ 25280 - 25299.8)          8.10.030
Division 20, Chapter 6.95 (being §§ 25500 through 25546.58.10.020
11000 et seq.                                              9.100.020,
                                                           9.100.110
11018                                                      8.60.020
                                                           17.80.080,
                                                           17.80.090,
11018.5                                                    17.80.100,
                                                           17.80.101,
                                                           17.80.110,
                                                           17.80.120
11053-11058                                                9.100.020
                                                           5.60.050 ,
                                                           5.60.110,
                                                           5.60.120,
11054                                                      5.60.130,
                                                           5.60.150,
                                                           5.60.430,
                                                           9.80.020
                                                           5.60.050 ,
                                                           5.60.110,
                                                           5.60.120,
11055                                                      5.60.130,
                                                           5.60.150,
                                                           5.60.430,
                                                           9.80.020
                                                           5.60.050 ,
                                                           5.60.110,
                                                           5.60.120,
11056                                                      5.60.130,
                                                           5.60.150,
                                                           5.60.430,
                                                           9.80.020
                                                           5.60.050 ,
                                                           5.60.110,
                                                           5.60.120,
11057                                                      5.60.130,
                                                           5.60.150,
                                                           5.60.430,
                                                           9.80.020
                                                           5.60.050 ,
                                                           5.60.110,
                                                           5.60.120,
11058                                                      5.60.130,
                                                           5.60.150,
                                                           5.60.430,
                                                           9.80.020
11357.5                                                    9.100.020,
                                                           9.100.110
11362.2                                                    8.60.010
                                                           17.80.080,
                                                           17.80.090,
11362.5                                                    17.80.100,
                                                           17.80.101,
                                                           17.80.110,
                                                           17.80.120
11375.5                                                    9.100.020,
                                                           9.100.110
11401                                                      9.100.020,
                                                           9.100.110
11570                                                      8.25.020
12504                                                      9.65.015
17951                                                      14.38.070
17958.1                                                    17.20.080
17985                                                      1.20.050
18010                                                      10.22.040
18214                                                      17.20.060
18551                                                      14.30.070,
                                                           17.200.140
19957.5                                                    2.26.010
25110.02                                                   8.01.010
25115                                                      8.01.010
                                                           8.01.010,
25117                                                      9.80.020,
                                                           17.200.090
25117.1                                                    17.200.090
25515                                                      8.10.020
50093                                                      16.08.050
50105                                                      17.200.050
113783                                                     8.70.010
113789                                                     8.70.010
113841                                                     8.70.010
113842                                                     8.70.010
114079                                                     8.70.050
114960                                                     8.70.010
117600                                                     8.70.010
                                                           
 
Labor Code
 
State Cite   Code Section
1720 et seq. 3.55.080
1770 - 1782  3.55.080
6404.5       5.80.090,
             17.80.120
             
 
Penal Code
State Cite Code Section
State Cite                                            Code Section
148                                                   1.25.040
186.22(a)                                             8.25.020
266a                                                  5.64.040
266b                                                  5.64.040
266c                                                  5.64.040
266(d)                                                5.60.010
266e                                                  5.64.040
266(e)                                                5.60.010
266(f)                                                5.60.010 ,
                                                      5.60.150
266g                                                  5.64.040
266h                                                  5.64.040
266(h)                                                5.60.010
                                                      5.60.010 ,
                                                      5.60.050 ,
                                                      5.60.110 ,
266(i)                                                5.60.120 ,
                                                      5.60.130 ,
                                                      5.60.150 ,
                                                      5.60.430
272                                                   9.60.030
                                                      5.48.050,
                                                      5.60.050,
                                                      5.60.110,
290                                                   5.60.120,
                                                      5.60.130,
                                                      5.60.150,
                                                      5.60.430,
                                                      5.64.060
311 - 313.4                                           5.64.060
313                                                   9.50.010
313(a)                                                13.60.035
313.1                                                 10.20.010
313.1(e)                                              9.50.020
314                                                   5.60.010
                                                      5.60.010 ,
                                                      5.60.050,
                                                      5.60.110,
                                                      5.60.120,
315                                                   5.60.130,
                                                      5.60.150,
                                                      5.60.430,
                                                      5.64.040,
                                                      5.64.060
                                                      5.60.010 ,
                                                      5.60.050,
                                                      5.60.110,
                                                      5.60.120,
316                                                   5.60.130,
                                                      5.60.150,
                                                      5.60.430,
                                                      5.64.040,
                                                      5.64.060
317                                                   5.60.010
                                                      5.60.050,
                                                      5.60.110,
                                                      5.60.120,
318                                                   5.60.130,
                                                      5.60.150,
                                                      5.60.430,
                                                      5.64.060
365                                                   9.10.090
372                                                   8.30.180
403                                                   1.25.040
415                                                   9.10.090
424                                                   3.40.260
594                                                   9.45.080,
                                                      9.45.090
594 et seq.                                           9.45.090
594.1(c)                                              9.45.060
594.3                                                 9.45.080
597.5(a)                                              7.06.020
599aa                                                 7.06.020
637.5                                                 5.40.080
640                                                   9.45.080
640.5                                                 9.45.080
640.6                                                 9.45.080
640.6(a)                                              9.45.090
                                                      5.60.010 ,
                                                      5.60.050 ,
                                                      5.60.110,
647(a)                                                5.60.120,
                                                      5.60.130,
                                                      5.60.150,
                                                      5.60.430,
                                                      5.64.040
                                                      5.60.050,
                                                      5.60.110,
647(a) or (b)                                         5.60.120,
                                                      5.60.130,
                                                      5.60.150,
                                                      5.60.430
                                                      5.64.040,
647(b)                                                5.64.060,
                                                      5.60.110
647(c)                                                9.10.090
647(D)                                                5.64.040
Title 3, Chapter 4.5 (commencing with § 830)         10.20.010
832                                                   1.20.040
836.5                                                 1.20.040,
                                                      7.04.110
Title 3, Part 2, Chapter 5C (commencing with § 853.5)1.20.040,
                                                      7.04.010
853.6                                                 1.20.040
853.6 et seq.                                         1.20.040
1412                                                  9.80.060
11225                                                 5.60.010
Title 4, Part 4, Chapter 1 (commencing with § 13520) 2.32.010
13522                                                 2.32.012
                                                      
 
Public Contract Code
 
State Cite    Code Section
20162         3.10.110
22000 et seq. 3.15.010
22032 et seq. 3.15.010
22034         3.15.020
22036         3.15.030
              
 
Public Resources Code
State Cite Code Section
State Cite     Code Section
Div. 30        8.70.010
20180(b)(8)(1) 3.55.010
21000 et seq.  3.55.010
40000 et seq.  8.05.010
40141          8.70.010
40191          8.70.010
40195.1        8.70.010
41821          8.02.070
41952          8.01.101,
               8.01.120
42648          8.02.010
42652.5        8.70.010
49000 et seq.  8.01.010
               
 
Public Utilities Code
State Cite Code Section
State Cite Code Section
230        16.12.010
234(a)     5.40.150
616        5.40.150
2902       5.40.150
7901       5.40.150
7901.1     5.40.150
           
 
Revenue and Taxation Code
State Cite Code Section
State Cite                                             Code Section
Division 1, Part 9, Chapter 5 (commencing with § 5096)3.35.110
Division 2, Part 1                                     3.45.090 ,
                                                       3.45.100
Division 2, Part 1.5                                   3.45.040 ,
                                                       3.45.090
Division 2, Part 6.7                                   3.35.100
Division 2, Part 6.7 (commencing with § 11901)        3.35.010
6066                                                   5.12.010
6203                                                   3.45.100
6701                                                   3.45.100
6702                                                   3.45.100
6711                                                   3.45.100
6715                                                   3.45.100
6737                                                   3.45.100
6797                                                   3.45.100
6828                                                   3.45.100
7280                                                   3.40.020
11922                                                  3.35.050
23701                                                  13.45.050
23701(a)                                               5.24.020
23701(b)                                               5.24.020
23701(d)                                               5.24.020,
                                                       5.24.060
23701(e)                                               5.24.020
23701(f)                                               5.24.020
23701(g)                                               5.24.020
23701(1)                                               5.24.020
                                                       
 
Streets and Highways Code
 
State Cite Code Section
2106       3.25.010
2107       3.25.010
2113       3.25.010
           
 
Vehicle Code
State Cite Code Section
State Cite                         Code Section
Art. 2.5 (commencing with § 27200)10.30.070,
                                   10.30.080
415                                9.80.020
627                                10.24.040
670                                9.80.020
4760                               10.20.032
4763                               10.20.012
5602                               10.20.028
13202.6                            9.45.090
14602.6                            10.38.010
21400                              13.40.060
22357                              10.24.040
22358                              10.24.040
22511.5                            10.16.040
22511.9                            10.16.040
22651(h)                           10.38.010
22651(k)                           10.38.010
22651(o)                           10.38.010
22651(p)                           10.38.010
22655.5                            10.38.010
22660                              8.15.010,
                                   8.15.030
22669                              8.15.010,
                                   8.15.170
                                   9.15.030,
22852                              9.80.080,
                                   10.30.040,
                                   10.38.030
23103                              9.70.040
23103.5                            9.70.040
23111                              9.45.090
23112                              9.45.090
23113(a)                           9.45.090
23152                              9.70.040
23152(a)                           10.38.040
23152(b)                           10.38.040
27150                              10.30.070,
                                   10.30.090
35780                              13.35.070
35781                              13.35.020,
                                   13.50.160
39001                              10.32.030
39002                              10.32.020
42001.7                            9.45.090
                                   
 
Water Code
 
State Cite                           Code Section
Division 7 (§§ 13000 et seq.)      8.05.020
Division 7 (commencing with § 13000)16.08.040
 
Welfare and Institutions Code
 
State Cite Code Section
729.8      9.45.090
742.16     9.45.090
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
26       5-26-71     5.44.010  -
                     5.44.050
57       8-25-72     5.08.010  -
                     5.08.050
                     5.16.010  -
                     5.16.030,
                     5.16.050,
                     5.16.060 ,
                     5.16.080  -
249      9-22-92     5.16.100 ,
                     5.16.120,
                     5.16.140,
                     5.16.150 ,
                     5.16.170  -
                     5.16.240
258      11-10-92    5.72.010  -
                     5.72.030
                     5.16.010  -
301      9-26-95     5.16.030 ,
                     5.16.160 ,
                     5.16.210
332      5-27-97     5.64.020  -
                     5.64.110
                     5.16.070 ,
347      4-14-98     5.16.230 ,
                     5.16.240
349      6-9-98      5.16.110 ,
                     5.16.160
415      5-12-04     2.04.060
425      2-23-05     14.36.010 -
                     14.36.050
440      10-26-05    14.36.010 -
                     14.36.060
                     3.01.010  -
                     3.01.070 ,
                     3.05.010 ,
                     3.10.010  -
                     3.10.320 ,
                     3.15.010  -
                     3.15.040 ,
                     3.20.010  -
                     3.20.110 ,
                     3.25.010  -
461      5-9-07      3.25.030 ,
                     3.30.010 ,
                     3.35.010  -
                     3.35.110 ,
                     3.40.010  -
                     3.40.290 ,
                     3.45.010  -
                     3.45.100 ,
                     3.50.010 ,
                     3.50.020 ,
                     3.55.010  -
                     3.55.080
                     5.08.010  -
                     5.08.060 ,
                     5.12.010  -
                     5.12.060 ,
                     5.16.010  -
                     5.16.030,
                     5.16.050 -
                     5.16.120,
                     5.16.140 -
                     5.16.240 ,
                     5.20.010 ,
                     5.20.020 ,
                     5.24.010  -
                     5.24.130 ,
                     5.28.010  -
                     5.28.070 ,
                     5.32.010  -
                     5.32.040 ,
                     5.36.010  -
462      5-9-07      5.36.030 ,
                     5.40.010  -
                     5.40.210 ,
                     5.44.010  -
                     5.44.050 ,
                     5.48.010  -
                     5.48.060 ,
                     5.52.010  -
                     5.52.040 ,
                     5.56.010  -
                     5.56.060 ,
                     5.60.010  -
                     5.60.510 ,
                     5.64.010  -
                     5.64.110 ,
                     5.68.010  -
                     5.68.060 ,
                     5.72.010  -
                     5.72.030 ,
                     5.76.010  -
                     5.76.060
469      9-12-07     2.04.060
                     17.20.010 -
470      11-14-07    17.20.090,
                     17.22.010 -
                     17.22.100
                     17.25.010 -
                     17.25.090 ,
                     17.30.010 -
                     17.30.090,
                     17.65.010 -
474      5-28-08     17.65.110,
                     17.70.010 -
                     17.70.120,
                     17.80.010 -
                     17.80.030,
                     17.90.010 -
                     17.90.120
475      5-28-08     17.130.060,
                     17.150.070
478      8-27-08     13.10.190
479      6-25-08     10.24.040
                     17.22.010 -
480      3-11-09     17.22.100,
                     17.45.010 -
                     17.45.050
484      1-28-09     10.34.010 -
                     10.34.060
487      4-8-09      2.20.010 -
                     2.20.100
488      4-8-09      2.22.010 -
                     2.22.100
                     10.16.030 -
                     10.16.120,
                     10.16.140 -
                     10.16.200,
                     10.16.220,
491      9-23-09     10.18.020,
                     10.18.040-
                     10.18.080,
                     10.20.040,
                     10.22.070,
                     10.26.020,
                     10.34.060
492      11-24-09    2.04.060
493      2-24-10     5.60.520
494      4-14-10     9.65.010 -
                     9.65.055
495      5-12-10     7.04.120
496      5-12-10     17.80.040
497      5-12-10     Title 17, Appendix A
498      6-23-10     17.200.140
                     8.01.010 -
499      5-26-10     8.01.110,
                     8.02.010 -
                     8.02.080
                     1.20.060,
                     7.04.010,
                     7.04.030,
                     7.04.050  -
                     7.04.095,
                     7.04.110,
500      9-8-10      7.04.125,
                     7.04.135,
                     7.04.150,
                     7.04.160,
                     7.04.190,
                     7.06.070,
                     9.40.060
                     14.12.010,
                     14.13,
                     14.14.010,
                     14.16.010,
                     14.18.010,
                     14.20.010,
501      10-27-10    14.23.010,
                     14.24.010,
                     14.25.010,
                     14.26.010,
                     14.27,
                     14.28.010,
                     14.29.010,
                     14.34.010
                     17.10.080,
                     17.10.140,
502      4-27-11     17.80.060 -
                     17.80.070;
                     Title 17, Appendix A
506      10-12-11    16.04.070
                     17.20.010,
                     17.20.020,
511      3-28-12     17.20.030,
                     17.20.040,
                     17.20.050;
                     Title 17, Appendix A
512      3-28-12     2.22.060
514      7-25-12     9.100.010 -
                     9.100.120
                     17.05.010 -
                     17.05.030,
                     17.10.010 -
                     17.10.140,
                     17.15.010 -
                     17.15.070,
                     17.20.010 -
                     17.20.090,
                     17.25.010 -
                     17.25.110,
                     17.30.010 -
                     17.30.090,
515      5-22-13     17.60.010 -
                     17.60.080,
                     17.65.010 -
                     17.65.110,
                     17.80.010 -
                     17.80.040,
                     17.80.060,
                     17.80.070,
                     17.95.010 -
                     17.95.080,
                     17.100.010 -
                     17.100.080;
                     Title 17, Appendix A
516      4-24-13     9.65.010 -
                     9.65.055
518      8-28-13     Title 17, Appendix A
                     14.12.010,
                     14.13.010,
                     14.14.010,
                     14.16.010,
                     14.18.010,
                     14.20.010,
519      11-13-13    14.23.010,
                     14.24.010,
                     14.25.010,
                     14.26.010,
                     14.27.010,
                     14.28.010,
                     14.29.010,
                     14.34.010
520      10-9-13     Title 17, Appendix A
                     7.04.010 -
521      10-23-13    7.04.200,
                     7.06.010 -
                     7.06.170
526      6-11-14     3.60.080
                     17.01.010  -
                     17.01.120 ,
                     17.05.010  -
                     17.05.030 ,
                     17.10.010  -
                     17.10.150 ,
                     17.10.010  -
                     17.10.100 ,
                     17.10.120  -
                     17.10.150 ,
                     17.20.010  -
                     17.20.090 ,
                     17.22.010  -
                     17.22.100 ,
                     17.25.010  -
                     17.25.110 ,
                     17.30.010  -
                     17.30.090 ,
                     17.35.010  -
528      9-10-14     17.35.040 ,
                     17.40.010  -
                     17.40.030 ,
                     17.50.010  -
                     17.50.080 ,
                     17.60.010  -
                     17.60.080 ,
                     17.65.010  -
                     17.65.110 ,
                     17.67.010  -
                     17.67.060 ,
                     17.70.010  -
                     17.70.120 ,
                     17.80.010  -
                     17.80.040,
                     17.80.060,
                     17.80.070 ,
                     17.200.010  -
                     17.200.270 ,
                     Title 17, Appendix A
532      12-10-14    Title 17, Appendix A
533      3-11-15     9.35.010 -
                     9.35.130
534      5-13-15     8.40.010 -
                     8.40.150
                     17.20.010 -
                     17.20.110,
                     17.22.010 -
535      5-27-15     17.22.100,
                     17.200.010 -
                     17.200.270,
                     Title 17, Appendix A
536      10-28-15    8.40.010 -
                     8.40.150
537      2-24-16     2.16.010,
                     9.35.040
538      8-26-15     14.38.010 -
                     14.38.070
539      11-23-15    17.80.080,
                     Title 17, Appendix A
542      9-9-15      2.20.080
543      2-24-16     8.40.030,
                     8.40.070
544      3-23-16     17.165.010 -
                     17.165.070
545      5-25-16     17.80.080,
                     17.80.090
548      10-12-16    17.80.100,
                     17.80.110
549      8-24-16     17.65.010 -
                     17.65.110
                     17.80.080,
553      5-24-17     17.80.090,
                     17.80.120
                     14.12.010,
                     14.13.010,
                     14.14.010,
                     14.16.010,
                     14.18.010,
                     14.20.010,
554      12-14-16    14.23.010,
                     14.24.010,
                     14.25.010,
                     14.26.010,
                     14.27.010,
                     14.28.010,
                     14.29.010
555      10-26-16    8.60.010 -
                     8.60.090
556      12-14-16    17.80.080 -
                     17.80.110
557-A    5-24-17     17.80.120
558      12-14-16    17.80.080 -
                     17.80.110
561      4-12-17     8.60.050
                     17.80.080,
564      6-28-17     17.80.090,
                     17.80.100,
                     17.80.110
566      4-26-17     14.36.050
567      7-12-17     17.80.081
                     1.20.050 -
                     1.20.070,
                     1.22.010 -
                     1.22.100,
                     7.04.200,
568      5-10-17     8.25.020,
                     8.25.060,
                     8.25.170,
                     8.30.140,
                     8.35.040,
                     9.45.090,
                     14.10.110
APUA 5   6-28-17     8.01.101
573      7-12-17     17.80.100,
                     17.80.101
578      10-11-17    17.75.060,
                     17.165.001
579      12-13-17    17.80.080
580      9-27-17     2.20.020
581      12-3-17     17.30.020,
                     Title 17, Appendix A
                     Title 17,
583      2-28-18     Table 30-1;
                     17.65.070
                     17.30.010,
586      5-9-18      Table 30-1;
                     Appendix A
587      5-23-18     Appendix A
                     17.80.080,
                     17.80.081,
                     17.80.090,
588      5-23-18     17.80.100,
                     17.80.101,
                     17.80.110,
                     17.80.120
589      7-25-18     17.50.030
594      12-12-18    3.60.010 -
                     3.60.160
595      9-26-18     2.04.060
                     9.65.020,
                     9.65.025,
599      5-8-19      9.65.030,
                     9.65.035,
                     9.65.040
600      5-8-19      17.50.020,
                     Title 17, Appendix A
601      5-8-19      3.60.030
                     17.80.080,
                     17.80.090,
602      6-12-19     17.80.100,
                     17.80.101,
                     17.80.110,
                     17.80.120
603      7-10-19     2.16.010,
                     9.35.040
                     9.65.030,
605      8-28-19     9.65.040,
                     9.65.055
606      12-11-19    5.80.010 -
                     5.80.150
                     14.12.010,
                     14.13.010,
                     14.14.010,
                     14.16.010,
                     14.18.010,
                     14.20.010,
608      12-14-19    14.23.010,
                     14.24.010,
                     14.25.010,
                     14.26.010,
                     14.27.010,
                     14.28.010,
                     14.29.010
                     17.70.050,
611      4-22-20     17.70.115,
                     17.70.120
614      7-8-20      10.40.010 -
                     10.40.060
616      9-9-20      3.60.030,
                     3.60.090
618      12-9-20     17.80.070,
                     17.80.071
620-A    1-13-21     8.01.120
621      1-18-22     8.70.010 -
                     8.70.130
623      4-27-22     17.195.010 -
                     17.195.120
626      3-23-22     2.04.060
627      6-22-22     17.20.080
630      5-25-22     10.24.040
631      7-13-22     9.110.010 -
                     9.110.120
632      7-13-22     5.82.010 -
                     5.82.070
635      10-14-22    17.50.020,
                     Title 17, Appendix A
                     14.12.010,
                     14.13.010,
                     14.14.010,
                     14.16.010,
                     14.18.010,
                     14.20.010,
636      10-26-22    14.23.010,
                     14.24.010,
                     14.25.010,
                     14.26.010,
                     14.27.010,
                     14.28.010,
                     14.29.010
638      4-12-23     5.84.010 -
                     5.84.070
640      4-12-23     17.30.010,
                     Table 30-1
641      5-10-23     17.50.020,
                     Title 17, Appendix A
                     5.16.010  -
                     5.16.030,
646      12-13-23    5.16.050 -
                     5.16.120,
                     5.16.140 -
                     5.16.240
649      3-13-24     9.65.030
                     8.60.030,
650      5-8-24      17.80.120,
                     17.200.140
651      5-22-24     3.10.270
                     17.05.010,
652      7-24-24     17.46.010 -
                     17.46.020,
                     17.100.090
                     5.04.010,
                     5.04.020,
                     5.04.025,
                     5.04.026,
                     5.04.027,
                     5.04.030,
                     5.04.040,
                     5.04.050,
                     5.04.060,
                     5.04.070,
                     5.04.080,
653      12-11-24    5.04.090,
                     5.04.100,
                     5.04.110,
                     5.04.120,
                     5.04.130,
                     5.04.140,
                     5.04.150,
                     5.04.160,
                     5.04.170,
                     5.04.180,
                     5.04.190,
                     5.04.200,
                     5.04.210
654      10-23-24    17.50.020,
                     Title 17, Appendix A
655      4-9-25      2.04.010,
                     2.04.020
656      5-14-25     2.04.060
657      6-11-25     17.03.020
                    
 
 
