CODE of
BEAR VALLEY COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT,
CALIFORNIA
Code current through:
Ord. 24-258, passed November 14, 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Bear Valley Community Services District, as supplemented,
contains ordinances up to and including ordinance 24-258, passed November 14,
2024. Ordinances of the adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of
the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
   ORDINANCE NO. 09-230
   AN ORDINANCE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
   BEAR VALLEY COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
   ADOPTING THE DISTRICT CODE
   WHEREAS, the Bear Valley Community Services District adopts the Bear Valley
Community Services District code by ordinance no. 99-147 in 1999; and
   WHEREAS, the code has been amended from time to time since its adoption in
1999; and
   WHEREAS, the administrative committee has completed a review of the district
code; and
   WHEREAS, the board of directors desire to adopt a new district code and
repeal the prior code.
   THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE BEAR VALLEY COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT does
ordain as follows:
   Section 1. This ordinance shall be known as the BEAR VALLEY COMMUNITY
SERVICES DISTRICT CODE, and may be cited as such, and will be referred herein
as the "district code."
   Section 2. The district code is hereby adopted and incorporated herein by
reference.
   Section 3. From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the Bear
Valley CSD, district code containing the compilation of all ordinances of a
general nature together with the changes made to said ordinances, under the
direction of the board of directors of the district, shall be accepted in all
courts without question as the official code and law of the district as enacted
by the district officials.
   Section 4. There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official district code is identified by the proper catchline and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which
shall be maintained in the office of a district official, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 5. All ordinances of a general nature included in this official code
shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the fact
that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing body
shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness of
ordinances included in said official district code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the district code.
Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the official district code.
   Section 6. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the district to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 7. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 8. Savings Clause. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase, or portion of this ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of the
section. The board of directors hereby declares that it would have adopted the
ordinance, and each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion
thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions are declared invalid or
unconstitutional.
   Section 9. Publication Of Summary Of Ordinance. A summary of this ordinance,
approved by the district's legal counsel, together with the ayes and noes,
shall be published twice as follows: a) at least five days prior to its final
passage in the Tehachapi News, a newspaper published and circulated in the
county of Kern, and b) before the expiration of fifteen (15) days after its
final passage in the Tehachapi News, a newspaper published and circulated in
the county of Kern. A copy of the full text of this ordinance shall be on file
in the secretary to the board of directors office on and after the date
following introduction and passage and shall be available to any interested
member of the public.
   Section 10. Effective Date; Posting. This ordinance is effective thirty (30)
days after its adoption, and before the expiration of fifteen (15) days after
its adoption, this ordinance or a summary thereof shall be published in the
Tehachapi News.
   I hereby certify that the foregoing ordinance was introduced at a regular
meeting of the board of directors, held on November 13, 2008, and passed and
adopted by the board of directors of the Bear Valley Community Services
District, at a regular meeting held on January 8, 2009, by the following roll
call vote:
AYES:   KORDES, ROMANO, NORTHCUTT, SAMUELS, ZANUTTO
NOES:    NONE
ABSENT:    NONE
ABSTAIN:    NONE
                                                
               Don Kordes, President
               Bear Valley Community Services District
ATTEST:
                                     
Sandy Janzen, District Secretary
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL DISTRICT CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
   Upon the adoption by the board of directors, this code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official community services district code
of Bear Valley. This code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the BEAR
VALLEY COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT CODE and is hereby published by authority of
the board of directors and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent
legislation of the district as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. This code shall be interpreted to be
consistent with the community services district law, and to the extent that
this code is inconsistent with the community services district law or to the
extent that this code omits requirements of the community services district
law, the community services district law shall be incorporated and shall
govern. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
   This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the district of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
   Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section numbers of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. Any such
amendment(s) or revision(s) by ordinance shall be immediately prepared for
insertion in its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement
page shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy
of this code. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
   It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or
deface in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the board of directors. The district secretary shall see that the replacement
pages are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of
the secretary. Any person having custody of a copy of this code shall make
every effort to maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances
passed. Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement
pages when such are delivered or made available to such person through the
office of the district secretary. Said code books, while in actual possession
of officials and other interested persons, shall be (and remain) the property
of the district and shall be returned to the office of the district secretary
when directed so to do by order of the board of directors. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-
2009)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   All general ordinances of the district passed prior to the adoption of this
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
district; and all special ordinances. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
   No ordinance relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue
of the preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-
2009)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.    Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceedings, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.    Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals,
either by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance
making any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.    Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the district herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the district under any ordinance or provision thereof
in force at the time of the adoption of this code. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
   If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The district board of
directors hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.    Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distinctive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only,
or a particular gender, and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included;
provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section
of this code which contains any express provision excluding such construction
or where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.    The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the district has
been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the district's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-
2009)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
   Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribe to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
   AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
   APPLICANT: The person making application for a permit for a water, sewer, or
plumbing installation and shall be the owner of premises to be served by the
water for which a permit is requested or his authorized agent.
   ASSOCIATION: The Bear Valley Springs Association (BVSA), a California
nonprofit corporation.
   BVSA: See definition of Association.
   BOARD: The board of directors of the Bear Valley Community Services
District. When used in
title 3, chapter 8 of this code, the state board of forestry and fire
protection.
   BROWN ACT: Ralph M. Brown act or state of California open meeting law
(California Government Code sections 54950 through 54962).
   BUILDING: Any structure used for human habitation or a place for business,
recreation, or other purpose containing water facilities.
   BUILDING MATERIALS: Includes (but is not limited to) wood, roofing material,
steel, bricks, stone, mortar, concrete, or other debris incident to the
construction, partial construction, renovation, or demolition of buildings or
structures.
   CSD: Community services district.
   CODE: The district code of the Bear Valley Community Services District.
   COLLECTOR: An agent or employee of the Bear Valley Community Services
District or any person, firm, corporation, or association, or the agents or
employees thereof, licensed by contract or franchise to collect, transport, and
dispose of refuse in Bear Valley.
   COMMERCIAL SEWER SERVICE: The furnishing of sewer service to any commercial
user.
   COMMERCIAL SEWER USER: Any user who is not a residential user.
   COMMERCIAL WASTE: The waste byproducts from a commercial process.
   COMMON AREA: Shall mean and include collectively all real property (with the
exception of dedicated roads) conveyed to the Bear Valley Community Services
District by Dart Industries, Inc. (developer), including (without limitation),
any real property upon which community facilities are located or are intended
to be located.
   COMMUNITY FACILITIES: The following facilities now or hereafter owned by the
district and located within the district:
   A.   Entrances consisting of gatehouses and landscape areas;
   B.   An equestrian center consisting of a clubhouse (with manager's
quarters), barn, tack room, stables, corrals, paddocks, training ring, pond,
picnic/barbecue area and parking area;
   C.   A recreation center including clubhouse (with restaurant and bar),
swimming pool, locker room, tennis courts, miscellaneous game areas;
   D.   Park areas including campgrounds, overnight equestrian stops, rifle
range, trail bike course, and ponds;
   E.   Wilderness area and equestrian trails;
   F.   Picnic/barbecue area, and parking area;
   G.   Any other recreational facilities owned and maintained and/or
controlled for the common use, benefit and enjoyment of the owners of real
property within the development.
   COMMUNITY SEWER SYSTEM: A system of sewage collection lines and treatment
facilities owned, maintained and operated by the Bear Valley Community Services
District.
   CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the waters of the state by
waste to a degree which creates a hazard to the public health through poisoning
or through the spread of disease. "Contamination" shall include any equivalent
effect resulting from the disposal of waste, whether or not waters of the state
are affected.
   COST: The cost of labor, material, transportation, supervision, engineering
and all other necessary overhead expenses.
   COUNTY: The county of Kern, state of California.
   CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection between the piping system from the
district service and that of any other water supply that is not, or cannot be,
approved as safe and potable for human consumption, whereby water from the
unapproved source may be forced or drawn into the district's distribution
mains.
   CUSTOMER: The property owner or his authorized representative of the
premises receiving or applying for water or sewer service.
   DATE OF PRESENTATION: The date upon which a bill or notice is mailed or
delivered personally to the customer.
   DEBRIS: Plant matter, paper, waste matter, litter, trash, refuse, rubbish
and any other substance (particularly which, under dry conditions, creates a
fire hazard).
   DEPARTMENT: When used in
title 3, chapter 8 of this code, the department of forestry and fire
protection.
   DETACHABLE BIN BOX: A portable container supported on casters and approved
by the district for mechanical handling by collection trucks.
   DISASTER COUNCIL: See definition of Disaster Preparedness Advisory Council
(DPAC).
   DISASTER PREPAREDNESS ADVISORY COUNCIL (DPAC): An advising group appointed
by the board.
   DISTRIBUTION MAINS: Water lines in streets, highways, alleys, and easements
used for public and private fire protection and for general distribution of
water.
   DISTRICT: The Bear Valley Community Services District.
   DISTRICT RIGHTS OF WAY: Roads, streets and ways owned by the district but
not designated as a road or district road on exhibits A and B attached to
ordinance 64 which is on file in the office of the district secretary.
   DWELLING UNIT: Any single-family dwelling of one or more rooms having one or
more plumbing fixtures suitable for residential occupancy by any number of
persons living together, including single-family dwellings, and each group of
rooms constituting a dwelling unit for a single family in any multiple-dwelling
structure.
   EMERGENCY: An event which interferes with the ability of the district to
carry out its functions or which jeopardizes the health and/or safety of
district personnel, local residents, or district property. Includes a state of
war emergency, a state of emergency and a local emergency. An emergency also
means the occasion or instance for which assistance is needed to supplement
local efforts and capabilities to save lives and protect property, public
health and safety. Ref. California Government Code section 8558 (c).
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR: The general manager or such other
individual delegated by the board or general manager within the district to
whom is delegated the day to day responsibility for the development and
maintenance of all emergency management coordination efforts.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR: The individual within the district that has
overall responsibility for the district's emergency management and the director
of the emergency operations center. See definition of Emergency Management
Coordinator.
   EMERGENCY PERIOD: The period that begins when the board, the emergency
management director or the incident commander recognizes an existing,
developing or impending emergency that poses a potential threat to the
district. It includes the warning (where applicable), an impact phase and
continues until immediate and ensuing effects of the emergency no longer
constitute a hazard to life or a threat to property.
   EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a district employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
Bear Valley Community Services District".
   ENCROACHMENT: Includes any activity that materially affects the use and
enjoyment of district property or common areas including, but not limited to:
   A.   Grass clippings, tree clippings, stumps, yard waste, animal waste,
trash or other similar natural materials;
   B.   Buildings, structures, fences or walls;
   C.   Vegetable or ornamental gardens;
   D.   Volleyball courts, play courts, or any type of play field;
   E.   Landscape or irrigation improvements;
   F.   Placement of pipes or trenches that provide drainage;
   G.   Permanent or temporary storage of automobiles or automobile parts,
trailers, recreation vehicles, or any type of construction equipment;
   H.   Mowing, tree trimming, removal or adjustment of fence or walk
locations, or removal or adjustment to irrigation systems on district property;
   I.   Any action that causes common areas to appear to be privately owned.
   ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE (ECC): A committee formed for the purpose of
interpreting and enforcing the covenants and restrictions of the association.
   FEE: A sum of money charged by the district for the carrying on of a
business, profession or occupation.
   GARBAGE: The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, and use of foods including discarded food containers and wrappers.
   GATE(S) AND GUARDED GATE(S): The entrance gate(s) that restricts entry into
Bear Valley Springs and is maintained by district employees twenty four (24)
hours a day.
   GATE PERMIT: The permit issued by the district to persons, not otherwise
authorized to enter Bear Valley Springs, permitting them to do so.
   GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
   GENERAL MANAGER: The general manager of the district.
   GREEN WASTE: Includes tree and shrubbery trimmings, leaves, and branches.
Green waste does not include lawn clippings, horse manure, or any wood
products.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE: Liquid, solid, contained gas or sludge wastes that possess
properties that are dangerous or potentially harmful to human health or the
environment.
   HIGHWAY: A way or place of whatever nature, publicly maintained and open to
the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel. "Highway" includes
"street".
   HOUSE LATERAL: That portion of any service connection between the property
line and the structure being served.
   IMPROVED PARCEL: Any lot or parcel receiving water service from the
district. Parcel will be considered to be receiving water service when an
encroachment permit is granted by the district to the property owner or his
representative or construction begins on the parcel.
   INCIDENT: An occurrence or event, either human caused or by natural
phenomena, that requires emergency response to prevent or minimize loss of life
or damage to property or natural resources (see definition of Emergency).
   INCIDENT COMMAND SYSTEM (ICS): A standardized on scene management system
specifically designed to provide for the adoption of an integrated
organizational structure that reflects the complexity and demands of single or
multiple incidents, without being hindered by jurisdictional boundaries. ICS is
the combination of facilities, resources procedures, and communications
operating within a common organizational structure, designed to aid in the
management of resources during an incident.
   INCIDENT COMMANDER: Individual responsible for all incident activities.
Incident commander has overall authority and responsibility for conducting
operations and is responsible for all management operations at the incident
site.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE: The waste byproducts from an industrial (or manufacturing)
process.
   LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   LOCAL EMERGENCY: The duly proclaimed existence of conditions of disaster or
extreme peril to the safety of persons and property within the territorial
limits of the district caused by such conditions as pollution, fire, flood,
storm, epidemic, riot, drought, sudden and severe energy shortage, plant or
animal infestation or disease, the governor's warning of an earthquake or
volcanic prediction, or an earthquake, or other conditions, other than
conditions resulting from a labor controversy, which conditions are or are
likely to be beyond the control of the services, personnel, equipment, and
facilities of the district and require the combined forces of other political
subdivisions to combat, or with respect to regulated energy utilities, a sudden
and severe energy shortage which requires extraordinary measures beyond the
authority vested in the California public utilities commission. Ref: California
Government Code section 8558(c).
   LOCAL NONPROFIT ASSOCIATION: A not for profit, unincorporated association of
natural persons for religious, scientific, social, literary, educational,
recreational, benevolent, or other purpose whose principal meeting place is
located in the district.
   LOCAL NONPROFIT CORPORATION: Not for profit corporations organized pursuant
to division 2 (commencing with section 5000) of title 1 of the Corporations
Code, which have their principal address and meeting place located in the
district.
   MAIN EXTENSION: Extension of the district water or sewer lines to areas not
currently served. Includes all costs associated with the provision of water
services to the area served by the extension, including wells and water rights.
   MAIN SEWER: Any sewer constructed in any street of district owned property
to accommodate one or more than one service connection.
   MANURE: Any substance composed primarily of animal excrement, but including
plant remains, stall shavings or mixtures of those substances whether composted
or not.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: A vehicle that is self-propelled. "Motor vehicle" does not
include a self-propelled wheelchair, invalid tricycle, or motorized quadricycle
when operated by a person who, by reason of physical disability, is otherwise
unable to move about as a pedestrian. Ref: California Vehicle Code section 415.
   MULTIPLE-DWELLING STRUCTURE: Any two (2) or more dwelling units in any
single building or structure or group of buildings or structures, including any
apartment house, apartment court or condominium excepting any multiple lodging
structure.
   NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (NIMS): As used in the state of
California, is synonymous with the standardized emergency management system
(SEMS).
   NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or
any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the district, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
   OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provision of this code.
   OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a district officer by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
Bear Valley Community Services District".
   OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER: Any individual, partnership, corporation, or association in whose
name the legal title to the property appears (including any part owner, joint
owner or tenant in common) by deed duly recorded in the county recorder's
office, or the individual, partnership, corporation or association in
possession of the property under claim of, or exercising acts of ownership over
same for himself, or as executor, administrator, guardian or trustee of the
owner.
   OWNERSHIP OF WASTE MATERIALS: Solid waste subject to collection by the
district or a collection service operator shall become the property of the
district or the collection service operator, at such time as the district takes
possession of the wastes, by the placement of the wastes in district or
contractors' receptacles or facilities.
   PEACE OFFICER: See definition of Police Officer.
   PERMIT: Any written authorization required pursuant to any regulation of the
district.
   PERSON: Any human being, individual, firm, company, partnership, association
and private or public or municipal corporations, the United States of America,
the state of California, districts and all political subdivisions, governmental
agencies and mandataries thereof.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods,
chattels, effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by
which any pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created,
acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and
every right or interest therein.
   PINE BARK BEETLE: Any beetle that infests pine trees, including, but not
limited to, pine bark beetles, IPS beetles, Jeffrey pine beetles and western
pine beetles.
   PINE TREE: Includes any of the following: any living or standing pine tree
or evergreen tree or part thereof; any dead pine tree or evergreen tree or dead
part of any pine tree, including logs, branches, stumps, firewood or other pine
material from which the bark has not been removed.
   POLICE OFFICER: A police officer employed by the district.
   POLLUTION: An alteration of the quality of waters of the state by waste to a
degree which unreasonably affects such waters for beneficial use, or facilities
which serve such beneficial uses. "Pollution" may include "contamination".
   PREMISES: A lot or parcel of real property under one ownership.
   PRIVATE FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE: Water service and facilities for building
sprinkler systems, hydrants, hose reels and other facilities installed on
private property for fire protection and the water available therefor.
   PROPERTY: A parcel of real property. For purposes of pine bark beetle
infestation: Includes any land which has enough timber, standing or down, to
constitute, in the judgment of the board, an insect or pine bark beetle
infestation breeding ground or plant disease hazard of a nature to constitute a
menace, injurious and dangerous to timber or forest growth, especially pine
trees.
   PUBLIC COMPLAINT: An allegation by a member of the public of a violation or
misinterpretation of a district policy, or state or federal statute of which
the individual has been adversely affected.
   PUBLIC FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE: The service and facilities of the entire
water supply, storage and distribution system of the district, including the
fire hydrants affixed thereto, and the water available for fire protection,
excepting house service connections and appurtenances thereto.
   PUBLIC PARK: See definition of Recreation Area.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY: Does not include highway.
   PUBLIC RECORDS: Any writing containing information relating to the conduct
of district business prepared, owned, used or retained by the district
regardless of physical form or characteristics.
   PYROTECHNIC DEVICE: Has the same meaning as that set forth in section 12526
of the California Health and Safety Code.
   RECREATION AREA: Shall include, but is not limited to, all land, lakes,
rivers, beaches, campgrounds, golf courses, community facilities leased to the
association, equestrian trails, swimming pools, tennis courts, recreational
areas, roadside rests and common areas, owned or operated by the district or
its designee as a public park or public recreation area.
   RECYCLING: The process by which salvage materials become usable products.
   REGULAR WATER SERVICE: Water service and facilities rendered for normal
domestic, commercial and industrial purposes on a permanent basis, and the
water available therefor.
   REMOVAL FREQUENCY: Frequency of removal of solid waste from the place of
waste generation either by an approved collection agency or by the owner of the
waste.
   REPORT: The report referred to in section 5473 of the Health and Safety Code
of California, pertaining to wastewater reporting requirements.
   RESIDENTIAL SEWER SERVICE: The sewer service furnished to any residential
user.
   RESIDENTIAL WASTE: Any liquid or water carried or other human or animal
waste.
   RESOURCE RECOVERY: The reclamation or salvage of wastes for reuse,
conversion to energy or recycling.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property. Ref: California Vehicle Code section 525.
   ROAD (OR DISTRICT ROAD): The roads, streets and ways designated as such on
exhibits A and B attached to ordinance 64 on file in the office of the district
secretary.
   RUBBISH: Includes wastepaper, cardboard, rags, household ashes, lawn
clippings, wearing apparel, household goods, wooden containers, and all
worthless, useless, unused, rejected, and castoff matter produced by and as a
result of human habitation and the transaction of business within the district.
   SEMS: Standardized emergency management system; a system required by
California Government Code for managing response to multiagency and
multijurisdiction emergencies in California. SEMS consists of five (5)
organizational levels which are activated as necessary: field response, local
government, operational area, region, state. Ref: SEMS guidelines glossary, p.
12.
   SCAVENGING: The uncontrolled and/or unauthorized removal of solid waste
materials.
   SERVICE OR SERVICE CONNECTION: The pipeline and appurtenant facilities such
as the curb stop, meter and meter box, if any, used to extend water or sewer
service from a distribution/collection main to premises, at or near a property
line. Where services are divided at the curb or property line to serve several
customers, each such branch service shall be deemed a separate service.
Includes all costs associated with the provision of water services to the
property served by the connection.
   SEWAGE: Any combination of water carried waste discharge from structures in
the District.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL CHARGES: Fees, tolls, rates, rentals or other charges for
services and facilities furnished by the District in connection with sanitation
or sewage systems.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM: A septic tank or any other similar facility designed
and constructed for the purpose of receiving and disposing of sewage.
   SIGN: Any device, fixture, placard, or structure of any character that is
intended to draw attention to a message, and which is visible by the general
public from any District street, road, property, or rights-of-way.
   SOLID WASTE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid, semisolid, and liquid
wastes, including garbage, swill, trash, refuse, paper, rubbish, ashes,
industrial wastes, demolition and construction wastes, abandoned vehicles and
parts thereof, discarded home and industrial appliances, dewatered, treated, or
chemically fixed sewage sludge which is not hazardous waste, manure, vegetable
or animal solid and semisolid wastes, and other discarded solid and semisolid
wastes. It does not include hazardous waste or medical waste except hypodermic
syringes or needles in appropriate disposal containers.
   SOLID WASTE CONTAINER: Standard containers, detachable bin boxes, and
stationary refuse compactor and dropoff boxes (also referred to as a roll-off).
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT: Includes a planned program for effectively
controlling the generation, storage, collection, transportation, processing and
reuse, conversion or disposal of solid wastes in a safe, sanitary,
aesthetically acceptable, environmentally sound and economical manner. It
includes all administrative, financial, environmental, legal and planning
functions as well as the operational aspects of solid waste handling, disposal
and resource recovery systems necessary to achieve established objectives.
   SPECIAL EFFECTS: Has the same meaning as that set forth in section 12532 of
the California Health and Safety Code.
   STANDARD CONTAINER: Metallic or plastic tapered can, of sufficient strength
to prevent being broken under ordinary conditions. Cans shall be equipped with
a cover, cover handle, and side handles or bails.
   STATE: The State of California.
   STATIONARY REFUSE COMPACTOR AND DROPOFF BOX: A large metallic solid waste
container capable of being detached and hauled by mechanical means, which is
connected to a stationary, mechanical solid waste compactor for compacting
solid waste in such container.
   STOP OR STOPPING: When prohibited, shall mean any cessation of movement of a
vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police officer or
official traffic control device or signal.
   STREET: Any public highway, road, street, avenue, alley, way, public place,
public easement or right of way.
   STREET LATERAL: That portion of any service connection between a main sewer
and a property line and lying within a street or public easement.
   SWILL: All classes of putrefactive and easily decomposed animal or vegetable
matter that is subject to immediate decay.
   TEMPORARY WATER SERVICE: Water service and facilities rendered for
construction work and other uses of limited duration, and the water available
therefor.
   TENANT: As applied to a building or land, includes any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
   TENANT ASSIGNEE: A person residing on an association member's property
within the district to whom the member has assigned his or her rights as an
association member.
   TIMBER OWNER: Any person who owns timber immediately prior to felling or the
first person to acquire either the legal title or beneficial title to timber
after it has been felled from land. "Timber owner" includes any person who owns
or acquires legal title or beneficial title to downed timber within the
boundaries of the district.
   TRUNK SEWER: That portion of the sewer line between a collection point for
one or more main sewers and the treatment facilities.
   UNAVAILABLE DIRECTOR: "Unavailable" means that a director is either killed,
missing, or so seriously injured as to be unable to attend meetings and
otherwise perform his or her duties. Any question as to whether a particular
officer is unavailable shall be settled by the board or any remaining available
members of the board (including standby directors who are serving on the
board). Ref: California Government Code section 8636.
   USER: Includes and shall be construed to mean any individual, firm, company,
copartnership, association, public entity or corporation occupying the status
or obligation of user under and within the terms hereof.
   VECTOR: Includes any insect or other arthropod, rodent, or other animal
capable of transmitting the causative agents of human disease, or disrupting
the normal enjoyment of life by adversely affecting the public health and well
being.
   VEHICLE: A device by which any person or property may be propelled, moved,
or drawn upon a highway, except a device moved by human power or used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   VOLUNTEERS: Includes residents of the district who make themselves available
for assignment during an emergency. They may or may not have particular skills
needed during emergencies and may or may not be part of a previously organized
group. The district shall prepare and maintain a roster of volunteers,
including their special skills, if any.
   WATER DEPARTMENT: The board of directors of the district performing
functions related to the district water service, together with the general
manager, the water supervisor, the billing clerk and other duly authorized
representatives.
   WEEDS: The following plants growing upon streets or private property within
the district:
   A.   Plants which, when mature, bear downy or winged seeds;
   B.   Sagebrush, chaparral and any other brush plant that attains such large
growth as to create a fire hazard to adjacent improved property;
   C.   Plants that are noxious or dangerous; and
   D.   Dry grass, stubble, brush, litter or other flammable material that
endangers public safety by creating a fire hazard.
   WRITING, WRITTEN, IN WRITING: Any handwriting, typewriting, printing,
photostating, photocopying and every other means of recording upon any form of
communication or representation, including letters, words, pictures, sounds or
symbols, or combinations thereof, and all papers, maps, magnetic or paper
tapes, photographic films and prints, magnetic or punched cards, discs, drums
or other documents. When the written signature of any person is required by law
to any official or public writing of bond, it shall be in the proper
handwritten wet signature of such person, or in case such person is unable to
write, by such person's proper mark. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009; amd. Ord. 09-233,
10-8-2009; Ord. 18-248, 4-12-2018)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
   The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.    Misdemeanor: Unless specifically provided elsewhere, any person
convicted of a violation of any of the terms and provisions of this code shall
be fined in a sum not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for any one
offense and such person may be confined in the county jail for a period of not
more than six (6) months, or both such fine and imprisonment may be imposed.
   B.    Infraction: Any person who has committed an infraction shall be
punished for a first violation by a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars
($100.00), and for committing the same offense a second time within one year,
by a fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) and for committing the
same offense a third or any subsequent time within one year, by a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. Gov.C. §§ 36900, 36901.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.    Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to any violation of any section or subsection in this code the same
as though it were a part of each and every separate section or subsection
unless otherwise indicated. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues,
unless otherwise specifically provided in this code.
   B.    Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed but not
more than one recovery shall be had against and not more than one punishment
imposed on the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation
of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to
bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.    No Specific Penalty Provided: Whenever the doing of any act or the
omission to do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this
code and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such
breach, the provisions of this chapter shall apply.
   D.    Inclusions: Whenever in this code any act or omission is made
unlawful, it shall include causing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering or
concealing the fact of such act or omission. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
   No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the board of directors to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Board Established; General Duties
1-5-2: Qualifications; Election; Vacancy
1-5-3: Oath Of Office
1-5-4: Compensation
1-5-5: Professional Organizations
1-5-6: Board President And Vice President
1-5-7: Board Authority
1-5-8: Board Secretary
1-5-9: Meetings And Notices
1-5-10: Committees Of The Board
1-5-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; GENERAL DUTIES:
   A.    The district is governed by a legislative body of five (5) members
known as the board of directors.
   B.    The board establishes policies and regulations for the operation of
the district and provides for the implementation of those policies and
regulations, which is the responsibility of the general manager.
   C.    The directors represent and act for the residents, property owners,
and the public as a whole. (Ord. 15-242, 6-11-2015)
1-5-2: QUALIFICATIONS; ELECTION; VACANCY:
   A.    Qualification: No person may be a candidate for or appointed to the
board unless he or she is a registered voter of the district.
   B.    Term: Directors are elected at large and serve staggered terms of four
(4) years in accordance with the applicable provisions of the community
services district law.
   C.    Declaration Of Candidacy For Election: Each candidate for election to
the board must obtain a form of declaration of candidacy from the Kern County
elections official and complete and return the form to the elections official
in accordance with the uniform district election law 1 .
   D.    Statement Of Qualifications: In accordance with the Elections Code
sections 10540 and 13307, a candidate may submit a candidate statement to the
Kern County elections official for inclusion in the sample ballot subject to
the applicable fee.
   E.    Vacancy: In the event that a board member permanently leaves office
(due to death, disability, resignation, removal, etc.), the board may either
schedule an election or fill the vacancy by appointment in accordance with
Government Code sections 61042 and 1780 and any applicable policy or procedure
established by the board. (Ord. 15-242, 6-11-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. Beginning at ELEC § 10500.
1-5-3: OATH OF OFFICE:
   The secretary of the board or authorized county elections personnel will
administer the oath of office to newly elected or appointed directors. The oath
must be filed with the clerk of the Kern County board of supervisors. (Ord. 15-
242, 6-11-2015)
1-5-4: COMPENSATION:
   A.    Each member of the board will receive as compensation one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for each day of service rendered as a director. A director
may not receive compensation for more than six (6) days of service in a month.
   B.    A "day of service" means any of the following:
      1.    A board meeting, either regular or special, conducted pursuant to
the Ralph M. Brown act.
      2.    A meeting of a board subcommittee, standing committee, or ad hoc
committee.
      3.    Representation of the district at one of the following: a) a public
event, b) a public meeting or public hearing conducted by another public
agency, or c) a meeting of a public benefit nonprofit corporation on whose
board the district has membership; provided that the board of directors has
previously approved the director's representation at the event or meeting at a
board meeting and that the director delivers a report to the board regarding
the director's representation at a subsequent board meeting following the event
or meeting.
      4.    Participation in a training program on a topic that is directly
related to the district; provided that the board has previously approved the
director's participation at a board meeting and that the director delivers a
report to the board regarding the director's participation at a subsequent
board meeting following the training program.
   C.    Each member of the board may be reimbursed for necessary and actual
traveling and incidental expenses incurred while on official business.
Reimbursement for these expenses is subject to Government Code sections 53232.2
and 53232.3, and district policy as established by the board.
   D.    A director may waive any or all of the payments permitted by this
section in writing, or by e-mail copied to both the payroll clerk and general
manager.
   E.    No director may serve as a compensated employee of the district,
except as a volunteer firefighter as provided by Government Code section 53227.
(Ord. 15-242, 6-11-2015)
1-5-5: PROFESSIONAL ORGANIZATIONS:
   The board may establish by policy or minute action what organizations the
district and board members may belong to at district expense and what events
and activities to participate in at district expense, including the extent to
which the district will pay for such memberships, events and activities on
behalf of board members. (Ord. 15-242, 6-11-2015)
1-5-6: BOARD PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT:
   A.    Officers Established: The board officers are the president and vice
president.
   B.    Time Of Election: The president and vice president will be elected by
the board annually and assume office at the first meeting in December of each
year, which, when occurring after a general election, should occur within forty
five (45) days of the general election.
   C.    President: The president chairs all meetings of the board and will
perform such other duties as established by this code, by board resolution, and
by the community services district law and other applicable law.
   D.    Vice President: The vice president will serve as chair at board
meetings in the absence of the president and perform all other duties of
president as required by this code, by board resolution, and by the community
services district law and other applicable law in the event the president is
absent or incapacitated. In the event that the president leaves the board
permanently (due to death, disability, resignation, removal, etc.), the vice
president will assume the office and title of president for the remainder of
the term. A new vice president will be appointed by the board at the next
regular or special board meeting after the office becomes vacant. (Ord. 15-242,
6-11-2015)
1-5-7: BOARD AUTHORITY:
   A.    The board is the unit of authority within the district.
   B.    The primary responsibility of the board is the formulation and
evaluation of policy.
   C.    In carrying out its responsibilities, the board has all authority
vested in it under the community services district law and all other applicable
state laws.
   D.    The board may act only by ordinance, resolution or motion. A majority
vote of the total membership of the board is required for the board to take
action.
   E.    All district policies and regulations, including those of district
departments, must be approved by the board in advance of implementation.
   F.    Except as expressly provided in this code or the community services
district law, a director has no individual authority and may not give any
direction or order to district employees or contractors, or commit the district
to any act, expenditure, or policy. No individual board member may represent
the district's policy unless such policy has been determined by the board.
   G.    Routine matters concerning the operational aspects of the district,
including the implementation of board policies and regulations, are to be
delegated to the general manager and professional staff of the district.
   H.    The board may not enforce the Bear Valley Springs Association
covenants and restrictions. (Ord. 15-242, 6-11-2015)
1-5-8: BOARD SECRETARY:
   The position of secretary of the board of directors is established. The
secretary will be an employee of the district and may not be a member of the
board. The secretary will perform such duties and have such responsibilities as
may be established by the board. (Ord. 15-242, 6-11-2015)
1-5-9: MEETINGS AND NOTICES:
   All meetings of the board of directors will be conducted in accordance with
the Ralph M. Brown act. The general manager may request persons, staff or
consultants to attend board meetings. Board members may also request persons to
attend meetings for the purposes of presentations or to provide information
through the general manager.
   A.    Regular Meetings:
      1.    Place: Regular meetings of the board will be held at the district's
administration office, or at such other place as may be determined by board
resolution or by the board upon adjournment, minute action, or special call.
      2.    Time: The times and dates of regular meetings will be established
by resolution of the board in accordance with Government Code section 61044.
   B.    Special Or Emergency Meetings: Special or emergency meetings may be
called from time to time by the board president or a majority of the board as
provided by the Ralph M. Brown act.
   C.    Notices: All required meeting notices will be posted at the district
administration office and on the district's website, and in any other manner or
location as may be required under the Ralph M. Brown act or applicable state
law.
   D.    Meeting Procedures And Protocols: The board may establish procedures
and protocols for the conduct of board meetings by resolution. (Ord. 15-242, 6-
11-2015)
1-5-10: COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD:
   A.    Establishment; Purpose: The board may establish committees, including
standing, ad hoc, and board subcommittees, to review certain matters of
district interest and to make recommendations to the board on matters assigned
to such committees. Committees of the board are advisory only and may not act
on their own. Committees can only make recommendations and refer items back to
the board for action. Committees may not establish any separate committee or
subcommittee.
   B.    Composition; Appointment; Organization Of Standing Committees:
      1.    Each standing committee will be composed of two (2) board members
nominated annually by the president at the regular meeting of the Board of
Directors in January. The president’s nominations may then be approved by a
majority of the Board by a motion vote. The president may appoint up to three
(3) volunteers who are not board members, which may be approved by a majority
of the Board by a motion vote. The president will designate which of the board
members will serve as the chair and vice chair of the committee.
      2.    Volunteer committee members must be registered voters of the
district and may not be district employees.
      3.    On or before December 31 of every even numbered year, the district
will prepare a list of volunteer appointments of all standing committees and
will begin to solicit applications for volunteers for such committees the
following January. The list must include the name of current appointees and the
date of the original appointment. The list and the solicitation of applications
for volunteer members will be publicized at regular board meetings, on the
district website, and when practicable in the local news media. The application
process will close at the end of February of each following odd numbered year.
      4.    Volunteer committee members will be appointed by the board at the
first board meeting in March of odd numbered years and will serve for a two (2)
year term until March of the subsequent odd numbered year, or until a successor
is named. If a vacancy occurs, such vacancy may be filled by appointment by the
board for the remainder of the current term.
      5.    A volunteer may be removed from a committee at any time by a
majority of the board by a major vote.
      6.    The chair of the committee schedules the meetings and sets the
agenda with the general manager. Agenda items should be matters previously
approved and assigned by the board. If a committee wants to propose, review or
discuss a matter within the subject area of the committee that has not been
previously approved and assigned by the board, the chair will request
permission of the board to do so before substantive time on the matter is
incurred by the committee.
      7.    All committee meetings are subject to the Ralph M. Brown act. The
general manager and/or appointed staff member will attend each committee
meeting. The chair or vice chair will report on committee activities to the
board.
   C.   Designated Standing Committees; Duties: The following standing
committees of the board are established for the purpose of assisting the board
in reviewing the subject matter areas generally designated below:
      1.   Administration committee: Reviews personnel, general district
policy, and other management matters.
      2.   Finance committee: Reviews budgetary and other financial matters.
      3.   Infrastructure committee: Reviews plans for the development,
operation and maintenance of district infrastructure.
      4.   Public safety committee: Reviews public safety issues such as
police, disaster preparedness and response programs, and fire protection.
      5.   Liaison committee: Maintains a close, cooperative and communicative
relationship between the Bear Valley Springs Association and the district,
including reviewing programs, services and amenities related to parks and
recreation.
   D.    Ad Hoc Committees: The board may establish an ad hoc committee that
includes volunteers to assist with a specific issue. The following guidelines
pertain to establishing such a committee:
      1.    Board members may bring the proposed task and time frame to the
full board for approval at a board meeting.
      2.    Two (2) board members will be assigned by the president to the ad
hoc committee to serve as the chair and vice chair.
      3.   The opportunity for volunteers to participate in the ad hoc
committee must be publicized at the regular board meetings, on the district
website, and, when practicable, in the local news media. Employees of the
district may not serve on an ad hoc committee. Nominations of volunteers will
be made by the president at a board meeting, which may be approved by a
majority of the Board by a motion vote. The number of volunteers on an ad hoc
committee should not exceed five (5).
      4.    Each ad hoc committee will exist for a specified period of time
established at the time of formation of the committee.
      5.    All ad hoc committee meetings must be noticed with an agenda, and
comply with all other requirements of the Ralph M. Brown act. Ad hoc committees
are not authorized to conduct any meetings in closed session. All members must
meet together as a full committee, and may not divide into "subgroups" which
meet separately.
      6.    The specific task of the ad hoc committee and the time frame of the
ad hoc committee's existence will be set out in a letter to each volunteer
member, and the member will be asked to acknowledge by his or her signature on
a copy to be retained by the district that the committee's task and beginning
and ending dates, and the state's open meeting laws are understood and will be
followed.
      7.    A district staff member will attend all meetings to take notes.
      8.    Each ad hoc committee's purpose and authority is limited to
providing advice and making recommendations to the board consistent with the
task assigned. (Ord. 15-242, 6-11-2015; amd. Ord. 19-251, 4-11-2019; Ord. 21-
254, 3-11-2021; Ord. 24-257, 11-14-2024)
CHAPTER 6
CONFLICT OF INTEREST
(Rep. by Ord. 15-240, 3-26-2015)
CHAPTER 7
CLAIMS AGAINST THE DISTRICT
SECTION:
1-7-1: Claims For Money Or Damages; Purpose And Intent
1-7-2: Form Of Claim
1-7-3: Time Limitation
1-7-4: Late Filing
1-7-5: Delegation Of Claims Authority To General Manager
1-7-6: Claim Presentation Required Prior To Initiating Legal Action
1-7-7: Legal Action On Claims
1-7-1: CLAIMS FOR MONEY OR DAMAGES; PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   The California Government Claims Act 1 (Act) provides that no suit for money
or damages may be brought against the District unless a claim has been timely
presented to the District in accordance with the Act. The general procedures
for the filing, consideration and action on a claim are governed by the
provisions of the Act. The Act also provides that local ordinances may govern
those claims the Act excludes and which other State Statutes do not expressly
govern. This chapter is intended to restate key provisions of the Government
Claims Act and to govern all claims against the District for money or damages
not otherwise governed by the Act or other State law. (Ord. 17-247, 7-27-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. GOV § 900 et seq.
1-7-2: FORM OF CLAIM:
   All claims must be made in writing and verified by the claimant or by a
person acting on the claimant's behalf. No claim may be filed on behalf of a
class of persons unless it is verified by every member of that class of
persons. All claims must be made on a form provided by the District, contain
the information required by Government Code section 910, and must be filed with
the District Secretary. (Ord. 17-247, 7-27-2017)
1-7-3: TIME LIMITATION:
   All claims must be presented in accordance with the time limitations set
forth in Government Code section 911.2. In addition, pursuant to Government
Code section 901, any claim against the District for equitable indemnity or
partial equitable indemnity must be presented not later than six (6) months
after the date upon which a defendant is served with the complaint giving rise
to the defendant's claim for a cause of action for equitable indemnity or
partial equitable indemnity against the District. (Ord. 17-247, 7-27-2017)
1-7-4: LATE FILING:
   In accordance with Government Code section 935, the late filing of a claim
pursuant to this chapter is subject to Government Code sections 911.4 through
912.2. (Ord. 17-247, 7-27-2017)
1-7-5: DELEGATION OF CLAIMS AUTHORITY TO GENERAL MANAGER:
   A.    Pursuant to Government Code section 935.4, the General Manager or the
General Manager's designee is authorized and directed to perform on behalf of
the District all functions relating to the administration of claims against the
District.
   B.    The General Manager is authorized to settle claims against the
District provided that the settlement of any such claim does not exceed one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord. 17-247, 7-27-2017)
1-7-6: CLAIM PRESENTATION REQUIRED PRIOR TO INITIATING LEGAL ACTION:
   All claims must be presented as provided in this chapter and acted upon by
the District prior to the filing of any lawsuit or action on such claim. No
lawsuit or action may be maintained by a person who has not complied with the
requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 17-247, 7-27-2017)
1-7-7: LEGAL ACTION ON CLAIMS:
   A.    Any legal action brought against the District upon any claim must
conform to the requirements of Government Code sections 940 - 949 or such other
applicable State law that governs the claim.
   B.    Any legal action brought against any employee of the District must
conform to the requirements of Government Code sections 950 - 951. (Ord. 17-
247, 7-27-2017)
CHAPTER 8
FINANCE
SECTION:
1-8-1: Budget
1-8-2: Designation Of Depository
1-8-3: Investments
1-8-4: Disbursements
1-8-5: Annual Audit
1-8-6: Purchasing
1-8-7: Formal Contract Procedure
1-8-8: Open Market Purchases
1-8-9: Exemptions From Centralized Purchasing
1-8-10: Surplus Vehicles, Supplies And Equipment
1-8-11: Surplus Real Property
1-8-12: Dishonored Checks
1-8-1: BUDGET:
   A.    Time Of Adoption: On or before July 1 of each year, the board of
directors shall publish notice stating that the general manager has prepared a
proposed final budget which is available for inspection at a time and place
within the district specified in the notice, and the date, time and place when
the board of directors will meet to adopt the final budget and that any person
may appear and be heard regarding any item in the budget or regarding the
addition of other items. The board of directors shall publish its notice at
least two (2) weeks before the hearing in at least one newspaper of general
circulation within the district. The district shall annually adopt a budget and
file a copy of same with the Kern County auditor on or before September 30 of
each year.
   B.    Joint Responsibility: The treasurer, the finance committee, the board
and the general manager jointly complete the budget preparation, review,
adoption process, and budget calendar.
   C.    Draft Budget: The draft budget is prepared by the finance committee
and the general manager.
   D.    Amendment Of Budget: Any amendment to the budget after adoption of the
final budget shall occur as per Government Code section 61111. (Ord. 09-230, 1-
8-2009)
1-8-2: DESIGNATION OF DEPOSITORY:
   All of the operating monies of the district (checking and savings accounts)
shall be deposited with the following depository: Bank of the Sierra. (Ord. 09-
230, 1-8-2009; amd. Ord. 24-258, 11-14-2024)
1-8-3: INVESTMENTS:
   A.   Surplus Monies: To the extent feasible, the district shall invest its
surplus monies (cash in the treasury not required for the immediate needs of
the district) in the local agency investment fund (LAIF) of the state, the Kern
County treasury pool (KCTP), or any other investment fund that the district is
eligible to invest in as determined by the district’s investment policy, as may
be amended from time to time. The treasurer shall present a monthly investment
report and a quarterly investment report showing the status of all district
investments as required by California Government Code section 53646. The
district’s investment policy shall be reviewed at least annually. The board of
directors may also establish a revolving fund pursuant to article 15 of chapter
4 of part 1 of division 2 of title 5 of the Government Code.
   B.   Authorized Signers For LAIF, KCTPOr Other Investment Transfers As
Authorized By The District’s Investment Policy: The general manager, treasurer,
and district secretary are authorized to transfer monies between the district's
investment accounts and operating bank accounts. Transfers may be made by any
one of the authorized persons. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009; amd. Ord. 24-258, 11-14-
2024)
1-8-4: DISBURSEMENTS:
   A.    Signing Of Checks: All checks will be signed by a board member and a
staff member. Normally the board member signing will be the president. If the
president is unavailable, the vice president will sign. If neither is
available, any board member may sign. The staff signature will normally be that
of the general manager. If the general manager is unavailable, the assistant
general manager will sign. If both are unavailable, the police chief will sign.
All signatures will be "wet". No stamps or plates will be used. In the event
that no board member is available and that all reasonable efforts to contact a
board member have been exhausted, any two (2) of the general manager, assistant
general manager and police chief may sign checks.
   B.    Payroll Checks: Payroll checks shall be issued by the district or by
an authorized payroll processing service. Salaries shall be paid when due. If
the checks are issued by the district, the checks shall be signed in accordance
with the requirements of subsection A of this section. If the checks are issued
by an authorized payroll processing service, the checks will be issued and
signed pursuant to their rules and need not be signed by authorized district
officers. The summary report of checks issued by the authorized payroll
processing service shall be provided to the board for approval at the next
regular meeting.
   C.    Electronic Payments: Disbursements may be made electronically,
provided that the list of electronic payments is approved with wet signatures
in accordance with subsection A of this section. In such cases where signatures
are applied to zero value checks, a complete list of payees and amounts
electronically paid will be provided with the checks to be signed.
   D.    Priority Of Demands: The following types of demands shall have
priority for payment and checks may be issued without prior board approval if
in compliance with the procedures set forth below:
      1.    Salaries;
      2.    Taxes, including federal excise, payroll, sales and use;
      3.    Regular recurring monthly bills, such as natural gas, electric,
telephone and other utility bills, purchased water, trash collection and legal
fees;
      4.    Payments on installment contracts, maintenance contracts, notes or
leases previously approved by the board;
      5.    Bond, interest and redemption payments;
      6.    Group health and accident, workers' compensation and other
insurance premiums for policies previously approved by the board;
      7.    Petty cash, not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per
month;
      8.    Emergency response to threats to public health and safety of the
community;
      9.    Fuel delivered to the district if due on delivery; and
      10.    Invoices for supplies, materials, or services not exceeding five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per invoice if they will become past due before
the next regularly scheduled board meeting.
   E.    Check Issuance Prior To Board Action; Report: Whenever a check is
issued prior to board action, the treasurer shall present a report to the board
at the meeting next following the issuance of the check which identifies each
such check. The board shall approve the issuance of checks by ratifying the
expenditure.
   F.    Stale Checks: Checks not presented for payment within one hundred
eighty (180) days from issuance shall not be honored for payment. Monies
represented by such checks shall revert to the district treasury and accounts
in the appropriate funds shall be adjusted accordingly. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
1-8-5: ANNUAL AUDIT:
   A.    Annual Report: The treasurer shall make an annual (or earlier) written
report to the board as to the receipts and disbursements and balances in the
several accounts under his control. The report shall be signed by him and filed
with the secretary. The report shall comply with governmental generally
accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and reporting standards as determined by
the governmental accounting standards board (GASB). Pursuant to article 9 of
chapter 4 of part 1 of division 2 of title 5 of the Government Code, an annual
financial report shall be sent to the state controller.
   B.    Time Of Audit: An independent audit shall be presented to the finance
committee on or before October 31 of each year and to the board on or before
November 15 of each year for the fiscal year preceding the report. The auditor
shall personally appear before the finance committee and the board. (Ord. 09-
230, 1-8-2009)
1-8-6: PURCHASING:
   A.   Applicability: This section shall apply to either contracts not covered
by the Public Contract Code or contracts covered by the Public Contract Code
only to the extent that the Public Contract Code does not provide guidance.
   B.   Centralized Purchasing System: In order to establish efficient
procedures for the purchase of supplies, materials and equipment, and to secure
for all departments of the district supplies, materials and equipment at the
lowest possible cost commensurate with the quality needed, to exercise positive
financial control over purchases, to clearly define authority for the
purchasing functions, and to assure the quality of purchases, a centralized
purchasing system is adopted. Other than as described in section
1-8-9 of this chapter, there shall be no exemption from centralized purchasing
and no district department shall be authorized to purchase or contract for the
purchase of supplies, services or equipment independently.
   C.   Purchasing Agent: The purchase and sale of all supplies,
nonprofessional services, materials and equipment shall be the responsibility
of the general manager who shall be the purchasing agent. The purchasing agent
shall have the authority to select a specific vendor and place an order without
obtaining competitive bids for any purchases not exceeding five thousand
dollars ($5,000). The purchasing agent will justify acquisition of any capital
items over five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) and related expenditures and
ensure that all the district's bills are paid on time.
   D.   Estimates Of Requirements: All departments shall file detailed
estimates of their requirements for supplies, materials and equipment in such
manner, at such time, and for such future periods as the purchasing agent shall
prescribe.
   E.   Requisitions: All departments shall submit requests for supplies,
materials and equipment to the purchasing agent on standard requisition forms.
   F.   Purchase Orders: Purchases of supplies, materials and equipment shall
be made only by purchase order and signed by the purchasing agent.
   G.   Encumbrance Of Funds: The purchasing agent shall not issue any purchase
order for supplies, materials or equipment unless there exists an unencumbered
appropriation in the department or fund against which the purchase is to be
charged. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
   H.   Purchases Made By Credit Card: The general manager, assistant general
manager, chief of police, superintendent of public works, finance director and
district secretary are authorized to use a district credit card issued in their
names. Purchases made by credit card will be limited to items for which issuing
a check is impractical, such as travel expenses or online purchases. All
purchases made by credit card must be preapproved by the general manager. At
the close of each billing cycle (monthly), individual monthly credit card
statements will be received and reconciled by the district. Individual card
holders are responsible for providing all pertinent receipts and other
documentation necessary for a full reconciliation. A report shall be maintained
in the district files and include the following information: name of purchaser,
item purchased, date and amount of purchase. Purchases made during the
preceding month shall be published in the District’s Register of Warrants and
shall list the purchaser, item purchased, date, and amount of purchase. (Ord.
11-235, 7-14-2011; amd. Ord. 23-255, 9-14-2023)
1-8-7: FORMAL CONTRACT PROCEDURE:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, purchases and contracts for
supplies, materials and equipment of a value greater than twenty five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00) shall be by a written contract with the lowest possible
and best bidder, pursuant to the procedures described in this section.
   A.   Notice Inviting Bids: Notices inviting bids shall include a general
description of the articles to be purchased, shall state where bid blanks and
specifications may be secured, and the time and place for opening bids.
   B.   Publication And Mailing: The notice inviting bids shall be published at
least ten (10) days before the opening of bids in a newspaper of general
circulation in the district. The purchasing agent may establish and maintain a
list of prospective bidders. The prospective bidders shall be listed on said
list according to the service or product provided as indicated by the
prospective bidder. It shall be the responsibility of prospective bidders to
ensure that the list contains current information in respect to their address,
service or product. The purchasing agent is authorized to mail invitations to
bid directly to appropriate prospective bidders appearing on said list and to
other prospective bidders.
   C.   Bidder's Security: Each bid or proposal shall be required by the
purchasing agent to be accompanied by a bidder's bond, certified or cashier's
check, or cash in an amount not to exceed more than ten percent (10%) of the
total bid. Bidder's security shall be prescribed in the public notices inviting
bids. Bidders shall be entitled to return of bid security, provided that a
successful bidder shall forfeit his bid security upon refusal or failure to
execute the contract within ten (10) days after the notice of award has been
mailed, unless and to the extent the district is responsible for the delay. The
board of directors may, on refusal or failure of the successful bidder to
execute the contract, award it to the next lowest and best bidder. If the board
of directors awards the contract to the next lowest and best bidder, the amount
of the lowest bidder's required security shall be applied by the district to
the difference between the low bid and second lowest bid, and the surplus, if
any, shall be returned to the lowest bidder.
   D.   Bid Opening Procedure: Sealed bids shall be submitted to the purchasing
agent and shall be identified as bids on the envelope. Bids shall be opened in
public at the time and place stated in the public notices. A record of the bids
received shall be available for public inspection after bids have been opened,
indicating the amounts bid by the various bidders and the basis for awarding
the contract or purchase order if other than the lowest bidder. Such list shall
be available for thirty (30) days after the award has been made.
   E.   Rejection Of Bids: At its discretion, the board of directors shall have
the power to reject any and all bids presented and readvertise for bids.
   F.   Award Of Contracts: Contracts shall be awarded by the board of
directors, by board order, to the lowest and best bidder except as otherwise
provided herein.
   G.   Tie Bids: If two (2) or more bids received are for the same total
amount or unit price, quality and service being equal, and if the public
interest will not permit the delay of readvertising for bids, the board of
directors may accept the one it chooses, or accept the lowest bid made by
negotiation with the tie bidders at the time of the bid opening.
   H.   Performance Bonds: The board of directors shall have authority to
require a performance bond before executing a contract in such amount as it
shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the district.
If the board requires a performance bond, the form and amount of the bond shall
be described in the notice inviting bids. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
1-8-8: OPEN MARKET PURCHASES:
   A.   Purchase of supplies, materials, equipment and nonprofessional services
of a value between five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) and twenty five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00) may be made by the purchasing agent in the open market, in
accordance with the following procedure:
   The purchasing agent or designee shall secure favorable pricing for the
procurement of supplies, equipment, and nonprofessional services. This shall
include obtaining at least three (3) bids based upon identical specifications
from different vendors prior to purchasing supplies, equipment and
nonprofessional services costing between five thousand dollars ($5,000) and
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000). Bids may be received by informal price
checking, in writing, in person, or via telephone and shall be documented and
maintained in a file with the final awarded contract. The competitive bidding
procedures as described in section 20161 et seq. of the Public Contract Code
may be utilized when not otherwise required, at the discretion of the
purchasing agent. Award shall be made to the vendor offering the lowest
acceptable bid. This requirement shall not apply to the purchase of supplies
and equipment for which less than three (3) vendors exist.
   B.   The purchase of professional services, such as architectural, landscape
architectural, engineering, environmental, land surveying, legal, financial
consultants or construction project management contractors shall be made on the
basis of demonstrated competence and on the professional qualifications
necessary for the satisfactory performance of the services required and in
accordance with Government Code section 53060 as may be amended from time to
time. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009; amd. Ord. 23-255, 9-14-2023)
1-8-9: EXEMPTIONS FROM CENTRALIZED PURCHASING:
   A.   Emergency Purchase: In the case of an emergency, which is so urgent as
to preclude advance action by the board of directors, the general manager may
secure in the open market at the lowest obtainable price, any supplies,
materials, equipment or contractual services needed. This emergency authority
shall extend to all purchases, irrespective of the fact that the amount might
exceed the authorized limitation for open market purchases. In all instances a
full written explanation of the emergency circumstances shall be filed with the
board of directors.
   B.   Used Equipment: In the case of the purchase or contract for used
supplies, materials or equipment, the purchasing agent is not required to
comply with the centralized purchasing policy. However, when the used supplies,
materials or equipment are valued in excess of fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00), the purchasing agent shall file a report with the board of
directors justifying the purchase or contract for the used supplies, materials
or equipment. The board of directors shall approve the purchase or contract for
the used supplies, materials or equipment in excess of fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00) prior to the purchase or entering into the contract for the used
supplies, materials or equipment.
   C.   Grants: Notwithstanding the foregoing, any contract which is paid with
grant monies shall strictly adhere to those purchasing provisions set forth in
the applicable grant agreement pursuant to any applicable state or federal law
or regulation. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009; amd. Ord. 23-255, 9-14-2023)
1-8-10: SURPLUS VEHICLES, SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Disposition: Upon approval from the board of directors, the purchasing
agent may sell, dispose of, trade in, or exchange surplus vehicles, supplies
and equipment.
   B.   Reports From Departments: All departments shall submit to the
purchasing agent, at such times and in such form as he shall prescribe, reports
showing all supplies, materials and equipment which are no longer used or
usable or which may have become obsolete, unsuitable or worn out. The
purchasing agent shall bring said reports to the board, along with the proposed
method for disposal. If the approved method of disposal is through sale or
public sale, the procedures hereinafter set forth shall be followed.
   C.   Sale: A notice describing the property in sufficient detail along with
a suggested bid amount (for items valued over $100.00) shall be prepared by the
purchasing agent and be approved by the board of directors.
      1.   The notice shall be sent to the association and other local public
agencies who shall have thirty (30) days to respond with an acceptable offer if
they are interested in purchasing any of the items set forth in the notice.
First priority shall be given to the association as long as they meet the
suggested bid amount. If the association is not interested or does not meet the
suggested bid amount, the general manager may sell the item to the agency
submitting the highest bid or, if no agency meets the suggested bid amount, he
may choose to offer the item(s) for public sale.
      2.   If any items remain after having been offered to local agencies then
the items will be offered for public sale to the highest bidder. The district
may choose to refuse any offers below the suggested bid amount.
      3.   If any items remain after being offered for public sale, the
purchasing agent may dispose of the items by any practicable method.
   D.   Public Sale: A notice describing the property in sufficient detail for
its identification shall be prepared by the purchasing agent and shall be given
at least five (5) days before the time fixed therefor by publication once in a
newspaper of general circulation.
      1.   District officers or employees shall not be purchasers at any such
public sale authorized, conducted or administered by them in their official
capacity, nor shall any district officer or employee directly or indirectly
submit a bid at the sale if he has participated in the preparation or conduct
of the sale in his official capacity.
      2.   The property so offered for sale shall be sold to the highest bidder
for cash, provided that the purchasing agent may, at his discretion, fix a
minimum sale price and may refuse to sell unless the minimum price is offered,
and may further refuse to sell unless a deposit of security is immediately
made.
      3.   The purchasing agent may, at his discretion, offer such surplus
items for public sale by any appropriate electronic means, such as an online
(internet) auction service.
      4.   Any property sold at public sale shall be delivered to the purchaser
upon payment of the purchase price. The method of delivery shall be specified
in the notice of public sale.
      5.   The proceeds of the sale or sales shall immediately be deposited and
placed in the proper fund of the district. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
1-8-11: SURPLUS REAL PROPERTY:
   The board is responsible for the acquisition, transfer, or disposal of any
real property. When disposing of any surplus real property, the district shall
comply with article 8 of chapter 5 of part 1 of division 2 of title 5 of the
Government Code (section 54220 et seq.). (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
1-8-12: DISHONORED CHECKS:
   A.    Failure To Clear: If a check tendered in payment of any account fails
to clear for insufficient funds and is returned, the account shall be
considered unpaid, and any receipts issued therefor shall be void, and the
indebtedness shall be restored to the account.
   B.    Charge For Dishonored Checks: Any person who passes a check on
insufficient funds to the district shall be liable to the district for the
amount of the check and a service charge to the district in the sum of twenty
five dollars ($25.00) for the first check passed on insufficient funds and in
the sum of thirty five dollars ($35.00) for each subsequent check passed on
insufficient funds within one year of the previous check passed on insufficient
funds. Any person who passes a check on insufficient funds shall be liable to
the district for damages equal to treble the amount of the check if the
district makes written demand for the payment that is mailed by certified mail
to the person who had passed the check on insufficient funds and the written
demand informs the person of: 1) the provisions of California Civil Code
section 1719; 2) the amount of the check; and 3) the amount of the service
charge payable to the district. The person shall then have thirty (30) days
from the date the written demand was mailed to pay the amount of the check, the
amount of the service charge payable to the district, and the costs to mail the
written demand for payment. If the person fails to pay in full the amount of
the check, the service charge payable to the district and the costs to mail the
written demand within thirty (30) days from the date the written demand was
mailed, then the person shall be liable instead for the amount of the check,
minus any partial payments made toward the amount of the check or the service
charge, and damages equal to treble that amount, which shall not be less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00). When a person becomes liable for treble damages for a check that
is the subject of a written demand, that person shall no longer be liable for
any service charge for that check and any costs to mail the written demand.
(Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
CHAPTER 9
DISTRICT RECORDS
(Rep. by Ord. 20-253, 10-8-2020)
CHAPTER 10
PUBLIC COMPLAINTS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Purpose
1-10-2: Resolution
1-10-1: PURPOSE:
   The board of directors desires that public complaints be resolved at the
lowest possible administrative level, and that the method for resolution of
complaints be logical and systematic. This chapter does not address complaints
against the police department which are addressed in
title 3, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
1-10-2: RESOLUTION:
   The method of resolving complaints shall be as follows:
   A.    Informal Resolution: The individual with a complaint shall first
discuss the matter with the general manager or his designee with the objective
of resolving the matter informally.
   B.    Registering Formal Complaint; General Manager Decision: If the
individual registering the complaint is not satisfied with the disposition of
the complaint by the general manager or his designee, the complaint may be
filed with the general manager. Within a reasonable time, the general manager,
or his designee, shall meet with the person filing the complaint to resolve the
matter. At the option of the general manager, or his designee, he/she may
conduct conferences and take testimony or written documentation in the
resolution of the complaint. A written decision from the general manager may be
requested by the individual filing the complaint.
   C.    Complaint Filed With Board Of Directors: If the individual filing the
complaint is not satisfied with the disposition of the matter by the general
manager, a written complaint may be filed with the board of directors within
thirty (30) days of receiving the general manager's decision. The board may
consider the matter at the next regular meeting or call a special meeting. The
board will expeditiously resolve the matter. In making the final decision, the
board may conduct conferences, hear testimony, as well as utilize the
transcripts of written documentation. A written decision from the board may be
requested by the individual filing the complaint.
   D.    Appearance Before Board Encouraged: This policy in no way prohibits or
is intended to deter a member of the community or staff member from appearing
before the board to present verbally a testimony, complaint, or statement in
regard to actions of the board, district programs and services, or impending
considerations of the board. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
CHAPTER 11
PUBLIC PROJECT CONTRACTING PROCEDURES
SECTION:
1-11-1: Purpose
1-11-2: Definitions
1-11-3: Public Project Bidding Requirements
1-11-4: Informal Bidding Procedures
1-11-5: Formal Bidding Procedures
1-11-6: Delegation Of Authority To Award Regular Contracts
1-11-7: Delegation Of Authority For Emergency Contracts
1-11-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted for the purpose of implementing the uniform public
construction cost accounting act ("act") 1 and the policies and procedures of
the California uniform construction cost accounting commission ("commission")
as authorized by Public Contract Code sections 20682(g) and 20682.5(j). (Ord.
16-244, 1-28-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. PCC § 22000 et seq.
1-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
   Unless specifically defined in this chapter, all words and phrases have the
meaning set forth in the act. (Ord. 16-244, 1-28-2016)
1-11-3: PUBLIC PROJECT BIDDING REQUIREMENTS:
   The cost limitations and circumstances for determining whether a district
public project may be performed by force account, negotiated contract, purchase
order, informal bidding, or formal bidding are those set forth in the act.
(Ord. 16-244, 1-28-2016)
1-11-4: INFORMAL BIDDING PROCEDURES:
   Public projects subject to informal bid procedures may be let to contract as
follows:
   A.    The district will develop and maintain a list of contractors in
accordance with the act and the criteria established by the commission.
   B.    The district will solicit bids by written request to contractors
licensed and experienced for the type of public project work to be performed
from the district's list of qualified contractors established pursuant to this
section. Qualified contractors on the list for the category of work to be
performed and all construction trade journals specified by the commission will
be mailed a notice inviting informal bids unless the product or service is
proprietary.
   C.    The notice inviting informal bids must describe: 1) the project in
general terms, 2) how to obtain more detailed information concerning the
project, and 3) state the time and place for the submission of bids.
   D.    The mailing of notices to such qualified contractors and construction
trade journals will be done in accordance with the procedures specified in the
act.
   E.    The award of contract may be made to the lowest responsible bidder.
   F.    The district reserves the right to reject any and all bids presented.
If no bids are received, the public project may be performed by district
employees by force account or by negotiated contract. (Ord. 16-244, 1-28-2016)
1-11-5: FORMAL BIDDING PROCEDURES:
   Public projects that exceed the maximum permitted amount under the act for
informal bidding and are not otherwise exempt must be let to contract by formal
bidding procedures in accordance with the act and the applicable provisions of
the Public Contract Code. (Ord. 16-244, 1-28-2016)
1-11-6: DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO AWARD REGULAR CONTRACTS:
   The general manager is authorized to award contracts pursuant to this
chapter in an amount up to twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00). (Ord. 16-
244, 1-28-2016)
1-11-7: DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY FOR EMERGENCY CONTRACTS:
   In accordance with Public Contract Code section 22050, in the event of an
emergency where immediate action is needed to procure necessary equipment,
supplies or services, the general manager is authorized to take such immediate
action without compliance with the bid noticing requirements of the act or
board approval requirements of this chapter; provided, however, that the
general manager and board of directors, as applicable, must promptly comply
with the reporting and review procedures set forth in Public Contract Code
section 22050 following any such emergency contracting. (Ord. 16-244, 1-28-
2016)
CHAPTER 12
ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS
SECTION:
1-12-1: Purpose
1-12-2: Definitions
1-12-3: Compliance Orders
1-12-4: Citations
1-12-5: Service Procedures
1-12-6: Amount Of Administrative Fines
1-12-7: Payment Of Administrative Fine
1-12-8: Request For Administrative Hearing
1-12-9: Administrative Hearing Procedure
1-12-10: Hearing Officer's Decision
1-12-11: Right To Judicial Review
1-12-12: Collection Of Unpaid Fines
1-12-13: Lien And Assessment Procedures
1-12-14: Satisfaction Of Lien
1-12-1: PURPOSE:
   This chapter is adopted pursuant Government Code section 53069.4 for the
purpose of making any violation of this Code subject to an administrative fine
and to set forth the procedures for the imposition and collection of such
fines. (Ord. 18-249, 5-24-2018)
1-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
   The following terms used in this chapter will have the meaning set forth in
this section.
   CITEE: Means the person to whom an Enforcement Officer issues an
administrative citation pursuant to this chapter.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Means any of the following: a) the General Manager,
District officers, or employees designated by the General Manager; b) any peace
officer pursuant to California Penal Code section 832; and c) any District Code
Enforcement Officer.
   HEARING OFFICER: Means the person appointed by the General Manager to serve
as the Hearing Officer for administrative hearings.
   OWNER: Means the record owner of a parcel according to the County's latest
equalized Property Tax assessment roll.
   PERSON: Includes a natural person or legal entity, and the owners, majority
stockholders, corporate officers, trustee, members, and general partners of a
legal entity.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON: Means any individual who is the owner or occupant of
real property, owner or authorized agent of any business, company, or entity,
or the parent or the legal guardian of any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years, who causes or maintains a violation of this Code. For the purposes
of this chapter, there may be more than one responsible person for any one Code
violation. (Ord. 18-249, 5-24-2018)
1-12-3: COMPLIANCE ORDERS:
   A.    Before issuing an administrative citation for any violation of
plumbing, electrical, or similar building regulation set forth in this Code or
incorporated by reference, the Enforcement Officer must first issue a written
compliance order to the person(s) responsible for the violation unless the
violation constitutes an immediate threat to public health or safety. The
compliance order must contain all of the following:
      1.    The date on which, and geographic location where, the violation was
observed;
      2.    The section of this Code violated;
      3.    A description of the conditions causing the Code violation;
      4.    Actions required to correct the violation;
      5.    A reasonable time period for the correction of the violation;
      6.    Notice that if the violation is not corrected by the date specified
in the compliance order, that an administrative citation may be issued and
administrative fines imposed for failure to correct violations by the date
specified. For the purposes of this section, a period of fourteen (14) days
will be deemed a "reasonable time period" to correct the violation if it does
not create an immediate danger to health or safety. If the violation creates an
immediate danger to health or safety, immediate action may be taken.
   B.    No further action is required if the Enforcement Officer determines
that all violations in the compliance order were cured within the period
provided for correction of the violations. If the Enforcement Officer
determines that all violations were not corrected within the time specified, an
administrative citation may be issued. (Ord. 18-249, 5-24-2018)
1-12-4: CITATIONS:
   A.    Any person violating any provision of this Code may be issued an
administrative citation by an Enforcement Officer as provided in this chapter.
   B.    Each day a violation of this Code exists will be a separate violation
and is subject to a separate fine. An administrative citation may charge a
violation for one or more days on which a violation exists, and for violation
of one or more Code sections.
   C.    An administrative citation will be on a form approved by the General
Manager and must contain the following information:
      1.    Name of the responsible person;
      2.    Date, time and address or definite identification of the location
where the violation(s) was observed;
      3.    The Code section(s) violated and a description of the violation(s);
      4.    The amount of the fine for the violation(s);
      5.    A description of the fine payment process, including a specified
time within which and the place to which the fine must be paid;
      6.    Notification of the right to appeal, including the time within
which the administrative citation may be contested and the place to obtain a
request for hearing form to contest the administrative citation;
      7.    The name and signature of the Enforcement Officer; and
      8.    Date the citation was issued. (Ord. 18-249, 5-24-2018)
1-12-5: SERVICE PROCEDURES:
   An administrative citation may be issued to a responsible person by an
Enforcement Officer for a violation(s) of this Code in the following manner:
   A.    Personal Service: The Enforcement Officer must attempt to locate and
personally serve the responsible person and obtain the signature of the
responsible person on the administrative citation. If a responsible person
refuses to sign the administrative citation, the failure or refusal to sign
will not affect the validity of the administrative citation or of subsequent
proceedings.
   B.    Service Of Citation By Mail: If the Enforcement Officer is unable to
serve the responsible person by personal service, the administrative citation
will be mailed to the responsible person by certified mail, return receipt
requested and by regular, first class mail. Service by mail will be deemed
effective as of the date of deposit in the U.S. mail.
   C.    Service Of Citation By Posting Notice: If the Enforcement Officer does
not succeed in personally serving the responsible person, by certified mail or
regular mail, the Enforcement Officer will post the administrative citation on
any real property within the District in which the Enforcement Officer has
knowledge that the responsible person has a legal interest, and such posting
will be deemed effective service on the date of posting.
   Except as specifically provided, all notices to be given by this chapter
will be served on the responsible person in accordance with this section.
Failure to receive any notice specified in this chapter does not affect the
validity of proceedings under this chapter. (Ord. 18-249, 5-24-2018)
1-12-6: AMOUNT OF ADMINISTRATIVE FINES:
   A.    The amount of fines imposed for Code violations imposed pursuant to
this chapter will be established by separate resolution of the Board, or where
no amount is specified:
      1.    A fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first
violation;
      2.    A fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second
violation of the same provision within one year from the date of the first
violation; or
      3.    A fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
additional violation of the same provision within one year from the date of the
first violation. (Ord. 18-249, 5-24-2018)
1-12-7: PAYMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE FINE:
   A.    The fine must be paid to the District within thirty (30) days from the
date of service of the administrative citation.
   B.    A late payment fee of thirty dollars ($30.00) will be charged if the
fine is not paid within thirty (30) days from the date of the administrative
citation.
   C.    In addition to the late payment penalty provided by this section,
delinquent fines accrue interest at the rate of one percent (1%) per month,
exclusive of penalties, from the due date.
   D.    Any administrative citation fine paid pursuant to this section will be
refunded in accordance with section
1-12-10 of this chapter if it is determined, after a hearing, that the person
charged in the administrative citation was not responsible for the violation or
that there was no violation as charged in the administrative citation.
   E.    Payment of a fine will not excuse the citee from correcting the Code
violation. The issuance of a citation and payment of a fine does not bar the
District from taking other enforcement action regarding a Code violation that
is not corrected, including, but not limited to issuing additional
administrative citations. (Ord. 18-249, 5-24-2018)
1-12-8: REQUEST FOR ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
   A.    Any citee may contest the citation by completing a request for hearing
form and returning it to the District within fifteen (15) days from the date of
service of the administrative citation, together with an advanced deposit of
the fine. A hearing before the Hearing Officer will be set for a date that is
not less than fifteen (15), nor more than sixty (60) days from the date the
request for hearing is filed. The person requesting the hearing will be
notified of the time and place set for the hearing at least ten (10) days prior
to the date of the hearing.
   B.    The following hardship waiver procedures may be utilized where
applicable:
      1.    Citees financially unable to make an advance deposit of the
administrative fine may file for a hardship waiver. The request for a hardship
waiver must be filed with the General Manager on a form containing information
that may be required by the General Manager. The General Manager will review
the request and determine whether a waiver is justified. A waiver may only be
approved if the request for waiver is accompanied by a sworn affidavit,
together with any supporting documents or materials, demonstrating that the
citee's actual financial inability to deposit the full amount of the fine.
      2.    The General Manager will inform the citee in writing regarding
whether the General Manager approved the waiver. This determination must be
served upon the citee by mail at the address provided in the waiver
application. The General Manager's determination is final.
      3.    Should the General Manager determine that a waiver is unjustified,
the citee must deposit the fine amount with the District not later than ten
(10) days after the date of that decision. Failure to make a deposit within ten
(10) days after waiver denial is deemed a waiver of the citee's right to an
administrative hearing and the administrative fine will be deemed delinquent.
(Ord. 18-249, 5-24-2018)
1-12-9: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCEDURE:
   A.    No hearing to contest an administrative citation before a Hearing
Officer will be held unless and until a request for hearing form has been
completed and filed and the applicable fine has been deposited.
   B.    The Hearing Officer will only consider evidence that is relevant to
whether the violation(s) occurred and whether the responsible person caused or
maintained the violation(s) of this Code on the date(s) specified in the
administrative citation.
   C.    The responsible person contesting the administrative citation will be
given the opportunity to testify and present witnesses and relevant evidence
concerning the charges set forth in the administrative citation.
   D.    The failure of any citee to appear at the administrative citation
hearing will constitute a forfeiture of the fine and a failure to exhaust their
administrative remedies.
   E.    The administrative citation and any additional documents submitted by
the Enforcement Officer will constitute prima facie evidence of the respective
facts contained in those documents.
   F.    Neither the Enforcement Officer nor any other representative of the
District will be required to attend the hearing, nor will the Hearing Officer
require that there be submitted any evidence, other than the citation, that may
exist among the public records of the District on the violation. However, any
such appearance or submission may be made at the discretion of the Enforcement
Officer or any District employee or agent.
   G.    If the Enforcement Officer submits an additional written report
concerning the administrative citation to the Hearing Officer for consideration
at the hearing, then a copy of this report also must be served by mail on the
citee requesting the hearing at least five (5) days prior to the date of the
hearing.
   H.    At least ten (10) days prior to the hearing, the citee must be
provided with copies of the citations, reports, and other documents submitted
or relied upon by the Enforcement Officer. No other discovery is permitted and
formal rules of evidence will not apply.
   I.    The Hearing Officer may continue the hearing and request additional
information from the Enforcement Officer or the citee prior to issuing a
written decision. (Ord. 18-249, 5-24-2018)
1-12-10: HEARING OFFICER'S DECISION:
   A.    After considering all of the testimony and evidence submitted at the
hearing, the Hearing Officer will issue a written decision to uphold, modify or
revoke the administrative citation and will list in the decision the reasons
for that decision. The decision of the Hearing Officer will be final.
   B.    If the decision is to uphold the citation, the District will keep the
fine amount on deposit. If the decision is to revoke the citation, then the
District will refund the deposited fine to the citee within thirty (30) days of
the service of the decision.
   C.    The citee must be served with a copy of the Hearing Officer's written
decision within twenty (20) days from the date of the hearing. (Ord. 18-249, 5-
24-2018)
1-12-11: RIGHT TO JUDICIAL REVIEW:
   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Hearing Officer on an
administrative citation may obtain review of the administrative decision by
filing a petition for review with the Kern County Superior Court in accordance
with the timelines and provisions set forth in Government Code section 53069.4.
(Ord. 18-249, 5-24-2018)
1-12-12: COLLECTION OF UNPAID FINES:
   A.    The failure of any person to pay a fine or penalty assessed by
administrative citation within the time specified on the citation constitutes a
debt to the District. To enforce that debt, the District may file a civil
action, lien or place a special assessment on the subject property, or pursue
any other legal remedy to collect such debt. A person who fails to pay any fine
or other penalty owed to the District under this chapter is liable in any
action brought by the District for all costs incurred in securing payment of
the delinquent amount, including administrative costs and attorneys' fees. Such
collection costs are in addition to any applicable fines, interest, and late
charges. Pursuit of one remedy does not preclude the pursuit of any other
remedies until the total fines and penalties owed by a person under this
chapter have been collected.
   B.    Any responsible person who has unpaid or delinquent fines, may be
refused the issuance of a land use approval, or other District approval
pertaining to the property, real or personal, that is the subject of the
citation issued pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 18-249, 5-24-2018)
1-12-13: LIEN AND ASSESSMENT PROCEDURES:
   In addition to any other legal remedy, the District may place a lien and/or
assessment on property that is the subject of a citation if the citation has
been issued to the owner. The following procedures will apply:
   A.    The General Manager may initiate proceedings to record a lien and/or
place an assessment against the subject property.
   B.    Before recording the lien or assessing the property, the General
Manager must cause a report to be submitted to the Secretary of the Board
stating the amounts due and owing. The report may include an administrative
fee, as established by Board resolution, for the administrative costs
associated with the processing and recordation of the proposed lien.
   C.    The Clerk of the Board must fix a time, date, and place for a hearing
before the General Manager to consider the report and any protests or
objections to the report.
   D.    The Clerk of the Board must serve the owner with a hearing notice not
less than ten (10) days before the hearing date. The notice must set forth the
amount of the delinquent administrative fine, and any penalties and interest
that is due. Notice must be sent by first-class and certified mail, postage
prepaid, addressed to the owner's address as it appears on the last equalized
assessment roll or supplemental roll of the County, whichever is more current.
Service by mail is effective on the date of mailing and failure of owner to
actually receive notice does not affect its validity.
   E.    At the conclusion of the hearing, the General Manager must adopt a
report confirming, discharging, or modifying the delinquent amount. The
decision of the General Manager will be final. Following the adoption of the
report, the Clerk of the Board may cause the lien to be filed in the County
Recorder's Office.
   F.    Prior to recordation of the lien and/or placement of an assessment
against the owner's parcel, the Secretary of the Board must give ten (10) days'
notice to the owner, by personal service or by first-class and certified mail,
addressed to the owner's address as it appears on the last equalized assessment
roll or supplemental roll of the County, whichever is more current. If the
owner of record, after diligent search cannot be found, the notice may be
served by posting a copy of the proposed lien or assessment in a conspicuous
place upon the property for a period of ten (10) days and by publishing notice
of the lien or assessment in a newspaper of general circulation in the County
in the manner provided by Government Code section 6062.
   G.    If the District intends to make the delinquent amount an assessment
against the subject property, the notice must specify that the property may be
sold after three (3) years by the tax collector for unpaid delinquent
assessments.
   H.    Upon recordation, the lien will have the force, effect, and priority
of a judgment lien and may be foreclosed by judicial or other sale in the
manner and means provided by law.
   I.    In addition to, or as an alternative to recordation of the lien, the
District may collect the amount owed as a special assessment against the
owner's parcel. To do so, the District must present a copy of the lien to the
County Auditor Controller to add the amount of the lien to the next regular
property tax bill levied against the parcel for Municipal purposes. This amount
will be collected at the same time and in the same manner as ordinary Property
Taxes are collected, and will be subject to the same penalties and procedures
under foreclosure and sale as provided for with ordinary Municipal taxes. (Ord.
18-249, 5-24-2018)
1-12-14: SATISFACTION OF LIEN:
   Once the District receives full payment for the outstanding principal,
penalties, and costs related to a recorded lien, the Clerk of the Board will
cause to be recorded a notice of satisfaction at the County Recorder's Office.
This notice of satisfaction will cancel the District's lien. (Ord. 18-249, 5-
24-2018)
TITLE 2
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
CHAPTER 1
PERSONNEL
SECTION:
2-1-1: Employees And Consultants
2-1-2: Deputies
2-1-3: Bonding Required
2-1-1: EMPLOYEES AND CONSULTANTS:
   A.    General Manager: The board of directors shall hire a general manager
who shall serve at the pleasure of the board.
   B.    Auditor, General Counsel: The board of directors shall hire an auditor
and general counsel who shall serve at the pleasure of the board.
   C.    Consultants: The board of directors may direct the general manager to
engage other professional consultants as from time to time may be necessary.
      1.    Decision To Hire: The general manager decides whether a consultant,
other than counsel or the auditor, is necessary. A committee may participate in
the process.
      2.    Acquisition Process: The general manager carries out the consultant
acquisition process, list of qualified sources, request for proposal, statement
of work, etc. A committee may participate.
      3.    Consultant Supervision: All consultants, other than legal counsel
and the auditor, work for and through the general manager.
      4.    Performance Evaluations: The general manager obtains progress
reports from consultants and should conduct a performance evaluation on major
consultants and report to the board.
   D.    Independent Contractors: Nothing contained in this section shall
prohibit the general manager from engaging the services of independent
contractors to perform work that is authorized by the annual budget; provided,
that the engagement is in accordance with the other procedures described in
this code. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
2-1-2: DEPUTIES:
   Each district officer shall have those deputies as may be appointed from
time to time by the officer or board. The deputy shall be empowered to act in
the absence of the principal officer. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
2-1-3: BONDING REQUIRED:
   Each officer or deputy who is empowered to handle district funds shall be
bonded for faithful performance at district expense in amounts to be determined
by the board of directors. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL MANAGER
SECTION:
2-2-1: Office Created
2-2-2: Compensation
2-2-3: Powers And Duties
2-2-4: Internal Relations
2-2-5: Termination
2-2-6: Emergencies
2-2-1: OFFICE CREATED:
   The office of the general manager of the district is hereby established. The
general manager shall be appointed by the board of directors wholly on the
basis of his administrative and executive ability and qualifications and shall
hold that position for and at the pleasure of the board. The board may elect to
enter into an employment contract with the general manager. The general manager
may not be a member of the board. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
2-2-2: COMPENSATION:
   The general manager shall receive such annual compensation as the board of
directors shall from time to time determine and shall be specifically stated in
any employment contract. In addition, the general manager shall be reimbursed
for all actual and necessary expenses incurred by him in the performance of his
official duties. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
2-2-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.    Powers, Duties: The general manager shall be the administrative head
of the government and designated representative of the district under the
direction and control of the board except as otherwise provided in this code.
The general manager shall be responsible for operating the district in
accordance with the budget and for the efficient administration of all affairs
of the district which are under his control. In addition to general powers as
administrative head, and not as a limitation thereon, the general manager shall
have the following powers and duties:
      1.    To implement policies established by the board of directors and
enforce all rules and regulations of the district except penal laws and to see
that all franchises, contracts, permits and privileges granted by the board of
directors are faithfully observed and to ensure that the requirements of the
law are met with respect to operations and property.
      2.    To control, order and give directions to subordinate officers and
employees of the district under his or her jurisdiction.
      3.    To recruit, hire, discharge, discipline, promote and demote all
employees of the district, subject to all applicable personnel laws,
resolutions, rules and regulations, except the chief of police, who reports to
the general manager but is under contract to the board. Also excepted are the
secretary, treasurer, auditor and district counsel who are all appointed by the
board.
      4.    To recommend to the board of directors adoption of such measures,
ordinances and resolutions as he deems necessary. The general manager shall
attach to each ordinance (as required) all information and rationale justifying
the action.
      5.    To attend all meetings of the board of directors unless excused
therefrom by the president individually or the board of directors, except when
his removal is under consideration.
      6.    To keep the directors at all times fully advised as to the
financial condition and needs of the district and to ensure that accurate
financial records are maintained. Monthly financial statements shall be filed
at the first regular meeting of each succeeding month and semiannually the
general manager shall make a formal, detailed, budget status report to the
board.
      7.    To exercise general supervision over all public buildings, and all
other public property which are under the control and jurisdiction of the
district.
      8.    To periodically report upon federal grant and aid programs in which
the district may be eligible to participate and, upon order of the board,
process applications on behalf of the district for such participation.
      9.    To ensure the health and safety of district property, personnel and
customers with respect to district operations.
      10.    To ensure that customer inquiries, requests and complaints are
dealt with appropriately.
      11.    To establish and approve training requirements or activities for
district employees.
      12.    To handle liaison and coordinating functions with other public
agencies, groups or individuals.
      13.    To supervise the district's finances.
   B.    Responsibilities: The general manager is expected to fully carry out
all the responsibilities of the job and typically work a normal workweek, but
is extended the privilege of personal leave at his discretion. Personal leave
time should be documented. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
2-2-4: INTERNAL RELATIONS:
   A.    Board, General Manager Relations: The board of directors and its
members shall deal with the administrative services of the district only
through the general manager, except for the purpose of inquiry, and neither the
board nor any member thereof shall give orders or instructions to any
subordinates of the general manager. The general manager shall take his orders
and instructions from the board of directors only when sitting in a duly
convened meeting of the board of directors and no individual director shall
give any order or instructions to the general manager. The general manager is
to regularly inform the board, orally or in writing, about important or
interesting activities, with respect to district operations. The board is
responsible for managing the district's public relations and will typically
appoint the general manager as their spokesperson.
   B.    Cooperation: It shall be the duty of all subordinate officers and the
secretary, treasurer, district counsel and the auditor to assist the general
manager in administering the affairs of the district efficiently and
harmoniously. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
2-2-5: TERMINATION:
   The general manager serves at the pleasure of the board, and therefore, his
services may be terminated at any time without cause (subject to the terms of
the contract). (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
2-2-6: EMERGENCIES:
   A.    Determination: The general manager determines that an emergency
exists. (The board may also declare an emergency; see section
1-5-7 of this code.)
   B.    Discretion Of General Manager: The general manager has full discretion
in responding to an emergency but shall contact the board at the earliest
opportunity. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
CHAPTER 3
AUDITOR
SECTION:
2-3-1: Position Established
2-3-2: Hiring Restrictions
2-3-1: POSITION ESTABLISHED:
   The board of directors shall annually hire an independent auditor to audit
the books and records of the district and to certify as to the accuracy of the
same. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
2-3-2: HIRING RESTRICTIONS:
   The independent auditor shall not be a member of the board of directors or
other officer or employee of the district. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
CHAPTER 4
DISTRICT COUNSEL
SECTION:
2-4-1: Duties
2-4-2: Compensation
2-4-3: Performance Evaluation
2-4-4: Term
2-4-1: DUTIES:
   A.    Generally: The district's counsel shall advise the district concerning
all legal matters and shall prepare resolutions, ordinances, contracts and
other documents requiring review. District counsel shall also assist the
district in any litigation to which the district is a party.
   B.    Conduct Of Meetings: Counsel is responsible for ensuring that meetings
comply with all requirements of the Ralph M. Brown act.
   C.    Board Meeting Attendance: Counsel shall attend regular board meetings
on at least a quarterly basis. The general manager will consult with counsel to
determine which regular board meetings require the physical presence of
counsel. Individual board members may require counsel's attendance at a meeting
with a thirty six (36) hour advanced written notice. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
2-4-2: COMPENSATION:
   Counsel shall be compensated at a rate as determined from time to time by
the board of directors. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
2-4-3: PERFORMANCE EVALUATION:
   The board shall evaluate the performance of the legal counsel on an annual
basis. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
2-4-4: TERM:
   Counsel shall serve at the pleasure of the board of directors. (Ord. 09-230,
1-8-2009)
CHAPTER 5
CHIEF OF POLICE
SECTION:
2-5-1: Powers And Duties
2-5-2: Terms Of Employment
2-5-3: Annual Evaluation
2-5-1: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   The district's chief of police shall exercise the police powers of the
district and enforce all penal laws of the district. The chief of police
reports administratively to the general manager. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
2-5-2: TERMS OF EMPLOYMENT:
   The terms of the chief of police's employment are more fully set forth in
the contract approved by the board. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
2-5-3: ANNUAL EVALUATION:
   The chief of police shall be evaluated on an annual basis jointly by the
board and the general manager. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
TITLE 3
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
LAW ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
3-1-1: Purpose, Scope And Short Title
3-1-2: Enforcement Of Laws
3-1-3: Police Standards
3-1-4: Police Chief, Duties
3-1-5: Public Safety Dispatchers, Selection And Training Standards
3-1-6: Special Tax For Police Services
3-1-7: Violations; Penalty
3-1-1: PURPOSE, SCOPE AND SHORT TITLE:
   This title is enacted for the purpose of providing for the public safety of
persons and property within the district, and may be cited as the district's
PUBLIC SAFETY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-1-2: ENFORCEMENT OF LAWS:
   A.    State Laws: Police officers of the district police department shall
enforce all state laws of a penal nature within the boundaries of the district
and shall assist and cooperate with other law enforcement agencies in the
enforcement of such laws.
   B.    District Ordinances: Police officers of the district police department
shall enforce all district ordinances of a penal nature within the boundaries
of the district.
   C.    Emergency Services: In addition to the foregoing, the police
department shall provide emergency first aid services as required and
coordinate its activities with the Kern County sheriff, the Tehachapi police
department, the Stallion Springs police department, fire departments and such
ambulance services that may be available to serve the district. (Ord. 09-230,
1-8-2009)
3-1-3: POLICE STANDARDS:
   A.    Recruitment And Training: The police department shall adhere to the
standards for recruiting and training established by the California commission
on peace officer standards and training (POST).
   B.    Department Operation: The chief of police shall formulate regulations
and regular updates governing the operation of the police department and the
duties of its members. The Bear Valley CSD police manual provides operational
details for the police department. Such regulations, when approved by the board
of directors, shall govern the operation of the department's personnel.
   C.    Powers And Immunities: Members of the police department, in the lawful
exercise of their duties, shall have all powers, privileges and immunities
which are or may hereinafter be confirmed upon peace officers by the laws of
this state. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-1-4: POLICE CHIEF, DUTIES:
   A.    Arrest Records: The chief of police shall maintain a record of all
arrests and of all property taken at the time of arrest. Such arrest book and
property book shall be maintained in accordance with generally acceptable
police practices as more particularly described in the department's regulations
which are approved by the board of directors.
   B.    Abandoned Property: All abandoned, unclaimed or unidentified personal
property in possession of the department shall be held by the chief of police
for a period of at least four (4) months. Thereafter, if not claimed by its
rightful owner, such property shall be sold by the chief at a public auction to
the highest bidder. If a bid cannot be obtained for any such property, the same
may be destroyed by or under the direction of the chief of police, or donated
to any public entity or nonprofit organization approved by the board of
directors. A notice of such sale shall be given by the chief of police at least
ten (10) days prior thereto. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-1-5: PUBLIC SAFETY DISPATCHERS, SELECTION AND TRAINING STANDARDS:
   A.    Qualify To Receive State Aid: The district declares that it desires to
qualify to receive aid from the state under the provisions of section 13522 of
the California Penal Code.
   B.    Adhere To Standards: Pursuant to section 13510 of the California Penal
Code, the district shall adhere to standards for recruitment and training
established by the California commission on peace officer standards and
training (POST).
   C.    Inquiries By Commission: Pursuant to section 13512 of the California
Penal Code, the commission and its representatives may make such inquiries as
deemed appropriate by the commission to ascertain that the district's public
safety dispatcher personnel adhere to standards for selection and training
established by the commission on peace officer standards and training. (Ord.
09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-1-6: SPECIAL TAX FOR POLICE SERVICES:
   A.    Voter Approval Of Tax: The voters of the district approved an annual
police tax in an amount not to exceed eighty dollars ($80.00) per each parcel
of land within the district on May 6, 1997.
   B.    Disposition Of Revenues: The revenues collected from the special tax
shall be used for the limited purpose of paying salaries and benefits to police
and dispatch personnel.
   C.    Manner Of Collection: The tax shall be collected in the same manner
and subject to the same penalty as, or with, taxes levied and collected by the
county of Kern.
   D.    Tax Fee: The special tax is set at eighty dollars ($80.00) per parcel.
(Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-1-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.    Infraction: Unless otherwise provided, violation of this title shall
constitute an infraction.
   B.    Penalty: Any person convicted of an infraction under the provisions of
this title shall be punished according to section
1-4-1 of this code.
   C.    Violation Of Penal Laws Of State: Notwithstanding the foregoing, any
person convicted of violation of the penal laws of the state shall be punished
pursuant to such laws. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
3-2-1: Dogs Running At Large; Impoundment
3-2-1: DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE; IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.    Running At Large: No person owning or maintaining a dog shall allow
such animal to wander free on the private property of another person or on
district property, including recreational facilities and common areas except in
designated dog parks. A dog which is restrained by an appropriate leash, not to
exceed ten feet (10') in length, by its owner or handler and under the
immediate (physical) control thereof, shall not be considered wandering at
large.
   B.    Authority Of Kern County Animal Control Director:
      1.    The Kern County animal control director or his/her designee
(hereinafter "director") is authorized to impound any and all animals which are
kept, maintained or found at large in violation of the provisions of this
chapter and otherwise enforce all statutes, regulations and ordinances within
the district.
      2.    The director shall be vested with the authority to administer this
chapter and chapter 7.08 of the Kern County ordinance code, as may be amended
from time to time. In the course of these duties, the director shall have the
authority to interpret the provisions of this chapter. Where there is a
question as to the meaning or the intent of any requirement of this chapter,
the director shall provide the necessary interpretation.
   C.    Cooperation Of Police Department: The district police department may
cooperate and assist the Kern County animal control services in impounding any
dog found wandering at large in the district. (Ord. 11-236, 9-8-2011)
CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Purposes
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: NIMS Adopted As Policy
3-3-4: District Emergency Plan
3-3-5: Proclamation Of An Emergency Or Local Incident
3-3-6: Disaster Preparedness Advisory Council (DPAC)
3-3-7: Duties And Responsibilities Of District Disaster Preparedness Advisory
Council (DPAC)
3-3-8: Succession Of Department Heads
3-3-9: Meeting Of Board When Emergency Proclaimed
3-3-10: Duties Of Board During An Emergency
3-3-11: Curfew
3-3-12: Liability Claims Against District
3-3-13: Performance Of Duties Outside District
3-3-14: Immunity Of Volunteers And Impressed Persons
3-3-15: Termination Of Emergency
3-3-16: Penalties
3-3-1: PURPOSES:
   A.    Additional Authority: Due to the potential isolation of Bear Valley
Springs following an emergency, this chapter is designed to implement and
augment the California emergency services act (California Government Code
section 8550 et seq.), the Kern County emergency plan, and the Tehachapi
Mountain community response plan (TMCRP), to the extent they are applicable to
the district. The district shall use the national incident management system
(NIMS) as it is used by the state of California and the county of Kern which
integrates the national incident management system (NIMS) and the standardized
emergency management system (SEMS). Where applicable, specific references, as
follows: Ref: to pages of the TMCRP, to sections of the California emergency
services act, and to NIMS regulations and guidelines, will be included in the
following sections of this chapter.
   B.    Identification And Power Succession: The intent of this chapter is to
identify key personnel, provide for standby officers and succession of
department heads, and to define duties and responsibilities in the event of an
emergency affecting the district. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
   The general definitions contained in the California emergency services act
shall apply to this chapter. These definitions are included in section
1-3-2 of this code and shall govern the interpretation of this chapter unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-3-3: NIMS ADOPTED AS POLICY:
   NIMS, as it is used by the state of California and the county of Kern, is
hereby adopted as the official policy of the district. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-3-4: DISTRICT EMERGENCY PLAN:
   A copy of the district's emergency plan will be kept on file at the district
office and will be reviewed annually by the disaster preparedness advisory
council (DPAC). In the event of a contradiction between the plan and this code,
this code will prevail. The DPAC shall supply a copy of any plans developed
pursuant to this chapter to the office of emergency services. (Ord. 09-230, 1-
8-2009)
3-3-5: PROCLAMATION OF AN EMERGENCY OR LOCAL INCIDENT:
   A.    Request For Proclamation: Immediately upon becoming aware of an
emergency period within the district, the emergency management director or
incident commander shall request the Kern County office of emergency services
to proclaim a local emergency for the district. The request shall be made
through Kern County communications (control-5) or by the most expeditious
method available.
   B.    Activation Of NIMS: Immediately upon receipt of notice to the board,
the emergency management director or the incident commander that a local
emergency has been proclaimed for the district, NIMS shall be activated and
implemented as appropriate to the scope of the emergency and the district's
role in response to the emergency.
   C.    Response To Incident: In the case of a local incident within the
capability of the district, the incident commander may activate the incident
command system and respond as the incident dictates. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-3-6: DISASTER PREPAREDNESS ADVISORY COUNCIL (DPAC):
   A.    Council Established: There is hereby created a disaster council to act
as an advisory body to the board. Its members shall consist of five (5)
residents of the district who have been previously appointed by, and shall
serve at the sole discretion of, the board. Up to three (3) alternates may also
be appointed to the council.
   B.    Annual Appointment: All DPAC members shall, on an annual basis, inform
the board of their desire to remain on the council or terminate their
appointment. At the same time, the district's general manager shall solicit
candidates from the public and the board shall select the members to serve on
the DPAC from the entire pool of interested candidates. Solicitation of members
will take place in September of each year and appointments will be made at the
October regular board meeting each year.
   C.    Filling Of Vacancies: The board may fill vacancies on DPAC pursuant to
subsection B of this section at any time such vacancies occur. The district's
general manager shall solicit candidates from the public at the earliest
opportunity after a vacancy occurs.
   D.    Election Of Chair: DPAC members shall, at the first meeting following
the board's appointments, vote on a chairman to preside at its meetings. (Ord.
09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-3-7: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF DISTRICT DISASTER PREPAREDNESS ADVISORY
COUNCIL (DPAC):
   The DPAC shall meet upon call of the chairman, not less than twice a year,
to review the general progress of emergency planning within the district. It
may recommend changes to the district emergency plan. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-3-8: SUCCESSION OF DEPARTMENT HEADS:
   In order to provide for the continued functioning of the district following
an emergency, the general manager shall provide for the succession of
department heads having duties in the maintenance of law and order or in the
furnishing of public services relating to health and safety. Ref: California
Government Code section 8637. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-3-9: MEETING OF BOARD WHEN EMERGENCY PROCLAIMED:
   Whenever an emergency has been proclaimed, the board shall meet as soon as
possible. The location of the meeting need not be within the district. The
meeting may be called by the president of the board or by a majority of the
members of the board. Should there be only one member of the board, he or she
may call and hold the meeting and perform acts necessary to reconstitute the
board. Ref: California Government Code section 8642. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-3-10: DUTIES OF BOARD DURING AN EMERGENCY:
   During an emergency the board shall:
   A.    Ascertain the damage to the district and its personnel and property.
For this purpose, it shall have the power to issue subpoenas to compel the
attendance of witnesses and the production of records.
   B.    Proceed to reconstitute itself by filling vacancies until there are
sufficient officers to form the largest quorum required by the district. Should
only one member of the board or only one standby officer be available, that one
shall have power to reconstitute the board.
   C.    Proceed to reconstitute the district by appointment of qualified
persons to fill vacancies.
   D.    Proceed to perform its functions in the preservation of law and order
and in the furnishing of local services. Ref: California Government Code
section 8643. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-3-11: CURFEW:
   During an emergency, the board may promulgate orders and regulations
necessary to provide for the protection of life and property, including orders
or regulations imposing a curfew within designated boundaries where necessary
to preserve the public order and safety. These orders, regulations, amendments
and rescissions shall be in writing and shall be given widespread publicity and
notice. Ref: California Government Code section 8634. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-3-12: LIABILITY CLAIMS AGAINST DISTRICT:
   The district shall not be liable for any claim based upon the exercise or
performance, or the failure to exercise or perform, a discretionary function or
duty on the part of any district employee in carrying out the provisions of
this emergency plan. Ref: California Government Code section 8655. (Ord. 09-
230, 1-8-2009)
3-3-13: PERFORMANCE OF DUTIES OUTSIDE DISTRICT:
   All the privileges and immunities from liability; exemptions from laws,
ordinances, and rules; all pension, relief, disability, workers' compensation,
and other benefits which apply to the activity of officers, agents, or
employees of the district when performing their respective functions within the
district, shall apply to them to the same degree and extent while engaged in
the performance of any of their functions and duties outside the district under
this emergency plan. Ref: California Government Code section 8656. (Ord. 09-
230, 1-8-2009)
3-3-14: IMMUNITY OF VOLUNTEERS AND IMPRESSED PERSONS:
   A.    Volunteers duly registered with the county of Kern office of emergency
services (OES), and unregistered persons duly impressed into service during an
emergency, in carrying out, complying with, or attempting to comply with, any
order or regulation issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, or
performing any of their authorized functions or duties, shall have the same
degree of responsibility for their actions and enjoy the same immunities as
officers and employees of the district performing similar work for the
district.
   B.    The district, its officers, employees, agents, volunteers registered
with OES, and unregistered persons duly impressed into service during an
emergency, acting within the scope of their official duties under this chapter,
shall not be liable for personal injury or property damage sustained by any
duly registered volunteer engaged in or training for emergency preparedness or
relief activity, or by any unregistered person duly impressed into service
during an emergency and engaged in that service. Ref: California Government
Code section 8657. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-3-15: TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY:
   During an emergency period, the emergency management director or incident
commander shall, at least every fourteen (14) days, review the need for
continuing the emergency. Upon finding no need to continue the emergency, the
emergency management director or incident commander shall request OES to
proclaim the termination of the emergency. Ref: California Government Code
section 8630. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-3-16: PENALTIES:
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter or who refuses
or wilfully neglects to obey any lawful order or regulation issued as provided
in this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punishable by a fine or imprisonment, or both, as provided under
section 8665 of the emergency services act. Ref: California Government Code
section 8665. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
CHAPTER 4
COMPLAINTS AGAINST POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
3-4-1: Purpose
3-4-2: Duties Of Board Of Directors
3-4-3: Procedures For Citizens' Complaints
3-4-4: Designation Of Public Safety Committee
3-4-5: Limitation On Duties
3-4-6: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Public Safety Committee
3-4-7: Investigation Review Procedures
3-4-8: Confidentiality
3-4-1: PURPOSE:
   A.    A proper relationship fostered by confidence and trust between the
public and its police department is essential to effective law enforcement
within the community. A police officer must be able to act independently and
make decisions within the boundaries of the authority granted to him. The
officer must be free to exercise his best judgment and to initiate action in a
reasonable, lawful and impartial manner, without fear of reprisal. However, he
must conscientiously observe the rights of all people.
   B.    The chief of police has the responsibility of providing a system of
disciplinary procedure which will not only subject personnel under his command
to remedial action, where there has been improper conduct, but also protects
personnel from unwarranted criticism where duties are properly performed. The
board of directors has adopted the police manual, as may be amended from time
to time, designating the chief of police, or his designee, as responsible for
investigating complaints filed against police personnel. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-
2009)
3-4-2: DUTIES OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
   The board of directors has the obligation to review and monitor the official
conduct of all district administrative officers and employees, and particularly
insofar as the functions and duties of such officers and employees relate to
the assessing, collecting, safekeeping, management, or disbursement of public
funds. The operation of the police department and the conduct of employees of
the police department is also a responsibility of the board of directors. The
public must be assured that the board is aware of the operations of the police
department and that their concerns and/or complaints, if any, are handled
professionally, thoroughly, and promptly. Review of complaints and peace
officer related injuries or deaths might suggest the need for new or different
types of training for personnel in the department which the board of directors
would need to fund. Additionally, the possible need to improve or change some
aspects of department policy may be highlighted through this process. (Ord. 09-
230, 1-8-2009)
3-4-3: PROCEDURES FOR CITIZENS' COMPLAINTS:
   All citizens' complaints against a police officer shall be received,
investigated, and disposed of in accordance with the procedures set forth
herein, and complainants shall be notified in writing of action taken by the
police chief.
   A.    The following procedures shall govern the investigation of the
citizen's complaint:
      1.    A complaint may be made any time of the day or night. There shall
be complaint forms at the police department and the office of the district.
Copies of all complaints shall be given to the police chief, general manager
and district counsel on the next business day after the complaint is filed.
      2.    Upon receipt of the citizen's complaint, the chief of police shall
review the complaint and determine if there has been a previous complaint for
the same incident or for a similar incident. The chief of police shall further
determine whether there has been a previous investigation by the police
department, grand jury, district attorney or other investigative agency
involving the same incident and allegations. If there has been a previous
investigation, the chief of police shall review the previous investigation to
determine if there is a need for an additional investigation. If the chief of
police determines that there has not been a previous investigation of the
citizen's complaint, or that an additional investigation is necessary, he shall
promptly assign it for investigation to a member of the police department not
named in the complaint who shall be responsible for the investigation of the
alleged incident. If there is an ongoing investigation regarding the incident
alleged in the citizen's complaint, the chief of police may consolidate the
investigations. All such investigations shall be initiated by, and insofar as
practicable, carried out by, the staff of the police department trained in
investigations of citizens' complaints. The police department shall have direct
responsibility for all such investigations. If a complaint is received against
the chief of police, the general manager shall refer the complaint to the Kern
County district attorney. If the Kern County district attorney declines to
investigate, the complaint may be referred to an independent investigator
trained in investigations of citizens' complaints, who does not work for or
consult with the police department. Investigation procedures utilized by the
private investigator shall be in accordance with the standards established by
the state of California commission on peace officer standards and training.
Once the complaint has been received, the complainant will have up to thirty
(30) days to provide additional material or input. Except for extenuating
circumstances, approved by the police chief, no additional materials or
testimony will be accepted after the thirty (30) day period.
      3.    The investigation shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
         a. Interviews with the complaining witness, the alleged victim of the
police misconduct (if other than the complaining witness), and all other
witnesses to the incident who are indicated on the complaint form;
         b. Interviews with the police officer against whom the complaint is
lodged and all other police officers witnessing or involved in the alleged
incident;
         c. Interviews with all other witnesses to the alleged incident who
became known to the investigating officer as a result of investigation;
         d. Examination of the scene of the alleged incident, when appropriate;
         e. Viewing, analysis, and preservation of all other physical evidence,
if any;
         f. The gathering of all pertinent police department forms, analyses,
technical reports, laboratory results, tapes and transcripts of telephone
calls, and radio transmissions;
         g. In the event that a criminal complaint has been lodged against any
witness or participant regarding the complaint, the investigator shall review
and analyze the investigation file compiled by the police department and/or the
district attorney's office in connection with such criminal complaint, when
available;
         h. Such other investigative steps as may appear appropriate in the
discretion of the assigned investigator, whose responsibility it shall be to
record each step in the investigation and the result thereof in an
investigation report.
   B.    Upon receipt of the file and the findings and conclusion of the
investigating officer, the police chief shall review the entire file and
determine the appropriate disposition of the complaint in accordance with the
following provisions:
      1.    Criminal Misconduct:
         a. In every case in which the police chief determines with reasonable
satisfaction from the investigation that misconduct rising to the level of a
crime has occurred, the police chief shall impose sanctions as he deems
appropriate and shall refer the matter to the district attorney for
consideration and prosecution unless prosecution has been previously initiated.
         b. In every case in which the police chief determines from the
investigation that: 1) there are reasonable grounds to believe that misconduct
rising to the level of a crime has occurred; and 2) there are disputed issues
of credibility which prevent a determination of the complaint upon the
investigation only, the police chief shall conduct an administrative review.
         c. In every case in which the police chief determines from the
investigation, and without regard to any person's credibility, that there are
no reasonable grounds to believe that criminal misconduct has occurred, the
police chief or his appointed delegate shall proceed in accordance with
subsection B2 of this section.
      2.    Noncriminal Misconduct: In every case in which the police chief,
pursuant to subsection B1c of this section, determines that no misconduct
rising to the level of a crime has occurred, the police chief shall either: a)
make a finding that noncriminal misconduct has occurred and shall impose
sanctions as he shall deem appropriate; or b) make a finding that no misconduct
has occurred and shall close the file.
      3.    Disciplinary Action: In every case in which the police chief
determines that misconduct has occurred, he shall impose sanctions which are
commensurate with the seriousness of the misconduct, taking into account the
prior history of the officer in question. Sanctions shall range from a
reprimand to dismissal from service.
      4.    Notice: The disposition of the complaint shall be communicated in
writing by certified mail (return receipt required), to the officer against
whom the complaint has been lodged and the complainant or such person's
representative as may be designated. Hand delivery is also authorized provided
that a written acknowledgment of receipt is obtained.
   C.    The assigned investigator shall attempt to secure written statements
from all participants in, and witnesses to, the alleged incident, but where any
witness or participant is unwilling to make a signed written statement, the
assigned investigator shall provide a summary of the oral statement, if any,
provided by such participant or witness. Where a written statement is given and
signed by a participant or witness, the assigned investigator shall provide the
person making the statement with a copy.
   D.    When a complainant is unable to identify the police officer against
whom a complaint is lodged by name or badge number, the assigned investigator
shall make every effort to assist the complainant in making a positive
identification of the police officer.
   E.    All investigations shall be completed within seventy five (75) days
from the date of the filing of the citizen's complaint, except for extenuating
circumstances stated in the investigation report and approved by the police
chief. The investigation report shall include the written recommendation of the
investigator as to the validity of the complaint.
   F.    Within fifteen (15) days of the completion of an investigation, the
police chief shall review the entire investigation file, and the investigating
officer's written conclusion as to the occurrence and nature of police
misconduct, if any.
   G.    If extenuating circumstances necessitate an extension of time, the
complainant (as well as the accused police officer) shall be notified of this
fact and the reason therefor.
   H.    The complainant shall have no right to appeal the final determination
of the police chief to the general manager of the district, the board of
directors or the public safety committee. The final determination of the police
chief shall be final and conclusive as to the district. Any appellate rights of
the complainant shall be with the courts of the state of California. (Ord. 09-
230, 1-8-2009)
3-4-4: DESIGNATION OF PUBLIC SAFETY COMMITTEE:
   The public safety committee of Bear Valley has as one of its purposes, to
advise and make recommendations to the board of directors concerning complaints
against peace officers employed by the district and is hereby designated
pursuant to Penal Code section 832.5, as authorized, to monitor the
department's investigation of complaints against police officers. The
independent and constitutionally and statutorily designated investigative and
prosecutorial functions of the chief of police and district counsel shall not
be affected by the public safety committee's oversight. The public safety
committee, chief of police, district counsel and general manager are to
cooperate and coordinate with each other so that all may properly discharge
their responsibilities. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-4-5: LIMITATION ON DUTIES:
   The public safety committee will be advisory only and shall not have
authority to manage or operate the police department or direct the activities
of any police department officer or employee. The public safety committee shall
not impose discipline against officers or employees of the police department.
(Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-4-6: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE PUBLIC SAFETY COMMITTEE:
   The public safety committee shall have the duties and responsibilities to:
   A.    Review the progress of the investigation of complaints against
district police department officers and employees (all discussion must be
conducted in a closed session);
   B.    Review the investigation of deaths arising out of, or in connection
with, action of district peace officers and employees (all discussion must be
conducted in closed session);
   C.    Receive reports from the chief of police and/or the general manager on
the progress and results of any investigations;
   D.    Prepare an annual report to the board of directors summarizing the
activities and recommendations of the committee, and the final disposition of
any complaints filed during the course of that year. (This report must be
provided in closed session);
   E.    Ensure that all citizens are notified in writing who have filed a
complaint with the police department or committee of the disposition of his or
her complaint;
   F.    Review and make recommendations on policies and procedures of the
police department to the board of directors;
   G.    Annually inspect the police department's detention facilities and
annually file a report of such visitations with the board of directors; and
   H.    Establish necessary rules and regulations for the conduct of its
business, subject to approval of the board of directors. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-
2009)
3-4-7: INVESTIGATION REVIEW PROCEDURES:
   Public safety committee members will receive copies of any complaints filed
against the police department within seventy two (72) hours of the receipt of
same by the district. The committee will receive a report from the police chief
or his designee on the progress of any ongoing investigation (including any
required outside investigation) at its monthly meeting. A copy of any completed
internal investigation conducted by the chief of police or his designee,
pursuant to the police manual, will be provided to the committee upon its
completion in closed session (see section
3-4-8 of this chapter). The committee may then review the complaint and the
information obtained in the investigation conducted by the chief of police. The
chief of police may submit a report or any additional information he desires to
the committee. If the complaint is filed against the chief of police, the
committee shall review the report prepared by the independent investigator. The
general manager may submit a report or any information he desires to the
committee, and the committee may consult with the Kern County district
attorney's office or with the independent investigator directly. Upon the
receipt of all reports from the chief of police, general manager, district
attorney or independent investigator, as appropriate, the committee may then
declare the matter closed or proceed expeditiously in causing to be gathered,
by the police chief, general manager or others, any additional pertinent data
relative to the complaint. All members and employees of the district are
required to cooperate. The committee shall at all times comply with the public
safety officer's procedural bill of rights 1 and district personnel policies.
(Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. Gov.C. § 3300 et al.
3-4-8: CONFIDENTIALITY:
   Complaint records and information obtained therefrom are confidential
pursuant to Penal Code section 832.7. The records reviewed by the public safety
committee and the information obtained shall be confidential and may not be
disclosed to the public, including other members of the board of directors.
(Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
CHAPTER 5
HAZARDOUS WEEDS AND DEBRIS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Purpose And Authority
3-5-2: Prohibited Accumulations Of Weeds And Debris
3-5-3: Declaration Of Public Nuisance
3-5-4: Notice To Remove Or Destroy Weeds And Debris
3-5-5: Hearing And Abatement Order
3-5-6: Alternative Procedures For Seasonal And Recurrent Nuisances
3-5-7: Abatement Of Public Nuisances
3-5-8: Abatement Costs
3-5-9: Cancellation Or Refund Of Assessments
3-5-10: Inconsistent Provisions
3-5-1: PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY:
   The purpose of this chapter is to conform the district's weed abatement
policy to statutory procedures and requirements applicable to the district's
weed abatement operations. This chapter is adopted pursuant to Health and
Safety Code sections 14875 through 14922. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-5-2: PROHIBITED ACCUMULATIONS OF WEEDS AND DEBRIS:
   It shall be the duty of every owner of property located in the district to
remove or destroy, or cause the removal or destruction of, weeds and debris
accumulating on the owner's property. It shall be unlawful for an owner of
property located within the district to cause or permit such accumulations of
weeds or debris to remain on the property. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-5-3: DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   In accordance with Health and Safety Code sections 14876 through 14884, the
board may adopt a resolution identifying weeds and debris accumulating on any
property and declaring the weeds and debris to constitute a public nuisance
(the "resolution"). The resolution shall identify the properties upon which the
nuisances are located, by reference to the tract, lot and parcel number of each
property as used in the records of the Kern County assessor. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-
2009)
3-5-4: NOTICE TO REMOVE OR DESTROY WEEDS AND DEBRIS:
   For properties on which are located accumulations of weeds and debris
identified as public nuisances in the resolution, the general manager shall
notify the property owners of their obligations to remove or destroy the weeds
and debris.
   A.    Notice to the affected property owners shall be prepared on district
letterhead and entitled, "NOTICE TO REMOVE OR DESTROY WEEDS AND DEBRIS" in
words not less than one inch (1") in height, and the notice shall read
substantially as follows:
   NOTICE TO REMOVE OR DESTROY
   WEEDS AND DEBRIS
   Notice is hereby given that on the  day of      , 20, the Board of Directors
of the Bear Valley Community Services District adopted Resolution No. , a
resolution declaring that noxious or dangerous weeds and/or debris were
accumulating on property on or nearest to       [Name of street] in the
District, which property is more particularly described in the resolution, and
that the weeds and/or debris constitute a public nuisance which must be abated
by removal or destruction of the weeds and/or debris. Resolution No.    further
provides that if the weeds and/or debris are not so abated, they will be
removed or destroyed by the District, in which case the cost of removal or
destruction shall be assessed upon the property on which the weeds and/or
debris are located, and such cost will constitute a lien upon the property
until paid. For further details, please refer to Resolution No.  , copies of
which are available during regular business hours from the District office at
the address listed above.
   All property owners having objections to the proposed removal or destruction
of the weeds and/or debris described above are hereby notified to attend a
Public Hearing of the Board of Directors of the Bear Valley Community Services
District, to be held at   p.m. on      , 20, at 28999 S. Lower Valley Road,
Tehachapi, California, at which time any objections will be heard and
considered.
   Dated this    day of     , 20.
 
 
[Name of General Manager]
   General Manager
   Bear Valley Community Services District
   B.    At least ten (10) days before the date of the hearing described in the
notice, the general manager shall post the notice conspicuously in front of the
properties on which the declared public nuisances are located, or on the
portions of the properties nearest to the street most likely to give actual
notice to the properties' owners. The notices shall be posted not more than one
hundred feet (100') apart, but at least one notice shall be posted on each
property identified in the resolution.
   C.    The general manager shall cause the notice to be published once in a
newspaper of general circulation in the district not less than ten (10) days
before the date of the hearing described in the notice.
   D.    As an alternative to posting and publishing the notice pursuant to
subsections B and C of this section, the general manager may mail the notice to
the owners of the properties identified in the resolution, as the owners' names
and addresses appear on Kern County's latest equalized assessment roll, at
least fifteen (15) days before the date of the hearing described in the notice.
(Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-5-5: HEARING AND ABATEMENT ORDER:
   A.    At the time and date specified in the notice, the board shall conduct
a public hearing to hear and consider all objections (if any) to the proposed
removal or destruction of weeds and debris identified in the resolution. The
board shall allow or overrule each objection, if any. The board's decisions
regarding the objections are final.
   B.    After the board disposes of objections received by the board, or if no
objections are received, the board shall order the general manager to proceed
with abatement of the public nuisances identified in the resolution in
accordance with section
3-5-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-5-6: ALTERNATIVE PROCEDURES FOR SEASONAL AND RECURRENT NUISANCES:
   A.    If a public nuisance created by accumulations of weeds and debris is
seasonal and recurrent, the board shall declare the public nuisance as such in
the resolution and conduct a noticed hearing in accordance with sections 3-5-
3 through 3-5-5 of this chapter before issuing an abatement order for the
public nuisance.
   B.    Thereafter, however, the board may order abatement of the seasonal and
recurrent public nuisances without adopting new resolutions or conducting
noticed public hearings under sections
3-5-3 through
3-5-5 of this chapter, provided that the general manager mails a postcard
notice to owners of the properties identified in the resolution in accordance
with subsection C of this section.
   C.    The postcard notice shall be mailed to the owners of the properties
identified in the resolution, using the owners' names and addresses as they
appear on Kern County's latest equalized assessment roll, at least fifteen (15)
days before abatement is required under section
3-5-7 of this chapter. The postcard notice shall be prepared on district
letterhead and shall read substantially as follows:
   NOTICE TO REMOVE OR DESTROY SEASONAL
   AND RECURRENT WEEDS AND DEBRIS
   Notice is hereby given that on the    day of        , 20, the Board of
Directors of the Bear Valley Community Services District adopted Resolution No.
 , a resolution declaring that noxious or dangerous weeds and/or debris of a
seasonal and recurrent nature accumulate on property located at [Describe
property by reference to the property's street address and Kern County assessor
parcel number] and thereby create a public nuisance which must be abated by
removal or destruction of the weeds and/or debris. Accumulations of weeds and/
or debris presently located on the above-described property are creating a
public nuisance, and the weeds and/or debris must be removed or destroyed
within ten days after the date of this notice. Otherwise, the weeds and/or
debris will be removed or destroyed by the District, in which case the cost of
removal or destruction shall be assessed upon the property on which the weeds
and/or debris are located, and such cost will constitute a lien upon the
property until paid. For further details, please refer to Resolution No.  ,
copies of which are available during regular business hours from the District
office at the address listed above.
   Dated this   day of      , 20.
 
[Name of General Manager]
   General Manager
   Bear Valley Community Services District
   (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-5-7: ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCES:
   A.    If the person (or persons) owning a property identified in the
resolution fails or refuses to remove or destroy weeds and/or debris on the
property in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within ten (10)
calendar days after the public hearing at which the board issued an abatement
order pursuant to subsection
3-5-5B of this chapter, or within fifteen (15) days after mailing of the notice
described in section
3-5-6 of this chapter, the general manager shall remove or destroy the weeds
and/or debris in accordance with this section.
   B.    When the "weeds", as defined in section
1-3-2 of this code, are not in plain view of the general manager or his
designee from a place that he lawfully has the right to be, the general manager
shall request the consent of the person or persons owning, occupying, leasing,
managing or controlling the property before entering the property for purposes
of inspection and abatement under this chapter. If consent is refused and if
the persons owning, occupying, leasing, managing or controlling the property
have a reasonable expectation of the privacy for the area where the district
seeks to enter, the general manager shall apply for an inspection/abatement
warrant, as defined in Code of Civil Procedure section 1822.50, to enter the
property for inspection and abatement purposes, and entry onto the property
shall be made only pursuant to an inspection warrant applied for, issued and
executed in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure sections 1822.51 through
1822.59. A warrant may authorize district employees access to property only to
do one or more of the following:
      1.    Inspect to determine the presence of public nuisances that the
district has the authority to abate.
      2.    Abate public nuisances, either directly or by giving notice to the
property owner to abate the public nuisance.
      3.    Determine if a notice to abate a public nuisance has been complied
with.
   If the person owning, occupying, leasing, managing or controlling the
property has no reasonable expectation of privacy, employees of the district
may enter the property without an abatement warrant for any of the reasons
stated directly above.
   C.    It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or
refuse to allow the general manager's entry onto a property to abate public
nuisances pursuant to this section.
   D.    Any person or persons owning, occupying, leasing, managing or
controlling property identified in the resolution shall have the right to
remove or destroy weeds and debris on their property, at their own expense, at
any time before arrival of the general manager for entry onto the property
pursuant to this section; provided, however, that the costs of the district to
enforce the abatement upon the subject property, including investigation,
boundary determinations, measurement, clerical and other related costs, may be
imposed as a special assessment and lien on such property pursuant to a
resolution of the board adopted pursuant to the provisions of section
3-5-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-5-8: ABATEMENT COSTS:
   In any case in which the board issues an abatement order pursuant to
subsection
3-5-5B of this chapter, or in which the district mails a postcard notice
pursuant to section
3-5-6 of this chapter, the board may adopt a resolution ordering that a special
assessment and lien be imposed on the property which the public nuisance is
located in accordance with the following procedures:
   A.    When enforcing the abatement of, or abating, a public nuisance
pursuant to this chapter, the general manager shall keep a written account of
the enforcement and abatement costs incurred for each property identified in
the resolution, which may include costs incurred by the district for
investigations, boundary determinations, measurement, abatement, and clerical
work related to abatement of the public nuisance. Based on these accounts, the
general manager shall prepare a written report stating the enforcement and
abatement costs incurred for each property.
   B.    Before the general manager's report is presented to the board, a copy
of the report shall be posted outside the board's meeting room for at least
three (3) days before the meeting at which the board will consider the report,
along with a notice of the time and date of the meeting. Copies of the report
and the notice also shall be mailed to the owner of each property identified in
the report, using the owner's name and address as it appears on Kern County's
latest equalized assessment roll, at least fifteen (15) days before the
meeting. At the meeting, the board shall consider the report, along with any
objections by owners of property identified in the report as subject to
assessment for enforcement and abatement costs. After making any necessary
modifications to the general manager's report, the board shall confirm the
report by resolution.
   C.    Upon confirmation of the general manager's report by the board, the
district shall submit certified copies of the general manager's report and the
board's resolution confirming the report to the Kern County recorder's office
for recordation. On or before the next August 10 following the board's
confirmation of the general manager's report, the district also shall file
copies of the general manager's report and the board's resolution confirming
the report with the Kern County auditor for entry of the assessments onto the
Kern County tax roll.
   D.    The amounts of the enforcement and abatement costs assessed to each
property identified in the general manager's report shall constitute special
assessments against the respective properties and create liens on the
properties for those amounts. The special assessments shall be collected at the
same time and in the same manner as property taxes of Kern County, and
delinquent amounts are subject to the same penalties and foreclosure sale
procedures as are county property taxes. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-5-9: CANCELLATION OR REFUND OF ASSESSMENTS:
   Any portion of a special assessment, penalty or cost imposed pursuant to
section
3-5-8 of this chapter shall be canceled or refunded upon order of the board if
imposed improperly, erroneously or illegally, within the meaning of Health and
Safety Code section 14920. For assessments that already have been paid, refunds
shall be given upon order of the board, provided that the recipient has filed a
verified claim with the board within three (3) years after making the payment
for which a refund is sought. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-5-10: INCONSISTENT PROVISIONS:
   To the extent that the provisions of this chapter may be inconsistent or in
conflict with the terms and conditions of any prior district ordinance,
resolution, rule or regulation governing the same subject, the provisions of
this chapter shall prevail with respect to the subject matter thereof, and such
inconsistent or conflicting terms or conditions of prior ordinances,
resolutions, rules or regulations are hereby repealed. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
CHAPTER 6
HOUSE NUMBERING
SECTION:
3-6-1: House Numbers Required; Assigning; Display; Violation
3-6-1: HOUSE NUMBERS REQUIRED; ASSIGNING; DISPLAY; VIOLATION:
   A.    Every owner of improved property in the district shall have displayed
on the property the street number of the property in an easily identifiable
place for police, fire and ambulance services.
   B.    The street number of a new house or building shall be that assigned on
the county of Kern building permit for said house or building.
   C.    In the case of properties which are accessed by an easement over
another private lot, the address must be posted as near as practicable to the
point where the access road joins the district right of way.
   D.    Street numbers affixed shall be a minimum of three and one-half inches
(3 1/2") in height. Street numbers will be posted as close as practicable to
the edge of the road right of way at the front of the property.
   E.    The numbers shall have or be affixed upon a contrasting background,
shall be clearly legible and visible from the roadway and shall be reflective
in order to provide easy identification after dark.
   F.    In the case of new construction, renovation or remodeling, street
numbers shall be posted from the first day of such new construction, renovation
or remodeling.
   G.    A violation of this section shall be an infraction punishable in
accordance with subsection
1-4-1B of this code. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
CHAPTER 7
COMMERCIAL MOTION PICTURES
SECTION:
3-7-1: Permit; Required; Exceptions
3-7-2: Application; Issuance; Fee
3-7-3: Regulations
3-7-4: Revocation
3-7-5: Appeal
3-7-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.    No person shall use any public property or facility for the purpose of
taking commercial motion pictures in violation of this chapter or without a
valid permit therefor in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.    No person shall use or discharge pyrotechnic devices or special
effects on private property for use in commercial motion pictures or television
pictures, in violation of this chapter or without a valid permit therefor in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.    The permit requirement set forth in subsection A of this section shall
not apply to:
      1.    News media (e.g., reporters, photographers and cameramen in the
employ of a newspaper, news service, or similar entity) engaged in on the spot
broadcasting of news events concerning those persons, scenes or occurrences
which are in the news and of general public interest.
      2.    The filming or videotaping of motion pictures solely for private
family use.
      3.    Projects produced by a nonprofit organization qualified as
charitable under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code. (Ord. 09-230,
1-8-2009)
3-7-2: APPLICATION; ISSUANCE; FEE:
   A.    Application for such permit shall be made on forms furnished by the
general manager or his designee, not less than ten (10) days nor more than one
year prior to the proposed event.
   B.    The district may make or cause to be made any investigation which it
deems necessary.
   C.    The following information shall be included in the application:
      1.    The address and general location of the place at which the activity
is to be conducted.
      2.    The inclusive dates and hours that such activity will transpire.
      3.    A general statement of the character or nature of the proposed
filming activity (i.e., movie, commercial documentary, etc.).
      4.    The name, address, and telephone number of the person or persons in
charge of the filming activity.
      5.    Use of any animals or pyrotechnics.
      6.    The number and type of vehicles and other equipment to be involved.
      7.    Any rights of way which will need to be closed to the public.
   D.    The application shall be accompanied by the following documents:
      1.    Evidence, satisfactory to the general manager or his designee, of:
a) general liability insurance providing coverage on an occurrence basis for
bodily injury, including death of one or more persons, property damage and
personal injury, with limits as required by the district; and b) workers'
compensation, with statutory limits and employers' liability insurance with
limits as required by the district. All policies required of the applicant
hereunder shall be primary insurance as to the district, its president, board,
officers, agents, employees and volunteers and any insurance or self-insurance
maintained by the district, its president, board, officers, agents, employees
and volunteers shall be considered excess insurance, over and above the
applicant's insurance and shall not contribute with it.
      2.    An agreement, signed by applicants, to save, hold harmless and
indemnify the district, its officers, agents, employees and volunteers from all
claims, demands, damages, judgments, costs or expenses in law or equity that
may at any time arise from or is any way related to any work performed by
applicant, his agents or employees under the terms of any permit issued under
this chapter.
      3.    Cash deposit, in a sum acceptable to the general manager, to be
forfeited to the district in the event the permit holder fails to remove all
equipment and rubbish from the premises upon which the activity is located
before five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the day after the expiration date of the
permit. The cash deposit shall be returned to the applicant upon full
performance of the requirements of this chapter.
      4.    A statement of concurrence with the proposed filming from the
environmental control committee (ECC).
   E.    The applicant shall notify all business owners and residents located
adjacent to any right of way which will need to be closed for the film
activity. Proof of written notice shall be submitted to the general manager or
designee.
   F.    The general manager or designee may, at his or her discretion, issue a
permit if he finds as follows:
      1.    That the application is complete and truthful.
      2.    Neither the applicant nor any of its agents has violated this
chapter in the past three (3) years.
      3.    The applicant will conduct said project in an orderly, proper and
lawful manner.
      4.    That said activity will not constitute a nuisance nor disturb
neighboring residents or businesses.
      5.    That no permit issued to the same applicant pursuant to this
section has been revoked in the past three (3) years, unless the general
manager or his designee finds that the reasons for such revocation are
unrelated to this application.
   G.    Such permit may be issued with conditions for the conduct of the film
activity, as deemed necessary by the general manager or his designee.
   H.    At the time of filing an application for a permit, the applicant shall
pay a fee not to exceed the cost of processing any such application as
authorized by resolution of the board of directors, and as may be amended from
time to time, and shall also pay all the direct costs of the district,
including, but not limited to, traffic control and police services.
   I.    All permits issued pursuant to this chapter shall be valid only as to
those dates and times listed on the permit, unless earlier suspended or
revoked. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-7-3: REGULATIONS:
   A.    The permit holder shall conduct operations in an orderly and lawful
fashion. The area used shall be cleaned of trash, debris and obstacles at the
end of each day and restored to the original condition before leaving the site,
unless permission to do otherwise is granted in writing by the general manager
or his designee. A copy of the permit will be kept on site at all times.
   B.    For projects that would impair traffic flow, the applicant shall
reimburse the district for all local law enforcement personnel required at the
site, and shall comply with all traffic control requirements deemed necessary
by the chief of police of the district. The applicant shall furnish and install
advance warning signs and any other traffic control devices required by the
traffic authority. All appropriate safety precautions shall be taken.
   C.    Unless otherwise authorized in writing by the district, all camera
cars shall be driven in the direction of traffic and must observe all traffic
laws.
   D.    Any emergency road work or construction by the district shall have
priority over filming activities.
   E.    If the filming activity requires any action by district personnel in
addition to that estimated by the district at time of permit application, the
applicant shall reimburse the district for the reasonable costs of such
activity.
   F.    Any permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be nontransferable,
and shall be valid only as to the applicant, location, dates and times provided
on the application for such permit.
   G.    The permit holder shall obey all federal, state and local laws,
including, but not limited to, provisions of the uniform fire code. (Ord. 09-
230, 1-8-2009)
3-7-4: REVOCATION:
   Any permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be immediately revoked by
the general manager or his designee whenever he finds:
   A.    That misrepresentations were made on the application; or
   B.    That any of the terms or conditions of said permit have been violated,
or that the activity has been conducted in violation of local, state or federal
law; or
   C.    That the filming activity is interfering with the peace and quiet of
the neighborhood.
   D.    That the safety of persons or property requires such revocation. (Ord.
09-230, 1-8-2009)
3-7-5: APPEAL:
   A.    Should any applicant be dissatisfied with the decision of the general
manager or his designee not to grant a permit or to revoke a permit, then said
applicant may, no later than ten (10) days after notice of such decision is
deposited in the United States mail, addressed to the applicant or permit
holder at the address provided on the application, make written objection to
the board of directors setting forth the grounds for dissatisfaction, whereupon
the board of directors shall hear said objections at a regular meeting no later
than three (3) weeks following the filing of the objection with the secretary.
The applicant shall be given written notice no less than three (3) days prior
to said hearing. The board of directors may, upon said hearing, sustain,
suspend or overrule the decision of the general manager or his designee, which
decision shall be final and conclusive.
   B.    Pending the hearing before the board of directors, the decision of the
general manager or his designee shall remain in full force and effect and any
reversal thereof by the board of directors shall not be retroactive but shall
take effect as of the date of the board of directors' decision. (Ord. 09-230,
1-8-2009)
CHAPTER 8
PINE BARK BEETLE INFESTATION AND ABATEMENT
SECTION:
3-8-1: Purpose And Authority
3-8-2: Findings
3-8-3: Declared Nuisances
3-8-4: Surveys; Appraisals
3-8-5: Inspection And Entry On Private Property
3-8-6: Property Owner Responsibility To Control Or Eradicate Pine Bark Beetles
3-8-7: Agreements For Pine Bark Beetle Control
3-8-8: Creation Of Zone Of Infestation
3-8-9: Dissolution Of Zone Of Infestation
3-8-10: Initial Determination Of Pine Bark Beetle Nuisance
3-8-11: Notice To Abate Pine Bark Beetle Nuisance; Form Of Notice
3-8-12: Hearing And Final Abatement Order
3-8-13: Abatement Of Pine Bark Beetle Nuisances
3-8-14: Abatement Lien Procedures
3-8-1: PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY:
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide, maintain, operate, and contract
for facilities and services for the control, removal, and eradication of local
pine bark beetle infestations in accordance with any applicable plan or program
approved by the department of forestry and fire protection ("Cal fire") to
ensure consistency with the policies of the state. This chapter is adopted
under the authority of Government Code section 61100(y). (Ord. 14-239, 10-9-
2014)
3-8-2: FINDINGS:
   There are many "pine trees", as defined in section
1-3-2 of this code, growing on public and private premises within the district,
the loss of which would substantially depreciate the value of public and
private premises and impair the safety, good order, general welfare and
convenience of the public. The health and life of such pine trees is threatened
by the infestation of "pine bark beetles", as defined in section
1-3-2 of this code, which can cause the death of pine trees. In addition to the
aesthetic impact of dead pine trees, such dead wood poses a substantial fire
hazard in the district. Using the procedures set forth in this chapter, the
board intends to prevent, control and eradicate the spread of pine bark beetles
within the district. (Ord. 14-239, 10-9-2014)
3-8-3: DECLARED NUISANCES:
   The following conditions are deemed public nuisances within the district:
   A.    A living or standing pine tree that is infested to any significant
degree with the pine bark beetle, or which harbors pine bark beetles.
   B.    Any dead pine tree or dead part of any pine tree, including logs,
branches, stumps, firewood or other pine material from which the bark has not
been removed. (Ord. 14-239, 10-9-2014)
3-8-4: SURVEYS; APPRAISALS:
   The district may make the necessary surveys and appraisals to obtain
pertinent data and information on pine bark beetle infestations and disease
infections. (Ord. 14-239, 10-9-2014)
3-8-5: INSPECTION AND ENTRY ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.    The authorized representatives of the district and Cal fire
(collectively, "inspector"), should inspect all premises within the district as
often as practicable to determine whether any condition described in section
3-8-3 of this chapter exists. An inspector may enter upon private property at
any reasonable time for the purposes of carrying out any of the duties assigned
under this chapter. If entry is refused, the inspector may secure lawful entry
through any available means as provided by law.
   B.    Whenever necessary to determine the existence of pine bark beetle
infestation in any pine tree, an inspector may remove or cut specimens from the
tree. (Ord. 14-239, 10-9-2014)
3-8-6: PROPERTY OWNER RESPONSIBILITY TO CONTROL OR ERADICATE PINE BARK BEETLES:
   Every owner of property within the district must control or eradicate pine
bark beetles and such other insects and pests that are harmful to pine trees in
the district. If the owner does not do so, the work may be performed by the
district as provided in this chapter, and the costs assessed against the
property. (Ord. 14-239, 10-9-2014)
3-8-7: AGREEMENTS FOR PINE BARK BEETLE CONTROL:
   The district may enter into agreements with district property owners for the
purpose of controlling or eradicating pine bark beetles damaging or threatening
destruction to pine trees, and may make expenditures for such purposes. (Ord.
14-239, 10-9-2014)
3-8-8: CREATION OF ZONE OF INFESTATION:
   If the board determines that there exists an area which is infested or
infected with pine bark beetles or other insects harmful to pine trees or other
trees in the district and the infestation or infection is of such a character
as to be a menace to the pine trees and other trees of adjacent owners, the
board may declare the existence of a zone of infestation or infection, and
describe and fix its boundaries. (Ord. 14-239, 10-9-2014)
3-8-9: DISSOLUTION OF ZONE OF INFESTATION:
   If the board determines that the control of pine bark beetles or disease
control work within a designated zone of infestation or infection is no longer
necessary or feasible, the board may dissolve the zone. (Ord. 14-239, 10-9-
2014)
3-8-10: INITIAL DETERMINATION OF PINE BARK BEETLE NUISANCE:
   Following a property inspection conducted pursuant to section
3-8-5 of this chapter, the general manager may determine that a public nuisance
exists wherever any of the conditions described in section
3-8-3 of this chapter are found to exist. (Ord. 14-239, 10-9-2014)
3-8-11: NOTICE TO ABATE PINE BARK BEETLE NUISANCE; FORM OF NOTICE:
   A.    Following the initial determination that a public nuisance exists, the
general manager will give notice ("abatement notice") to the affected property
owners on district letterhead that reads substantially as follows:
  NOTICE TO REMOVE AND DESTROY PINE TREE:
   Notice is hereby given that the Bear Valley Community Services District has
inspected the property located at [insert address] in the Bear Valley Community
Services District, and determined that there are certain "pine tree(s)"
infested with "pine bark beetle" (each as defined in Section
1-3-2 of the District Code) and/or there are dead pine trees, which constitute
a public nuisance. The infested or dead pine tree(s) must be removed and
destroyed on or before [enter date] (the "abatement deadline").
   If the nuisance condition described in this notice is not abated on or
before the abatement deadline, the District may cause the nuisance to be abated
pursuant to
Chapter 8 of Title 3 of the Bear Valley Community Services District Code. If
the District is required to abate the nuisance described in this notice, the
cost of the removal and destruction of the infested pine tree(s) and/or dead
pine trees will be assessed upon the property on which the tree(s) are located,
and the costs will constitute a lien upon the property until paid.
   Prior to complying with the requirements of this notice, however, any
property owner having an objection to the proposed order to remove and destroy
the infested pine tree(s) may attend a Public Hearing of the Board of Directors
of the Bear Valley Community Services District, to be held at          p.m. on
           , 20  , at the District's Office, located at 28999 S. Lower Valley
Road, Tehachapi, California. At that time, any objections to this abatement
notice will be heard and given due consideration by the Board of Directors.
   Dated:                   
   [Name of General Manager]
   General Manager
   Bear Valley Community Services District
   B.    At least ten (10) days before the date of the hearing described in the
abatement notice, the notice must be given to owners of the affected property
as follows:
      1.    By personal delivery to an owner of the property at the property
identified in the notice; or
      2.    By posting conspicuously in the front of the property on which the
public nuisance is located, or on the portion of the property nearest to the
street most likely to give actual notice to the property owner; and by mailing
the notice to the owner of the property identified in the notice, as the
owner's name and address appears on Kern County's latest equalized assessment
roll. (Ord. 14-239, 10-9-2014)
3-8-12: HEARING AND FINAL ABATEMENT ORDER:
   A.    At the time and date specified in the abatement notice, the board will
conduct a public hearing to hear and consider any objections to the proposed
removal and destruction of pine trees identified in the notice. The board may
continue the hearing from time to time. The board will allow or overrule each
objection, if any. As part of its review, the board will determine whether the
initial determination of a nuisance condition is correct with respect to each
property.
   B.    At the conclusion of the hearing, and based on the evidence and
testimony presented at the hearing, the board will, by resolution, order
compliance with the requirements of the abatement notice or with any alternate
orders issued by the board with respect to those properties on which a nuisance
condition is found to exist. The board's decision regarding the condition of a
property and any order of compliance with this chapter as set forth in the
resolution will be final and subject only to judicial review under Code Of
Civil Procedure section 1094.5. (Ord. 14-239, 10-9-2014)
3-8-13: ABATEMENT OF PINE BARK BEETLE NUISANCES:
   A.    If the person owning a property, identified as containing a public
nuisance, fails or refuses to remove and destroy the nuisance causing pine
trees on or before the latter of ten (10) calendar days after the abatement
deadline contained in the abatement notice, or ten (10) calendar days after the
deadline specified by the board in the resolution adopted following the public
hearing held pursuant to section
3-8-12 of this chapter, the general manager may cause the removal and
destruction of the infested pine trees in accordance with this section.
   B.    When the pine trees are not in plain view of district employees or
agents from a place that the employee or agent lawfully has the right to be,
the general manager will request the consent of the property owner before
district employees or agents enter the property for purposes of inspection and
abatement under this chapter. If consent is refused, the general manager will
apply for an inspection/abatement warrant, as defined in Code Of Civil
Procedure section 1822.50, to enter the property for inspection and abatement
purposes, and entry onto the property will be made by district employees or
agents only pursuant to an inspection warrant issued in accordance with Code Of
Civil Procedure sections 1822.51 through 1822.59.
   C.    Upon the issuance of an inspection/abatement warrant under subsection
B of this section, it is unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder, or
refuse to allow district employees or agents entry onto a property to abate
public nuisances pursuant to this section.
   D.    Property owners may remove and destroy pine trees on their property,
at their own expense, at any time before the entry onto the property by
district employees or agents pursuant to this section; provided, however, that
if the owner fails to timely abate the nuisance, the costs of the district to
enforce the abatement upon the subject property, including investigation,
boundary determinations, measurement, clerical and other related costs, may be
imposed as a special assessment and lien on such property pursuant to a
resolution of the board adopted under section
3-8-14 of this chapter.
   E.    Any timber owner may sell, assign or use any felled tree for personal
use in accordance with Cal fire rules and regulations. If the timber owner
desires that the district remove the felled tree, the timber owner must
transfer ownership interest in the timber to the district. When a timber owner
fails for any reason to remove any felled tree, and it is necessary to remove
the felled tree to abate the infestation of pine bark beetle in accordance with
this chapter, the district will be deemed the beneficiary owner and will remove
the felled tree in accordance with this chapter and the rules and regulations
of Cal fire. The timber owner will receive a credit from the district from the
sale of the timber of the felled tree, against the cost of the district to fell
the tree in order to abate the infestation of pine bark beetles. (Ord. 14-239,
10-9-2014)
3-8-14: ABATEMENT LIEN PROCEDURES:
   In any case in which the board issues an abatement order pursuant to section
3-8-12 of this chapter and such nuisance is in fact abated by the district or
its agents, the board may adopt a resolution ordering that a special assessment
and lien be imposed on the property in accordance with the following
procedures:
   A.    When enforcing the abatement of a public nuisance pursuant to this
chapter, the general manager will cause to be kept a written account of the
enforcement and abatement costs incurred for each property upon which a public
nuisance exists, which may include costs incurred by the district for
investigations, boundary determinations, measurement, abatement, and clerical
work related to abatement of the public nuisance. Based on these accounts, the
general manager will cause to be prepared a written report stating the
enforcement and abatement costs incurred for each property.
   B.    Before the general manager's report is presented to the board, a copy
of the report must be posted outside the board's meeting room for at least
three (3) days before the meeting at which the board will consider the report,
along with a notice of the time and date of the meeting. Copies of the report
and the notice must also be mailed to the owner of each property identified in
the report, using the owner's name and address as it appears on Kern County's
latest equalized assessment roll, at least fifteen (15) days before the
meeting. At the meeting, the board will consider the report, along with any
objections by owners of property identified in the report as subject to
assessment for enforcement and abatement costs. After making any necessary
modifications to the general manager's report, the board will confirm the
report by resolution.
   C.    Upon confirmation of the general manager's report by the board, the
district will submit certified copies of the general manager's report and the
board's resolution confirming the report to the Kern County recorder's office
for recordation. On or before the next August 10, following the board's
confirmation of the general manager's report, the district will also file
copies of the general manager's report and the board's resolution confirming
the report with the Kern County auditor for entry of the assessments on the
Kern County tax roll.
   The amounts of the enforcement and abatement costs assessed to each property
identified in the general manager's report will constitute special assessments
against the respective properties and create liens on the properties for those
amounts. The special assessments will be collected at the same time and in the
same manner as property taxes of Kern County, and delinquent amounts are
subject to the same penalties and foreclosure sale procedures as are county
property taxes. (Ord. 14-239, 10-9-2014)
TITLE 4
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Purpose, Scope And Short Title
4-1-2: District Roads
4-1-3: Entry to District And Access To District Roads
4-1-4: Gate Permits
4-1-4-1: Automated Entry
4-1-4-2:Special Permits
4-1-5: Operation Of Gates During Severe Weather Conditions
4-1-6: Distribution Of Materials
4-1-7: Traffic Administration And Enforcement
4-1-8: Traffic Control
4-1-9: Speed Limits
4-1-10: Parking
4-1-11: Restrictions On Use Of Roads
4-1-12: Commercial Vehicles Using Private Driveways
4-1-13: Vehicle Operations On Private Property
4-1-14: Reckless Driving
4-1-15: Violations; Penalties
4-1-1: PURPOSE, SCOPE AND SHORT TITLE:
   This chapter is enacted for the purpose of regulating the use of district
roads and rights of way. This chapter may be cited as the district's TRAFFIC
AND ROAD ORDINANCE. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
4-1-2: DISTRICT ROADS:
   A.    Designation Of Roads: No person may operate a motor vehicle within the
district except upon a district road in compliance with this chapter or upon
private property with permission of the property owner. A map and list of
district roads is on file in the office of the district.
   B.   Designation Of Rights Of Way: No person may operate a motor vehicle
upon district owned property or rights of way which are not designated as a
road without the prior express written permission of the district. (Ord. 09-
230, 1-8-2009; amd. Ord. 19-250, 4-11-2019)
4-1-3: ENTRY TO DISTRICT AND ACCESS TO DISTRICT ROADS:
   A.   Entry With Permit: Except as provided under this section, no person may
enter through the electronic or manually operated guarded gates onto district
roads unless that person has been issued a gate permit by authorized district
personnel.
   B.   Entry Without Permit: The following persons are be permitted to enter
the district without a gate permit:
      1.   Upon proper identification:
         a.   Association members, and members of their family residing with
them;
         b.   Tenant assignees and members of their family residing with them;
         c.   District residents who are neither association members nor tenant
assignees;
         d.   Association members who have assigned their membership rights to
a tenant.
         e.   Nonresident employees of the district and the association.
   Proper identification includes, but is not limited to, windshield stickers
issued by the district, other electronic or visual mechanism ("credential")
issued by the district to activate the district automated entry system, and use
privilege cards issued by the association.
      2.   Operators of emergency vehicles or vehicles entering following
proclamation of a local emergency.
      3.   Operators of vehicles on behalf of the association, government
agencies, and public utilities and services, including, but not limited to,
mail and package delivery services, school buses, propane trucks, sanitation
vehicles, delivery vehicles to the district, the association, the general store
and the service station. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009; amd. Ord. 19-250, 4-11-2019)
4-1-4: GATE PERMITS:
4-1-4-1: AUTOMATED ENTRY:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish district policy
regarding entry via the district automated entry system.
   B.   General: The following persons are permitted to enter the district via
the automated entry system:
      1.   Association members, and members of their family residing with them;
      2.   Tenant assignees and members of their family residing with them;
      3.   District residents who are neither association members nor tenant
assignees;
      4.   Association members who have assigned their membership rights to a
tenant;
      5.   Nonresident employees of the district and the association.
   C.   Issuance Of Credentials: Credentials for access through the automated
entry system will be granted upon verification of the following:
      1.   Government issued photo identification;
      2.   Proof of residency or employment;
      3.   Current vehicle registration;
      4.   Vehicle Information:
         a.   License plate number
         b.   Vehicle Identification Number
         c.   Make & Model
         d.   2-wheel drive, 4x4, AWD
   D.   One credential per vehicle will be issued.
   E.   Fee Required: A fee is required for each credential issued by the
district. The fees are to cover the district's cost for the credentials, system
operational costs and administrative costs for issuing the credentials and
maintaining related records. The fees shall be established by resolution of the
board.
   F.   Ownership Of Credentials: Ownership of the credential will be with the
resident or employee to whom it was issued. The district reserves the right to
electronically cancel the credential for failure of the recipient to comply
with the provisions of this chapter or upon receiving evidence that the
recipient no longer resides at the address for which the credentials were
issued or is no longer employed by the district or the association.
   G.   Responsibilities Of Credential Recipients: Recipients of a credential
are prohibited from transferring the credential to any vehicle other than the
one to which it was issued. Failure to comply will result in deactivation of
the credential. Recipients must notify the district within forty eight (48)
hours of a lost, stolen, damaged or destroyed credential. Issuance of a
replacement credential requires payment of the appropriate fee. (Ord. 09-230,
1-8-2009; amd. Ord. 19-250, 4-11-2019)
4-1-4-2: SPECIAL PERMITS:
   A.    Types Of Permits: Various types of gate permits may be issued,
depending on the need and purpose for entering the district. Permits may be
valid for a specified period of time or for an indefinite period.
   B.   Use Of Community Facilities Not Authorized: A gate permit does not
authorize the permittee use of the community facilities operated by the
association.
   C.   Descriptions And Conditions Of Gate Permits Issued:
      1.   Guest Gate Permits:
         a.   Guest gate permits may be issued to the guests of the district
and the association upon proper authorization by those organizations.
         b.   Guest gate permits may be issued to the guests of association
members and guests of tenant assignees upon proper authorization by the
association member or the tenant assignee host. Hosts must verify their
identity and provide the name of each person to whom a gate permit is to be
issued. Hosts (or their designee) must be over eighteen (18) years of age to
request a guest permit.
         c.   Guest gate permits will be valid for the period specified by the
host, not to exceed fourteen (14) days unless renewed by the host.
      2.   Special Event Gate Permits:
         a.   Special event gate permits, valid only for that event, will be
issued to persons attending special events that are sponsored by the district,
the association, association members or tenant assignees.
         b.   Special event sponsors shall be responsible for preparing an
alphabetical list of persons invited to the event and submitting the list to
the district not less than seventy two (72) hours prior to the event.
         c.   Persons who are not on the list and are requesting entrance to
attend the event must contact the event sponsor, who may then request a gate
permit.
      3.   Gate Permits For Members Of Local Nonprofit Corporations/
Associations:
         a.   Gate permits may be issued to members and guests of local
nonprofit corporations/associations attending a meeting or event sponsored by
the nonprofit corporation/association.
         b.   The nonprofit corporation/association must provide a list of
members or persons who regularly attend meetings from outside Bear Valley. Gate
permits will be issued to these persons for the stated activity only. It is the
responsibility of the corporation/association to update their gate permit list
as required but at least semiannually.
         c.   Persons who are not on the list and are requesting entrance to
attend a meeting must contact the nonprofit corporation or association, who may
then request a gate permit.
      4.   Gate Permits for Government, District And Association Employees And
Contractors:
         a.   Employees Of Federal, State, Local Government And Association:
Indefinite term gate permits may be issued to employees of federal, state and
local government bodies, and the association. These permits will expire
automatically upon termination of their employment or contract.
         b.   Contractors: Contractors who are employed or contracting with
property owners, tenants, the association or the district may be issued a gate
permit. The district may issue a short term contractor permit, an extended term
contractor permit or a recurring contractor permit depending on the needs and
length of employment or contract of the contractor.
      5.   Permits For Real Estate Brokers And Agents:
         a.   Licensed real estate brokers and each of the broker's licensed
agents may be issued gate permits valid for one year, and renewable annually.
         b.   Brokers are responsible for each permit issued to the broker's
agents.
         c.   Permits issued to brokers and agents are not transferable and
must be returned to the district upon termination of the agent's employment or
the broker's business, or the revocation of the broker's or agent's license.
      6.   Permits For Business Invitees:
         a.   Business invitees of the district, the association, members of
the association and district residents may be issued a gate permit upon proper
identification.
         b.   Gate permits issued under this subsection C6 will be valid for
one day unless the invitee shows that a longer time is required to complete the
business.
      7.   Permits For Process Servers, Private Investigators And Repossession
Agents: Process servers, licensed private investigators and licensed
repossession agents may be issued gate permits, valid for one day, upon proper
identification.
   D.   Display Of Gate Permits: Permittees entering in vehicles must display
their gate permits on the driver's side of their vehicle, located in a position
clearly visible through the windshield from the outside.
   E.   Additional Policies, Regulations And Fees: The board of directors may
establish by resolution additional policies and regulations for the issuance of
each classification of gate permit, the procedure to obtain the gate permits,
and any fees or deposits that may be required with the issuance of the gate
permits. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009; amd. Ord. 19-250, 4-11-2019)
4-1-5: OPERATION OF GATES DURING SEVERE WEATHER CONDITIONS:
   A.    Chains Required: Upon a determination by the general manager or chief
of police that hazardous road conditions exist within the district due to ice,
snow or other severe weather conditions, entrance into the district through the
gates may be prohibited to vehicles not equipped with properly installed chains
or with four-wheel drives.
   B.    Parking Of Stranded Vehicles: During severe weather conditions
creating hazardous road conditions within the district, the district chief of
police is hereby authorized to require persons seeking entry into the district
to park their vehicles in designated areas where chains can be installed or
where persons seeking entry can await other transportation to their
destination. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
4-1-6: DISTRIBUTION OF MATERIALS:
   A.    Impede Flow Of Traffic: The board finds and declares that the
distribution of fliers, handbills, circulars or similar materials at the gates
will unduly impede the flow of traffic entering or exiting the district.
   B.    Distribution Near Gate: No person (other than district employees)
shall, within one hundred feet (100') of the entrance gates to the district,
distribute any flier, handbill, circular or similar material to persons
attempting to enter or exit the district. No material will be distributed
except that alerting the public to a bona fide health and/or public safety
issue as determined either by the district, or by a county, state, or federal
agency. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
4-1-7: TRAFFIC ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.    Police Department; Powers And Duties: The police department shall:
      1.    Enforce the traffic and road regulations of the district and the
state vehicle laws applicable to road traffic in the district;
      2.    Make arrests for traffic violations;
      3.    Investigate traffic accidents;
      4.    Cooperate with the general manager and other officers of the
district in the administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways and
means to improve traffic conditions; and
      5.    Carry out those duties specifically imposed by the provisions of
this section.
   B.    Authority: District police officers and district employees assigned by
the chief of police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand,
audible, or other signals in conformance with the traffic laws; provided,
however, in the event of a fire or other emergency, or to expedite traffic, or
to safeguard pedestrians, police officers may direct traffic as conditions may
require, notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary set forth in this
section or in the California Vehicle Code.
   C.    Obedience To Certain Officers: No person shall fail to comply with any
lawful order, signal, or direction of a police officer, or a member of the fire
department, or a person authorized by the chief of police or by law.
   D.    Compliance With State Vehicle Code: No person shall violate any
provision of the California Vehicle Code while utilizing district roads.
   E.    Exemptions:
      1.    Emergency Vehicles: The provisions of this chapter regulating the
operation, parking, and standing of vehicles shall not apply to any vehicle
operated by the police department or fire department, any public ambulance, any
public utility vehicle, or any private ambulance, which public utility vehicle
or private ambulance has qualified as an authorized emergency vehicle, when any
vehicle mentioned in this section is operated in the manner set forth in the
California Vehicle Code in response to an emergency call. Such exemptions shall
not, however, relieve the operator of any such vehicle from obligation to
exercise due care for the safety of others, or from the consequences of his
wilful disregard for the safety of others.
      2.    Construction, Repair, And Mail Vehicles: The provisions of this
chapter regulating the parking or standing of vehicles shall not apply to any
vehicle of a district department or public utility while necessarily in use for
construction or repair work or to any vehicle owned or operated by the United
States post office department while in use for the collection, transportation,
or delivery of United States mail.
   F.    Signs Required: No provisions of the California Vehicle Code or of
this chapter for which signs are required shall be enforced against an alleged
violator unless appropriate legible signs are in place giving notice of such
provisions of the traffic laws. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
4-1-8: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   A.    Authority To Install Traffic Signals:
      1.    Ordinance Authorization: The general manager shall have the power
and duty to place and maintain, or cause to be placed and maintained, official
traffic control devices when and as required by the provisions of this chapter
to make effective such provisions.
      2.    Vehicle Code Authorization: Whenever the California Vehicle Code
requires, for the effectiveness of any provisions thereof, that traffic control
devices be installed to give notice to the public of the application of such
laws, the general manager is hereby authorized to install, or cause to be
installed, the necessary devices, subject to any limitations or restrictions
set forth in the laws applicable thereto.
      3.    General Manager Determinations: The general manager may also place
and maintain, or cause to be placed and maintained, such additional traffic
control devices as he may deem necessary or proper to regulate traffic or to
guide or warn traffic; provided, however, he shall make such determination only
upon the basis of traffic engineering principles and traffic investigations and
in accordance with such standards, limitations, and rules as may be set forth
in this chapter or as may be determined by ordinance or resolution of the
board.
      4.    Stop Signs: Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the district
designates and describes any street, or portion thereof, as a through street,
or any intersection at which vehicles are required to stop at one or more
entrances thereto, the general manager or his authorized representative shall
erect and maintain stop signs on each and every street intersecting such
through street, or portion thereof, so designated, at those entrances to other
intersections where a stop is required; provided, however, stop signs shall not
be erected or maintained at any entrance to an intersection where such entrance
is controlled by an official traffic control signal. Every such sign shall
conform with, and shall be placed as provided in the California Vehicle Code.
   B.    Lane Markings: The general manager is hereby authorized to mark
centerlines and lane lines upon the surface of the roadway to indicate the
course to be traveled by vehicles and may place signs temporarily designating
lanes to be used by traffic moving in a particular direction, regardless of the
centerline of the highway.
   C.    Roadway Markings: The general manager is hereby authorized to place
and maintain distinctive roadway markings, as described in the California
Vehicle Code, on those streets or parts of streets where the volume of traffic
or the vertical or other curvature of the roadway renders it hazardous to drive
on the left side of such markings or signs and markings. Such markings or signs
and markings shall have the same effect as similar markings placed by the
department of public works of the state pursuant to provisions of the
California Vehicle Code. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
4-1-9: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.    Roadways: All roadways in Bear Valley are subject to the provisions
set forth in the California Vehicle Code. Speed limits are determined by an
engineered traffic survey adopted by the board of directors and kept on file
with the district secretary.
   B.    Off Road Speed Limit: The speed limit for district owned parking lots
and campgrounds shall be ten (10) miles per hour. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
4-1-10: PARKING:
   A.    General:
      1.    Prohibited Parking: The provisions of this chapter prohibiting the
stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles shall apply at all times or at those
times set forth in this chapter, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic control device.
      2.    Limited Parking: The provisions of this chapter imposing a time
limit on standing or parking shall not relieve any person from the duty to
observe other and more restrictive provisions of the California Vehicle Code or
the laws of the district prohibiting or limiting the standing or parking of
vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
   B.    Parking Zones:
      1.    Maintenance: The general manager, or his designated representative,
is hereby authorized to maintain, by appropriate signs or by paint upon curb
surfaces, all no stopping zones, no parking areas, and restricted parking areas
as defined and described in this chapter.
      2.    Obedience: When curb markings or signs are in place, no operator of
any vehicle shall stop, stand, or park such vehicle adjacent to any such
legible curb marking or sign in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter.
   C.    No Parking Zones: No operator of any vehicle shall stop, stand, park,
or leave standing such vehicle in any of the following places, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with the
direction of a police officer, or other authorized officer or traffic sign or
signal:
      1.    Within any divisional island unless authorized and clearly
indicated with appropriate signs or markings.
      2.    On either side of any road between the projected property lines of
any public walk, public steps, road or thoroughfare terminating at such road
when such area is indicated by appropriate signs or by red paint upon the curb
surface.
      3.    In any area where the general manager determines that the parking
or stopping of a vehicle would constitute a traffic hazard or would endanger
life or property when such area is indicated by appropriate signs or by red
paint upon the curb surface.
      4.    In any area established as a "no parking" area when such area is
indicated by appropriate signs or by red paint upon the curb surface.
      5.    In any area where the parking or stopping of any vehicle would
constitute a traffic hazard or would endanger life or property.
      6.    On any street or highway where the use of such street or highway,
or a portion thereof, is necessary for the cleaning, repair, or construction of
the street or highway or the installation of underground utilities, or where
the use of the road or highway, or any portion thereof, is authorized for a
purpose other than the normal flow of traffic, or where the use of the road or
highway, or any portion thereof, is necessary for the movement of equipment,
articles, or structures of unusual size and the parking of such vehicle would
prohibit or interfere with such uses or movement; provided, however, signs
giving notice of such no parking shall be erected or placed at least twenty
four (24) hours prior to the effective time of such no parking.
      7.    At any place within twenty feet (20') of a point on the curb
immediately opposite the mid block end of a safety zone when such place is
indicated by appropriate signs or by red paint upon the curb surface except
that a bus may stop at a designated bus stop.
   D.    Parking For Certain Purposes:
      1.    No operator of any vehicle shall park such vehicle upon any road in
the district for the principal purpose of advertising or displaying it for
sale.
      2.    No person shall construct, or cause to be constructed, repair, or
cause to be repaired, grease, or cause to be greased, or dismantle, or cause to
be dismantled, any vehicle, or any part thereof, upon any public road in the
district. Temporary emergency repairs may be made upon a public road.
      3.    No person shall wash, or cause to be washed, or polish, or cause to
be polished, any vehicle, or any part thereof, upon any public road in the
district when a charge is made for such service.
   E.    Parking By Peddlers And Vendors Prohibited: No person shall park or
stand on any road, any lunch wagon, eating cart or vehicle or pushcart from
which any articles of food are sold or offered for sale.
   F.    Parking Commercially Owned Vehicles:
      1.    A person shall not park any commercially owned vehicle weighing
more than ten thousand (10,000) pounds unladen on any highway, alley or parcel
of public property at any time in any residential zone, except for:
         a. Necessary loading and unloading.
         b. Vehicles engaged in performing a service activity on the adjacent
lot or parcel of land.
         c. Vehicles used in conjunction with a lawful commercial use on the
adjacent lot or parcel of land.
         d. Vehicles used during the construction of buildings or structures on
the adjacent lot or parcel of land. Such vehicles shall not be allowed to park
or stand longer than reasonable to complete the task at hand and in no way
shall they be allowed to remain on any highway, alley or parcel of public
property overnight.
      2.    A person shall not park any trailer or semitrailer, regardless of
weight, upon any highway, street, alley, public way or public place unless the
trailer or semitrailer is at all times while so parked attached to a vehicle
capable of moving the trailer or semitrailer in a normal manner upon the
highway, street, alley, or public way or public place.
   This subsection F shall not apply to trailers or semitrailers in the process
of being loaded or unloaded.
   G.    Penalty: Any violation of any regulation governing the standing or
parking of a vehicle under the California Vehicle Code, under any federal
statute or regulation, or under any district ordinance is subject to a civil
penalty. The enforcement of those civil penalties shall be governed by the
civil administrative procedures as set forth in section 22500 et seq., of the
California Vehicle Code. The schedule of parking penalties for parking
violations, late payment penalties, administrative fees, and other related
charges for parking violations shall be established by resolution duly adopted
by the district board of directors. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
4-1-11: RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF ROADS:
   A.    Restrictions On Certain Modes Of Transportation:
      1.    No person shall operate a sled, skateboard, unregistered motor
vehicle or unregistered motorcycle on district roads.
      2.    Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
      3.    No person shall ride or lead domestic animals (excluding horses in
compliance with California Vehicle Code) on district roads except in designated
areas. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
4-1-12: COMMERCIAL VEHICLES USING PRIVATE DRIVEWAYS:
   No person shall operate or drive a commercial vehicle in, on, or across any
private driveway approach, sidewalk area, or the driveway itself without the
consent of the owner or occupant of the property if a sign or markings are in
place indicating that the use of such driveway is prohibited. (Ord. 09-230, 1-
8-2009)
4-1-13: VEHICLE OPERATIONS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.    Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or permit
to be operated any motor vehicle, motorcycle, minibike, trail bike, dune buggy,
motor scooter, jeep, or other form of transportation propelled by any type of
engine upon the private property of another without permission or upon public
property which is not held open to the public for vehicular use.
   B.    Signs Posted: The provisions of this section shall not be applicable
unless there has been posted upon the property in question signs indicating
that such operation is prohibited by the use of the words "motor vehicle riding
prohibited", or words of similar nature.
   C.    Exceptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to
emergency vehicles, governmental agencies, persons driving upon such property
with the consent of the owner or person in lawful possession of such real
property, or to the owner himself or his family, employees, agents, or lessees.
(Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
4-1-14: RECKLESS DRIVING:
   No person shall drive any vehicle on district property, or roads covered by
the California Vehicle Code, in a wilful or wanton disregard for the safety of
persons or property. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
4-1-15: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.    Misdemeanor: Unless otherwise provided, violation of this chapter
shall be a misdemeanor.
   B.    Penalty For Misdemeanor: Any person convicted of a misdemeanor under
the provisions of this chapter shall be punished according to section
1-4-1 of this code.
   C.    Vehicle Code Violation; Penalty: Notwithstanding the foregoing, any
person convicted of violation of the Vehicle Code of the state of California
shall be punishable pursuant to said Vehicle Code. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
CHAPTER 2
ABANDONED VEHICLES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Findings And Declarations
4-2-2: Administering Officer
4-2-3: Unlawful Actions
4-2-4: Failure Or Refusal To Remove
4-2-5: Dismantlers And Dealers
4-2-6: Maintenance Of Nuisances
4-2-7: Auto Contractors Or Franchise Holders
4-2-8: Administrative Costs, Determination
4-2-9: Notice Of Intention To Remove
4-2-10: Hearings
4-2-11: Removal
4-2-12: Assessment Of Costs
4-2-13: Exclusions
4-2-14: Compliance With Vehicle Code
4-2-15: Violations; Penalty
4-2-1: FINDINGS AND DECLARATIONS:
   In addition to and in accordance with the determination made and the
authority granted by the state of California under section 22660 of the
California Vehicle Code to remove abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or
inoperative vehicles or parts thereof as public nuisances, the district hereby
makes the following findings and declarations:
   The accumulation and storage of abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or
inoperative vehicles or parts thereof on private or public property not
including highways is hereby found to create a condition tending to reduce the
value of private property, to promote blight and deterioration, to invite
plundering, to create fire hazards, to constitute an attractive nuisance
creating a hazard to the health and safety of minors, to create a harborage for
rodents and insects and to be injurious to the health, safety, and general
welfare.
   Therefore, the presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or inoperative
vehicle or part thereof on private or public property not including highways,
except as expressly hereinafter permitted, is hereby declared to constitute a
public nuisance which may be abated as such in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
4-2-2: ADMINISTERING OFFICER:
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the provisions of this chapter shall be
administered and enforced by the chief of police. In the enforcement of this
chapter, such officer and his deputies may enter upon private or public
property to examine a vehicle or part thereof or to obtain information as to
the identity of a vehicle and to remove or cause the removal of a vehicle or
part thereof declared to be a nuisance pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 09-230,
1-8-2009)
4-2-3: UNLAWFUL ACTIONS:
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to abandon, park, store, or
leave or permit the abandonment, parking, storing, or leaving of any licensed
or unlicensed vehicle or part thereof which is in an abandoned, wrecked,
dismantled, or inoperative condition upon any private property or public
property not including highways within the district for a period in excess of
seventy two (72) hours unless such vehicle or part thereof is completely
enclosed within a building in a lawful manner or completely enclosed within a
nontransparent, solid fence six feet (6') or more in height such that such
vehicle or part thereof is not plainly visible from the street or other public
or private property. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
4-2-4: FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO REMOVE:
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to fail or refuse to remove an
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or inoperative vehicle or part thereof or
refuse to abate such nuisance when ordered to do so in accordance with the
abatement provisions of this chapter or state law where such state law is
applicable. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
4-2-5: DISMANTLERS AND DEALERS:
   It shall be unlawful for a licensed automotive dismantler, licensed vehicle
dealer, or junk dealer to park, store, or leave or permit the parking, storing,
or leaving of any licensed or unlicensed vehicle or part thereof which is in a
wrecked, dismantled, or inoperative condition upon any private property,
including the dealer's own property, unless such vehicle or part thereof is
completely enclosed within a building in a lawful manner or completely enclosed
within a nontransparent, solid fence six feet (6') or more in height such that
such vehicle or part thereof is not plainly visible from a street or other
public or private property. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
4-2-6: MAINTENANCE OF NUISANCES:
   A.    Nothing in this chapter shall authorize the maintenance of a public or
private nuisance as defined under the provisions of law other than chapter 10
(commencing with section 22650) of division 11 of the California Vehicle Code
and this chapter.
   B.    This chapter is not the exclusive regulation of abandoned, wrecked,
dismantled, or inoperative vehicles within the district. It shall supplement
and be in addition to the other regulatory codes, statutes, and ordinances
heretofore or hereafter enacted by the district, the state, or any other legal
entity or agency having jurisdiction. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
4-2-7: AUTO CONTRACTORS OR FRANCHISE HOLDERS:
   When the board has contracted with or granted a franchise to any person,
such person shall be authorized to enter upon private property or public
property to remove or cause the removal of a vehicle or parts thereof declared
to be a nuisance pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
4-2-8: ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS, DETERMINATION:
   The board shall determine and fix an amount to be assessed as administrative
costs, excluding the actual cost of removal of any vehicle or part thereof,
under this chapter. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
4-2-9: NOTICE OF INTENTION TO REMOVE:
   A.    Time Of Mailing Notice: A notice of the district's intention to abate
and remove an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or inoperative vehicle or part
thereof as a public nuisance and to assess the costs of removal and the
administrative costs against the property on which it is located shall be
mailed by the district secretary, by registered mail, at least ten (10) days
prior to the date set for removal to the owner of the land as shown on the last
equalized assessment roll and to the last registered and legal owner of record
unless the vehicle is in such condition that identification numbers are not
available to determine ownership.
   B.    Contents Of Notice: Such notice shall contain a statement of the
hearing rights of the owner of the property on which the vehicle or part
thereof is located and of the owner of the vehicle. The statement shall include
notice to the property owner that he may appear in person at a hearing or may
present a sworn written statement denying responsibility for the presence of
the vehicle on the land, with his reasons for such denial, in lieu of
appearing. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
4-2-10: HEARINGS:
   A.    Owner's Right To Hearing: If the owner of the vehicle or the owner of
the land requests a hearing, or if the owner of the land on which the vehicle
is located submits a sworn written statement denying responsibility for the
presence of the vehicle or part thereof on his land, within ten (10) days after
the mailing of the notice of intention to abate and remove the vehicle or part
thereof, the board shall hold a public hearing on the question of abating and
removing the vehicle or part thereof. The presence of the owner of the land
shall not be required at the hearing if he has submitted such a sworn written
statement within the required time. If such a request or sworn statement is not
received within such period, the chief of police shall have the authority to
order the removal of the vehicle or part thereof.
   B.    Action By Hearing Body:
      1.    All hearings under this chapter shall be held before the board
which shall hear all facts and testimony it deems pertinent. The facts and
testimony may include testimony on the condition of the vehicle or part thereof
and the circumstances concerning its location on the said private property or
public property. The board shall not be limited by the technical rules of
evidence.
      2.    The owner of the land on which the vehicle or part thereof is
located may appear in person at the hearing, or present a sworn written
statement denying responsibility for the presence of the vehicle on the land
with his reasons for such denial. If it is determined at the hearing that the
vehicle or part thereof was placed on the land without the consent of the
landowner and that he has not subsequently acquiesced in its presence, the
board shall not assess costs of administration or removal of the vehicle or
part thereof against the property upon which the vehicle or part thereof is
located or otherwise attempt to collect such cost from such owner.
      3.    The board may impose such conditions and take such other action as
it deems appropriate under the circumstances to carry out the purpose of this
chapter. It may delay the time for removal of the vehicle or part thereof if,
in its opinion, the circumstances justify it.
      4.    At the conclusion of the public hearing, the board may find that a
vehicle or part thereof has been abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or is
inoperative on private or public property and order the same removed from the
property as a public nuisance and disposed of as hereinafter provided and
determine that the administrative costs and costs of removal be charged against
the owner of the parcel of land on which the vehicle or part thereof is
located.
      5.    The order requiring removal shall include a description of the
vehicle or part thereof and the correct identification number and license
number of the vehicle, if available at the site. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
4-2-11: REMOVAL:
   A.    Time Of Removal: Five (5) days after the board adopts an order
declaring the vehicle or parts thereof to be a public nuisance, the chief of
police shall cause the removal of the vehicle or parts thereof to a scrap yard
or automobile dismantler's yard. After the vehicle has been removed, it shall
not thereafter be reconstructed or made operable.
   B.    Notice Of Removal: Within five (5) days after the date of removal of
the vehicle or part thereof, the chief of police shall give notice to the
department of motor vehicles of the state identifying the vehicle or part
thereof removed. At the same time, there shall be transmitted to the department
of motor vehicles any evidence of registration available, including
registration certificates, certificates of title, and license plates. (Ord. 09-
230, 1-8-2009)
4-2-12: ASSESSMENT OF COSTS:
   If the administrative costs and costs of removal which are charged against
the owner (or occupant) of a parcel of land pursuant to subsection
4-2-10B of this chapter are not paid within thirty (30) days of the date of the
order of the board, such costs shall be transmitted to the county tax collector
for collection with real and personal property taxes. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
4-2-13: EXCLUSIONS:
   The abatement provisions of sections
4-2-2 and
4-2-7 through
4-2-12 of this chapter shall not apply to:
   A.    A vehicle or part thereof which is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner or fenced in accordance with section
4-2-3 of this chapter.
   B.    A vehicle or part thereof which is stored or parked in a lawful manner
on private property in connection with the business of a licensed dismantler,
licensed vehicle dealer, or a junkyard. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
4-2-14: COMPLIANCE WITH VEHICLE CODE:
   Except as provided in this chapter, the provisions of the California Vehicle
Code shall apply to the streets located within the district. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-
2009)
4-2-15: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   Any person violating section
4-2-3,
4-2-4 or
4-2-5 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished according to section 1-4-1 of this code.
(Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
TITLE 5
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Purpose, Scope And Short Title
5-1-2: Solid Waste Department
5-1-3: Regulations
5-1-4: Application For Solid Waste Disposal
5-1-5: General Use Regulations
5-1-6: Collection Points
5-1-7: Preparation Of Solid Waste
5-1-8: Materials Prohibited From Being Mixed With Solid Waste
5-1-9: Large Containers
5-1-10: Disposal And/Or Demolition Of Building Materials
5-1-11: Collection And Disposal
5-1-12: Collector
5-1-13: Transportation
5-1-14: Dumping On Property Of Another
5-1-15: Burning Of Green Waste
5-1-16: District Property
5-1-17: Industrial Waste
5-1-18: District Removal; Charges
5-1-19: Enforcement And Collection Remedies
5-1-20: Charges
5-1-21: Penalty
5-1-22: Capital Reserve Fund
5-1-1: PURPOSE, SCOPE AND SHORT TITLE:
   This chapter is enacted for the purpose of providing rules and regulations
for the collection and control of solid waste within the district and shall be
referred to as the SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT CODE. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
5-1-2: SOLID WASTE DEPARTMENT:
   A.    Creation: A solid waste department is hereby created for the
collection and disposal of solid waste within the district.
   B.    Performance Of Duties: The duties of the solid waste department may be
performed by existing district employees in addition to their other duties, or
by any additional employee or employees.
      1.    Inspections: The general manager or his designee shall periodically
inspect the district to see that all users within the district are in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, to note any violations of any
of the provisions of this chapter and to promptly address any violations of any
of the provisions of this chapter.
      2.    Billing: District office personnel shall compute, prepare, and mail
bills as hereinafter described, make and deposit collections, maintain proper
books of account, collect, account for and refund deposits, do whatever else is
necessary to set up and maintain an efficient and economical bookkeeping
system, and perform any other duties now or hereafter prescribed by the board
of directors. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
5-1-3: REGULATIONS:
   It shall be unlawful for any person using a lot or parcel within the
district, serviced by a district water installation, to construct, cause
construction, either permanently or temporarily occupy, or lease for occupancy,
the lot or parcel except as herein provided. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
5-1-4: APPLICATION FOR SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL:
   A.    Application Requirement: Application for solid waste disposal shall be
mandatory for all improved parcels, and initiated upon completion of the
application and contract for utility service requesting water service.
   B.    Undertaking Of Applicant: The application for solid waste disposal
service shall signify the user's willingness and intention to comply with this
chapter and other ordinances or regulations relating to solid waste disposal
and to make payment for such solid waste service. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
5-1-5: GENERAL USE REGULATIONS:
   A.    Accumulation: It is unlawful for any person to permit the accumulation
of solid waste to become or remain offensive, unsightly, or unsafe to public
health or hazardous from fire, or to deposit, keep, or accumulate, or permit or
cause any solid waste to be deposited, kept, burned, or accumulated upon any
lot or parcel of land, or any public or private place, street, lane, alley or
driveway.
   B.    Required Solid Waste Containers: Every person shall at all places or
premises in the district maintain sufficient solid waste containers or
stationary refuse compactors in good repair and strength to hold all solid
waste created, produced, or accumulated on the place or premises, in a screened
or enclosed location approved by the environmental control committee (ECC) of
Bear Valley Springs Association.
      1.    Number Of Containers: A sufficient number of containers shall mean:
         a. Multiple lodging and dwelling structures, restaurants, and all
other places and premises, including commercial establishments: Detachable bin
boxes of capacity and number required by the district, but where not used, a
minimum of one standard container per unit.
         b. The district may require detachable bin boxes for condominiums,
subdivisions, or other similar dwelling complexes, but in the absence of such
requirements, a minimum of one standard container per unit.
         c. If any place, premises, or use of property accumulates or generates
twelve (12) or more cubic yards of solid waste per day, the district may
require the occupant to provide and install a stationary compactor and dropoff
box of sufficient capacity to hold accumulated solid waste as determined by the
district.
         d. New or remodeled construction shall have minimally a three (3) yard
or a forty (40) yard container as determined by the district, in order to
contain all construction waste material.
      2.    Container Maintenance: When not being filled or emptied, all
containers shall be kept tightly closed, and it is unlawful for any person not
authorized to do so to open such containers to collect or to scatter the solid
waste stored therein. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
5-1-6: COLLECTION POINTS:
   A.    Disposal Locations: For disposal purposes, every person shall
transport and deposit his solid waste in the roll-off bins located at the
transfer station at 28999 S. Lower Valley Road, west of the district office.
Green waste is to be deposited in a separate designated area adjacent to the
transfer station. Horse manure is to be deposited in a separate designated area
adjacent to the green waste disposal area.
   B.    Rules And Regulations For Collection And Removal: The district shall
make such rules and regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of this
chapter as may be necessary, reasonable, and proper to effect the expeditious,
economical, and efficient collection and removal of solid waste. The
determination of the district shall be conclusive.
   C.    Vehicles Authorized To Enter Solid Waste Transfer Station: Only
vehicles displaying a current Bear Valley CSD windshield decal are permitted to
enter the solid waste transfer station. Commercial vehicles (gardening service,
etc.) must have a manifest to be produced upon request before entering the
solid waste transfer station clearly stating the material to be deposited and
the street address source of the material. In no case will commercial vehicles
carrying building materials be permitted to enter the solid waste transfer
station. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
5-1-7: PREPARATION OF SOLID WASTE:
   For the convenience of the public, the protection of the collector, and
efficient handling, all solid waste shall be placed in solid waste containers
unless otherwise provided for in this section. It shall be kept free of all
liquids and further prepared in the following manner:
   A.    Garbage: Garbage is to be securely wrapped and placed in either a
standard container or detachable bin box. Garbage is prohibited from the green
waste disposal area or the horse manure disposal area.
   B.    Diapers, Human Excrement, Animal Excrement: Human excrement, animal
excrement (except horse manure) and all types of disposable diapers must be
disposed of in a trash bag or sealed container.
   C.    Household Ashes: Household ashes must be thoroughly cold by the day of
deposit and placed in the ash receptacle provided for by the district and
located at a designated location.
   D.    Boxes, Cartons: Items such as cardboard cartons, wooden boxes, or
large cans should be filled with solid waste or crushed before being placed in
the solid waste container for disposal.
   E.    Green Waste: Green waste may be deposited at the green waste disposal
area. Green waste may be retained on private property provided that the
accumulation of green waste does not present a fire hazard or other health
hazard.
   F.    Horse Manure: Horse manure may be deposited at the horse manure
disposal area. Horse manure may not be deposited at the green waste disposal
area nor mixed with other rubbish. Horse manure may be retained on private
property provided that the accumulation of horse manure does not present a fire
hazard, a health hazard or an endangerment to ground water.
   G.    Hypodermic Syringes And Needles: Hypodermic syringes and needles can
be disposed of by placing them within a can or bottle, sealing the can or
bottle and identifying the contents on the outside of the container.
Alternatively, containers for this specific purpose are available at the
district office. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
5-1-8: MATERIALS PROHIBITED FROM BEING MIXED WITH SOLID WASTE:
   No battery acid, poisonous, caustic or toxic material or other substance
capable of damaging clothing or causing injury to the person, corrosive or
explosive material or substance, or residue containing acids or dangerous or
destructive chemicals, shall be mixed or placed in any solid waste which is to
be collected by the district. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
5-1-9: LARGE CONTAINERS:
   When solid waste containers are required on site for either temporary or
permanent service, the user is to arrange for service directly with the vendor.
(Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
5-1-10: DISPOSAL AND/OR DEMOLITION OF BUILDING MATERIALS:
   A.    Construction/Demolition Defined: As used in this section,
"construction/demolition" is defined as follows:
      1.    New construction of a building assembled on site.
      2.    New construction of a prebuilt building.
      3.    Any addition to existing structures.
      4.    Any demolition of an existing building.
      5.    Any replacement of roofing material.
   B.    Bin Box: Any person desiring to construct or demolish, or cause
construction of or demolition of, any structure on a lot or parcel within the
district shall, as a part of the application for and the undertaking required
by sections
5-1-3 and
5-1-4 of this chapter, have a "detachable bin box" as defined in section
1-3-2 of this code, and which shall be regularly collected from the lot or
parcel upon which the construction or demolition is to occur, for the purpose
of disposal of "building materials" as such materials are defined by section
1-3-2 of this code.
   C.    Solid Waste: All solid waste generated by construction or demolition
of any structure shall be deposited in the detachable bin box required to be
located at the construction site. Such material is prohibited from being
transported to the solid waste transfer station or deposited therein. For the
purpose of this section, solid waste includes green waste and other debris
incident to grading or clearing property for the purpose of construction or
demolition. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
5-1-11: COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL:
   It is unlawful for any person to collect, remove, or dispose of, or to enter
into an agreement to collect, remove, or dispose of, or to allow the
collection, removal, or disposal of solid waste unless such person making such
collection, removal, or disposal is the "collector" as defined in section
1-3-2 of this code. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
5-1-12: COLLECTOR:
   Any person in the district authorized as a collector shall collect solid
waste as required by the district. All solid waste accumulated shall be
deposited in the solid waste container where located by the district. (Ord. 09-
230, 1-8-2009)
5-1-13: TRANSPORTATION:
   A.    Vehicle Requirements: Transportation of all solid waste by an
authorized collector shall be in vehicles so constructed and equipped so that
the solid waste cannot be blown, sifted through, nor allowed to fall or leak
upon any street, lane, alley, or driveway. All such containers, vehicle bodies,
and compartments must be kept clean at all times. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
5-1-14: DUMPING ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER:
   It is unlawful, except with the consent of the district, to collect, dump or
deposit any solid waste upon any property located within the district belonging
to another, either with or without the consent of the owner thereof; and it is
unlawful to establish or maintain a place for dumping solid waste in the
district, or to collect, receive or dump any solid waste on one's own property,
except such solid waste as shall reasonably accumulate upon such property in
the reasonable and lawful use thereof without the consent of the district.
(Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
5-1-15: BURNING OF GREEN WASTE:
   It is unlawful at any time for any person, including a collector, except by
Kern County fire department permit, to burn any green waste within the district
except at the designated or approved areas, and then only in accordance with
the rules and regulations governing the use of these areas. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-
2009)
5-1-16: DISTRICT PROPERTY:
   All solid waste shall become the property of the district upon the
authorized collection thereof as herein provided. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
5-1-17: INDUSTRIAL WASTE:
   Users in the district shall be responsible for the proper collection and
removal of industrial waste from their premises. The district shall determine
what is and what is not industrial waste. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
5-1-18: DISTRICT REMOVAL; CHARGES:
   Upon request, the district may, but need not, collect and remove industrial
waste, building materials, and any other matter not provided for herein, from
premises. When the district performs such service, the charges shall be at the
rate established by resolution of the board of directors, plus actual expenses.
(Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
5-1-19: ENFORCEMENT AND COLLECTION REMEDIES:
   The district shall supervise the removal of all solid waste by the collector
and shall enforce the provisions of this chapter. This district shall have the
right to inspect any and all premises for the purpose of determining whether
the provisions of this chapter are being observed. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
5-1-20: CHARGES:
   All users of improved parcels shall pay a monthly charge for solid waste
disposal at the district's solid waste transfer station. The charge for solid
waste disposal service shall be established by resolution of the board of
directors. The charge will be billed with the water bill and billing and
collection will follow the procedures outlined in
title 7, chapter 2 of this code. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
5-1-21: PENALTY:
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or wilfully and
knowingly refusing to comply with the rules, regulations, and determinations of
the district shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished according to section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
5-1-22: CAPITAL RESERVE FUND:
   A.    Purpose: This section establishes a dedicated solid waste capital
reserve fund.
   B.    Findings: The board of directors finds, determines, and declares that
the district solid waste transfer station must be maintained in peak operating
condition at all times. Replacement of components of the solid waste transfer
station over and above regular maintenance will become necessary in the near
future. To prepare for this eventuality, adequate reserves must be accumulated
and accounted for separately.
   C.    Fund Established:
      1.    The district hereby establishes the solid waste capital reserve
fund for expansion, major repair or replacement of the solid waste transfer
station. The district shall deposit an amount equal to seven percent (7%) of
the solid waste fund's annual operating budget each year for ten (10) years
beginning in fiscal year 2000-2001. All interest earned on deposits to the
reserve fund are part of the reserve fund.
      2.    The district may use monies deposited in the reserve fund to pay
for expansion, major repair or replacement of the solid waste transfer station.
The district shall replace any monies expended from the reserve fund by deposit
at a minimum rate of ten percent (10%) of the expended amount each year.
      3.    Funds shall be maintained consistent with the requirements of
Government Code section 61112. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
EXCAVATIONS AND ENCROACHMENTS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Short Title; Application Of Provisions
6-1-2: Permit Required
6-1-3: Restoration Of Excavation
6-1-4: Placement Of Telephone, Power, Television Lines
6-1-5: Work Requirements And Safeguards
6-1-6: Inspections
6-1-7: Permit Issuance
6-1-8: Completion Of Work And Compliance With Chapter
6-1-9: Restoration Of Area Of Activity
6-1-10: Permit Cancellation
6-1-11: Investigation Of Facilities
6-1-12: Protection Of Aerial, Underground Apparatus
6-1-13: Liability Insurance
6-1-14: Failure To Complete Activity
6-1-15: Driveways
6-1-16: Application For And Issuance Of Permits
6-1-17: Fees And Costs Chargeable
6-1-18: Deposits, Sureties Required
6-1-19: Billings And Collections
6-1-20: Refunds
6-1-21: Private Driveway Approach
6-1-1: SHORT TITLE; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.    Short Title: This chapter shall be known as the BEAR VALLEY COMMUNITY
SERVICES DISTRICT ENCROACHMENT PERMIT CODE.
   B.    Application Of Provisions: The provisions of this chapter apply to
permits for the making, or causing to be made, in any district real property
easement or roadway, of excavations, and for the placing, constructing,
repairing, changing or removing of encroachments. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
6-1-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   Each applicant for an excavation or encroachment permit shall file with the
application a plat in quadruplicate showing the location in which the proposed
excavation or encroachment will be placed, together with the exact location and
dimensions of the proposed excavations or the specifications and
characteristics of the encroachment, together with any other details which the
general manager requires. When excavations are made for service connections or
for the location of trouble in conduits, cable, or pipe, or for making repairs
thereto, the general manager may waive the filing of a plat. Approved plats
shall become public records. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
6-1-3: RESTORATION OF EXCAVATION:
   A.    Restoration Required: Immediately upon completion of the work
necessitating the excavation or encroachment permitted by any permit issued,
the permittee shall promptly and in a workmanlike manner restore the area
affected by his activity to a condition satisfactory to the general manager.
   B.    Refilling Excavation:
      1.    A permittee shall refill an excavation in the manner which is
satisfactory to the general manager and is most effective to accomplish through
compaction and enable the area to be restored to a condition equivalent to that
in which it was prior to the excavation.
      2.    Upon completion of the refilling of the excavation, or completion
of the cut or fill, the permittee shall so notify the general manager, in
writing, on a form prescribed by the general manager. Whenever a plat was
required by section
6-1-2 of this chapter, and there were substantial deviations approved during
the work from the dimensions or locations as shown on the plat, the permittee
shall transmit to the general manager a concise as built plat within one week
after completion of his work.
   C.    Relocation Of Pipes, Poles: Every application shall contain a
statement, signed by the applicant, that if any tank, pole, pipe, cable,
conduit, duct, obstruction or tunnel placed in the excavation or the
encroachment for which a permit is issued, interferes with the future use of
the area by the district, then the applicant and his successors or assigns
will, at his own expense, remove or relocate to a location satisfactory to the
general manager such tank, pole, pipe, cable, conduit, duct, tunnel or
obstruction.
   D.    Time Limit For Permit Application: Nothing in this chapter prohibits
any person from maintaining by virtue of any law, ordinance or permit, any
pipe, cable, or conduit in any roadway, or from making such excavation as may
be necessary for the preservation of life or property if the person making such
excavation applies for a permit not later than the next business day. (Ord. 09-
230, 1-8-2009)
6-1-4: PLACEMENT OF TELEPHONE, POWER, TELEVISION LINES:
   The general manager shall require all lines for the transmission and
distribution of standard television or audio signals to be placed underground
in roadways when all power and telephone lines are underground, and shall also
require underground installation in all instances except where the applicant
provides satisfactory proof of permission to use existing pole lines or where
the general manager finds that the remoteness of the area or other conditions
render underground installation impractical or infeasible. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-
2009)
6-1-5: WORK REQUIREMENTS AND SAFEGUARDS:
   The general manager may establish such requirements as he may find necessary
to apply to the work to be done by any person in order to prevent interference
with users of the district property and with holders of other permits.
   A.    Warning Devices, Flagmen: Any person engaged in performing work
regulated by this chapter which interferes with or endangers the safe movement
of traffic shall have the work safeguarded by adequate warning signs,
barricades, lights, devices or flagmen. He shall be responsible for placing and
maintaining adequate warning signs, lights, barricades and devices during all
periods of his activity in order to promote the safe movement of traffic,
including, but not limited to, periods of twilight, nighttime, fog and/or rain.
All warning signs, barriers, barricades, flags and other devices shall comply
with (or exceed) the standards required in the California Vehicle Code.
   B.    Specifications: All work shall be performed in accordance with the
district standard specifications or according to the plans and specifications
referred to in the permit and, in addition, to any special requirements and/or
specifications which are made a part of the permit. In case of conflict between
two (2) specifications, the higher specification shall apply.
   C.    Failure To Obtain Permit; Work Stopped: Except in the case of an
emergency any person who shall commence any work for which a permit is required
by this chapter without first having obtained a permit therefor shall stop work
and apply for such permit. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
6-1-6: INSPECTIONS:
   A.    Authorization: A person shall not obstruct the general manager, or his
duly authorized representative, in making any inspection authorized by this
chapter or in taking any sample or in making any test.
   B.    Permit Inspection: The permittee shall make the permit available for
inspection by the general manager or by any peace officer. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-
2009)
6-1-7: PERMIT ISSUANCE:
   A.    Application Of Provisions: Whenever this chapter requires a permittee
to perform any work, take any action, or be liable for any fees and costs, such
requirement also applies to any person who commences any work for which a
permit is required by this chapter whether such person obtains such a permit or
not.
   B.    Right To Use Of Roadway: Every permit issued under this chapter for
activity or work in, along, on, over, across or under a roadway shall be
granted subject to the right of the district or of any other person entitled
thereto, to use that part of such roadway for any purpose for which such
roadway may lawfully be used. Proof of the applicant's right to use the roadway
for the purposes set forth in the application shall be filed with the general
manager. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
6-1-8: COMPLETION OF WORK AND COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER:
   A.    Work Completion: Every person who commences any activity or work
regulated by this chapter shall safeguard and complete the activity or work
within a reasonable time. Any part of a roadway facility of any nature removed
or disturbed shall be repaired, restored and replaced in a condition
satisfactory to the general manager. All material of any kind shall be removed
from the roadway. Any surplus materials shall be hauled off site.
   B.    Compliance: Every person who commences any activity or work regulated
by this chapter shall comply with the provisions of this chapter, the
provisions made part of any permit, and the provisions of the specifications
referred to by this chapter. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
6-1-9: RESTORATION OF AREA OF ACTIVITY:
   A.    Restoration: Upon completion of the permittee's activity, the general
manager, at his option, may require the permittee to restore that portion of
the district facilities damaged by the permittee's activity, or the general
manager may elect to do such restoration himself, at permittee's cost.
   B.    Pavement: Where the pavement or surface has been removed, the
permittee shall replace it to a thickness one inch (1") greater than that of
the surrounding pavement or surface, but, in no event, to a thickness less than
three inches (3").
   C.    Base Course: The base course removed shall be replaced to the same
thickness as that of the surrounding base course.
   D.    Seal; Slurry: When the street surface has been treated with a seal or
slurry prior to the work under permit, the seal and/or slurry shall be replaced
upon the portion repaired.
   E.    Replacement Of Sections: When the structural section removed varies
from (or exceeds) the average existing section, the general manager may elect
to require the replacement of an equivalent section which would meet the
average structural section requirements. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
6-1-10: PERMIT CANCELLATION:
   The general manager may cancel a permit unless the activity therein
permitted is commenced within the time specified and is diligently prosecuted
to completion. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
6-1-11: INVESTIGATION OF FACILITIES:
   The permittee shall investigate and be aware of all existing facilities
lawfully within the roadways which are within the limits of his activity. The
permittee shall not interfere with any existing public or private facility
without the consent of its owner. If it becomes necessary to relocate an
existing facility, this shall be completed by its owner or to the satisfaction
of its owner. The cost of moving publicly and/or privately owned facilities
shall be borne by the permittee unless he makes other arrangements with the
owner of the facility. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
6-1-12: PROTECTION OF AERIAL, UNDERGROUND APPARATUS:
   The permittee shall support and protect all wires, cables, pipes, conduits,
poles, and other apparatus both aerial and underground, by a method
satisfactory to the general manager. The district has the right to support or
protect any of its facilities at the sole expense of the permittee. In case any
of said wires, cables, pipes, conduits, poles or other apparatus should be
damaged (and for this purpose, pipe coating or other encasement of devices
should be considered as part of a structure), they may be repaired by the
general manager at the expense of the permittee under the supervision of the
general manager. The expense of repairs to any damaged facilities shall be
borne by the permittee. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
6-1-13: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
   The permittee shall save harmless, indemnify and defend the district, its
officers, agents, and employees of and from any and all liability or
responsibility for any property damage or loss, or injury, or death to any
person arising out of or occurring as the proximate result of any of the work
undertaken. The general manager may, in his discretion, require the permittee
to furnish a policy of liability insurance naming the district as an additional
insured to cover the cost of the permittee's duty to hold harmless, indemnify
and defend the district. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
6-1-14: FAILURE TO COMPLETE ACTIVITY:
   When paving, excavated material, barricades, lights, or other devices are
not properly placed or maintained; when the work started is not completed; when
the work does not comply with the specifications or any special requirement;
when the person fails or refuses to remove any obstruction; when any roadway
facility has been damaged and the person fails or refuses to repair or restore;
the general manager with his own forces or otherwise may cause such to be
placed, erected, completed, repaired, restored, removed, and/or maintained. The
permittee shall pay for any and all costs. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
6-1-15: DRIVEWAYS:
   All work performed on private driveway approaches across district property
or right of way shall be performed in strict accordance with the plans and
specifications set out in the district standard specifications and drawings.
(Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
6-1-16: APPLICATION FOR AND ISSUANCE OF PERMITS:
   A.    Form; Contents:
      1.    Application for a permit shall be made in writing to the general
manager, on the forms provided by the general manager.
      2.    An applicant for a permit shall state in his application: name and
address, such other information as is required by this chapter and such other
information as the general manager may require.
      3.    The general manager may make such changes or additions in any
application for a permit as in his opinion are necessary for the protection of
the district property, for the prevention of undue interference with traffic,
for the safety of persons using such district property, as to the route over
which to move any over height, over width, over length, or overweight load; as
to the location, depth, dimension, character, and number of excavations; as to
encroachments made or placed; and, as to other permits issued pursuant to this
chapter.
      4.    Each permit shall specify the time the permit shall become null and
void and the permit shall become null and void on the date so specified unless
the general manager extends the time. The general manager may extend the time
if, in his opinion, the work for which the permit was issued was delayed in
completion because of inclement weather, strikes, an act of God, or other
causes not within the control of the permittee.
      5.    The general manager may require that evidence be submitted with the
application to satisfy him that a proposed overhead structure or encroachment
shall not, insofar as he can foresee, create a hazard of any kind.
   B.    Additional Requirement: The general manager may establish additional
requirements for the work to be done under the permit, including equipment to
be used, type of backfill, compaction, paving, traffic regulations, hours of
work, flagmen, lights, inspection, and other similar requirements and
conditions by attachments to the permits, and they shall be an integral part
thereof. If any of the requirements of the permit are violated, the general
manager may revoke the permit and require that a new permit be secured before
further work is done.
   C.    Blanket Permits: Blanket permits, renewable annually, may be issued
subject to compliance with all applicable provisions of this chapter. The
general manager may revoke any such blanket permit if the permittee fails to
comply with any of the provisions of this chapter. The issuance of a blanket
permit does not relieve the permittee from making such reports of activity
under the blanket permit as may be required by the general manager and for
paying for inspection, repairs and other costs incurred by the district due to
the permittee's activity.
   D.    Cost Of Relocation Of Structures: The general manager may require the
permittee to make proper arrangements for, and bear the cost of, the relocation
of any structure, publicly owned facility, tree, or shrub, where such
relocation is made necessary by the proposed work for which a permit is issued.
The general manager may elect to do the necessary relocation at the permittee's
expense.
   E.    Permit Issued: If the applicant complies with every applicable
provision of this chapter and all applicable provisions of all other ordinances
and statutes, the general manager may issue to the applicant a written permit
to perform the work set forth in the application. The general manager may
refuse to issue a permit if he finds that it is not in the best interest of the
district to do so.
   F.    Revocation Of Permit: The general manager, for cause, may cancel the
privilege granted by the permit and may remove the permit from the job
location.
   G.    Permits Nontransferable: Permits issued under the authority of this
chapter are nontransferable. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
6-1-17: FEES AND COSTS CHARGEABLE:
   A.    Issuance Fee:
      1.    All persons, except as otherwise specified in this chapter, shall
pay an issuance fee and all other costs and charges as established for the work
covered in this chapter.
      2.    The issuance fee shall be established by resolution of the board of
directors. The fee shall be sufficient to defray the cost of handling by the
district.
   B.    Exemptions:
      1.    The following shall be exempt from paying the issuance fee: the
United States, this state, all departments of this county, any municipal
corporation, any school district, and any special district organized under
state law.
      2.    The general manager may grant a permit without issuance fee if he
finds that the work to be done has been requested by the board of directors of
the district in connection with proposed public works.
   C.    Waiver Of Fees: If the general manager determines that the waiver of
any part of the fees is necessary to promote the safety and public welfare, he
may, in specific instances, waive all fees and deposits.
   D.    Establishment Of Unit Fees: By order, the board of directors of the
district may establish unit fees for inspection, transportation, tests, or any
other costs incurred by the general manager due to the permittee's activity.
   E.    Liability Of Permittee: The permittee is liable for and shall pay for
all the district's costs related to the permit, including, but not restricted
to, the following:
      1.    The permit issuance fee, if that has not otherwise been paid;
      2.    Engineering, which includes design, inspection, survey, and tests;
      3.    The cost of inspection, transportation, or test made;
      4.    The cost of repairing or restoring the roadways and all appurtenant
facilities to the same or equal condition that they were in before being cut or
damaged as a result of the permittee's activities;
      5.    The cost of furnishing and/or maintaining any lights, barricades or
warning devices;
      6.    The cost of alteration, removal, replacement, and/or repair to
traffic signals and devices, the removal of temporary and/or permanent traffic
stripes and any other expense for traffic control;
      7.    The cost of removing or remedying any hazardous condition;
      8.    The cost of tree trimming;
      9.    Any other cost to the district caused by the permittee's activity.
   F.    Actual Costs: Whenever in the provisions of this chapter, any costs
are to be charged to any permittee and no other method for the calculation of
such costs is specified, such costs are the actual costs including overhead and
depreciation in accordance with current practice in charging for work performed
for the public. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
6-1-18: DEPOSITS, SURETIES REQUIRED:
   A.    Deposits:
      1.    Every applicant for a permit, unless exempt by law, other than the
United States, this state, departments of this county, municipalities, and
special districts, shall be required to provide a cash deposit or other
adequate security, as determined by the general manager, to guarantee payment
of charges due under this chapter. The amount of the deposit or security shall
be sufficient to recover all costs of any nature which the general manager
estimates he will incur if the permittee does not fulfill his permit
requirements.
      2.    A cash deposit may be in the form of a special deposit for each
permit or in the form of a general deposit to be maintained as security for all
the permits issued to an applicant. If an applicant maintains a general cash
deposit, it shall be with the understanding that he will pay all bills sent him
by the general manager for work covered by this chapter.
   B.    Surety Bond: In lieu of a general cash deposit, the general manager
may accept a surety bond in a sum of not less than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), executed by a corporation incorporated for the purpose of making,
guaranteeing, or becoming a surety upon bonds. It shall guarantee the payment
of all fees and other charges required by this chapter which may become due
because of any permits issued during the life of the said surety bond. (Ord.
09-230, 1-8-2009)
6-1-19: BILLINGS AND COLLECTIONS:
   A.    Billing By Manager: The general manager shall bill the permittee or
deduct from the deposit made or maintained by the permittee for all fees and
costs chargeable under this chapter.
   B.    Failure To Pay Bill; Collection: If, within thirty (30) days after a
bill has been sent, the permittee does not pay the same in full, such amount
may be deducted from his general deposit, or the general manager may recover
the amount due from any security the permittee has filed. If the deposit or
security is insufficient to pay the amount due, the district may enforce
collection by legal means. In addition, the district shall further be entitled
to costs and reasonable attorney fees, to be paid by permittee.
   C.    Costs Of Additional Repairs: If, at any time subsequent to first
repair of a surface of a roadway damaged or destroyed by an excavation or
encroachment operation in such roadway, it becomes necessary again to repair
such surface due to settlement or any other cause directly attributable to such
excavation or encroachment operation, the permittee shall pay to the general
manager the cost of such additional repair; provided, however, that the general
manager shall have the option of either making the repair or requiring the
permittee to make the repair.
   D.    Unpaid Bills; Withholding Further Permit Issuance: The general manager
may elect not to issue further permits to the permittee and may hold any
deposits, guarantees, or bonds of the permittee as long as any bill remains
unpaid. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
6-1-20: REFUNDS:
   A.    Deposits: The remainder of any deposit, if there is a remainder, shall
be refunded to the person making such deposit, or to his assigns.
   B.    Issuance Fee: An issuance fee may be refunded when a permit has been
issued as the result of an error not made by the permittee.
   C.    Erroneous Collection Of Fees: The fee deposited for inspection or any
other unit fee established may be refunded if it was erroneously collected or
if the work was not constructed by the permittee. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
6-1-21: PRIVATE DRIVEWAY APPROACH:
   Details regarding private driveway approaches are contained in the BVCSD
standard specifications and drawings and are available in the district office.
(Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
CHAPTER 2
SIGNS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Purpose
6-2-2: Definition Of Sign
6-2-3: General Prohibition Of Signs On District Property
6-2-1: PURPOSE:
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the placement of signs on
District property. (Ord. 18-248, 4-12-2018)
6-2-2: DEFINITION OF SIGN:
   A.    "Sign" is defined in section
1-3-2 of this Code.
   B.    "Sign", as used in this chapter, does not include:
      1.    Any public or legal notice authorized or required by a government
agency having jurisdiction.
      2.    Directional, warning, or information signs or structures required
or authorized by a government agency having jurisdiction. (Ord. 18-248, 4-12-
2018)
6-2-3: GENERAL PROHIBITION OF SIGNS ON DISTRICT PROPERTY:
   No person may erect, place, or maintain or cause to be erected, placed, or
maintained any sign on District property, including rights-of-way, except as
permitted by Board policy. (Ord. 18-248, 4-12-2018)
CHAPTER 3
DISTRICT OWNED FACILITIES AND AREAS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Facilities' Use; General
6-3-2: Damage Prohibited
6-3-3: Littering, Water Contamination
6-3-4: Fires, Firearms, Fireworks
6-3-5: Animals
6-3-6: Motor Vehicles
6-3-7: Soliciting, Peddling
6-3-8: Disturbing The Peace
6-3-9: Hours Restricted
6-3-10: Skateboards, Roller Skates
6-3-11: Camping
6-3-12: Firewood
6-3-13: Alcoholic Beverages And Drugs
6-3-14: Model Boats, Planes
6-3-15: Equestrian Trails
6-3-16: Boating Requirements And Restrictions
6-3-17: Swimming, Skating, Diving In Or On District Lakes
6-3-18: Fishing
6-3-19: Tennis Courts
6-3-20: Firing Range
6-3-21: Liability Of Parents For Wilful Misconduct Of Minor(s)
6-3-22: Defacement Of Property With Paint
6-3-23: Law Enforcement Officer
6-3-24: Penalty
6-3-1: FACILITIES' USE; GENERAL:
   The use of district owned facilities and areas (including recreational or
other community facilities) is limited to persons who own property within the
district and their families, invitees, guest tenants, employees and agents.
(Ord. 11-236, 9-8-2011)
6-3-2: DAMAGE PROHIBITED:
   A.    Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person in any public area
(including parks and recreation areas) to pick or damage any flowers, foliage,
or to break, dig up, or in any way mutilate or damage any tree, shrub, plant,
grass, railing, wall, seat, fence, or other structure or to cut, carve, write,
paint, or otherwise make any mark thereon or to fasten to any tree, stone,
fence, wall, monument, or other structure any sign, notice, advertisement or
other inscription. No person shall dig up or remove any dirt, stones, rock,
material or make any excavation, lay or set off any blast or otherwise alter
the natural features of any public area (including parks and recreation areas)
without the specific permission of the district or its designee.
   B.    Responsibility For Damage; Assessment Of Charges: Any damage done to
district facilities, park or recreation areas (including any buildings thereof)
shall be the responsibility of the individual, and the district or its designee
may assess appropriate charges. (Ord. 11-236, 9-8-2011)
6-3-3: LITTERING, WATER CONTAMINATION:
   It shall be unlawful for any person within any district area to:
   A.    Litter: Deposit, place, throw, or in any manner dispose of any
rubbish, trash, garbage, can, bottle, glass, paper or any decaying or putrid
matter except in containers provided for such purposes.
   B.    Water Contamination: Contaminate in any way any watershed, lake,
stream or other water supply. It shall be unlawful to wash any clothing or
cooking utensils in such waters.
   C.    Interference With Utilities: Open, expose, or interfere with any water
or gas pipe, hydrant, stopcock, sewer basin, or other construction. (Ord. 11-
236, 9-8-2011)
6-3-4: FIRES, FIREARMS, FIREWORKS:
   It shall be unlawful for any person within any district area to:
   A.    Fires: Light any fire except in places specifically provided therefor.
All deadwood, moss, dry leaves, chips or other combustible materials which may
have gathered around any place provided for fires shall be carefully removed
before lighting any fire. Only charcoal briquettes may be used as fuel for the
fires in barbecues. Wood fires may be approved by the BVSA general manager or
his designee. There shall be no unattended fires, and all fires must be
extinguished when not attended. When the fire is no longer needed, it shall be
completely extinguished with water.
   B.    Fireworks: Possess or use any fireworks of any kind whatsoever except
for a public display pursuant to a permit therefor.
   C.    Firearms:
      1.    Possess any firearm or discharge such firearm within, into, or
across such district area; provided, that this provision shall not apply to any
peace officer or concessionaire in the lawful discharge of his duty (nor to any
individual lawfully carrying a permitted firearm) except as permitted at a
firing range as set forth in section
6-3-20 of this chapter.
      2.    Discharge a firearm within the district except as provided in this
section.
         Exceptions: Firearms may be discharged within the district's
boundaries under the following circumstances:
         a. By members of the police department or other law enforcement
agencies in the performance of their duties.
         b. By authorized persons utilizing the Bear Valley trap range, rifle
range or pistol range.
         c. On private property within the district by the owner of the
property or by a person with permission of the owner of the property in such a
manner as to otherwise be in compliance with the laws of Kern County and the
state of California.
         d. On public property, including the common areas within the district,
by concessionaires or other persons who have been issued a permit by the
district. (Ord. 11-236, 9-8-2011)
6-3-5: ANIMALS:
   It shall be unlawful for any person within any district area, park or common
area, to do any of the following:
   A.    Wild Animals: Kill, wound, chase, or capture any wild bird or animal;
provided, however, that this provision shall not apply to the duly authorized
agents of the district or its designee in the necessary control of birds or
animals.
   B.    Domestic Animal Control: Permit any dog, cat, fowl, or other domestic
animal under his/her control to enter within a district area (including parks
or recreation areas); provided, however, that this provision shall not apply to
domestic animals restrained by an appropriate leash or bridle, not to exceed
ten feet (10') in length, and under the immediate physical control of the
person in possession; nor shall it apply to domestic animals carried by the
person in possession; nor shall it apply to dogs within the confines of a
designated dog park; nor shall it apply to any horse in areas specifically
marked in the equestrian center and along the equestrian trails; nor shall it
apply to any domestic animal when specific permission has been granted by the
district or its designee. All individuals shall clean up after their dog, cat,
fowl, or other domestic animal, with the exception of a horse in areas
specifically marked in the equestrian center and along the equestrian trails.
   C.    Areas Prohibited: Permit any animal, whether on a leash or not, to be
in a district area (including parks or recreation areas) with signs posted
prohibiting animals, including, but not limited to, the swimming pool area,
tennis courts, or any lakes or ponds. (Ord. 11-236, 9-8-2011)
6-3-6: MOTOR VEHICLES:
   It shall be unlawful for any person within any district areas (including
parks and recreation areas) to operate an automobile, motorcycle, or other
vehicle in excess of posted speed limits or into any area where signs
prohibiting the same have been placed. (Ord. 11-236, 9-8-2011)
6-3-7: SOLICITING, PEDDLING:
   It shall be unlawful for any person on district property to solicit money or
other things of value, or solicit, sell or peddle goods or services, without
the written permission of the general manager. (Ord. 11-236, 9-8-2011)
6-3-8: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
   It shall be unlawful for any person within any district area (including
parks or recreation areas) to indulge in riotous, boisterous, threatening,
indecent or immoral conduct, or abusive, threatening, profane language, or to
throw stones or other missiles. Radios, television sets, record or tape players
must be kept at a volume that will not disturb others. Motorcycles must be
equipped with working mufflers and spark arresters and operated in a manner
that avoids creating a disturbance and a nuisance to others. (Ord. 11-236, 9-8-
2011)
6-3-9: HOURS RESTRICTED:
   It shall be unlawful for any person within any park or recreation area to
remain, stay, or loiter, in any public park between the hours of ten thirty
o'clock (10:30) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of the following day, without
written permission of the district or its designee, except as set forth in
subsection
6-3-18F of this chapter, for the purpose of fishing or section
6-3-11 of this chapter for the purpose of camping. (Ord. 11-236, 9-8-2011)
6-3-10: SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES:
   A.    Skateboard Defined: "Skateboard" shall mean any vehicle, device or
conveyance with any number of wheels, with a riding surface of any design upon
which a person may place one or more feet, and which is designed to be or can
be propelled by human power, and which is not classified as a bicycle.
   B.    Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person within any district
areas (including parks or recreation areas) to ride a skateboard or metal
wheeled roller skates. (Ord. 11-236, 9-8-2011)
6-3-11: CAMPING:
   A.    Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to camp within
any district areas (including parks or recreation areas) without having first
secured a written permit therefor from the district or its designee and no
person shall camp outside of a campsite or site designated in such permit.
Admission to campsites requires a permit, which must be displayed at all times
at the campsite.
   B.    Camping Prohibited: No camping is permitted on any of the islands of
Four Island Lake. Access to the islands is prohibited during the duck nesting
season (January 1 through the Thursday before Memorial Day). (Ord. 11-236, 9-8-
2011)
6-3-12: FIREWOOD:
   It shall be unlawful to cut or gather firewood without a written permit from
the general manager within the common areas. (Ord. 11-236, 9-8-2011)
6-3-13: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND DRUGS:
   A.    Being Under The Influence Of Alcohol Or Drugs: It shall be unlawful to
be under the influence of any alcoholic beverage or illegal drugs in all
district areas (including parks and recreation areas).
   B.    Permit Required For Open Container, Consumption: It is unlawful for
any person to consume alcoholic beverages or possess any open container
containing alcoholic beverages on any district parking lot or at the community
center (Whiting Center) buildings and grounds unless a permit to do so is first
obtained from the district. As used herein, the term alcoholic beverage has the
same meaning as set forth in California Business And Professions Code section
23004.
   C.    Application For Permit: Any person desiring to obtain a permit as set
forth herein shall make application to the district by providing such
information as may from time to time be required by the district manager.
   D.    Permit Issuance: Any permit issued pursuant to this section shall be
conditioned upon the permittee's compliance with all applicable, local, state
and federal laws. (Ord. 11-236, 9-8-2011)
6-3-14: MODEL BOATS, PLANES:
   Model boats and floatplanes powered by electric motors or by wind shall be
allowed without restriction on Cub Lake and Four Island Lake. Models powered by
piston engines shall be allowed with the permission of the district or its
designee. Model rockets employing any kind of combustible propulsion are not
permitted. (Ord. 11-236, 9-8-2011)
6-3-15: EQUESTRIAN TRAILS:
   A.    Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person along or within
the equestrian trails to do any of the following:
      1.    To operate a motorized vehicle or ride a bicycle.
      2.    To smoke along the equestrian trail at any time.
      3.    To race horses at any time.
      4.    To dispose of garbage, trash, manure (other than that generated in
the normal use of the trails) or other debris along any equestrian trail.
   B.    Obey Signs: All riders shall obey all signs along all trails.
   C.    Control Of Horses: All riders shall have their horses under control at
all times and proceed at a safe gait. (Ord. 11-236, 9-8-2011)
6-3-16: BOATING REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.    Endanger Lake Or Impoundment: No person shall operate or maintain a
boat, raft or similar flotation device in such a way as to endanger the
structural integrity of any artificial lake or impoundment constructed, owned,
operated, or maintained by the district.
   B.    Boat Operation: No person shall operate a motor driven boat upon any
impoundment owned or operated by the district except as provided in this
section.
   C.    Cub Lake: It shall be unlawful to swim or operate a boat at Cub Lake.
   D.    Four Island Lake:
      1.    Restrictions: It shall be unlawful to operate any boat on Four
Island Lake, except for sailboats, canoes, catamarans, kayaks, paddleboats,
inflatable rafts, and rowboats. The maximum length of any boat shall be
fourteen feet (14'). Sailboats, within the dock area with no one aboard, shall
have all sails lowered and secured.
      2.    Permit Required: No power boats shall be permitted on Four Island
Lake without a permit obtained from the district or its designee. Electric
boats may be on Four Island Lake without a permit, if the boat has a motor with
power not in excess of five (5) horsepower or forty five (45) pounds' thrust.
   E.    Insurance: All boat owners shall carry liability insurance during any
boating activity, at his own cost and expense, in an amount of not less than
one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00), approved by the district or its
designee. Said insurance shall be issued by companies authorized to transact
insurance business in the state.
   F.    Life Preservers: All boats shall be equipped with a life preserver
approved by the United States coast guard for each person aboard. All persons
must wear a life preserver at all times while participating in any boating
activity.
   G.    Reckless Driving: No person shall operate any boat in a reckless
manner or under the influence of drugs or alcohol. (Ord. 11-236, 9-8-2011)
6-3-17: SWIMMING, SKATING, DIVING IN OR ON DISTRICT LAKES:
   A.    Swimming: Swimming is permitted only in the designated area of Four
Island Lake. Boating is prohibited in that area.
   B.    Skin Diving, Ice Skating: In/on all lakes, it shall be unlawful to
scuba dive, skin dive or ice skate. (Ord. 11-236, 9-8-2011)
6-3-18: FISHING:
   A.    Rules, Regulations: All fishing rules and regulations shall be
observed at all times.
   B.    Permits: All members of the association shall be deemed to have
fishing permits, and guests of any members of the association shall be required
to obtain permits as follows at all lakes:
      1.    Before fishing, a fishing permit issued by the district or its
designee shall be secured and carried while fishing by all guests of members of
the association.
      2.    Single day fishing permits shall be purchased at the Whiting
Center.
   C.    Live Bait: It shall be unlawful to use or possess live bait or kernel
corn while fishing. Absolutely no netting of live fish is allowed.
   D.    Pole Requirements: A person fishing shall use one pole only, with not
over two (2) hooks per pole. All poles must be attended. Trotlines and chumming
are prohibited.
   E.    Limits: Catch limits per day, per person are:
 
Bass            5
Bluegill        No limit
Catfish         5
Crappie         5
Red ear sunfish 5
Trout           3
 
   F.    Hours: Fishing hours are:
      1.    Cub Lake: To start not earlier than two (2) hours before sunrise
and to end not later than two (2) hours after sunset.
      2.    Four Island Lake: To start not earlier than one-half (1/2) hour
before sunrise and end not later than one-half (1/2) hour after sunset.
   G.    Prohibited Locations: Fishing is prohibited at all locations adjacent
to the golf course that are in line with any ball driven from the golf course.
(Ord. 11-236, 9-8-2011)
6-3-19: TENNIS COURTS:
   The tennis courts are for tennis play only. All other activities are
prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to bring, or to possess or
consume any alcoholic beverage or illegal drug, within the tennis court areas.
Skates, skateboards, rollerblades, bicycles, and similar equipment are
prohibited on the tennis courts. Appropriate footwear shall be worn on the
tennis courts at all times. Appropriate footwear shall not include any footwear
that leaves any marks on the tennis courts. Radios, television sets and
cassette players or similar devices are prohibited in the tennis court area
including the adjacent gazebo (pavilion) if they are audible to the general
public. Use of the tennis court pavilion for private parties must be approved
by the BVSA. No grills or barbecues are permitted on the tennis court pavilion
deck. (Ord. 11-236, 9-8-2011)
6-3-20: FIRING RANGE:
   The following rules and regulations apply on all firing ranges owned and
operated by the District or its designee:
   A.    Aiming Restrictions: No person may aim any firearm or bow and arrow at
another person or any animal, wild or domestic, at any time.
   B.    Ammunition Restrictions: No person may use tracer ammunition.
   C.    Prohibited Firearms And Ammunition: No person may use any firearm or
ammunition that such person is prohibited from possessing or using under State
or Federal law.
   D.    Alcohol Prohibited: No person may possess or consume any alcoholic
beverage within the boundary of the firing range.
   E.    Enforcement: Whenever an individual designated as the range master is
present, that individual has the responsibility to ensure the safe operation of
the firing range. All individuals using or present at the firing range must
obey the instructions of the range master, and may be removed from the firing
range by the range master, any police officer or any other designee of the
General Manager for failure to comply with any applicable ordinance,
resolution, or policy of the District, or instruction of the range master,
police officer, or other designee.
   F.    Exceptions: The General Manager may authorize exceptions to the use of
the firing range including use by District employees, for training and
certification programs, and use outside the direct control of the range master.
   G.    Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms are defined
as follows:
   AMMUNITION: Has the definition set forth in Penal Code section 16150, as it
may be amended, which currently includes, but is not limited to, any bullet,
cartridge, magazine, clip, speed loader, autoloader, or projectile capable of
being fired from a firearm with a deadly consequence.
   FIREARM: Has the definition set forth in Penal Code section 16520, as it may
be amended, which currently means any device, designed to be used as a weapon,
from which is expelled through a barrel a projectile by the force of any
explosion or other form of combustion. The term "firearm" also includes any
rocket, rocket propelled projectile compressed air launcher, or similar device
containing any explosive or incendiary material. (Ord. 17-246, 7-13-2017)
6-3-21: LIABILITY OF PARENTS FOR WILFUL MISCONDUCT OF MINOR(S):
   A.    Liability For Damage: Any act of wilful misconduct by a minor which
results in injury or death to another person or in any injury to the District's
or association's property shall be imputed to the parent or guardian having
custody and control of the minor for all purposes of civil damages, and the
parent or guardian having custody and control shall be jointly and severally
liable with the minor for all damages resulting from the wilful misconduct.
   B.    Amount Of Liability: The joint and several liability of the parent or
guardian having custody and control of a minor under this section shall not
exceed the amount specified in section 1714.1 of the California Civil Code for
each tort of the minor, and in the case of an injury to a person, imputed
liability shall be further limited to medical, dental and hospital expenses
incurred by the injured person, not to exceed the amount specified in section
1714.1 of the California Civil Code. The liability imposed by this section is
in addition to any liability now imposed by law. (Ord. 11-236, 9-8-2011)
6-3-22: DEFACEMENT OF PROPERTY WITH PAINT:
   Any act of wilful misconduct by a minor which results in the defacement of
District or association property with paint or a similar substance shall be
imputed to the parent or guardian having custody and control of the minor for
all purposes of civil damages, including court costs and attorney fees, to the
prevailing party, and the parent or guardian having custody and control shall
be jointly and severally liable with the minor for any damages resulting from
the wilful misconduct, not to exceed the amount specified in section 1714.1 of
the California Civil Code for each tort by the minor. (Ord. 11-236, 9-8-2011)
6-3-23: LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
   The chief law enforcement official of this chapter shall be the Chief of
Police or his designees of the District. The Chief of Police shall assist the
range master in the enforcement of section
6-3-20 of this chapter. (Ord. 11-236, 9-8-2011)
6-3-24: PENALTY:
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or wilfully and
knowingly refusing to comply with the rules, regulations, and determinations of
the District shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished according to section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 11-236, 9-8-2011)
CHAPTER 4
OPEN SPACE
SECTION:
6-4-1: Purpose And Application
6-4-2: Permitted Uses
6-4-3: Prohibited Uses
6-4-4: Minimum Lot Size
6-4-5: Land Regulated By Chapter
6-4-6: Penalty
6-4-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICATION:
   The purpose of the open space area is to designate lands in public ownership
that are essentially unimproved and should remain in open space use for the
preservation of identified scenic values, habitats for endangered plants or
animals, unique geologic features, natural resources, passive recreational
values, or for the protection of public health and safety. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-
2009)
6-4-2: PERMITTED USES:
   The following uses and all others determined to be similar to these uses are
permitted in the open space area:
   Hiking or equestrian trails.
   Public service uses.
   Restrooms and shelters.
   Scientific study sites for the systematic exploration and classification of
archaeological, anthropological, or historic artifacts or remains.
   Wildlife or nature preserve, not involving structures. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-
2009)
6-4-3: PROHIBITED USES:
   All other uses are prohibited in the open space district, including, but not
limited to, the following:
   No commercial activities, including agricultural, except as permitted by the
district.
   No hunting or fishing.
   No open fires, campground or fireworks.
   No residential dwellings.
   No roads or trails for motor driven vehicles. Motorized vehicles shall be
prohibited from the area, except as permitted by the district.
   No transmission lines and supporting towers, poles, pipelines, and
underground facilities for petroleum products, water, electricity, telephone,
or telegraph service. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
6-4-4: MINIMUM LOT SIZE:
   There is no minimum lot size required in the open space area; provided,
however, that no lot zoned open space may be divided or separated in any
manner, except in the case of a conveyance or dedication of land to a
government agency, public entity, or public utility for public purposes or
public utility purposes. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
6-4-5: LAND REGULATED BY CHAPTER:
   All land zoned open space within the jurisdictional limits of the district
shall be regulated by this chapter. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
6-4-6: PENALTY:
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or wilfully and
knowingly refusing to comply with the rules, regulations, and determinations of
the district shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished according to section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
CHAPTER 5
ENCROACHMENTS UPON DISTRICT PROPERTY AND COMMON AREAS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Policy
6-5-2: Encroachment Permit
6-5-3: Violation
6-5-4: Penalty
6-5-1: POLICY:
   The policy of the district is to permit no encroachments on any property,
including all easements and common areas, owned by the district absent a
compelling public need for an encroachment. It is the policy of the district to
vigorously protect its property against all encroachments. Any organization or
person who desires to encroach upon any district property shall apply for a
permit pursuant to section
6-5-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
6-5-2: ENCROACHMENT PERMIT:
   All persons requesting permission to encroach upon district property shall
be subject to the following requirements and conditions:
   A.    Requirements: Parties must apply for permission to access district
property by submitting to the district, in writing and at least ten (10) days
prior to the intended use, a request with the following information:
      1.    Reason for the encroachment.
      2.    Dates and times of intended usage.
      3.    Types of vehicles or other equipment (if any) that will be
accessing district property.
   B.    Application Review: The general manager will review each application
for an encroachment permit and determine whether or not to grant an
encroachment permit on any district property. The general manager may consider
the following factors in determining to grant or deny the permit:
      1.    No encroachment permits shall be granted that will have an adverse
impact on the purpose of any easement or right of way;
      2.    Encroachment would reduce a hardship upon the property owner;
      3.    Encroachment would enhance a property owner's beneficial use and
enjoyment of property;
      4.    Encroachment will not violate the Bear Valley Springs Association
covenants and restrictions or the ECC rules;
      5.    Encroachment will not cause any temporary or permanent damage to
the property.
   C.    Common Areas: No encroachments shall be permitted on any of the common
areas.
   D.    Fees: If the permit is granted, the permittee will be responsible for
any fees and deposits required by the board of directors. All fees and deposits
shall be paid prior to the permit being issued.
   E.    Conditions: The board of directors may impose conditions on the permit
as the board of directors may deem necessary.
   F.    Permit Revocation: The district reserves the right to cancel or revoke
any permit for encroachment on district property. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
6-5-3: VIOLATION:
   It is a misdemeanor for any organization or person to place or maintain or
cause to be placed or maintained, without lawful permission, any encroachment
upon any district property or common areas. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
6-5-4: PENALTY:
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or wilfully and
knowingly refusing to comply with the rules, regulations, and determinations of
the district shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished according to section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
TITLE 7
WATER USE AND SERVICE
CHAPTER 1
WATER SERVICE RULES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Short Title
7-1-2: Water Department
7-1-3: Application For Service; Main Extension Not Required
7-1-4: Application For Service; Main Extension Required
7-1-5: General Restrictions; Requirements
7-1-6: Use Regulations
7-1-7: Notices
7-1-8: Meters
7-1-9: Nonadjacent Water Meters
7-1-10: Public Fire Protection
7-1-11: Private Fire Protection Service
7-1-12: Temporary Service
7-1-13: Water Conservation; Equipment Responsibility
7-1-14: Violation; Penalty; Service Disconnection
7-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the BEAR VALLEY COMMUNITY
SERVICES DISTRICT WATER SERVICE ORDINANCE. (Ord. 11-237, 11-10-2011)
7-1-2: WATER DEPARTMENT:
   A.    Creation: A water department is hereby created for the purpose of
distributing water for public and private use.
   B.    Performance Of Duties: The duties of the water department may be
performed by existing district employees in addition to their other duties, or
by any additional employee(s).
      1.    Inspections: The general manager or his designee shall periodically
inspect the district to see that all users within the district are in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, to note any violations of any
of the provisions of this chapter and to promptly address any violations of any
of the provisions of this chapter.
      2.    Billing: District office personnel shall compute, prepare, and mail
bills as hereinafter described, make and deposit collections, maintain proper
books of account, collect, account for and refund deposits, do whatever else is
necessary to set up and maintain an efficient and economical bookkeeping
system, and perform any other duties now or hereafter prescribed by the board
of directors. (Ord. 11-237, 11-10-2011)
7-1-3: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE; MAIN EXTENSION NOT REQUIRED:
   A.    Application For Water Service: Applications for regular water service,
where no main extension is required, shall be made upon a form provided by the
district.
   B.    Compliance By Applicant; Service Deposit Required:
      1.    Application for service signifies the applicant's willingness to
comply with the terms and conditions of service.
      2.    The district shall require a deposit prior to furnishing water
service for any applicant who has a history of nonpayment. The amount of the
deposit shall be established from time to time by resolution of the board. A
deposit shall also be required to continue service to any customer who has been
delinquent for more than one billing period and whose service has been
discontinued for nonpayment.
      3.    The deposit shall be returned to the customer, without interest,
upon discontinuance of water service or when the customer has paid all bills in
a timely manner for twelve (12) consecutive months.
   C.    Payment For Previous Service: An application will not be honored
unless payment in full has been made for water service previously rendered to
the applicant by the district.
   D.    Installation Of Service: Regular water services will be installed at
the location desired by the applicant of the size determined by the water
department. Service installations will be made only to property abutting on
such distribution mains as may be constructed in public streets, alleys or
easements, at the convenience of the water department. Services installed in
new subdivisions prior to the construction of streets or in advance of street
improvement must be accepted by the customer in the installed location. All
pipes and fixtures extending or lying beyond the service connection shall be
installed and maintained by the customer.
   E.    Size And Location: The district reserves the right to determine the
size of service connections and their location with respect to the boundaries
of the premises to be served. The laying of customer's pipeline to the curb
should not be done until the location of the service connection has been
approved by the water supervisor.
   F.    Changes In Customer's Equipment: Customers making any material change
in the size, character or extent of the equipment or operations utilizing water
service, or whose change in operations results in a large increase in the use
of water, shall immediately give the district written notice of the nature of
the change and, if necessary, amend their application.
   G.    Connection Charges: Charges for connections shall be paid to the
district at the time of making application.
   H.    Deposit Required For Certain Connections: Where applicant desires a
connection for which the service lateral, curb stop and meter box have not
previously been installed, an amount equal to the estimated cost of such
facilities plus ten percent (10%) thereof, shall be deposited, and the balance,
if any, refunded upon connection being made.
   I.    Authorized Installers: Only duly authorized employees or agents of the
district will be authorized to install service connections.
   J.    Domestic, Commercial And Industrial Service Connection: It shall be
unlawful to maintain a connection excepting in conformity with the following
rules:
      1.    Separate Building: Each building under separate ownership must be
provided with a separate service connection. Two (2) or more buildings under
one ownership and on the same premises may be supplied through the same service
connection; provided, that an additional minimum may be applied to the single
meter serving said buildings, or a separate service connection may be provided
for each building. The board reserves the right to limit the number of
buildings or the area of land under one ownership to be supplied by one service
connection.
      2.    Single Connection: Not more than one service connection for
domestic or commercial supply shall be installed for one building, except under
special conditions.
      3.    Different Owners: A service connection shall not be used to supply
adjoining premises of a different owner or to supply premises of the same owner
across a street or alley.
      4.    Divided Property: When property provided with a service connection
is divided, each service connection shall be considered as belonging to the
closest resulting lot or parcel.
   K.    Building Prohibited Without Water Service: No dwelling or other
building may be constructed on any lot or parcel without a water meter
installed at the site. All application fees, including connection and capacity
fees, must be paid before construction commences.
   L.    Metered Service: Water service shall not be supplied except through a
water meter installed pursuant to this chapter. Any premises receiving water in
violation of this section shall be subject to immediate disconnection.
Reconnection shall not be made until receipt of application pursuant to this
chapter and all applicable costs and charges have been paid. (Ord. 11-237, 11-
10-2011)
7-1-4: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE; MAIN EXTENSION REQUIRED:
   A.    Main Extensions: The following rules are established:
      1.    Determination: Upon receipt of any application for water service or
request for an application form, the general manager shall determine whether in
his judgment a main extension is necessary to provide service. A main extension
shall be installed in the manner provided in this section whenever, in the
judgment of the general manager and the board, such main extension is necessary
to provide regular water service to property described in such application or
request.
      2.    Application: Any owner of one or more lots or parcels or subdivider
of a tract of land where, in the opinion of the general manager, one or more
main extensions is required, desiring regular water service to serve such
property, shall make a written application therefor to the district, said
application to contain the legal description of the property to be served and
tract number thereof, and any additional information which may be required by
the district, and be accompanied by a map showing the desired location of the
proposed connections.
      3.    Investigation: Upon receipt of the application, the general manager
shall make an investigation and survey of the proposed extension and shall
submit his opinion and the estimated cost thereof to the board.
      4.    Ruling: The board shall thereupon consider such application and
report, and after such consideration, reject, amend or approve the application.
      5.    District Lines: All extensions thus provided for, in accordance
with these regulations, shall be and remain the property of the district.
      6.    Dead End Lines: No dead end lines shall be permitted, except as
recommended by the general manager and approved by the board. In cases where,
subsequent to the approval of a dead end line by the board, another dead end
line is planned in sufficient proximity to make connection feasible, and such
connection is recommended by the engineer and approved by the board, the dead
end lines shall be connected. In cases where circulation lines are necessary,
they shall be designed and installed by the water department as a part of the
cost of extension.
      7.    Extent And Design: All main extensions shall extend to the far
property line of developed property. If additional property is developed on the
same lot after installation of a main extension, the main extension shall be
extended to the far property line of the additionally developed property. All
main extensions shall be subject to design approval by the general manager and
the board.
      8.    Assessment District: At the discretion of the board, all necessary
facilities for providing water service when a main extension is required may be
installed by special assessment proceedings and issuance of assessment bonds.
   B.    General: The district will provide all main extensions upon
application for service and approval thereof by the board; except however, that
the board may authorize the construction of the extension by the owner upon
terms satisfactory to the district, including the provision of acceptable
plans, and authorize the payment of an appropriate portion of the cost of such
extension.
   C.    Determination: If, in the opinion of the board, the cost thereof is in
excess of what it is prepared to advance, or it questions the economic
advantage to the district of making such advance, it shall determine the cost
of such extension including all engineering, inspection and other expenses
necessary or desirable in connection therewith.
   D.    Advance Cost: When the board so determines, the applicant shall
advance the amount of the estimated cost of such extension including all
engineering, inspection and other expenses necessary or desirable in connection
therewith together with connection charges provided for by ordinance, and the
line shall be installed by the district. If the amount of the advance deposit
exceeds the actual cost of construction, engineering, legal, inspection and
other charges attributable to the extension, the balance shall be refunded. If
the amount of the deposit is insufficient to pay all the costs of construction,
engineering, legal, inspection and other charges attributable to the extension,
the applicant shall advance a sum sufficient to pay all such costs to the
district prior to the acceptance of the extension by the district.
   E.    Refund Agreement: Refunds will be made to the property owner or owners
who have paid for an extension either from the proceeds of bonds issued
therefor or as follows: Where the cost of the extension has been deposited or
paid for, the district shall thereafter, but not for longer than fifteen (15)
years after the date such extension is originally connected to the district's
water system, collect from any water user connecting to such main extension, a
share of the cost contributed for such extension, as approved by the district,
to the extent that the district's right of service charges collected from such
water users exceed the cost of the main extension and other facilities
necessary to serve such water users. The district does not hereby agree to have
a right of service charge or that said charge shall be calculated to be
sufficient for refund purposes. Such sums as are thus actually received by the
district shall be paid or credited by the district in favor of the persons
entitled thereto. Where different owners contributed toward the making of the
extension, such sums shall be refunded to such owners or their successors in
interest pro rata according to the amounts which they severally contributed
toward the cost of the extension. The district shall in no way be obligated to
assure that the owner or owners making such extension are paid the total or any
costs thereof nor to initiate any action nor incur any expense to collect any
sum to be paid such owner or owners; nor shall refund be made from any revenues
derived from water service or connection charges, but solely from right of
service charges or from the proceeds of bonds issued for such purposes. (Ord.
11-237, 11-10-2011)
7-1-5: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS; REQUIREMENTS:
   A.    Water System: The district will furnish a system, plant, works and
undertaking used for and useful in obtaining, conserving, and distributing
water for public and private uses, including all parts of said system, all
appurtenances to it, and lands, easements, rights in land, water rights,
contract rights, franchises, and other water supply, storage and distribution
facilities and equipment.
   B.    Pressure Conditions: All applicants for water service connections, and
all water service users shall accept such conditions of pressure and service
"as is" as are provided by the distribution system. All applicants and users
shall hold the district harmless for any damages arising out of unusual or
changed pressure conditions. The district assumes no responsibility for any
loss or damage due to lack of water, lack of pressure, or any high or low water
pressure.
   C.    Maintenance Of Water Pressure And Shutting Down For Emergency Repairs:
The district shall not accept any responsibility for the maintenance of
pressure and it reserves the right to discontinue or reduce service while
making emergency repairs or for any other purposes that the district deems
necessary. Users dependent upon a continuous supply of water or water pressure
should store an emergency supply of water.
   D.    Minimum System Pressure:
      1.    The district's goal for minimum satisfactory static pressure for
water service is twenty (20) pounds per square inch (psi). Applicants for water
service to areas where the goal of minimum satisfactory pressure cannot be
obtained under normal working conditions may obtain service only if appropriate
additional facilities are installed to the satisfaction of the district or if
the applicant executes an elevation agreement with the district.
      2.    If the applicant proposes to install additional facilities in order
to achieve minimum satisfactory pressure, the design and operation of such
facilities shall be reviewed and approved by the superintendent of public
works. Construction shall not begin on any additional facilities until the
applicant has received the superintendent's approval.
      3.    If the applicant proposes to enter into an elevation agreement with
the district, said agreement shall be in the form which may be recorded in the
county recorder's office. Consistent with all relevant laws, the district has
the discretion to enter into, modify or reject any proposed elevation
agreement.
   E.    Tampering With District Property: No one except an employee or
representative of the board shall, at any time, in any manner, operate the curb
cocks or valves, main cocks, gates or valves of the district's system; or
interfere with meters or their connections, street mains or other parts of the
water system. Violation of this subsection shall constitute a misdemeanor
pursuant to California Government Code section 61064.
   F.    Responsibility To Protect Customer Water System: All applicants for
water service and all water service users shall be responsible to protect his/
her entire water system against any circumstance described in this section. The
"water system of an applicant or user" is defined as all pipelines and
appurtenant facilities from (but not including) the meter used to extend water
service from a distribution main to the customer's premises, at or near the
property line. All applicants and users are required to install on the
applicant's/user's side of the water system a water pressure regulator to
maintain the water pressure.
   G.    Relief On Application: When any person by reason of special
circumstances is of the opinion that any provision of this chapter is unjust or
inequitable as applied to his or her premises, he or she may make written
application to the board, stating the special circumstances, citing the
provision complained of, and requesting suspension or modification of that
provision as applied to his or her premises. If such application be approved,
the board may, by resolution, suspend or modify the provision complained of, as
applied to such premises, to be effective as of the date of the application.
   H.    Relief On Own Motion: The board may, on its own motion, find that, by
reason of special circumstances, any provision of this regulation and chapter
should be suspended or modified as applied to a particular premises and may, by
resolution, order such suspension or modification for such premises.
   I.    Ruling Final: All rulings of the board shall be final. All rulings of
the general manager shall be final unless appealed in writing to the board
within five (5) days. When appealed, the board's ruling shall be final. (Ord.
11-237, 11-10-2011)
7-1-6: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.    Number Of Services Per Premises: The applicant may apply for as many
services as may be reasonably required for his premises; provided, that the
pipeline system from each service be independent of the others and that they
not be interconnected.
   B.    Water Waste: No customer shall knowingly permit leaks or waste of
water. Where water is wastefully or negligently used on a customer's premises
seriously affecting the general service, the district may discontinue the
service if such conditions are not corrected within five (5) days after giving
the customer written notice.
   C.    Responsibility For Equipment On Customer Premises: All facilities
installed by the district on private property for the purpose of rendering
water service shall remain the property of the district and may be maintained,
repaired or replaced by the water department without consent or interference of
the owner or occupant of the property. The property owner shall use reasonable
care in the protection of the facilities. No payment shall be made for placing
or maintaining said facilities on private property. No person shall place or
permit the placement of any object in a manner which will interfere with the
free access to a meter box or will interfere with the reading of a meter.
Easements and rights of way are to be kept free of encroachment of any kind,
and the district shall have full access thereto, and any obstructions shall be
removed at the expense of the owner.
   D.    Damage To Water System Facilities: The customer shall be liable for
any damage to the water service facilities when such damage is from causes
originating on the premises by an act of the customer or his tenants, agents,
employees, contractors, licensees or permittees, including the breaking or
destruction of locks by the customer or others on or near a meter, and any
damage to a meter that may result from hot water or steam from a boiler or
heater on the customer's premises. The district shall be reimbursed by the
customer for the actual costs, including, but not limited to, labor and
materials, for any damage on presentation of a bill.
   E.    Ground Wire Attachments: All persons are forbidden to attach any
ground wire or wires to any plumbing which is or may be connected to a service
connection or main belonging to the district; the district will hold the
customer liable for any damage to its property occasioned by such ground wire
attachments; and neither the district nor its officers, agents, or employees
shall incur any liability of any nature whatsoever by reason of the use of any
facility for grounding purposes which is or may be connected to the district's
system.
   F.    Control Valve On Customer Property: The customer shall provide a valve
on his side of the service installation as close as is practicable to the meter
location, street, highway, alley, or easement in which the water main serving
the customer's property is located, to control the flow of water to the piping
on his premises. The customer shall not use the service curb stop to turn water
on and off for his conveniences. If the customer requests that the district
provide and install the control valve, the customer shall pay the fee set forth
in subsection
7-2-3C of this title before installation of the control valve.
   G.    Cross Connections:
      1.    Purpose: This subsection is adopted to protect the public water
supply against actual or potential cross connection by isolating contamination
which may occur because of undiscovered or unauthorized cross connections. This
subsection is also adopted to eliminate existing cross connections between
drinking water systems and other sources of water supply which are not approved
as safe and potable for human consumption. These regulations are adopted
pursuant to the California Administrative Code, title 17.
      2.    Definitions: The following terms have been defined in the
California regulations relating to cross connections as set forth in title 17
of the California Administrative Code. The definitions for these terms as set
forth in the Administrative Code are hereby adopted:
         a. Air gap separation;
         b. Approved backflow prevention device;
         c. Approved water supply;
         d. Auxiliary supply;
         e. AWWA standard;
         f. Backflow;
         g. Contamination;
         h. Cross connection;
         i. Double check valve assembly;
         j. Health agency;
         k. Local health agency;
         l. Person (only for this section);
         m. Premises;
         n. Public water supply;
         o. Reclaimed water;
         p. Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device;
         q. Service connection;
         r. Water supplier; and
         s. Water user.
      3.    Prohibition: It is unlawful for any person at any time to make or
maintain or cause to be made or maintained, temporarily or permanently, any
cross connection between the water system served with water by the district and
any other source of water supply, or to maintain any sanitary fixture or other
appurtenance or fixture which, by reason of its construction, may cause or
allow backflow of water or other substances into the water supply system of the
district or the water supply system of any customer of the district.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4.   
Cross Connection Protection:
         a. Installation At Owner's Expense: Whenever backflow protection has
been found necessary to protect against cross connections, the district will
require the water user to install an approved backflow prevention device at the
customer's expense as a condition of continued service or before new service
will be rendered. Whenever backflow prevention has been found necessary on a
water supply line entering a water user's premises, any and all water supply
lines from the district's mains entering such premises shall be protected by an
approved backflow prevention device installed in accordance with the
requirements of this subsection.
         b. Backflow Protection Devices Required: Backflow protection devices
are required when the district supplies water to premises under the following
circumstances:
            (1) The premises have an auxiliary water supply unless the
auxiliary water supply is accepted as an additional source by the district and
is approved by the public health agency with jurisdiction by law.
            (2) Substances are handled on the premises in such a fashion as may
allow their entry into the water system, including the handling of process
waters and waters originating from the district water system which have been
subjected to deterioration in sanitary quality.
            (3) The premises have internal cross connections that cannot be
permanently corrected or controlled to the satisfaction of the health agency
with jurisdiction by law, or intricate plumbing or piping arrangements exist,
or where entry to all portions of the premises is not readily accessible for
inspection purposes, making it impracticable or impossible to ascertain whether
or not cross connections exist.
         c. Type Of Protection Required: The type of protection that shall be
provided to prevent backflow shall be commensurate with the degree of hazard
that exists on the customer's premises. Title 17 of the California
Administrative Code specifies the types of systems to be installed under
varying circumstances.
      5.    Backflow Prevention Devices:
         a. Approval By District: Only backflow prevention devices which have
been approved by the district shall be installed by the water user. The
district will provide a list of approved backflow prevention devices to
customers upon request.
         b. Installation: Backflow prevention devices shall be installed as
required by title 17 of the California Administrative Code. The devices shall
be located as close as practicable to the user's connection. The district shall
determine the required location of the backflow prevention device.
         c. Testing Devices: The owner of any premises on which a backflow
prevention device is installed shall have the devices tested by a qualified
person immediately after installation, relocation or repair and at least
annually thereafter. The district may require more frequent testing. A report
in a form acceptable to the district shall be filed with the district each time
a device is tested. The devices shall be serviced, overhauled and replaced
whenever found to be defective. All cost of testing, repair and maintenance
shall be borne by the water user. The district will supply water users with a
list of persons qualified to test backflow prevention devices.
         d. Removal, Relocation Of Devices: No device shall be removed,
relocated or replaced without district approval. Devices shall be removed only
upon the presentation of satisfactory evidence showing that a hazard no longer
exists and is not likely to be created in the future.
      6.    User Supervision: The district may require the water user to
designate a supervisor responsible for monitoring compliance with this chapter
when water is supplied to property owned or occupied by several residents. If a
supervisor is required, the supervisor shall be the responsible agent of the
water user with respect to compliance with this subsection.
      7.    Administrative Procedures:
         a. System Survey:
            (1) Requests For New Service: The district shall review all
requests for new service to determine if backflow prevention is required. Plans
and specifications shall be submitted upon request for review of possible cross
connection hazards. If it is determined that a backflow prevention device is
necessary to protect the public water system, the required device shall be
installed before service commences.
            (2) Inspection: The district may require on premises inspection and
reinspection to evaluate cross connection hazards. Such inspection shall be
preceded by adequate notice to the property owner. If the property owner
refuses to permit the district to inspect the property, the district shall
either: obtain an inspection warrant and inspect the property or, refer the
matter to appropriate health officials.
         b. Customer Notification:
            (1) Corrective Action: The district shall notify the water user of
its findings and corrective action to be taken under this chapter. If no action
is taken by the water user within sixty (60) days of this notice, a second
notice will be given to the water user. If corrective action still is not taken
within two (2) weeks of the second notice, the district shall commence
proceedings to terminate water service.
            (2) Notice Of Device Testing: The district shall also notify each
affected water user when backflow prevention devices shall be tested. If the
backflow devices are not tested within thirty (30) days of the notice, the
district will provide the water user with a second notice of the required work.
If the devices are not tested within two (2) weeks after the second notice, the
district will commence proceedings to terminate service.
      8.    Termination:
         a. Notification Of Termination: If the district determines that a
violation of this subsection exists, and that such violation poses an immediate
threat to the public health, the ttempt to notify the water user of the
district's intention to terminate service. The district shall make every effort
to provide the water user with twenty four (24) hours' prior notice of
termination. However, service shall be terminated whether or not the notice is
successful.
         b. Violations: If the district determines that this subsection has
been violated but the violation does not constitute an immediate threat to the
public health, service shall be terminated in accordance with district
procedures dealing with other types of violations of the district's water rules
and regulations.
      9.    Compliance With State And Federal Laws: The customer must comply
with the state and federal laws governing the separation of dual water systems
or installation of backflow protective devices to protect the public water
supply from the danger of cross connections. Backflow protective devices must
be installed as near the service as possible and shall be open to test and
inspection by the water department. Plans for installation of backflow
protective devices must be approved by the water department prior to
installation.
      10.    Dangerous Liquids Or Industrial Waters: In special circumstances,
when the customer is engaged in the handling of especially dangerous or
corrosive liquids or industrial or process waters, the district may require the
customer to eliminate certain plumbing or piping connections as an additional
precaution and as a protection of the backflow preventive devices.
   H.    Relief Valves: As a protection for the customer's plumbing system (as
well as a requirement of the Kern County building department), a suitable
pressure relief valve must be installed and maintained by him, at his expense,
when check valves or other protective devices are used. The relief valve shall
be installed between the check valves and the water heater.
   I.    Backflow Devices:
      1.    Protection Required: Whenever backflow protection has been found
necessary on a water supply line entering a customer's premises, then any and
all water supply lines from the district's mains entering such premises,
buildings, or structures shall be protected by an approved backflow device,
regardless of the use of the additional water supply lines.
      2.    Inspection: The double check valve or other approved backflow
protection devices may be inspected and tested periodically for watertightness
by the district. The devices shall be serviced, overhauled, or replaced
whenever they are found defective and all costs of repair and maintenance shall
be borne by the customer.
      3.    Discontinued Service: The service of water to any premises may be
discontinued by the district, with twenty four (24) hours' prior notice, if any
defect is found in the check valve installation or other protective devices, or
if it is found that dangerous unprotected cross connections exist. Service will
not be restored until such defects are corrected.
   J.    Interruptions In Service: The district shall not be liable for damage
which may result from an interruption in service from a cause beyond the
control of the water department. Temporary shutdowns may be made by the water
department to make improvements and repairs. Whenever possible and as time
permits, all customers affected will be notified prior to making such
shutdowns. The district will not be liable for interruption, shortage or
insufficiency of supply, or for any loss or damage occasioned thereby, if
caused by accident, force majeure, fire, strikes, riots, war or any other cause
not within its control.
   K.    Ingress, Egress: Representatives from the water department shall have
the right of ingress and egress to the customer's premises at reasonable hours
for any purpose reasonably connected with the furnishing of water service.
(Ord. 11-237, 11-10-2011)
7-1-7: NOTICES:
   A.    Notices To Customers:
      1.    Notices from the district to a customer will normally be given in
writing, and either delivered or mailed to him at his last known address.
      2.    Where conditions warrant and in emergencies, the district may
resort to notification either by telephone or messenger.
   B.    Notice From Customers: Notice from the customer to the district may be
given by him or his authorized representative in writing: 1) at the district's
operating office, 2) to the general manager of the district, or 3) to an
officer or agent duly authorized by the board to receive notices or complaints.
(Ord. 11-237, 11-10-2011)
7-1-8: METERS:
   A.    Installation: All services shall be metered. The connection and
capacity charges set forth in chapters 2 and 3 of this title shall be paid to
the district prior to installation of the meter facilities to pay all of the
cost of said installation when said installation is made at the request of the
customer. The service connection, whether located on public or private
property, is the property of the district, unless specifically otherwise
provided, and the district reserves the right to repair, replace and maintain
it, as well as to remove it upon discontinuance of service.
   B.    Meter Installation Or Removal: Meters will be installed at the curb or
within the right of way (or easement), and shall be owned by the district and
installed and removed at the customer's expense. No rent or other charge will
be paid by the district for a meter or other facilities, including housing and
connections, located on a customer's premises. All meters will be sealed by the
district at the time of installation, and no seal shall be altered or broken
except by one of its authorized employees or agents.
   C.    Change In Location Of Meters: Meters moved for the convenience of the
customer will be relocated at the customer's expense. A meter may be moved only
within the boundaries of the subject property and shall not be moved to any
other property. Meters moved to protect the district's property will be moved
at its expense. Customers shall pay the district's actual cost for labor and
materials to change the location of a meter.
   D.    Meter Reading: Meters will be read as nearly as possible on the same
day, monthly or bimonthly, at the option of the district. Billing periods
containing less than twenty seven (27) days or more than thirty three (33) days
for bills rendered monthly or less than fifty four (54) days and more than
sixty six (66) days for bills rendered bimonthly, will be prorated.
   E.    Meter Tests, Deposits: All meters will be tested prior to installation
and no meter will be installed which registers more than two percent (2%) fast
or slow. If a customer desires to have the meter serving his premises tested,
he shall first pay to the district a deposit in an amount to be established by
resolution of the board of directors. Should the meter register accurate, the
customer will be returned the difference between the deposit and the actual
costs incurred to remove, replace, ship and test the meter. If the meter is
defective, the entire deposit will be returned to the customer. A meter shall
register accurate for purposes of this section if it tests within two percent
(2%) fast or slow when tested.
   F.    Adjustment For Meter Errors, Fast Meters: If a meter tested at the
request of a customer is found to be more than two percent (2%) fast, the
excess charges for the time service was rendered the customer requesting the
test or for a period of six (6) months, whichever shall be the lesser, shall be
refunded to the customer.
   G.    Errors, Slow Meters: If a meter tested at the request of a customer is
found to be more than two percent (2%) slow, the district may bill the customer
for the amount of the undercharge based upon the corrected meter readings for
the period, not exceeding six (6) months, that the meter was in use.
   H.    Nonregistering Meters: If a meter is found to be not registering, the
charges for service shall be at the minimum monthly rate or based on the
estimated consumption, whichever is greater. Such estimates shall be made from
previous consumption for a comparable period or by such other method as is
determined by the water department, and its decision shall be final. (Ord. 11-
237, 11-10-2011)
7-1-9: NONADJACENT WATER METERS:
   In the case of water customers who receive water through a meter which is
not adjacent to their property and who require delivery of the water through
easements against other properties and who experience a high water bill due to
the failure of some portion of their system may apply for relief of the high
bill, subject to the following. A onetime bill reduction will be made if the
customer uses the funds to repair his water supply system. To be eligible for
reimbursement, repairs must be designed (if a design is required) by a
professional engineer. Any actual work must be performed by a licensed plumbing
contractor. The district in no way warrants any design, repair or modification,
and assumes no responsibility for future satisfactory operation of the system.
Upon presentation of valid receipts for the repair (including any design), the
billing will be reduced by the actual amount of the expenditure. In no case
will the district allow a credit greater than the amount of the high billing.
The onetime reimbursement refers to the life of the property, not the tenure of
the present owner. Selling the property will not entitle the new owner to
another onetime reimbursement, if one was previously made to a prior owner.
(Ord. 11-237, 11-10-2011)
7-1-10: PUBLIC FIRE PROTECTION:
   A.    Use Of Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants are for use by organized fire
protection agencies. Other parties desiring to use fire hydrants for any
purpose must first obtain written permission from the water department prior to
use and shall operate the hydrant in accordance with instructions issued by the
water department. Unauthorized use of hydrants will be prosecuted according to
law.
   B.    Hydrant Rental: The district may, by ordinance, establish a charge for
hydrant maintenance and water used for public fire protection.
   C.    Moving Of Fire Hydrants: When a fire hydrant has been installed in the
location specified by the proper authority, the district has fulfilled its
obligation. If a property owner or other party desires a change in the size,
type or location of the hydrant, he shall bear all costs of such changes,
without refund. Any change in the location of a fire hydrant must be approved
by the proper authority. (Ord. 11-237, 11-10-2011)
7-1-11: PRIVATE FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE:
   A.    Payment Of Cost: The applicant for private fire protection service not
now installed shall pay the total actual cost of installation of the service
from the distribution main to the customer's premises including the cost of a
detector check meter or other suitable and equivalent device, valve and meter
box, said installation to become the property of the district.
   B.    No Connection To Other System: There shall be no connections between
this fire protection system and any other water distribution system on the
premises.
   C.    Use: There shall be no water used through the fire protection service
except to extinguish accidental fires and for testing the firefighting
equipment.
   D.    Meter Rates: Any consumption recorded on the meter will be charged at
double the regular service rates except that no charge will be made for water
used to extinguish accidental fires where such fires have been reported to the
fire protection agency, and only the regular service rates shall be applicable
when water is used for testing firefighting equipment; provided, that the
district is first notified of said test.
   E.    Water For Fire Storage Tanks: Occasionally water may be obtained for a
private fire service for filling a tank connected with the fire service, but
only if written permission is secured from the district in advance and an
approved means of measurement is available. The regular water rates will be
applied.
   F.    Violation Of Agreement: If water is used from a private fire service
in violation of the agreement or of these regulations, the district may, at its
option, discontinue and remove the service.
   G.    Water Pressure And Supply: The district assumes no responsibility for
loss or damage due to lack of water or pressure and merely agrees to furnish
such quantities and pressures as are available in its general distribution
system at the time. The service is subject to shutdowns and variations required
by the operation of the system. (Ord. 11-237, 11-10-2011)
7-1-12: TEMPORARY SERVICE:
   A.    Duration Of Service: Temporary service connections shall be
disconnected and terminated within six (6) months after installation unless an
extension of time is granted in writing by the district.
   B.    Deposit: The applicant shall deposit, in advance, the estimated cost
of installing and removing the facilities required to furnish said service.
Upon discontinuance of service, the actual cost shall be determined and an
adjustment made as an additional charge, refund or credit.
   C.    Installation And Operation: All facilities for temporary service to
the customer connection shall be made by the water department and shall be
operated in accordance with its instructions.
   D.    Responsibility For Meters And Installation: The customer shall use all
possible care to prevent damage to the meter or to any other loaned facilities
of the district which are involved in furnishing the temporary service from the
time they are installed until they are removed, or until forty eight (48)
hours' notice, in writing, has been given to the district that the contractor
or other person is through with the meter or meters and the installation. If
the meter or other facilities are damaged, the cost of making repairs shall be
paid by the customer.
   E.    Temporary Service From Fire Hydrant: If temporary service is supplied
through a fire hydrant, a permit for the use of the hydrant shall be obtained
from the proper authority and the district. It is specifically prohibited to
operate the valve of any fire hydrant other than by the use of a spanner wrench
designed for this purpose.
   F.    Unauthorized Use Of Hydrants: Tampering with any fire hydrant for the
unauthorized use of water therefrom, or for any other purpose, is a
misdemeanor, punishable by law.
   G.    Rates: The rates for temporary service shall be as prescribed by the
board.
   H.    Credit: The applicant shall pay the estimated cost of service in
advance or shall be otherwise required to establish credit. (Ord. 11-237, 11-
10-2011)
7-1-13: WATER CONSERVATION; EQUIPMENT RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.    Pools And Tanks:
      1.    When an abnormally large quantity of water is desired for filling a
swimming pool or for other purposes, arrangements must be made with the
district prior to taking such water.
      2.    Permission to take water in unusual quantities will be given only
if it can be safely delivered through the district's facilities and if no other
consumers are inconvenienced thereby.
   B.    Responsibility For Equipment: The customer shall, at his own risk and
expense, furnish, install and keep in good and safe condition all equipment
that may be required for receiving, controlling, applying and utilizing water,
and the district shall not be responsible for any loss or damage caused by the
improper installation of such equipment, or the negligence or wrongful act of
the customer or of any of his tenants, agents, employees, contractors,
licensees or permittees in installing, maintaining, operating, or interfering
with such equipment. The district shall not be responsible for damage to
property caused by faucets, valves and other equipment that are open when water
is turned on at the meter, either originally or when turned on after a
temporary shutdown.
   C.    Periods Of Water Shortage: The district shall have the right to
restrict the use of and apportion its available water supply during any
emergency caused by drought, or other threatened or existing water shortage,
and to prohibit the wastage of district water or the use of district water
during such period, for any purpose other than household uses or such other
restricted uses as may be determined to be necessary by the district and may
prohibit use of such water during such periods for specific uses which the
district may from time to time find to be nonessential.
   D.    Use Of Siphons: No siphon of any nature shall be operated from any
service connected to the district's system. (Ord. 11-237, 11-10-2011)
7-1-14: VIOLATION; PENALTY; SERVICE DISCONNECTION:
   For the failure of the customer to comply with all or any part of this
chapter, and any ordinance, resolution or order fixing rates and charges of the
district, a penalty for which has not hereafter been specifically fixed, the
customer's service shall be discontinued and the water shall not be supplied
such customer until the customer has complied with the rule or regulation, rate
or charge which the customer has violated or, in the event that the customer
cannot comply with said rule or regulation, until the customer shall have
satisfied the district that in the future the customer will comply with all the
rules and regulations established by ordinance of the district and with all
rates and charges of the district.
   A.    Notification Of Termination: If the district determines that a
violation of this chapter exists, and that such violation poses an immediate
threat to the public health, the district shall attempt to notify the water
user of the district's intention to terminate service. The district shall make
every effort to provide the water user with twenty four (24) hours' prior
notice of termination. However, service shall be terminated whether or not the
notice is successful.
   B.    Violations: If the district determines that this chapter has been
violated but the violation does not constitute an immediate threat to the
public health, service shall be terminated in accordance with district
procedures dealing with other types of violations of the district's water rules
and regulations. (Ord. 11-237, 11-10-2011)
CHAPTER 2
WATER RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Title; Definitions; Relief From Provisions
7-2-2: Standby Charge
7-2-3: Connection Charges
7-2-4: Service Rates For Water Supplied By District
7-2-5: Reserved
7-2-6: Credit Maintained; Deposit Required
7-2-7: Billing; Payments
7-2-8: Discontinuance Of Service
7-2-9: Collection Of Unpaid Charges
7-2-1: TITLE; DEFINITIONS; RELIEF FROM PROVISIONS:
   A.    Short Title: This chapter may be cited as the BEAR VALLEY COMMUNITY
SERVICES DISTRICT WATER RATE ORDINANCE.
   B.    Definitions: Where applicable, definitions contained in
title 1, chapter 3 of this code shall apply herein.
   C.    Relief On Application:
      1.    When any person, by reason of special circumstances, is of the
opinion that any provision of this chapter is unjust or inequitable as applied
to his premises, he may make written application to the board stating the
special circumstances, citing the provision complained of, and requesting
suspension or modification of that provision as applied to his premises.
      2.    If such application be approved, the board may, by resolution,
suspend or modify the provision complained of, as applied to such premises, to
be effective as of the date of the application and continuing during the period
of the special circumstances.
   D.    Relief On Own Motion: The board may, on its own motion, find that by
reason of special circumstances any provision of this regulation and chapter
should be suspended or modified as applied to a particular premises and may, by
resolution, order such suspension or modification for such premises during the
period of such special circumstances, or any part thereof. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-
2009)
7-2-2: STANDBY CHARGE:
   This section sets a water standby charge on unimproved parcels not currently
receiving water service for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2004.
   A.    Findings: The Bear Valley Community Services District provides water
service within the boundaries of the district and is authorized by the
community services district law to collect fees, tolls, rates, charges, and
rentals, including standby or availability charges, to cover the costs of
providing such services including the cost of any bonded indebtedness or other
debt incurred to construct, maintain or operate the facilities necessary to
provide such services.
   B.    Authorization: The uniform standby charge procedures act, Government
Code section 54984 et seq., provides that the Bear Valley Community Services
District may elect to fix, levy and collect any otherwise authorized standby or
availability charges for water or sewer services under the procedures specified
in such act.
   C.    Engineer's Report: A report by a qualified engineer is on file with
the secretary of the board and, based upon that report, it is proposed that a
standby charge be imposed on the parcels identified by assessor's parcel
number, which is on file in the district office.
   The proposed charge is not an increase from fiscal year 2003-2004.
   The proposed charge does not exceed the estimated reasonable cost of
providing the service for which the charge is imposed.
   The proposed charge fully complies with article XIIID of the California
constitution (proposition 218), which defines standby charges as assessments
and which further allows assessments existing on November 6, 1996, to finance
the maintenance of water systems to continue without undergoing the new
assessment procedures and approval process until the amount of the charge is
increased.
   D.    Water Standby Charge: The board shall by resolution adopt annually a
water standby charge to be imposed on parcels identified by assessor's parcel
number, which is on file in the district office.
   E.    Collection Of Standby Charge: The charge described herein shall be
collected on the tax roll in the same manner, by the same persons and at the
same time as, together with, and not separately from, general taxes. (Ord. 09-
230, 1-8-2009)
7-2-3: CONNECTION CHARGES:
   A.    Additional To Other Charges: Connection charges are hereby established
for services and facilities furnished to premises within the district. Said
connection charges are in addition to other charges which may be provided and
are payable at the time of an application for water services to particular
premises.
   B.    Charges Established: Said connection charge is a lump sum amount, as
follows:
 
Water capacity fee           $7,555.00
Water installation charge     100.00
Water shutoff valve           41.00
Total                        $7,696.00
 
   C.    Cost Of Installation: In addition, the actual cost of installation of
any service lateral from the distribution main and of any meter box and curb
stop assembly, if not already installed, shall also be payable as a connection
charge. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
7-2-4: SERVICE RATES FOR WATER SUPPLIED BY DISTRICT:
   A.    General:
      1.    Water rates shall be established by resolution of the board of
directors.
      2.    The payment of the rates and charges established by the board of
directors is a condition of water service by the district. Service shall be
terminated in accordance with the district's rules and regulations if a
customer fails to pay the rates and charges established by the board of
directors.
      3.    Water service shall be billed on a monthly basis on the same
statement as other district utilities including sewer and solid waste services.
      4.    Customers having more than one meter serving a single residential
lot or parcel shall pay the base charge for each meter plus a water volume
charge calculated on the combined volume of water for the meters serving the
lot or parcel. Such multiple meter properties existing on March 14, 1998, shall
be exempt from this provision until such time as the property is sold or
transferred.
      5.    Customers shall, at their own risk and expense, furnish, install
and keep in good and safe condition all water pipes, machinery and apparatus
which may be required for receiving water from the district at the point of
delivery and for applying and utilizing such water. The district shall not be
responsible for any loss or damage occasioned or caused by negligence or want
of care on the part of the customer in installing, maintaining, using or
operating such water pipes, apparatus, appliances or fixtures. Customers shall
hold the district harmless from any damages arising out of low or high pressure
conditions or interruptions in service. Customers who feel the district bears
responsibility for excessive water bills due to failure of district equipment
or actions of district personnel can seek redress through subsection
7-2-7H of this chapter. All customers having equipment requiring a continuous
flow of water shall provide a tank from which to feed the same.
      6.    Customers who experience a break or leak in any water pipeline
downstream for their water meter, which they are required to maintain, shall be
billed according to the following policy:
         a. During the winter season (December through April), there is no
billing maximum. The bill shall be computed according to the winter season
rates and pass-through charge.
         b. During the summer season (May through November), a billing maximum
will apply. If the consumption, HCF, exceeds the average over the last five (5)
years or the available history, the bill shall be computed according to the
summer season water rates and pass-through charge up to sixty (60) HCF. Any
consumption over sixty (60) HCF shall be computed according to the tier 3 rate
with no pass-through charge. (Ord. 12-238, 4-12-2012)
         c. The above provisions apply to each billing period separately. (Ord.
09-230, 1-8-2009)
7-2-5: RESERVED:
(Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
7-2-6: CREDIT MAINTAINED; DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
   A.    Establishment And Maintenance: Each applicant for service, or any
customer who has been delinquent two (2) or more times within one year, may
also be required to establish his credit as provided in subsection B of this
section when, in the judgment of the district, such is required in order to
ensure payment of charges for water services.
   B.    Deposit: A deposit in an amount not to exceed three (3) times the
estimated average monthly bill may be required of customers desiring water
service to the premises. The deposit will be based solely on the credit
worthiness of the customer.
   C.    Loss And Reestablishment Of Credit: Any amount due for water service
that remains unpaid for twenty (20) days after presentation of a bill therefor
may be deducted from the deposit, and service shall be subject to
discontinuance until the deposit is again restored to the original amount.
   D.    Return Of Deposit: If a customer's account has not been delinquent in
twelve (12) consecutive months, any deposit for said account shall be returned
to the customer upon application for refund of said deposit. Upon the closing
of any account, the balance of the deposit or prepaid charges, remaining after
the closing bill or service has been paid, and less any district offsets, shall
be returned to the customer upon application for refund; provided such
application is made within one year after discontinuance of service. No
interest shall be paid by the district on any such balance. A notice shall be
sent to the customer's last address as known to the district informing the
customer of the refund and how to obtain the refund. In the event no such
application is received in one year, said balance shall be forfeited to the
water department. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
7-2-7: BILLING; PAYMENTS:
   A.    Billing Period: The regular billing period will be monthly or
bimonthly at the option of the board of directors.
   B.    Opening And Closing Bills: Opening bills, closing bills and other
bills requiring proration, will be computed in accordance with the applicable
schedule, but the fixed charge or minimum charge specified therein will be
prorated on the basis of the ratio of the number of days in the period to the
number of days in the average billing period, based on an average month of
thirty (30) days.
   C.    Charges For Water Services: Charges for water services, fiscal service
charges, and minimum charges shall be in the amounts designated by resolution
of the board.
   D.    Owner's Responsibility: The water account shall be maintained in the
name of the owner of the premises and the owner shall be responsible for
payment of all water bills.
   E.    Payment Of Bills:
      1.    Bills for water services shall be due and payable nineteen (19)
days from the date of depositing the bill for services in the United States
mail or upon presentation to the customer, hereinafter referred to as "due
date". Bills for water services shall become overdue and delinquent when
payment is not made by the date specified thereon at the close of business
hours. The date specified thereon shall be at least nineteen (19) days after
the post office cancellation date for the billing.
      2.    Service may be discontinued until payment is made in full or an
amortization agreement is entered into pursuant to this section. If the due
date falls on a weekend or holiday, payment is due on the next working day.
   F.    Penalties: Rates and charges that are not paid by the due date
specified will be subject to a basic penalty of ten percent (10%). In addition,
a penalty of one percent (1.0%) per month will accrue on the due date of each
subsequent month for nonpayment of the charges and penalties; provided,
however, the district will upon request, once every twelve (12) months, waive
any penalty or interest charges on delinquent bills for customers who
demonstrate an annual household income that is below two hundred percent (200%)
of the federal poverty line in accordance with Health & Safety Code section
116914.
   G.    Water Used Without Application Being Made: A person taking possession
of premises and using water from a service connection without having made
application to the district for water service, shall be held liable for the
water delivered from the date service was last given and billed and, if it is a
metered connection, from the last recorded meter reading, plus a ten percent
(10%) penalty. If the meter is found inoperative, the quantity consumed will be
estimated. The district's determination of the estimated quantity of water
consumed shall be conclusive. If proper application for water service is not
made upon notification to do so by the district, and if accumulated bills for
service are not paid immediately, the service may be discontinued by the
district without further notice. The district reserves the right to institute
civil or criminal actions to enforce a violation of this section.
   H.    Disputed Bills; Complaint And Investigation:
      1.    Should the amount of any bill for service be questioned, the
customer should promptly request an explanation. If the explanation is not
satisfactory or is not understood, the customer must initiate a complaint or
request an investigation within five (5) days of receiving the disputed bill,
or within thirteen (13) days of mailing of the notice required by section
7-2-8 of this chapter make a request for extension of the payment period of a
bill asserted to be beyond the means of the customer to pay in full during the
normal period for payment. The review shall include consideration of whether
the customer shall be permitted to amortize the unpaid balance of the account
over a reasonable period of time, not to exceed twelve (12) months. No
termination of service shall be effected for any customer complying with the
amortization agreement, if the customer also keeps the account current as
charges accrue in each subsequent billing period.
      2.    Any customer whose complaint or request for an investigation
pursuant to the above has resulted in an adverse determination by the general
manager may appeal the determination to the board of directors.
   I.    Checks; Failure To Clear: If a check tendered in payment of any
account fails to clear through the banks and is returned, the account shall be
considered unpaid, and any receipts issued therefor shall be void, and the
indebtedness shall be restored to the account. The service charge for returned
checks shall be the sum as provided for in section
1-8-12 of this code.
   J.    Combining Utility Bills: The district shall have the power to combine
bills for utility services rendered to any one customer or bill separately
therefor, as in the district's discretion it may deem to be in the best
interests of the district. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009; amd. Ord. 20-252, 3-12-2020)
7-2-8: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
   A.   Disconnection For Nonpayment; Notice:
      1.   Residential service may not be discontinued for nonpayment until
payments have been delinquent for at least sixty (60) days beyond the date of
delinquency under code section
7-2-7(E).
      2.   Prior to terminating residential service on account of nonpayment of
a delinquent account, the district must give notice of the delinquency and
impending discontinuation, at least ten (10) days prior to the proposed
discontinuation, by means of a notice mailed, postage prepaid, to the customer
to whom the service is billed. The ten (10) day period will not commence until
five (5) days after the mailing of the notice. The charge for such notice will
be added to the customer's account. The amount of the charge will be
established by resolution of the board of directors.
      3.   In addition to written notice, the district will make a reasonable
attempt to contact an adult person at the premises of the customer by telephone
or personal contact, at least forty eight (48) hours prior to any
discontinuation of service. If telephone or personal contact cannot be
accomplished, the district will post a notice of discontinuation of service in
a conspicuous location at the premises and provide a copy of the district's
policy on the discontinuation of residential water service for nonpayment, at
least forty eight (48) hours prior to discontinuation.
      4.   Notice to Renters: Where the listed customer on an account is a
landlord, a notice of delinquent account and pending discontinuation must also
be sent to the residential occupants at least ten (10) days prior to the
discontinuation of service. The notice must inform the renter of his or her
right to become a customer without paying the past due amounts on the
landlord's account. In order for the amount due on the delinquent account to be
waived, however, an occupant who becomes the customer must verify that the
delinquent account customer of record was the landlord, manager, or agent of
the dwelling. Verification may include a lease or rental agreement, rent
receipts, a government document indicating that the occupant is renting the
property, or information disclosed pursuant to Civil Code section 1962.
   B.   Contents Of Notice Of Discontinuation: Every notice of discontinuation
of service must be sent to the customer's address and to the residence where
residential service is provided, if different. Every notice of discontinuation
of service will include all of the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the customer whose account is delinquent.
      2.   The amount of the delinquency.
      3.   The date by which payment or arrangement for payment is required in
order to avoid discontinuation of service.
      4.   The procedure by which the customer may initiate a review and appeal
concerning service or charges.
      5.   The procedure by which the customer may request a deferred, reduced,
or alternative payment schedule, including amortization of the unpaid charges.
      6.   The procedure for the customer to obtain information on the
availability of financial assistance, including private, local, state or
federal sources, if applicable.
      7.   The telephone number of an employee of the district who can provide
additional information or institute arrangements for payment.
   C.   Limitations On Discontinuing Service; In General: The district may not
discontinue residential service for nonpayment in any of the following
situations:
      1.   During the pendency of an investigation by the district of a
customer dispute or complaint, or an appeal of an adverse determination
regarding such review.
      2.   When the customer has been granted an extension of the period for
payment of a bill.
      3.   On any day or at any time that the district office is not open to
the public.
   D.   Limitations On Discontinuing Service; Special Medical and Financial
Circumstances: The district will not discontinue residential service for
nonpayment both of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The customer, or a tenant of the customer, submits a certification
of a primary care provider, as that term is defined in Welfare and Institutions
Code Section 14088(b)(1)(A), that to do so will be life threatening to, or pose
a serious threat to the health and safety of, a resident of the premises; and
      2.   The customer is financially unable to pay for service within the
district's normal billing cycle by demonstrating that any member of the
customer's household is a current recipient of Cal WORKs, CalFresh, Medi-Cal,
Supplemental Security Income/State Supplementary Payment Program, or California
Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children, or
declares under penalty of perjury that the household's annual income is less
than two hundred percent (200%) of the current federal poverty level guidelines
issued by the federal Department of Health and Human Services.
   E.   Repayment Options for Qualified Customers. If all of the circumstances
listed in subsection (D) above are met, the district will offer, at its
discretion, the customer one (1) or more of the following options:
      1.   Amortization of the unpaid balance for a reasonable period of time,
not to exceed twelve (12) months, unless a longer period is necessary to avoid
undue hardship.
      2.   An alternate payment schedule.
      3.   A partial or full reduction in payment financed without additional
charges to other ratepayers.
      4.   Temporary deferral of payment.
   F.   Request for Amortization Agreement Due to Financial Hardship: If a
customer (i) has an excessive bill due to a water leak and provides proof of
repair or (ii) can demonstrate a temporary financial inability to pay for
service within the normal payment period, and is willing to enter into an
amortization agreement over a reasonable period of time, not to exceed twelve
(12) months, the district will consider and act on such a request in accordance
with the procedures in the district's discontinuation of residential water
service for nonpayment policy. As provided in such policy, approval of any such
request is at the sole discretion of the district.
   G.   Limitations on Terminating Service For Customers Subject to a Repayment
Plan: If a residential customer fails to comply with (1) an amortization
agreement, (2) an alternative payment schedule, or (3) a deferral or reduction
in payment plan for delinquent charges for sixty (60) days or more, or while
undertaking any of items (1)-(3) above does not pay the current residential
charges for sixty (60) days or more, the district may terminate service no
sooner than five (5) business days after posting a final notice of intent to
disconnect service in a prominent and conspicuous location at the premises.
Such notice does not entitle the customer to further investigation or review
regarding such delinquent amount by the district.
   H.   Third Party Notification: The district will make available to its
residential customers who are sixty five (65) years of age or older, or who are
dependent adults as defined in paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of section
15610.23 of the California Welfare and Institutions Code, a third party
notification service, whereby the district will attempt to notify a person
designated by the customer to receive notification when the customer's account
is past due and subject to discontinuation. The notification will include
information on what is required to prevent discontinuation of service. The
residential customer must make a request for third party notification on a form
provided by the district, and must include the written consent of the
designated third party. The third party notification does not obligate the
third party to pay the overdue charges, nor will it prevent or delay
discontinuation of service.
   I.   Reconnection Charge: A reconnection charge will be made and collected
prior to renewing service following a disconnection. The reconnection charge
will be established by resolution of the board of directors. The reconnection
charge for a customer who demonstrates the household's annual income is less
than two hundred percent (200%) of the current federal poverty level may not
exceed fifty dollars ($50.00) during normal district operating hours, and the
charge during non-operational hours cannot exceed one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00). These caps for low-income customers may be adjusted annually for
changes in the Consumer Price Index for the Los Angeles-Long Beach-Anaheim
metropolitan area beginning January 1, 2021.
   J.   Noncompliance With Regulations: The district may terminate service
without complying with the provisions of this section due to an unauthorized
action by the customer, including noncompliance with this chapter or any other
ordinance or regulation related to the water service.
   K.   Vacating Premises: Customers desiring to voluntarily discontinue
service should so notify the district at least two (2) business days prior to
vacating the premises. Property owners will continue to be liable for the
payment of water rate base charges, however, until the property is sold or
otherwise changes ownership. (Ord. 20-252, 3-12-2020)
7-2-9: COLLECTION OF UNPAID CHARGES:
   A.    Collection By Suit:
      1.    Suit: All unpaid rates and charges and penalties herein provided
may be collected by suit.
      2.    Costs: Customer shall pay all costs of suit in any judgment
rendered in favor of the district, including reasonable attorney fees.
   B.    Collection By Lien: In the event the district places a lien on the
property for nonpayment of water services, customer shall be charged the
district's actual cost to place or remove the lien. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
CHAPTER 3
FEES FOR NEW DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
7-3-1: Findings
7-3-2: Water System Capacity Fee
7-3-3: Disposition Of Development Fees
7-3-4: Annual Review
7-3-5: Term Of Approval
7-3-6: Fee Adjustments
7-3-1: FINDINGS:
   The board finds that:
   A.    Purpose: The purpose of such fees is to replace the water delivery
capacity owned by the district and still allow for the growth of residential
and other development.
   B.    Fee Imposition: There is a reasonable relationship between imposing
such capacity fees on all development because all such development uses water
capacity.
   C.    Anticipated Growth: Because of the anticipated growth in residential
housing demand, the existing potable water capacity owned by the district will
be consumed by residential development long before the vacant land inside the
district's current boundaries is fully occupied. When residential development
occurs, without such fees being collected by the district, the existing water
capacity will already have been used. If all of the unused capacity of the
potable water wells is used, then no development could occur inside the
district unless funding from the state or the federal government was obtained.
Since such funds are difficult to obtain, development would be greatly delayed
or might not occur at all, which is not in the best interests of the residents
of the district.
   D.    Size Of Capacity Fees: The size of the capacity fees shall be
determined by the board of the district by resolution. No such fee shall be set
unless it is determined by the board to bear a reasonable relationship to the
cost of the public facilities attributable to the development on which the fee
is imposed. Each such resolution which sets the amount of the fees shall
identify the public facility for which the fee is charged and the method of
determining the amount of the fee. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
7-3-2: WATER SYSTEM CAPACITY FEE:
   A.    Establishment Of Water System Capacity Fee: Except as may be provided
by this chapter or any amendment to this chapter, the applicant for approval of
new water connections must either:
      1.    Deposit: Deposit at the district office the water system capacity
fee before the district can issue a letter of intent to provide service or
actually provide service to all or any part of the land which is the subject of
the application. When, if and to the extent that the general manager of the
district determines the services cannot be provided to the land which is the
subject of the application or the applicant requests that the fees be refunded
because the applicant does not plan to connect to the water system within the
next twelve (12) months, the general manager shall order such fees to be
refunded to the applicant in accordance with subsection D of this section. If
and to the extent that the application for water service is granted by the
general manager, the district shall deposit the water system capacity fee in a
segregated account as is more fully set forth below.
      2.    Post Security: At the time of the application for a water service
commitment, the owner shall post adequate security with the district to secure
the payment of the water system capacity fee, before the district can issue a
letter of intent to provide service or actually provide service to all or any
part of the land which is the subject of the application.
         a. When, if and to the extent that the board determines that services
will not be provided to the land which is the subject of the application, the
board shall order such security for the fees to be released to the applicant.
         b. If and to the extent that the application for water service is
granted by the board, the district shall require in the resolution granting the
application and in any letter from the district which documents the granting of
the application, as a condition to actually receiving any service, that the
applicant pay the water system capacity fee to the district prior to the actual
connection of the property to the water system (in addition to any fees for the
actual cost of connection to the water system). Once the district receives the
actual payment at the time of connection, the district shall pay that fee into
a segregated account as is more fully set forth below.
         c. What constitutes adequate security shall be within the sole
discretion of the board of the district.
   B.    Conditional Approval Of Application: Any approval of an application
for a new water service shall be conditioned on both the applicant's signing a
contract with the district to construct to the district specifications the
improvements to the water delivery system and the payment of all fees and
charges required by this chapter or by any other ordinance or resolution of the
district. The water system capacity fee shall be in addition to any fees for
the actual cost of connection to the water system. In addition to connection
charges and the water capacity fee, the applicant may be required to install a
water main or other water improvement if the board, in considering the
application, concludes that such improvement is necessitated by the granting of
the application. If such additional improvement is required, that improvement
shall be constructed at the time the board directs but, in no event, later than
the physical connection to the district water system of any of the property
which is the subject of the application.
   C.    Determination Of Water System Capacity Fee:
      1.    Water System Capacity Fee Rate: The water system capacity fee shall
be set on a per residential unit basis, for residential development, by
resolution of the board of directors. For all development other than
development which is exclusively residential, the rate shall be set after the
board of directors consults an engineer of the board's choice who then advises
the district of the expected usage of the development. The board shall then
consider a fee for the development which is comparable on a volume of use basis
to the fee set for residential units.
      2.    Procedure:
         a. Engineer's Report: At the time of the initial application for water
service, the applicant shall deposit with the district the amount determined by
the board as the estimated cost of the engineer's report and sign an agreement
to reimburse to the district any cost of the engineer's report which exceeds
the amount of the deposit. The district will then consult an engineer of the
district's choice and arrange for a study and a report to be made to the board
which includes all of the following:
            (1) The anticipated usage of capacity of the potable water wells
expressed in terms of residential equivalents;
            (2) Any additional construction which will, in the engineer's
opinion, be required to be performed on the district water delivery system in
order to allow for the service to the new development without diminishing the
level of service provided to the balance of the district users who are
currently receiving service;
            (3) Any additional recommendations to offset costs to the district
of the new growth; and
            (4) Whether the district currently owns enough capacity to
accommodate the growth.
         b. Board Determination Of Exactions To Be Required: The board will not
act on the application until after the submission of the engineer's report. Any
approval of the application issued by the board will be conditioned upon the
payment of the full amount of the water system capacity fee prior to the actual
connection of any of the connections approved by the board in its action on the
application. After the submission of the engineer's report, the water system
capacity fee shall then be set by the board for that particular project and
what additional improvements would be required to the district water delivery
system before it will allow the connection. If the board determines that the
applicant will have to construct any such improvements, then the board will
enter into an agreement with the applicant as a condition of the granting of
the application that the applicant will construct the improvements identified
by the engineer to the district specifications before connecting any of the new
water users to the district system.
         c. Exceptions For Single-Family Dwelling Unit: An engineer's report
will not be required for connection of a single-family dwelling unit. "Dwelling
unit" means one or more habitable rooms which are occupied or which are
intended or designed to be occupied by one family with facilities for living,
sleeping, cooking and eating. Furthermore, the general manager shall have
authority to approve the application for service for a single-family dwelling.
         d. Obtaining Additional Capacity: In the event that the board grants
an application and the district does not currently own sufficient capacity to
serve the development, it shall be up to the district to either:
            (1) Arrange for the purchase of additional capacity from other
public agencies; or
            (2) Arrange for the construction of new wells to provide adequate
capacity.
   D.    Refund Of Water System Capacity Fee: In the event that the general
manager of the district determines that the district is unable to provide water
service to the applicant's property within one year of the applicant's request
for water service, or if the applicant requests a refund of the water system
capacity fees because the applicant does not plan to connect to the water
system within the next twelve (12) months, the general manager shall order the
water capacity system fees paid by applicant refunded to the applicant. The
applicant shall be paid no interest by the district for the use of the funds
prior to the refund of the water system capacity fee, unless the district
determines it is unable to provide the water service. In such case, when the
district determines that the district is unable to provide the water service to
the applicant, the applicant shall receive five percent (5%) on the funds
deposited with the district from the date the funds were deposited. If the
applicant desires to have the meter removed, the district shall remove the
meter for a charge established by resolution of the board of directors. Upon
the applicant's or a successor in interest's application for a connection to
the water system, the applicant shall pay the water system capacity fee and
connection fees in effect at the time of the application pursuant to this code.
The applicant or his successor in interest shall receive no credit or any
amount paid previously. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
7-3-3: DISPOSITION OF DEVELOPMENT FEES:
   A.    Establishment Of Reserve Accounts: Pursuant to California Government
Code section 66006, there is hereby established the water system capacity fee
reserve account (the reserve account) in the district water development fund.
Any fee paid pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be placed into
the reserve account established for such fee and used solely for the purpose of
implementation of the applicable public purpose for which the fee was
established. All monies in the reserve account established by this chapter
shall be held separate and apart from other district funds. All interest or
other earnings of the reserve account shall be credited to the reserve account.
   B.    Expenditures From Fee Reserve Accounts: All monies and interest in the
reserve account established by this chapter shall be expended on the
implementation of the applicable public purpose for which the fee was
established:
      1.    The reimbursement for all direct and indirect costs incurred by the
district for such implementation pursuant to this chapter including, but not
limited to, the costs of land acquisition, planning, legal advice, engineering,
design, construction and equipment.
      2.    The reimbursement for all costs incurred by the district and
associated with the administration of each account.
      3.    The issuance of bonds or notes, secured by the reserve account, for
such implementation. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
7-3-4: ANNUAL REVIEW:
   Prior to July 1 of each year, during the budget review process, the board of
directors of the district shall review the status of compliance with this
chapter, and the degree to which fees collected pursuant to this chapter are
mitigating the impacts of new commercial and residential development projects
and new development entitlement. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
7-3-5: TERM OF APPROVAL:
   Any approval of water service shall be valid for a period of no more than
one year unless renewed by the general manager. Any such renewal request may
subject the applicant to the fees or other exactions which the board requires
at the time of the application for a renewal of the approval. If an approval or
a renewal expires due to the passage of time and the original applicant does
not choose to apply to renew the approval, then, upon request for a refund, the
applicant's capacity fees shall be refunded to the applicant. (Ord. 09-230, 1-
8-2009)
7-3-6: FEE ADJUSTMENTS:
   Any person subject to a fee required by this chapter may apply to the board
of directors for a reduction, adjustment or waiver of that fee based upon the
absence of a reasonable relationship between the impact of that person's
development project and the amount of the fee charged or the type of facilities
to be provided. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
CHAPTER 4
WATER CONSERVATION
SECTION:
7-4-1: Authority
7-4-2: Scope Of Water Conservation Program
7-4-3: Water Shortage Conditions Described
7-4-4: Water Use In Landscaping
7-4-5: Water Conservation Measures
7-4-6: Enforcement Authority
7-4-7: Duration Of Conservation Levels
7-4-8: Use Of Recycled Water
7-4-9: Water Rates And Surcharges
7-4-10: Implementation Of Stage One, Two Or Three Conditions
7-4-11: Remedies
7-4-12: Notice; Appeal
7-4-1: AUTHORITY:
   The Community Services District Law and the California Water Code authorize
a Community Services District that supplies water for the benefit of persons
within its service area to adopt and enforce a Water Conservation Program to
reduce the quantity of water used in order to conserve the District's water
supplies and to avoid or minimize the effects of any future shortage. (Ord. 17-
245, 3-23-2017)
7-4-2: SCOPE OF WATER CONSERVATION PROGRAM:
   The provisions of this chapter respond to long term and short term water
shortages by authorizing the Board to select the most appropriate level of
conservation measures based on then current conditions. The Board will conduct
duly noticed public meetings to inform the District water customers of any
change in the level of water conservation needed to meet the limited supply of
water resources and the measures needed to meet those limitations. (Ord. 17-
245, 3-23-2017)
7-4-3: WATER SHORTAGE CONDITIONS DESCRIBED:
   A.    Stage One Condition; Moderate Water Shortage: This condition exists
when the District determines that it may not be able to meet ninety percent
(90%) or more of the projected water demands of its customers, either at
present or within six (6) months, and that water use should be reduced by not
less than ten percent (10%).
   B.    Stage Two Condition; Severe Water Shortage: This condition applies
during periods when the District determines that it may not be able to meet
eighty percent (80%) or more of the projected water demands of its customers,
either at present or within six (6) months, and that water use should be
reduced by not less than twenty percent (20%).
   C.    Stage Three Condition; Critical Water Shortage: A stage three
condition applies during periods when the District determines that it will not
be able to meet seventy percent (70%) or more of the projected water demands of
its customers at present or within six (6) months, and that a reduction of not
less than thirty percent (30%) in potable water use is required to meet minimal
needs of all its customers. (Ord. 17-245, 3-23-2017)
7-4-4: WATER USE IN LANDSCAPING:
   In order to help reduce water demand and avoid unnecessary expenses that
could be incurred by property owners or renters during periods of water
shortages, the District will make available information to all property owners
and renters regarding the design, installation, and maintenance of water
efficient landscapes and the use of drought resistant plants and efficient
irrigation systems. (Ord. 17-245, 3-23-2017)
7-4-5: WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES:
   A.    Permanent: The following water conservation measures are in effect at
all times:
      1.    Watering Hours And Duration: Except for testing an irrigation
system for a reasonable period of time, watering is prohibited between the
hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. However,
watering is permitted at any time if a handheld hose is used, equipped with a
nozzle that automatically shuts off when released, or when a handheld container
or a drip irrigation system is used.
      2.    Excessive Water Flow Or Runoff: Watering in a manner that results
in overspray or excessive runoff onto paved or hardscaped areas is prohibited.
      3.    Washing Hard Or Paved Surfaces: Washing of hard or paved surfaces,
including walkways, driveways, parking areas, and patios, is prohibited except
when necessary to alleviate safety or sanitary hazards or as surface
preparation for the application of any architectural coating or painting. All
such permitted washing must be done by use of a hand-held bucket or similar
container, a hand-held hose equipped with a positive self-closing water shut-
off device, a low-volume, high-pressure cleaning machine, or a low-volume high-
pressure water broom.
      4.    Obligation To Fix Leaks: Leaks in distribution, irrigation, or
plumbing systems must be promptly corrected after discovery, and in no event
more than seventy two (72) hours after receiving notice from the District.
      5.    Water Fountains And Decorative Water Features: Water fountains and
decorative water features must have a water recirculation system.
      6.    Limits On Washing Vehicles: Washing any automobile, truck, van,
bus, motorcycle, boat or any other vehicle is restricted to the use of a hand-
held bucket or similar container or a hand-held hose equipped with a positive
self-closing water shut-off nozzle or device.
      7.    Drinking Water Served Upon Request: The Oak Tree Country Club,
Mulligan Room, and any other establishments where food or drinks are sold are
prohibited from providing drinking water to any customer unless expressly
requested.
      8.    Restaurants Required To Use Water Conserving Spray Valves: The Oak
Tree Country Club, Mulligan Room, and any other food service establishment must
utilize water conserving nozzles on pre-rinse spray valves.
      9.    Prohibited Water Uses: Outdoor watering and landscape irrigation
with potable water is prohibited within forty eight (48) hours of a measurable
rainfall. As used in this section, "measurable rainfall" means at least one-
quarter inch (1/4") of rain in the District within a 24-hour period as measured
by the California Irrigation Management Information System (CIMIS) Weather
Station 125 located in Arvin or such other weather station as may subsequently
be identified by the District and the information posted on the District's
website.
   B.    Stage One Condition (10 Percent Reduction Goal): The following water
conservation measures apply during a declared stage one condition:
      1.    Watering Days: Outdoor watering and landscape irrigation with
potable water is limited to four (4) days per week and is restricted to Monday,
Wednesday, Friday, and Sunday.
   C.    Stage Two Condition (20 Percent Reduction Goal): During a stage two
condition, the following water conservation measures will apply:
      1.    Watering Days: Outdoor watering and landscape irrigation with
potable water is limited to three (3) days per week. Watering days will be
determined by the last number of the account address. Addresses ending with an
even number will be permitted to water on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday only.
Addresses ending with an odd number will be permitted to water on Monday,
Wednesday and Friday only.
      2.    Construction Water: Construction water for grading and compacting
may be used at any time, provided the water is from a source other than the
District potable water system.
   D.    Stage Three Condition (30 Percent Reduction Goal): During a stage
three condition, all the applicable provisions of stage one and two conditions
will apply, except as revised by this subsection, and the following additional
water conservation measures will apply:
      1.    Watering Days: Outdoor watering and landscape irrigation with
potable water is permitted only two (2) days per week. Watering days will be
determined by the last number of the account address. Addresses ending with an
even number will be permitted to water on Tuesday and Friday only. Addresses
ending with an odd number will be permitted to water on Monday and Thursday
only.
      2.    High Volume Users: All high volume users (defined as over 4,000
cubic feet per month) must submit to the District a water use conservation plan
intended to achieve at least a thirty percent (30%) overall reduction in water
use in comparison to the applicable time period designated by the District. The
plan must be submitted to the District within ten (10) business days of notice
by the District of the declaration of a stage three condition. (Ord. 17-245, 3-
23-2017)
7-4-6: ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
   Based on meter information provided by the District Water Supervisor of the
water supplies available, the General Manager is authorized and directed to
implement the provisions of this chapter. Additionally, the General Manager is
authorized to make minor and limited exceptions to prevent undue hardship or
unreasonable restrictions; provided, that water may not be wasted or used
unreasonably and the purpose of this chapter can be accomplished. Any
exceptions will be reported to the Board at its next meeting. (Ord. 17-245, 3-
23-2017)
7-4-7: DURATION OF CONSERVATION LEVELS:
   As soon as a water shortage condition is determined to exist, the water
conservation measures provided for by this chapter for that condition shall
apply to all District water service until a different condition is declared.
(Ord. 17-245, 3-23-2017)
7-4-8: USE OF RECYCLED WATER:
   Nothing in this chapter prohibits or limits the use of recycled water on the
golf course or for other irrigation purposes within the District in accordance
with applicable laws regulating the use of recycled water. (Ord. 17-245, 3-23-
2017)
7-4-9: WATER RATES AND SURCHARGES:
   Special water conservation rates may apply during stage conditions one, two
and three, and in addition, surcharges may apply during stage conditions two
and three, as established by resolution of the Board of Directors. (Ord. 17-
245, 3-23-2017)
7-4-10: IMPLEMENTATION OF STAGE ONE, TWO OR THREE CONDITIONS:
   A.    The General Manager will monitor the District's projected supply and
demand for water on a daily basis and determine the extent of the conservation
required through the implementation or termination of stages one, two and three
conditions in order for the District to prudently plan for and supply water to
its customers and make appropriate recommendations to the Board.
   B.    The Board may, by resolution, order that stage one, two or three
conditions be implemented or terminated in accordance with the applicable
provision of this chapter. The stage designated will become effective
immediately upon adoption of the resolution.
   C.    Notice regarding a stage condition will be made by public
announcements, posting of notices in two (2) locations in the District
accessible to the public, and publication of the notice in the "Tehachapi News"
or other newspaper of general circulation, and posting on the District website.
(Ord. 17-245, 3-23-2017)
7-4-11: REMEDIES:
   A.    Water Use Curtailment Plans: The General Manager is authorized to
require submission of water use curtailment plans from high volume users in
order to protect the minimum supplies necessary to provide for public health,
sanitation, and fire protection. Failure to provide curtailment plans in a
timely manner or plans that do not meet the required cutbacks will be grounds
for the District to install flow restrictors at the meter or terminate service.
   B.    Remedies Not Exclusive: Remedies for violations of this chapter are
not exclusive and may be imposed cumulatively in the discretion of the
District. For example, a violator may pay a surcharge, be subject to a flow
restrictor, have water service be discontinued, and be prosecuted criminally.
   C.    Property Owner Responsible For Charges: Surcharges and the cost of
disconnecting or limiting service will be the responsibility of the property
owner and the person in whose name service is maintained. Surcharges will be
considered normal charges for water used, and collected through the District's
routine water billing process. (Ord. 17-245, 3-23-2017)
7-4-12: NOTICE; APPEAL:
   A.    Notice: The General Manager will determine if and when violations
occur and mail a notice of violation, together with a copy of this chapter, to
the property owner or to the person in whose name the service is maintained. In
making this determination, the General Manager may grant an exemption in
emergency situations for health and safety reasons.
   B.    Appeals Of Violations: Any customer disagreeing with the notice of
violation may appeal by written notice received by the District within ten (10)
days of the mailing of the notice of violation. Any notice not appealed within
ten (10) days is final. Upon timely filing of an appeal, the District will mail
a notice to the property owner and the person in whose name service is
maintained at least ten (10) days prior to the regular or special meeting at
which the appeal will be heard. The Board may, in its discretion, affirm,
reverse, or modify the notice of violation. (Ord. 17-245, 3-23-2017)
TITLE 8
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
CHAPTER 1
SEWAGE DISPOSAL SERVICES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Short Title
8-1-2: Need For Regulation
8-1-3: Sewage Disposal Systems
8-1-4: Relief From Inequity
8-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
   This chapter may be cited as the BEAR VALLEY COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
SEWAGE DISPOSAL SERVICE ORDINANCE. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
8-1-2: NEED FOR REGULATION:
   A.    Statement In Resolution: The district has heretofore been formed
pursuant to resolution 70-352 of the board of supervisors of the county of
Kern, ordering the formation of the Bear Valley Community Services District.
One of the purposes set forth in said resolution was as follows:
   The collection, treatment, or disposal of sewage, waste, and storm water of
the District and its inhabitants.
   B.    Assurance Of Conditions: The need of this chapter is to assure the
following conditions within the district:
      1.    The discharges shall not cause a pollution;
      2.    Neither the treatment nor the discharges shall cause a nuisance;
      3.    The waste discharges shall be confined underground with no
surfacing or direct discharge to surface waters or surface water drainage
courses. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
8-1-3: SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.    General Provisions:
      1.    Application Required: Before commencement of construction of sewage
disposal systems, the owner shall first obtain a written application signed by
the district manager or his authorized representative. The application shall be
made on a form furnished by the district. An application fee shall be paid to
the district at the time the application is filed. The application fee shall be
established by resolution of the board of directors. The form of application
shall include a grant to the district of the right to maintain, operate and
repair the facility upon its completion and an agreement to observe all
district rules, regulations and ordinances and to pay all district charges.
      2.    Building Permit: Subject to the approval of the board of
supervisors of the county of Kern, no building permit for a building within
said community services district shall be issued by the county building
inspector until the district has issued a notice of receipt of application and
agreement for a sewage disposal facility as required herein, or a statement
that said building must be connected to a community sewer system within said
district.
      3.    Inspection Required: The district manager or his authorized
representative shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and in any event, the applicant shall notify the district manager
or his authorized representative when the work is ready for final inspection
and before any underground portions are covered or utilized. The inspection
shall be made within forty eight (48) hours (weekends and holidays excluded) of
the receipt of the notice. Installation shall conform to the plans and
specifications approved by the county of Kern.
      4.    Design Requirement: The type, capacities, locations and layout of
the sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations and
requirements of the Kern County health department.
      5.    Abandonment Of Facilities: At such time as a community sewer system
becomes available to a property served by a sewage disposal system, a direct
connection shall be made to the community sewer system in compliance with
ordinances, rules and regulations of the district, and any septic tanks or
similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with
suitable material as determined by the district manager or his authorized
representative.
      6.    Monitoring By District: To assure protection of surface and
subsurface waters, the district will maintain a watershed monitoring program in
conformance with standards determined in conjunction with the Kern County
health department and the regional water quality control board. The board of
directors shall adopt from time to time as necessary, and amend, rules and
regulations governing said monitoring program.
      7.    Additional Requirements: No statement contained in this section
shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be
imposed by law, ordinance, rule or regulation of the health officer of the
county of Kern or any other officer having jurisdiction. In the event that any
sewage disposal system installed pursuant to this chapter requires modification
by reason of conditions below ground level which were not apparent on the
surface and which become apparent during construction of said system, or as a
result of the monitoring program specified in subsection A6 of this section, or
if in the determination of the district manager or his authorized
representative, any such system is being insufficiently maintained or
improperly operated, the owner of the lot shall make such modification or
perform sufficient maintenance or correct the operation at his expense. In the
event of failure of such owner to do so within thirty (30) days after written
notice, mailed to his address as shown in the last county equalized assessment
roll or as filed with the clerk of the district, then the district shall make
such modification or perform such maintenance or correct such operation and the
lot shall be subject to a service charge therefor in an amount equal to the
actual cost to the district for performing any maintenance, repair,
modification or operational correction of sewage disposal systems, or portion
thereof (any such charge to be applicable only to the particular lot for which
such service is rendered).
   B.    Premises Where Sewers Not Available:
      1.    Disposal System Required: Where a community sewer is not available
within the district, structures shall be connected to a sewage disposal system
to be constructed on the site pursuant to this chapter, and comply with all
rules, regulations and ordinances of the district and Kern County.
      2.    Discharge Restricted: No septic tank shall be permitted to
discharge directly to any stream or watercourse.
   C.    Premises Where Sewers Available:
      1.    Duty To Connect To Community Sewer System: No person owning any
premises within the district and no user of any premises within the district on
which sewage is produced: a) on which premises the nearest outlet of the
plumbing system is located within three hundred feet (300') from the point at
which a connection can be made to the community sewer system; or b) having no
plumbing system, but in which a plumbing system could be installed with the
nearest outlet located within three hundred feet (300') from the point at which
a connection could be made to the community sewer system, shall use any means
of sewage disposal other than through the community sewer system. Every person
owning any premises and/or every user of any premises so located and upon or in
which any sewage is produced shall be required to connect said premises to the
community sewer system within ninety (90) days from the date when a main sewer
located within the distance specified above is completed and available for
connection to said premises. There shall be a separate service connection to
the community sewer system for each building or structure served, except by
permission from the board. No premises shall be connected to the community
sewer system without also being connected to the district water system.
      2.    Changing Size Of Equipment: Users making any material change in the
size, character or extent of the utilizing equipment or operations for which
the district is supplying sewer service shall immediately give the district
written notice of the extent and nature of the change.
      3.    Written Contracts: The district may require a written contract with
any person as a condition precedent to sewer service in any case where unusual
quantities of water or construction of special facilities are or will be
required.
      4.    Private Property: All service connections, main extensions and
installations paid for by applicants excepting only house laterals, and all
other facilities furnished by the district, whether located wholly or partially
on public or private property, shall be and remain the property of the
district, which shall have the right to repair, replace and maintain the same
and the right to remove the same upon discontinuance of service. The general
manager or other duly authorized agent of the district shall have, at all
reasonable times, the right of ingress to and egress from any user's premises
for any purpose properly relating to the furnishing of sewer service to such
user.
      5.    House Laterals: All house laterals shall be maintained by the
owners or users of the premises connected to the community sewer system.
      6.    District Nonliability: The district will not be responsible for any
loss or damage caused by any negligence or unlawful act of any user or any
other person in installing, maintaining, supplying or using any appliances,
facilities or equipment for which sewer service is furnished by the district.
Each user shall be held responsible for damage to the district property
comprising any part of the district water system or the community sewer system
which results from use or operation of any appliances or facilities on such
user's premises.
      7.    Tampering With District Property: It will be a violation of this
chapter for any person to tamper with any of the property comprising the
district water system or the community sewer system.
   D.    Applicants Outside District: The board may refuse use of the community
sewer system to any applicant whose premises is located outside the boundaries
of the district. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
8-1-4: RELIEF FROM INEQUITY:
   A.    Relief On Application:
      1.    When any person, by reason of special circumstances, is of the
opinion that any provision of this chapter is unjust or inequitable as applied
to his premises, he may make written application to the board, stating the
special circumstances, citing the provision complained of, and requesting
suspension or modification of that provision as applied to his premises.
      2.    If such application be approved, the board may suspend or modify
the provision complained of, as applied to such premises, to be effective as of
the date of the application and continuing during the period of the special
circumstances.
   B.    Relief On Motion: The board may, on its own motion, find that by
reason of special circumstances any provision of this regulation and chapter
should be suspended or modified as applied to a particular premises and may
order such suspension or modification for such premises during the period of
such special circumstances, or any part thereof. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
8-2-1: Purpose
8-2-2: Findings
8-2-3: Description Of Services
8-2-4: Service Connections; Fees
8-2-5: Sewer Service Charge
8-2-6: Sewer Standby Charge
8-2-7: Effective Date Of Charges
8-2-8: Special Fund
8-2-9: Payment Of Charges And Penalties For Delinquencies
8-2-10: Notices
8-2-11: Enforcement Measures
8-2-12: Appeals
8-2-1: PURPOSE:
   This chapter establishes regulations for sewer service and connections,
including sewer service charges. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
8-2-2: FINDINGS:
   The board of directors finds, determines and declares that the service
charges herein authorized are to recover the actual costs of operating
expenses; purchasing and leasing supplies, equipment and materials; meeting
financial reserve needs and requirements and capital projects necessary to
maintain service. As to service charges, this chapter is exempt from the
California environmental quality act (CEQA) pursuant to the California Public
Resources Code section 21080(b)(8) and 14 California Code of Regulations
section 15273. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
8-2-3: DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES:
   The territory which may be served by the district shall be all premises
within the boundaries of the district as now existing and also any territory
hereafter annexed to or becoming a part of said district or at any time
hereafter served by or required by this chapter to be connected to the
community sewer system. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
8-2-4: SERVICE CONNECTIONS; FEES:
   A.    Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish connection fees
for sewer service installation and inspection.
   B.    Service Connections: All sewer service connections will be installed
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.    Cost: The "cost" of the sewer service shall mean the cost of labor,
materials, insurance, transportation, supervision, engineering, filing,
administration and all other necessary overhead costs.
   D.    Sewer Service Connection Fee: The sewer service connection fee for
service hookup to the community sewer system shall be established by resolution
of the board of directors. The fee does not exceed the reasonable district cost
of connecting an applicant to the sewer system. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
8-2-5: SEWER SERVICE CHARGE:
   A.    Right To Change Charge: The board reserves the right to change the
sewer service charge from time to time by resolution as shall be found
necessary.
   B.    Providing Services Free Of Charge Prohibited: No sewer service and no
facilities of the community sewer system shall be furnished to any user or to
any person free of charge.
   C.    Separate Premises Under Single Control: Separate premises under single
control or management shall be furnished sewer service through separate
individual service connections unless by permission from the board. Separate
houses or buildings on the same lot, or on adjoining lots, under a single
control or management shall be furnished sewer service, at the option of the
district, by either of the following methods:
      1.    Through separate service connections to each such house or
building; or
      2.    Through a single service connection to supply all such houses and
buildings, in which case one monthly charge shall be applied for each house or
building and the responsibility for payment of charges for all sewer service
furnished shall be assumed by the owner of said premises.
   D.    Residential Rate: The rate for wastewater collection services for a
single-family residence shall be established by resolution of the board of
directors.
   E.    Commercial Rate: The rate for wastewater collection services for
commercial users shall be established by resolution of the board of directors.
(Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
8-2-6: SEWER STANDBY CHARGE:
   This section sets a sewer standby charge on unimproved parcels having sewer
service available but not currently connected to the community sewer system for
the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2004.
   A.    Findings: The Bear Valley Community Services District provides sewer
service within the district and is authorized by the community services
district law to collect fees, tolls, rates, charges, and rentals, including
standby or availability charges, to cover the costs of providing such services
including the cost of any bonded indebtedness or other debt incurred to
construct, maintain or operate the facilities necessary to provide such
services.
   B.    Authorization: The uniform standby charge procedures act, Government
Code section 54984 et seq., provides that the Bear Valley Community Services
District may elect to fix, levy and collect any otherwise authorized standby or
availability charges for water or sewer services under the procedures specified
in such act.
   C.    Engineer's Report: A report by a qualified engineer shall be kept on
file with the secretary of the board and, based upon that report, a standby
charge shall be imposed by resolution on the parcels identified by assessor's
parcel number, which is on file in the district office.
   The proposed charge does not exceed the estimated reasonable cost of
providing the service for which the charge is imposed.
   The proposed charge fully complies with article XIIID of the California
constitution (proposition 218), which defines standby charges as assessments
and which further allows assessments existing on November 6, 1996, to finance
the maintenance of sewer systems to continue without undergoing the new
assessment procedures and approval process until the amount of the charge is
increased.
   D.    Sewer Standby Charge: The board shall annually adopt by resolution a
sewer standby charge to be imposed on parcels identified by assessor's parcel
number, which is on file in the district office.
   E.    Collection Of Standby Charge: The charge described herein shall be
collected on the tax roll in the same manner, by the same persons and at the
same time as, together with, and not separately from, general taxes. (Ord. 09-
230, 1-8-2009)
8-2-7: EFFECTIVE DATE OF CHARGES:
   Sewer service charges shall become effective as to any premises on the date
on which connection is made to the community sewer system or the date that
connection is required to be made to the community sewer system as provided
herein. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
8-2-8: SPECIAL FUND:
   Sewer service charges collected shall be deposited in the wastewater
operations fund and expended solely for the purposes described above. Any
earnings of the wastewater operations fund shall remain in the wastewater
operations fund and be expended solely for the purposes of that fund. (Ord. 09-
230, 1-8-2009)
8-2-9: PAYMENT OF CHARGES AND PENALTIES FOR DELINQUENCIES:
   A.    Due Date: Bills for sewer service shall be due and payable nineteen
(19) days from the date of depositing the bill for services in the United
States mail or upon presentation to the customer, hereinafter referred to as
"due date". All bills for sewer service shall be combined with bills for water
and refuse service. Each bill shall state its purpose (sewer, water and refuse
service), shall give the name and last known address of the user and shall list
separately all charges for water service and all charges for sewer service and
the total charge for both services. Neither charge may be paid separately from
the other. All bills will be rendered by the district monthly. Bills for sewer
services shall become overdue and delinquent when payment is not made by the
date specified thereon at the close of business hours.
   B.    Service Discontinued: Service may be discontinued until payment is
made in full or an amortization agreement is entered into between the customer
and the district. If the due date falls on a weekend or holiday, payment is due
on the next working day.
   C.    Prorated Bills: Opening bills, closing bills and other bills requiring
proration, will be computed in accordance with the applicable schedule, but the
fixed charge or minimum charge specified therein will be prorated on the basis
of the ratio of the number of days in the period to the number of days in the
average billing period, based on an average month of thirty (30) days.
   D.    Penalties: Rates and charges which are not paid within thirty (30)
days after the due date specified shall be subject to a basic penalty of ten
percent (10%). In addition a penalty of one percent (1.0%) per month shall
accrue on the due date of each subsequent month for nonpayment of the charges
and penalties. The charge will be billed with the water bill and billing and
collection will follow the procedures outlined in
title 7, chapter 2 of this code. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
8-2-10: NOTICES:
   A.    From District To Persons: Notices from the district to any person will
be given in writing, either delivered to the person or mailed to his last known
address, except that where conditions warrant, or in any emergency, the
district may give verbal notice by telephone or in person.
   B.    From Persons To District: Notices from any person to the district may
be given by such person or his authorized representative verbally or in writing
at the district office, or to an employee or agent of the district who is
authorized to receive notices or complaints, or may be sent by mail to the
district office. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
8-2-11: ENFORCEMENT MEASURES:
   A.    Discontinue Water Service: In the event of violation of any terms of
this chapter, the general manager may disconnect any premises from the district
water system after proper notification.
   B.    Payment Of Delinquent Charges And Penalties: Whenever any premises has
been disconnected from the district water system for any violation of this
chapter, such premises shall not be reconnected to such system until all
delinquent charges and penalties have been paid, together with a reconnection
charge in the amount as determined by resolution of the board.
   C.    Placement On Tax Roll: The district reserves the right to place any
delinquencies, including penalties and interest, on the tax roll to be
collected with the general property taxes.
      1.    Procedure: When the district elects to use the tax roll on which
general district taxes are collected for the collection of current and/or
delinquent charges, proceedings therefor shall be had as now or hereafter
provided therefor in article 4 (commencing with section 5470), chapter 6, part
3, division 5 of the California Health and Safety Code.
      2.    Report: A written report shall be prepared and filed with the
secretary, which shall contain a description of each parcel of real property
receiving such services and facilities and the amount of the charge for each
parcel for the forthcoming year, computed in conformity with the charges
prescribed by this chapter.
      3.    Notices: The secretary shall cause notice of the filing of the
report and of the time and place of hearing thereon to be published once a week
for two (2) successive weeks prior to the date set for hearing. Prior to such
election for the first time, the secretary shall mail a notice in writing of
the filing of said first report proposing to have such charges for the
forthcoming fiscal year collected on the tax roll, and of the time and place of
hearing thereon, to be mailed to each person to whom any part or parcel of real
property described in the report is assessed in the last equalized assessment
roll on which general district taxes are collected, at the address shown on
said roll or as known to the secretary.
      4.    Hearing: At the time of said hearing, the board shall hear and
consider all objections or protests, if any, to said report referred to in said
notice and may continue the hearing from time to time.
      5.    Final Determination Of Charges: Upon the conclusion of the hearing
on the report, the board will adopt, revise, change, reduce or modify any
charge or overrule any or all objections and shall make its determination upon
each charge as described in said report, which determination shall be final.
      6.    Filing Of Report With County Auditor: On or before August 10 in
each year following the final determination of the board, the secretary shall
file with the auditor, a copy of said report with a statement endorsed thereon
over his signature, that it has been finally adopted by the board of the
district, and the auditor shall enter the amounts of the charges against the
respective lots or parcels of land as they appear on the current assessment
roll.
      7.    Parcels Not On Roll: If the property is not described on the roll,
the auditor shall enter the description thereon together with the amounts of
the charges as shown on the report.
      8.    Lien: The amount of the charges shall constitute a lien against the
lot or parcel of land against which the charge has been imposed as of noon on
the first Monday in March of each year. The tax collector shall include the
amount of the charges on bills for taxes levied against the respective lots and
parcels of land.
      9.    Tax Bill: Thereafter, the amount of the charges shall be collected
at the same time and in the same manner and by the same persons as, together
with and not separately from the general taxes for the district, and shall be
delinquent at the same time and thereafter be subject to the same penalties for
delinquency.
      10.    Collection: All laws applicable to the levy, collection and
enforcement of general taxes of the district, including, but not limited to,
those pertaining to the matters of delinquency, correction, cancellation,
refund and redemption, are applicable to such charges. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
8-2-12: APPEALS:
   A.    Request For Hearing On Appeal; Notice: Any person who shall have a
right to appeal as provided in any section of this chapter or who shall be
dissatisfied with any determination hereafter made hereunder by the general
manager, may, at any time within thirty (30) days after such determination,
appeal to the board by giving written notice to the general manager and to the
secretary of the board, setting forth the determination with which such person
is dissatisfied. The board may, at any time, upon its own motion, appeal from
any determination made by the general manager hereunder. In the event of any
such appeal, the general manager shall transmit to the board a report upon the
matter appealed. The board shall cause notice to be given, at least ten (10)
days prior to the time fixed for such hearing, to all persons affected by such
appeal, of the time and place fixed by the board for hearing such appeal. The
board shall direct its secretary to mail a written notice, postage prepaid, to
all such persons whose addresses are known to the board.
   B.    Payment Pending Decision: Pending a decision upon any appeal relative
to the amount of any charge hereunder, the person making such appeal shall pay
such charge. After the appeal is heard, the board shall order refunded to the
person making such appeal such amount, if any, as the board shall determine
should be refunded. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Purpose
8-3-2: Sewer Use Prohibitions And Requirements
8-3-1: PURPOSE:
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish certain prohibitions and
requirements regarding the use of district sewerage facilities. (Ord. 09-230,
1-8-2009)
8-3-2: SEWER USE PROHIBITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.    Discharge Of Stormwater: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any rainwater, stormwater, ground water, street drainage, yard
drainage, including evaporative type air cooler discharge water, into any
sewerage facility which is directly or indirectly connected to the sewerage
facilities of the district.
   B.    Discharge Of Toxic Wastes: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any toxic waste or other waste in any sewerage facility which
directly or indirectly connects to the district sewerage facilities if, in the
opinion of the district general manager, such wastes may have an adverse or
harmful effect on sewers, sewer maintenance personnel, wastewater treatment
plant personnel or equipment, treatment plant effluent quality, public or
private property, or may otherwise endanger the public or the local
environment, cause a violation of the district waste discharge requirements, or
create a public nuisance.
   C.    Acceptability Of Specific Wastes Determined By Manager: The general
manager, in determining the acceptability of specific wastes, shall consider
the nature of the waste and the adequacy of the district collection, treatment,
and disposal system to accept the waste. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
CHAPTER 4
WASTEWATER CAPITAL RESERVE FUND
SECTION:
8-4-1: Purpose
8-4-2: Findings
8-4-3: Fund Established
8-4-1: PURPOSE:
   This chapter establishes a dedicated wastewater capital reserve fund. (Ord.
09-230, 1-8-2009)
8-4-2: FINDINGS:
   The board of directors finds, determines, and declares that:
   The district obtained a state revolving fund loan (loan) from the state
water resources control board for SRF project no. C-06-4136-110 (Bear Valley
wastewater treatment plant expansion). Establishment of a dedicated wastewater
capital reserve fund (reserve fund) is a condition of loan approval. (Ord. 09-
230, 1-8-2009)
8-4-3: FUND ESTABLISHED:
   A.    Deposit Of Monies Into Fund: The district hereby establishes the
wastewater capital reserve fund (reserve fund) for expansion, major repair, or
replacement of wastewater treatment facilities. The district shall deposit
sufficient monies to build up the reserve fund at a minimum rate of one-half of
one percent (0.5%) of the loan amount each year for a period of ten (10) years
beginning one year after completion of construction of the wastewater treatment
facilities paid by the loan. All interest earned on deposits to the reserve
fund are part of the reserve fund.
   B.    Expenditure Of Funds: The district may use monies deposited in the
reserve fund to pay for planning, design, and construction of capital
improvements to the wastewater treatment works. The district shall replace any
monies expended from the reserve fund by deposit at a minimum rate of ten
percent (10%) of the expended amount each year.
   C.    Report To State: The district shall prepare and submit a report to the
state water resources control board division of clean water program (division)
on reserve fund activities and fund status beginning five (5) years after the
division approval of final revenue program for the project. A similar report
shall be submitted every five (5) years thereafter over the life of the loan
contract.
   D.    Maintenance Of Funds: Funds shall be maintained consistent with the
requirements of Government Code section 61112. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
CHAPTER 5
FEES FOR NEW DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
8-5-1: Findings
8-5-2: Wastewater System Capacity Fee
8-5-3: Disposition Of Development Fees
8-5-4: Annual Review
8-5-5: Term Of Approval
8-5-6: Fee Adjustments
8-5-1: FINDINGS:
   The board finds that:
   A.    Purpose: The purpose of such fees is to replace the wastewater
treatment and disposal capacity owned by the district and still allow for the
growth of residential and other development.
   B.    Fee Imposition: There is a reasonable relationship between imposing
such capacity fees on all development because all such development within the
wastewater service area uses wastewater capacity.
   C.    Anticipated Growth: Because of the anticipated growth in residential
housing demand, the existing wastewater capacity owned by the district will be
consumed by residential development long before the vacant land within the
boundaries served by the district's wastewater plant is fully occupied. When
residential development occurs, without such fees being collected by the
district, the existing wastewater capacity will already have been used. If all
of the unused capacity of the wastewater plant is used, then no development
could occur within the boundaries served by the district's wastewater plant
unless funding from the state or the federal government was obtained. Since
such funds are difficult to obtain, development would be greatly delayed or
might not occur at all, which is not in the best interests of the residents of
the district.
   D.    Size Of Capacity Fees: The size of the capacity fees shall be
determined by the board of the district as established by this chapter. No such
fee shall be set unless it is determined by the board to bear a reasonable
relationship to the cost of the public facilities attributable to the
development on which the fee is imposed. Any ordinance adjusting the amount of
the fees shall identify the public facility for which the fee is charged and
the method of determining the amount of the fee. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
8-5-2: WASTEWATER SYSTEM CAPACITY FEE:
   A.    Establishment Of Wastewater System Capacity Fee: Except as may be
provided by this chapter or any amendment to this chapter, the applicant for
approval of new wastewater connections must:
      1.    Deposit: Deposit at the district office the wastewater system
capacity fee before the district can issue a letter of intent to provide
service or actually provide service to all or any part of the land which is the
subject of the application. When, if, and to the extent that the general
manager determines that services will not be provided to the land which is the
subject of the application, the general manager shall order such fees to be
refunded to the applicant. If, and to the extent that the application for
wastewater service is granted by the general manager, the district shall
deposit the wastewater system capacity fee in a segregated account as is more
fully set forth below.
   B.    Conditional Approval Of Application: Any approval of an application
for a new wastewater service shall be conditioned on both the applicant's
signing a contract with the district to construct to the district
specifications the improvements to the wastewater delivery system and the
payment of all fees and charges required by this chapter or by any other
ordinance of the district. The wastewater system capacity fee shall be in
addition to any fees for the actual cost of connection to the wastewater
system. In addition to connection charges and the wastewater capacity fee, the
applicant may be required to install a wastewater main or other wastewater
improvement if the general manager, in considering the application, concludes
that such improvement is necessitated by the granting of the application. If
such additional improvement is required, that improvement shall be constructed
at the time the general manager directs but, in no event, later than the
physical connection to the district wastewater system of any of the property
which is the subject of the application.
   C.    Determination Of Wastewater System Capacity Fee:
      1.    Wastewater System Capacity Fee Rate:
         a. The wastewater system capacity fee shall be set on a per
residential unit basis, for residential development, by resolution of the board
of directors. For all development other than development which is exclusively
residential, the rate shall be set after the board of directors consults an
engineer of the board's choice who then advises the district of the expected
usage of the development. The board shall then consider a fee for the
development which is comparable on a volume of use basis to the fee set for
residential units.
         b. The rate for the wastewater system capacity fee shall be set
annually by resolution. The rate shall be adjusted each July 1 in the amount of
the consumer price index as determined for wages in the Los Angeles-Riverside-
Orange County area as determined for the previous calendar year.
      2.    Procedure:
         a. Engineer's Report: At the time of the initial application for
wastewater service, the applicant shall deposit with the district the amount
determined by the general manager as the estimated cost of the engineer's
report and sign an agreement to reimburse to the district any cost of the
engineer's report which exceeds the amount of the deposit. The district will
then consult an engineer of the district's choice and arrange for a study and a
report to be made which includes all of the following:
            (1) The anticipated usage of capacity of the wastewater plant
expressed in terms of residential equivalents;
            (2) Any additional construction which will, in the engineer's
opinion, be required to be performed on the district wastewater delivery system
in order to allow for the service to the new development without diminishing
the level of service provided to the balance of the district users who are
currently receiving service;
            (3) Any additional recommendations to offset costs to the district
of the new growth; and
            (4) Whether the district currently owns enough capacity to
accommodate the growth.
         b. Determination Of Exactions To Be Required: The general manager will
not act on the application until after the submission of the engineer's report.
Any approval of the application will be conditioned upon the payment of the
full amount of the wastewater system capacity fee prior to the actual
connection of any of the connections approved by the general manager in his
action on the application. After the submission of the engineer's report, the
wastewater system capacity fee shall then be set by the board for that
particular project and what additional improvements would be required to the
district wastewater delivery system before it will allow the connection. If the
general manager determines that the applicant will have to construct any such
improvements, then the general manager will enter into an agreement with the
applicant as a condition of the granting of the application that the applicant
will construct the improvements identified by the engineer to the district
specifications before connecting any of the new wastewater users to the
district system.
         c. Exceptions For Single-Family Dwelling Unit: An engineer's report
will not be required for connection of a single-family dwelling unit. "Dwelling
unit" means one or more habitable rooms which are occupied or which are
intended or designed to be occupied by one family with facilities for living,
sleeping, cooking and eating. Furthermore, the general manager shall have the
authority to approve the application for service for a single-family dwelling.
(Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
8-5-3: DISPOSITION OF DEVELOPMENT FEES:
   A.    Establishment Of Reserve Accounts: Pursuant to California Government
Code section 66006, there is hereby established the wastewater system capacity
fee reserve account (the "reserve account") in the district wastewater
development fund. Any fee paid pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall
be placed into the reserve account established for such fee and used solely for
the purpose of implementation of the applicable public purpose for which the
fee was established. All monies in the reserve account established by this
chapter shall be held separate and apart from other district funds. All
interest or other earnings of the reserve account shall be credited to the
reserve account.
   B.    Expenditures From Fee Reserve Accounts: All monies and interest in the
reserve account established by this chapter shall be expended on the
implementation of the applicable public purpose for which the fee was
established:
      1.    The reimbursement for all direct and indirect costs incurred by the
district for such implementation pursuant to this chapter including, but not
limited to, the costs of land acquisition, planning, legal advice, engineering,
design, construction and equipment.
      2.    The reimbursement for all costs incurred by the district and
associated with the administration of each account.
      3.    The issuance of bonds or notes, secured by the reserve account, for
such implementation. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
8-5-4: ANNUAL REVIEW:
   Prior to July 1 of each year, during the budget review process, the board of
directors of the district shall review the status of compliance with this
chapter, and the degree to which fees collected pursuant to this chapter are
mitigating the impacts of new commercial and residential development projects
and new development entitlement. (Ord. 09-233, 10-8-2009)
8-5-5: TERM OF APPROVAL:
   Any approval of wastewater service granted by the general manager shall be
valid for a period of no more than one year unless renewed by the general
manager. Any such renewal request may subject the applicant to the fees or
other exactions which the board requires at the time of the application for a
renewal of the approval. If an approval or a renewal expires due to the passage
of time and the original applicant does not choose to apply to renew the
approval, then, upon request for a refund, the applicant's capacity fees shall
be refunded to the applicant. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
8-5-6: FEE ADJUSTMENTS:
   Any person subject to a fee required by this chapter may apply to the board
of directors for a reduction, adjustment or waiver of that fee based upon the
absence of a reasonable relationship between the impact of that person's
development project and the amount of the fee charged or the type of facilities
to be provided. (Ord. 09-230, 1-8-2009)
 
