INDIO, CALIFORNIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2024 S-39, current through
Ordinance 1818, passed 9-18-24
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
11.   RESERVED
         
12.   ENFORCEMENT OF CODE
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   City’s official seal
   
10.20   City’s official logo
   
10.21   Violation
   
10.22   Modification, suspension and/or revocation of validly issued city
permit and/or city license
   
10.23   Additional penalties
   
Appendix A: Seal
   
Appendix B: Logo
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the city of Indio, California,
shall be designated as the Code of Indio and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Indio, California.
   CITY COUNCIL or COUNCIL. The legislative body of the city.
   CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNTY. Riverside County, California.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of California.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the words
YEAR OF OUR LORD.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the City Council or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall  include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by designee. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the City Council requiring publication shall take
effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise expressly
provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (Cal. Gov't Code § 10001) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20,
passed 1-1-85).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 31.10 MAYOR.
      The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council.
   (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
   Statutory reference:
      For the powers and duties of the Mayor, see Cal. Gov't Code §§ 36801 et
seq.
§ 10.19 CITY’S OFFICIAL SEAL.
   (A)   The official seal of the City of Indio shall be the seal illustrated
and depicted in
Appendix A, and is hereby adopted as the official seal of the city in
accordance with the design on file in the office of the City Clerk and as
approved by the City Council March 3, 1954.
   (B)   The seal shall contain the words in a circular manner, “CITY OF INDIO,
RIVERSIDE COUNTY, CALIFORNIA” and in the lower center portion of the seal the
words “INCORPORATED MAY 16, 1930.”
   (C)   The color scheme, as shown on the design on file in the office of the
City Clerk, is hereby adopted for all city purposes.
   (D)   The seal shall be maintained in the office of the City Clerk, and a
copy of its depiction shall be available for inspection by the public during
all regular business hours.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall have custody and charge of the seal.
   (F)   The seal shall be the property of the city. The seal may be used by
the city and its duly authorized employees and officials on official documents,
and for such other purposes for which municipal corporate seals are usually and
customarily used.
('61 Code, § 1.11) (Ord. 202, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1818, passed 9-18-24)
§ 10.20 CITY'S OFFICIAL LOGO.
   (A)   The official logo of the City of Indio shall be the logo illustrated
and depicted in
Appendix B.
   (B)   The logo of the city shall be maintained in the office of the City
Clerk, and a copy of its depiction shall be made available for inspection by
the public during all regular business hours.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall have custody and charge of the logo.
   (D)   The logo shall be the property of the city. The logo may be used by
the city and its duly authorized employees and officials on official documents,
and for such other purposes for which municipal logos are usually and
customarily used.
   (E)   The City Manager will administer any policies and regulations related
to the use of the city logo. The city logo, in general, shall be used in a
manner that is less formal than the seal.
(Ord. 1818, passed 9-18-24)
§ 10.21 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to make, reproduce, manufacture, display or use the seal, the logo, or
any representation thereof, or use a design that closely resembles the seal or
logo for any purpose whatsoever in a manner that creates a misleading,
erroneous, or false impression that the use is authorized by the city.
   (B)   A violation of §§
10.20 through and including
10.21 or maintaining such any such violation shall constitute a public nuisance
subject to the provisions set forth in
Chapter 12, including, but not limited to, the imposition of any and all civil
and/or criminal penalties that may apply.
(Ord. 1818, passed 9-18-24)
§ 10.22 MODIFICATION, SUSPENSION AND/OR REVOCATION OF VALIDLY ISSUED CITY
PERMIT AND/OR CITY LICENSE.
      A violation of §§
10.20 through and including
10.21 by the holder of any city permit and/or city license validly issued
pursuant to this or any other chapter shall constitute grounds for
modification, suspension and/or revocation of said permit and/or license
pursuant to the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 1818, passed 9-18-24)
10.23 ADDITIONAL PENALTIES.
   Nothing in §§
10.20 through and including
10.22 shall preclude the city from pursuing the remedies provided by
Chapter 12, including, but not limited to, as applicable, denial or revocation
of certificates of occupancy, issuance of stop work orders and injunctive
relief.
(Ord. 1818, passed 9-18-24)
APPENDIX A: SEAL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/aaa08f2634bdad920ed799b995b96764adbbd06d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7703.png]
 
(Ord. 1818, passed 9-18-24)
APPENDIX B: LOGO
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/aaa08f2634bdad920ed799b995b96764adbbd06d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7709.png]
 
(Ord. 1818, passed 9-18-24)
CHAPTER 11:  RESERVED
CHAPTER 12: ENFORCEMENT OF CODE
Section
Division 1. Definitions
   
12.01.01   Definitions
Division 2. Code Enforcement Authority and Powers
   
12.02.01   Declaration of purpose
   
12.02.02   General enforcement authority
   
12.02.03   Authority to issue notice to appear and release citations
   
12.02.04   Notice of violation
   
12.02.05   Authority to inspect
   
12.02.06   Power to arrest
   
12.02.07   Violation of code
   
12.02.08   Subpoenas
Division 3. Notice
   
12.03.01   Service of notices
   
12.03.02   Proof of service of notices
   
12.03.03   Constructive notice of recorded documents
Division 4. Judicial Remedies
   
12.04.01   Judicial remedies
   
12.04.02   Failure to appear or post bail
   
12.04.03   Civil violations- injunctions and civil penalties
   
12.04.04   Code enforcement performance bond
   
12.04.05   Judicial abatement
   
12.04.06   Treble damages for subsequent abatement judgements
Division 5. Administrative Remedies
   
12.05.01   Administrative remedies
   
12.05.02   Declaration of purpose
   
12.05.03   Authority
Division 6. Issuance and Recordation of Notices of Violation
   
12.06.01   Issuance and recordation of notices of violation
   
12.06.02   Declaration of purpose
   
12.06.03   Procedures for issuance of a notice of violation
   
12.06.04   Procedures for recordation
   
12.06.05   Service of notice of violation
   
12.06.06   Procedures to appeal recordation
   
12.06.07   Appeal hearing
   
12.06.08   Notice of compliance- procedures
   
12.06.09   Prohibition against issuance of municipal permits
   
12.06.10   Cancellation of recorded notice of violation
Division 7. Administrative Civil Penalties
   
12.07.01   Administrative civil penalties; purpose; authority
   
12.07.02   Procedures- notice and order
   
12.07.03   Determination of civil penalties
   
12.07.04   Administrative costs
   
12.07.05   Appeal of administrative civil penalty
   
12.07.06   Failure to comply with enforcement of officials notice and order
   
12.07.07   Civil penalties hearing
   
12.07.08   Administrative enforcement order
   
12.07.09   Failure to comply with the administrative enforcement order
   
12.07.10   Allocation of administrative civil penalties
Division 8. Administrative Citations
   
12.08.01   Declaration of purpose
   
12.08.02   Authority
   
12.08.03   Contents of administrative citation and compliance order
   
12.08.04   Administrative citation service procedures
   
12.08.05   Hearing to contest administrative citations
   
12.08.06   Right of judicial review of hearing officer decision
   
12.08.07   Penalties assessed and hardship waiver
   
12.08.08   Failure to pay penalties
   
12.08.09   Allocation of administrative fines
Division 9. Summary Abatement
   
12.09.01   Declaration of purpose
   
12.09.02   Summary abatement
   
12.09.03   Authority
   
12.09.04   Procedures
Division 10. Administrative Abatement
   
12.10.01   Declaration of purpose
   
12.10.02   Authority
   
12.10.03   General procedures and appeals
   
12.10.04   Abatement of a public nuisance by the city
Division 11. Administrative Enforcement Appeals
   
12.11.01   Appeal procedures
   
12.11.02   Appeal hearing
   
12.11.03   Failure to attend an administrative enforcement hearing
Division 12. Administrative Enforcement Hearing Procedures
   
12.12.01   Declaration of purpose
   
12.12.02   Procedures for notification of enforcement hearing
   
12.12.03   Disqualification of enforcement hearing officer
   
12.12.04   Powers of enforcement hearing officer
   
12.12.05   Procedures at administrative enforcement hearing
   
12.12.06   Failure to attend administrative enforcement hearing
   
12.12.07   Administrative enforcement order
   
12.12.08   Judicial review
   
12.12.09   Failure to comply with administrative enforcement order
Division 13. Recovery of Civil Penalties,
Administrative Costs and Abatement Costs
   
12.13.01   Declaration of purpose
   
12.13.02   Procedures for recovering costs
   
12.13.03   Recovery of civil penalties
   
12.13.04   Authority to impose lien/special assessment
   
12.13.05   Recovery as a lien on property
   
12.13.06   Recovery of costs by special assessment
   
12.13.07   Repayment to code enforcement civil penalties fund
   
12.13.08   Satisfaction of lien/special assessment
Division 14. Attorney’s Fees and Costs
   
12.14.01   Declaration of purpose
   
12.14.02   Recovery of costs
Division 15. Code Compliance Cost Recovery
   
12.15.01   Code compliance costs
   
12.15.02   Declaration of purpose
   
12.15.03   Authorization
   
12.15.04   Assessment of code compliance costs
   
12.15.05   Notice of assessment of code compliance costs
   
12.15.06   Failure to pay code compliance costs
   
12.15.07   Collection of code compliance costs
   
12.15.08   Payment to code enforcement civil penalties and cost recovery funds
Division 16. Code Enforcement Civil Penalties and Cost Recovery Fund
   
12.16.01   Declaration of purpose
   
12.16.02   Establishment of code enforcement civil penalties and cost recovery
fund
   
12.16.03   Use of funds
Division 17. Private Nuisance Abatement
   
12.17.01   Private nuisance
   
12.17.02   Private nuisance abatement
DIVISION 1. DEFINITIONS
§ 12.01.01. DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this code, the following shall have the following meanings.
   (1)   Abatement means any action the city may take on public or private
property and any adjacent property as may be necessary to remove or alleviate a
nuisance, including but not limited to demolition, removal, repair, boarding
and securing or replacement of property.
   (2)   Administrative enforcement order means an order issued by an
enforcement hearing officer after a hearing requiring a responsible person to
correct violations, abate a public nuisance, pay civil penalties and
administrative costs or take any other action as authorized or required by this
code and applicable state codes. The enforcement order may also include an
order authorizing the city to abate a public nuisance or assess a nuisance
abatement lien.
   (3)   Abatement notice means a notice issued by an enforcement officer which
requires a responsible person to abate a public nuisance.
   (4)   Code enforcement performance bond means a bond posted by a responsible
person to ensure compliance with the City of Indio Municipal Code, applicable
state codes, a judicial decree or administrative enforcement order.
   (5)   Enforcement hearing officer means any person appointed by the City
Manager to preside over administrative enforcement hearings.
   (6)   Enforcement official means any person authorized to enforce violations
of the City of Indio Municipal Code or applicable state codes.
   (7)   Financial institution means any person that holds a recorded mortgage
or deed of trust on a property.
   (8)   Imminent life safety hazard means any condition which creates a
present and immediate danger to life, property, health or public safety.
   (9)   Legal interest means any interest that is represented by a document
such as a deed of trust, quitclaim deed, mortgage, judgment lien, tax or
assessment lien, mechanic's lien or other similar instrument which is recorded
with the County Recorder.
   (10)    Notice and order means a document used in abatement and civil
penalties actions which provides notice of the City of Indio Municipal Code or
applicable state code violations and orders a responsible person to take
certain steps to correct the violations.
   (11)   Notice of compliance means a document sent by an enforcement official
representing that a property complies with the requirements listed in a notice
of violation and that the responsible person or property owner has paid all
fines, penalties and administrative costs of enforcement.
   (12)   Notice of violation means a written notice prepared by an enforcement
official which informs a responsible person of code violations, requires
compliance and contains specific information as required by the City of Indio
Municipal Code.
   (13)   Nuisance abatement lien means a lien recorded to collect outstanding
civil penalties and administrative costs imposed as part of a cost recovery,
administrative or judicial code enforcement action.
   (14)   Person means any natural person, firm, joint venture, joint stock
company, partnership, association, club, company, corporation, limited
liability company, business trust, organization or the manager, lessee, agent,
servant, officer or employee of any of them or any other entity which is
recognized by law as the subject of rights or duties.
   (15)   Property owner means the recorded owner of real property based on the
county assessor's records.
   (16)   Public nuisance means the maintenance or use of property in the city
in a manner that jeopardizes or endangers the health, safety or welfare of
persons on the premises or in the surrounding area; or real property that has
been the situs for nuisance activity including, but not limited to: disturbing
the peace, illegal drug activity, public drunkenness, drinking alcoholic
beverages in public, harassment of passersby, illegal gambling, prostitution,
sale of stolen goods, acts of violence, public urination or defecation, acts of
vandalism, acts of lewd conduct, unreasonable loud noise, loitering or
excessive littering; or the maintenance or use of property in the city in a
manner that violates, or real property that has been the situs of a violation
of, any provision of this code or any other city, state or federal law or
regulation.
   (17)   Responsible person means a person who an enforcement official
determines is responsible for causing or maintaining a public nuisance or a
violation of the City of Indio Municipal Code or applicable state codes. The
term responsible person includes but is not limited to a property owner,
tenant, person with a legal interest in real property or person in possession
of real property.
   (18)   Written includes printed, typewritten, mimeographed, multi-graphed,
photocopied, facsimile and any other item of writing as listed in California
Evidence Code § 250.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
DIVISION 2. CODE ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY AND POWERS
§ 12.02.01. DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City Council finds that the enforcement of the Municipal Code and
applicable state codes throughout the city is an important public service. Code
enforcement is vital to protection of the public's health, safety and quality
of life. The Council recognizes that enforcement depends upon clear and precise
regulations that can be effectively applied in administrative enforcement
hearings and judicial proceedings. The Council further finds that a
comprehensive code enforcement system that uses a combination of judicial and
administrative remedies is critical to gain code compliance. Judicial remedies
are traditional remedies to enforce laws by filing criminal and civil actions
in a court of law. Administrative remedies are designed to provide fair and
efficient methods of enforcing the provisions of the Municipal Code without the
required expense and consumption of time that judicial actions may require.
Failure to comply with an administrative code enforcement action may require
the City Attorney to file a judicial action to compel compliance.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.02.02. GENERAL ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   All city enforcement officials designated in the City of Indio Municipal
Code Chapter 12 shall have the authority and powers necessary to gain
compliance with the provisions of the City of Indio Municipal Code and
applicable state codes for which they are responsible. These powers include the
power to issue notices of violation and field citations, inspect public and
private property and use whatever judicial and administrative remedies are
available under the Municipal Code or applicable state codes.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.02.03. AUTHORITY TO ISSUE NOTICE TO APPEAR AND RELEASE CITATIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of the Penal Code of the State of
California § 836.5, certain officers and employees of the City of Indio are
authorized to issue written notice to appear and release citations for
misdemeanors or infraction violations of city ordinances, and applicable state
codes, which such officers or employees have the duty to enforce.
   (B)   The following officers and employees of the City of Indio are hereby
designated and authorized to issue said citations:
      (1)   Finance Department:
         (a)   City Manager and their designee(s).
         (b)   Finance Director and their designee(s).
      (2)   Fire Department:
         (a)   Fire Chief and their designee(s).
         (b)   All sworn personnel.
      (3)   Community Development Department:
         (a)   City Manager and their designee(s).
         (b)   Community Development Director and their designee(s).
         (c)   Building inspectors (including supervising building inspectors,
senior building inspectors, and building inspectors).
         (d)   Building officials (including chief, senior, and deputy building
officials).
      (4)   Police Department:
         (a)   Police Chief and their designee(s).
         (b)   All sworn personnel.
         (c)   Code enforcement officers and Code Enforcement Manager.
         (d)   Community service officers (I and II).
      (5)   Public Works:
         (a)   City Manager and their designee(s).
         (b)   Public Works Director and their designee(s).
      (6)   Indio Water Authority:
         (a)   City Manager and their designee(s).
         (b)   Indio Water Authority General Manager and their designee(s).
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.02.04. NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Division 6 provides the procedure for issuance and recordation of notices of
violation where other sections of this code, or applicable state codes, do not
provide an alternative procedure.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.02.05. AUTHORITY TO INSPECT.
   (A)   All inspections, entries, examinations and surveys shall be conducted
in compliance with the protections provided under the United States
Constitution, the California State Constitution, and all other laws that may
apply under the circumstances.
   (B)   City enforcement officials are authorized to enter upon any property
or premises to ascertain whether the provisions of the City of Indio Municipal
Code or applicable state codes are being obeyed, and to make any examinations,
inspections and surveys as may be necessary in the performance of their
enforcement duties. These may include the taking of photographs, video
recordings, audio recordings, soil samples, water samples, or other the
collection of other physical evidence.
   (C)   If an owner, occupant or agent refuses to grant city enforcement
officials permission to enter upon any property or refuses to allow a city
enforcement official to conduct any necessary examination, inspection or
survey, the enforcement official may seek an administrative inspection warrant
pursuant to the applicable procedures provided for in the California Code of
Civil Procedure.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.02.06. POWER TO ARREST.
   (A)   City enforcement officials are authorized to place a person under
arrest in accordance with the California Penal Code § 836.5, § 853.6, and § 830
et seq.
   (B)   City enforcement officials that do not have the powers of arrest
provided under Penal Code § 830 et seq. may only arrest a person by issuing a
misdemeanor field citation, or by effecting a citizen's arrest with the
assistance of a peace officer.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.02.07. VIOLATION OF CODE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to perform any act that is
prohibited, made or declared to be unlawful or an offense by this code, or to
violate any provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this
code or for any property owner or occupant to maintain or use property in the
city in a manner that constitutes a public nuisance.
   (B)   A violation of any of the provisions of this code, or failing to
comply with any of the mandatory requirements of this code shall constitute a
public nuisance.
   (C)   In accordance with California Penal Code § 370, the following shall
constitute a public nuisance and a violation of this code:
      (1)   Anything which:
         (a)   Is injurious to health, or
         (b)   Is indecent, or
         (c)   Is offensive to the senses, or
         (d)   Is an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property by an entire
community or neighborhood, or by any considerable number of persons, or
         (e)   Unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin, or any
public park, square, street, or highway.
   (D)   In accordance with California Civil Code § 3479, the following shall
constitute a public nuisance and a violation of this code:
      (1)   Anything which:
         (a)   Is injurious to health, including, but not limited to, the
illegal sale of controlled substances, or
         (b)   Is indecent or offensive to the senses, or
         (c)   Is an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, or
         (d)   Unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin, or any
public park, square, street, or highway, is a nuisance.
   (E)   In accordance with California Government Code § 38771, § 39501, §
39502, § 39560, § 39561, and § 39561.5 the following shall constitute a public
nuisance and a violation of this code:
      (1)   Weeds.
         (a)   Any property, premises, buildings, grounds or lots and their
adjacent parking areas, sidewalks, or streets containing weeds which:
            (i)   Bear wingy or downy seeds, or
            (ii)    Constitute a menace to the public health, or
            (iii)    Endangers the public safety by creating a fire hazard, or
            (iv)   May harbor rats, vermin, ticks, or other disease carriers,
or pests, or
            (v)    Constitute an unsightly appearance, or
            (vi)    Constitute an attractive nuisance, or
            (vii)   Are otherwise noxious or dangerous.
         (b)   For purposes of this section "Weeds" include any and all
variations of:
            (i)    Sagebrush, cactus, chaparral, poison oak, poison ivy, grass,
stubble, brush, vegetation, and any other bush, shrub, plant, fungus, or other
organic growth.
      (2)   Rubbish.
         (a)   Any property, premises, buildings, grounds or lots and their
adjacent parking areas, sidewalks, or streets containing rubbish which:
            (i)    Constitutes a menace to the public health, or
            (ii)    Endangers the public safety by creating a fire hazard, or
            (iii)   May harbor rats, vermin, ticks, or other disease carriers,
or pests, or
            (iv)    Constitutes an unsightly appearance, or
            (v)    Constitutes an attractive nuisance, or
            (vi)   Is otherwise noxious or dangerous.
         (b)   For purposes of this section "Rubbish" includes any and all
variations of:
            (i)   Trash, litter, garbage, seeds, plant trimmings, grass
clippings, palm fronds, leaves, food, fruit, vegetables, meat, metal, glass,
wood, cardboard, plastic, appliances, chemicals, containers, bags, furniture,
boxes, clothing, tarps, mattresses, foam, wire, paper, clothing or any other
inorganic material, or organic material.
   (F)   A violation of any of the provisions or failing to comply with any of
the mandatory requirements of this code shall constitute a misdemeanor except
when the violation of a provision of this code is specifically declared to be
an infraction.
   (G)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, any violation
constituting a misdemeanor under this code may, in the discretion of the City
Attorney, be charged and prosecuted as an infraction. Except as otherwise
provided, each and every day that any violation of this code shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense. The person committing or permitting such
offenses may be charged with separate offenses for each such violation and
punished accordingly.
   (H)   Abatement of a public nuisance may be accomplished by any of the
methods described in this code, including criminal prosecution, civil
injunction, administrative abatement, civil penalties, revocation of permits,
notice of violation, recordation of the notice of violation and withholding of
future municipal permits, or as otherwise allowed under state law.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.02.08. SUBPOENAS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is adopted for the purpose and intent of
establishing a uniform procedure for issuing subpoenas for the attendance of
witnesses, to compel their attendance and testimony, to administer oaths and
affirmations, to take evidence, and to issue subpoenas for the production of
any papers, books, accounts, records, documents, writings as defined in
California Evidence Code § 250 or other items that may be relevant to any
investigation, enforcement action, or prosecution of any matter over which the
City Council has legislative and/or appropriative authority.
   (B)   Authority. The procedures set forth herein are authorized by
California Government Code § 37104, et seq.
   (C)   Issuance of subpoena. The City Council may authorize, through the
adoption of a resolution, the City Clerk (with the assistance of the City
Attorney) to prepare and serve subpoenas for any matter that is described
within this section. Such resolution shall state the existence of an
investigation, enforcement, prosecution or other proceeding within the City
Council's legislative and/or appropriative authority and findings specifying
the purposes of the subpoena and the relevancy of the subpoenaed testimony and
materials thereto. The Mayor shall sign all subpoenas. The City Clerk shall
attest to the Mayor's signature. Upon such signature and attestation, the
subpoena shall be deemed to have been issued by the City Council.
   (D)   Form of subpoena. Subpoenas issued pursuant to this section shall be a
form approved by the City Attorney.
   (E)   Failure to comply. If any person refuses or fails to comply with a
subpoena issued under this section, the Mayor may report the noncompliance to
the judge of the superior court, in accordance with Government Code § 37106,
and apply for an attachment and/or order to compel that person's full and
complete compliance with the subpoena(s). In the event that the court
determines that the person is in noncompliance with the subpoena(s) and the
person does not obey the order of the court requiring such compliance, the
person may be held in contempt, in addition to any other penalties that may be
authorized by this code for noncompliance with the subpoena(s) or under any
other applicable laws.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
DIVISION 3. NOTICE
§ 12.03.01. SERVICE OF NOTICES.
   (A)   Whenever a notice is required to be given under the City of Indio
Municipal Code for enforcement purposes, the notice shall be served by any of
the following methods unless different provisions are otherwise specifically
stated to apply:
      (1)   Personal service; or
      (2)   First-class mail; or
      (3)   Certified mail; or
      (4)   Electronic service, only if the party to receive notice has
consented to electronic service; or
      (5)   Posting the notice conspicuously on or in front of the property.
The form of the posted notice shall be approved by the City Manager.
   (B)   Service by certified or first-class mail.
      (1)   If service is provided by certified or first-class mail in the
manner described above, the service shall be effective on the date of mailing.
      (2)   Class mail. The same notice may be sent simultaneously by certified
and first-class mail.
      (3)   If a notice sent by certified mail is returned unsigned, then
service shall be deemed effective pursuant to first-class mail, provided the
notice that was sent by first-class mail is not returned.
   (C)   Electronic service.
      (1)   This section shall be consistent with § 1010.6 of the California
Code of Civil Procedure and the rules of court adopted by the Judicial Council
for electronic service.
      (2)   Definitions.
         (a)   "Electronic service" means service of a document, on a person,
by either electronic transmission or electronic notification. Electronic
service may be performed directly by a person, including a party, by a person's
agent, including the person's attorney, or through an electronic filing service
provider, and by a court.
         (b)   "Electronic transmission" means the transmission of a document
by electronic means to the electronic service address at or through which a
person receives electronic service.
         (c)   "Electronic notification" means the notification of the person
that a document is served by sending an electronic message to the electronic
address at or through which the person receives electronic service, specifying
the exact name of the document served, and providing a hyperlink at which the
served document may be viewed and downloaded.
      (3)   Procedure.
         (a)   Electronic service of that document is deemed complete at the
time of the electronic transmission of the document or at the time that the
electronic notification of service of the document is sent.
         (b)   Any document that is served electronically between 12:00 a.m.
and 11:59:59 p.m. on a court day shall be deemed served on that court day. Any
document that is served electronically on a non-court day shall be deemed
served on the next court day.
      (4)   Consent to electronic service.
         (a)   Persons represented by counsel.
            (i)   A person represented by counsel, who has appeared in an
action or proceeding, shall accept electronic service of a notice or document
that may be served by certified or first-class mail.
            (ii)   A person represented by counsel shall, upon the request of
any representative of the citing agency, electronically serve the citing agency
at the provided electronic service address with any notice or document that may
be served by certified or first- class mail.
         (b)   Unrepresented persons.
            (i)   An unrepresented party may provide express consent to receive
electronic service by submitting written consent to the City Clerk.
            (ii)   The written consent must include a valid electronic service
address (a valid e-mail address); the party's full name; and the written
consent must be attached to a copy of the matter the party is requesting
electronic service for.
         (c)   Withdrawal of consent.
            (i)   An unrepresented party who has provided express consent to
accept service electronically may withdraw consent at any time by serving the
City Clerk with written notice of withdrawal of their consent.
            (ii)   Counsel for a represented party may withdraw consent to
electronic service at any time by serving the City Clerk with written notice of
withdrawal of their consent.
   (D)   The failure of any person with an interest in the property to receive
any notice served in accordance with this section shall not affect the validity
of any proceedings taken under this code.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.03.02. PROOF OF SERVICE OF NOTICES.
   (A)   Proof of service of notice may be made by the certificate of any
officer or employee of this city or by affidavit of any person over the age of
18 years. The proof of service shall show that service was done in conformity
with this code or other provisions of law applicable to the subject matter
concerned.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.03.03. CONSTRUCTIVE NOTICE OF RECORDED DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever a document is recorded with the County Recorder as authorized
or required by the City of Indio Municipal Code or applicable state codes,
recordation shall provide constructive notice of the information contained in
the recorded documents.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
DIVISION 4. JUDICIAL REMEDIES
§ 12.04.01. JUDICIAL REMEDIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or to
fail to comply with any of the requirements of the City of Indio Municipal
Code.
   (B)   Except as elsewhere stated in this code, any person causing,
permitting, aiding, abetting, or concealing a violation of this code shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and may, in the discretion of the City Attorney, be
prosecuted as a misdemeanor or an infraction and upon conviction may be subject
to a fine not to exceed $1,000 or imprisonment in the county jail for a period
of not more than six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   Except as elsewhere stated in this code, the City Attorney, in their
sound discretion, may prosecute a violation of this code as an infraction,
rather than a misdemeanor, or reduce or agree to the reduction of a previously
filed misdemeanor to an infraction. Any person convicted of an infraction under
this code shall be punished by:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $100 for the first violation,
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $200 for a second violation within one year,
and;
      (3)   A fine not exceeding $500 for a third violation within one year.
   (D)   Each such person may be charged with a separate offense for each and
every day during any portion of which any violation of any provision of this
code is committed, continued or permitted by such person.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.04.02. FAILURE TO APPEAR OR POST BAIL.
   (A)   Pursuant to California Penal Code Section § 1320(a), any person who
fails to appear in court in connection with a citation issued for a criminal
violation of any provision of this code or to post bail in connection with that
citation is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Pursuant to, and in accordance with, the mandatory provisions of
California Penal Code § 853.8 or, alternatively, the mandatory provisions of
California Penal Code § 1427, whenever a person fails to appear in court or to
post bail in connection with a citation issued for a criminal violation of any
provision of this code, it is the intent of the City Council that a warrant for
the arrest if that person shall be issued.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.04.03. CIVIL VIOLATIONS-INJUNCTIONS AND CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to any other remedy provided by this code, any provision
of this chapter relating to the abatement of a public nuisance may be enforced
by application to the court for an abatement warrant granting the city
authority to eliminate the nuisance conditions or by an injunction issued by
the superior court upon a suit brought in the name of the city. All remedies
prescribed by this chapter are cumulative and the use of one or more remedies
by the city shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the purposes of
enforcing the provisions hereof or abating a public nuisance.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties provided above, any condition caused or
permitted to exist in violation of any provision of any ordinance of the city
or provision of this code shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated
as provided herein or in any other chapter of this code.
   (C)   As part of a civil action filed to enforce provisions of this code, a
court may assess a maximum civil penalty of $2,500 per violation of the
Municipal Code for each day during which any person commits, continues, allows
or maintains a violation of any provision of this code.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.04.04. CODE ENFORCEMENT PERFORMANCE BOND.
   As part of any enforcement action taken by the city, the city has the
authority to require a responsible person to post a performance bond to ensure
compliance with the City of Indio Municipal Code, in accordance with applicable
state codes or any judicial action.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.04.05. JUDICIAL ABATEMENT.
   Pursuant to California Penal Code § 372, § 373a, and California Code of
Civil Procedure § 731 the City Attorney has the authority to judicially abate
public nuisances by filing criminal or civil nuisance actions in the name of
the City of Indio and the People of the State of California.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.04.06. TREBLE DAMAGES FOR SUBSEQUENT ABATEMENT JUDGMENTS.
   Pursuant to California Government Code § 38773.7, upon the entry of a second
or subsequent civil or criminal judgment within a two-year period that finds an
owner of property responsible for a condition that may be abated in accordance
with California Government Code § 38773.5, a court may order the owner to pay
treble the costs of the abatement. These costs shall not include conditions
abated pursuant to the California Health and Safety Code § 17980.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
DIVISION 5. ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES
§ 12.05.01. ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES.
   Divisions 6 through 10 establish optional administrative enforcement
remedies available to the city for violations of the municipal code and
applicable state codes. The general remedies issuance and recordation of
notices of violation, administrative civil penalties, administrative citations,
summary abatement, and administrative abatement. Divisions 11 and 12 govern the
procedures for appeals and hearings relating to these administrative remedies.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.05.02. DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that there is a need for a variety of administrative
remedies that do not require the city to file court actions to initiate
enforcement of violations of the City of Indio Municipal Code and applicable
state codes. The procedures established by these administrative remedies are in
addition to any other legal remedy established by law which may be pursued to
address Municipal Code and applicable state code violations.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.05.03. AUTHORITY.
   Whenever the city, through one of its department heads or enforcement
officials, determines that a violation of the City of Indio Municipal Code or
applicable state code exists, the city may pursue any of the administrative
remedies outlined in Divisions 6 through 10 of this code.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
DIVISION 6. ISSUANCE AND RECORDATION OF
NOTICES OF VIOLATION
§ 12.06.01. ISSUANCE AND RECORDATION OF NOTICES OF VIOLATION.
   This division shall govern the procedures relating to the issuance and
recordation of administrative notices of violation.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.06.02. DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that there is a need for alternative methods of
enforcement for violations of the Municipal Code and applicable state codes
which are found to exist on real property. The Council further finds that an
appropriate method of enforcement for these types of violations is the issuance
and recordation of notices of violation. The procedures established in this
division shall be in addition to criminal, civil or any other remedy
established by law which may be pursued to address violations of the City of
Indio Municipal Code or applicable state codes.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.06.03. PROCEDURES FOR ISSUANCE OF A NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever an enforcement official determines that a violation of the
City of Indio Municipal Code or applicable state code pertaining to real
property exists, the enforcement official may issue a notice of violation to a
responsible person. A notice of violation shall include sufficient information
to provide reasonable notice of activities or conditions constituting violation
of the municipal code or applicable state code, and actions necessary to
correct the violations. The notice of violation shall include the following
information:
      (1)   The name of the property's record owner;
      (2)   Street address;
      (3)   The code sections violated;
      (4)   A description of the property's condition which violates the
applicable codes;
      (5)   A list of necessary corrections to bring the property into
compliance;
      (6)   A deadline or specific date to correct the violations listed in the
notice of violation;
      (7)   Reference to the potential consequences should the property remain
in violation after the expiration of the compliance deadline including, but not
limited to: criminal prosecution, civil injunction, administrative abatement,
civil penalties, revocation of permits, recordation of the notice of violation
and withholding of future municipal permits;
      (8)   A brief description of the procedure to appeal the notice of
violation including time limitations.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.06.04. PROCEDURES FOR RECORDATION.
   (A)   Once an enforcement official has issued a notice of violation to a
responsible person and the property remains in violation after the deadline
established in the notice of violation, the enforcement official may record a
notice of violation with the Recorder's Office of Riverside County.
   (B)   Before recordation, the enforcement official shall provide to the
responsible person a letter of intent to record a notice of violation unless a
written appeal is filed pursuant to the procedures outlined in this division.
The letter shall be served pursuant to any of the methods of service set forth
in Division 3 of this chapter. The enforcement official may also send a
courtesy copy of the letter to any financial institution with a legal interest
in the real property.
   (C)   If a written appeal is not filed pursuant to the procedures set forth
in this division, the enforcement official may record the notice of violation
if the violation has not been corrected.
   (D)   The recorded notice of violation shall include the name of the
property owner, the property's assessor's parcel number, the parcel's legal
description, and a copy of the notice of violation.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.06.05. SERVICE OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   A copy of the recorded notice of violation shall be served on the
responsible person and property owner pursuant to any of the methods of service
set forth in Division 3 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.06.06. PROCEDURES TO APPEAL RECORDATION.
   (A)   An appeal of a letter of intent to record the notice of violation
shall follow the procedures set forth in Divisions 11 and 12 of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the written appeal, the enforcement official shall
schedule a hearing pursuant to the procedures set forth in Divisions 11 and 12
of this chapter. The purpose of the hearing is for the responsible person or
property owner to show cause as to why a notice of violation should not be
recorded.
   (C)   The failure of any person to file an appeal in accordance with these
provisions shall constitute a waiver of the right to an administrative appeal
hearing and shall not affect the validity of the recorded notice of violation.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.06.07. APPEAL HEARING.
   (A)   The appeal shall follow the hearing procedures as set forth in
Divisions 11 and 12 of this chapter.
   (B)   At the appeal hearing, the hearing officer shall only consider
evidence that is consistent with the applicable rules and procedures for
administrative enforcement hearings and that is relevant to the following
issues:
      (1)   Whether the conditions listed in the notice of violation violate
the City of Indio Municipal Code or applicable state codes; and
      (2)   Whether the enforcement official afforded the responsible person
with due process by adhering to the notification procedures specified in this
code.
   (C)   If the hearing officer affirms the enforcement official's decision,
the enforcement official may proceed to record the notice of violation.
   (D)   If the hearing officer determines that recordation is improper, the
hearing officer shall reverse the enforcement official's decision to record the
notice of violation.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.06.08. NOTICE OF COMPLIANCE- PROCEDURES.
   (A)   After a notice of violation has been recorded, and after the
violations listed on the notice of violation have been corrected, the
responsible person or property owner may file with the enforcement official a
written request for a re-inspection of the property to determine compliance
with the municipal code and applicable state codes listed in the recorded
notice of violation, and for the issuance of a notice of compliance on a form
provided by the city.
   (B)   Once the enforcement official receives this request, the enforcement
official shall re-inspect the property to determine whether the violations
listed in the notice of violation have been corrected and whether all necessary
permits have been issued and final inspections have been performed.
   (C)   The enforcement official shall serve a notice of compliance to the
responsible person or property owner in the manner provided in Division 3 of
this chapter only if the enforcement official determines that:
      (1)   All violations listed in the recorded notice of violation have been
corrected; and
      (2)   All necessary permits have been issued and finalized; and
      (3)   All civil penalties and any fines have been paid; and
      (4)   The party requesting the notice of compliance has paid an
administrative fee to reimburse the city for all administrative costs.
Administrative fees may include costs incurred in the investigation,
inspection, re-inspection, title search, appeal hearing and any other
processing costs associated with the violations specified on the notice of
violation.
   (D)   If the enforcement official denies a request to issue a notice of
compliance, the enforcement official shall serve the responsible person or
property owner with a written explanation setting forth the reasons for the
denial. The written explanation shall be served by any of the methods of
service listed in Division 3 of this chapter.
   (E)   The enforcement official's decision denying a request to issue a
notice of compliance shall be final and non-appealable.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.06.09. PROHIBITION AGAINST ISSUANCE OF MUNICIPAL PERMITS.
   (A)   Subject to the exception set forth herein, the City of Indio shall
withhold permits for any alteration, repair or construction pertaining to any
existing or new structures or signs on the property, or any permits pertaining
to the use and development of the real property or the structure:
      (1)   If a request to appeal the recordation of a notice of violation has
not been timely filed; or
      (2)   After a hearing officer on appeal affirms the enforcement
official's decision to record a notice of violation. The city may thereafter
withhold permits until a notice of compliance has been issued by the
enforcement official.
   (B)   The city may not withhold permits which are necessary to obtain a
notice of compliance or which are necessary to correct serious health and
safety violations.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.06.10. CANCELLATION OF RECORDED NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The enforcement official, property owner or responsible person shall record
the notice of compliance with the County Recorder's Office. The recordation of
the notice of compliance shall have the effect of canceling the recorded notice
of violation.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
DIVISION 7. ADMINISTRATIVE CIVIL PENALTIES
§ 12.07.01. ADMINISTRATIVE CIVIL PENALTIES; PURPOSE; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The City Council finds that there is a need for alternative methods of
enforcement of the City of Indio Municipal Code and applicable state codes. The
City Council further finds that the assessment of civil penalties through an
administrative hearing procedure for code violations is a necessary alternative
method of code enforcement. The administrative assessment of civil penalties
established in this division is in addition to any other administrative or
judicial remedy established by law which may be pursued to address violations
of the City of Indio Municipal Code or applicable state codes.
   (B)   This division governs the administrative assessment of civil penalties
for violations of the City of Indio Municipal Code and applicable state codes.
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of the City of Indio Municipal Code
or applicable state code may be subject to the assessment of civil penalties
pursuant to the administrative procedures provided in this division.
   (D)   Each and every day a violation of any provision of the City of Indio
Municipal Code or applicable state code exists constitutes a separate and
distinct violation.
   (E)   Civil penalties may be directly assessed by means of a notice and
order issued by the enforcement official or affirmed by an enforcement hearing
officer. Civil penalties may be recovered as authorized by Division 13 or
subsequent legal action brought by the City Attorney.
   (F)   Civil penalties for violations of any provision of the City of Indio
Municipal Code or applicable state codes shall be assessed at a daily rate
determined by the enforcement official or enforcement hearing officer pursuant
to the criteria listed in this division. The maximum rate shall be $2,500 per
violation.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.07.02. PROCEDURES-NOTICE AND ORDER.
   (A)   Whenever an enforcement official determines that a violation of one or
more provisions of the City of Indio Municipal Code or applicable state code
has occurred or continues to exist, a written civil penalty notice and order
may be issued to the responsible person.
   (B)   The notice and order shall refer to each code section violated and
describe how each section is or has been violated.
   (C)   The notice and order shall refer to the dates and locations of the
violations.
   (D)   The notice and order shall describe all remedial action required to
correct outstanding violations and establish a time frame for completion.
   (E)   The notice and order shall establish a daily amount of civil
penalties. The enforcement official shall determine the daily amount of civil
penalties pursuant to the criteria in §
12.07.03. of this division.
   (F)   The notice and order shall identify a date when the civil penalties
began to accrue and a date when the assessment of civil penalties will end,
unless the violation is continuous. In the case of a continuous violation,
there shall be an ongoing assessment of penalties at the daily rate established
in the notice and order until the violations are corrected.
   (G)   If an enforcement official determines that the violations are
continuing, the notice and order shall demand that the responsible person cease
and desist from further action causing the violations and commence and complete
all action to correct the outstanding violations under the guidance of the
appropriate city departments.
   (H)   The notice and order shall enumerate any other consequences should the
responsible person fail to comply with the terms and deadlines, as prescribed
in the notice and order.
   (I)   The notice and order shall identify appropriate hearing procedures.
   (J)   The notice and order shall be served upon the responsible person by
any one of the methods of service listed in Division 3 of this chapter.
   (K)   The notice and order shall identify the factors used by an enforcement
official in determining the duration and the daily amount of civil penalties.
   (L)   More than one notice and order may be issued against the same
responsible person if it encompasses either different dates or different
violations.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.07.03. DETERMINATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   In determining the date when civil penalties start to accrue, an
enforcement official may consider the date when the enforcing department first
discovered the violations as evidenced by the issuance of a notice of violation
or any other written correspondence advising the responsible person of the
existence of a violation.
   (B)   The assessment of civil penalties shall end when all action required
by the notice and order has been completed.
   (C)   In determining the amount of the civil penalty to be assessed on a
daily rate, an enforcement official may consider some or all of the following
factors:
      (1)   The duration of the violation.
      (2)   The frequency or recurrence of the violation.
      (3)   The seriousness of the violation.
      (4)   The history of the violation.
      (5)   The responsible person's conduct after issuance of the notice and
order.
      (6)   The good faith effort by the responsible person to comply.
      (7)   The economic impact of the penalty on the responsible person.
      (8)   The impact of the violation upon the community.
      (9)   Any other factors that justice may require.
   (D)   The City Manager has the authority to establish a penalty schedule for
an enforcement official to use as a guideline in determining the amount of
civil penalties depending on the nature of the case. The City Manager shall
also establish procedures for the use of this penalty schedule.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.07.04. ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.
   An enforcement official or enforcement hearing officer is authorized to
assess any reasonable administrative costs. Administrative costs may include
the costs of scheduling and processing the hearing and all subsequent actions.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.07.05. APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE CIVIL PENALTY.
   An appeal of an administrative civil penalty shall follow the procedures set
forth in Divisions 11 and 12 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.07.06. FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL'S NOTICE AND ORDER.
   An enforcement official shall request an enforcement hearing officer to
establish a date, time and place for the civil penalties hearing in accordance
with Divisions 11 and 12 of this chapter when the responsible person fails to
comply with the terms of the notice and order. Failure to comply includes
failure to pay the assessed civil penalties, failure to commence and complete
corrections by the established deadlines or failure to refrain from continuing
violations of the City of Indio Municipal Code or applicable state codes.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.07.07. CIVIL PENALTIES HEARING.
   (A)   The procedures for the civil penalties hearing are the same as the
hearing procedures set forth in Divisions 11 and 12 of this chapter.
   (B)   The enforcement hearing officer shall only consider evidence that is
relevant to the following issues:
      (1)   Whether the responsible person has caused or maintained a violation
of the City of Indio Municipal Code or applicable state code that existed on
the dates specified in the notice and order; and
      (2)   Whether the amount of civil penalties assessed by the enforcement
official pursuant to the procedures and criteria outlined in §
12.07.03 was reasonable.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.07.08. ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT ORDER.
   (A)   Once all evidence and testimony are completed, the enforcement hearing
officer shall issue an administrative enforcement order which affirms or
rejects the enforcement official's notice and order or which modifies the daily
rate or duration of the civil penalties. The enforcement hearing officer may
increase or decrease the total amount of civil penalties and costs that are
assessed by the enforcement official's notice and order.
   (B)   The enforcement hearing officer may issue an administrative
enforcement order that requires the responsible person to cease from violating
the City of Indio Municipal Code or applicable state codes and to make
necessary corrections.
   (C)   As part of the administrative enforcement order, the enforcement
hearing officer may establish specific deadlines for the payment of civil
penalties and costs and condition the total or partial assessment of civil
penalties on the responsible person's ability to complete compliance by
specified deadlines.
   (D)   The enforcement hearing officer may issue an administrative
enforcement order which imposes additional civil penalties that will continue
to be assessed until the responsible person complies with the hearing officer's
decision and corrects the violation.
   (E)   The enforcement hearing officer may schedule subsequent review
hearings as may be necessary or as requested by a party to the hearing to
ensure compliance with the administrative enforcement order.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.07.09. FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THE ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT ORDER.
   (A)   Upon the failure of the responsible person to comply with the terms
and deadlines set forth in the administrative enforcement order, the
enforcement official may use all appropriate legal means to recover the civil
penalties, administrative costs and obtain compliance with the administrative
enforcement order.
   (B)   After the enforcement hearing officer issues an administrative
enforcement order, the enforcement official shall monitor the violations and
determine compliance.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.07.10. ALLOCATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE CIVIL PENALTIES.
   Administrative civil penalties collected pursuant to this division shall be
deposited in the code enforcement civil penalties fund established pursuant to
Division 16 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
DIVISION 8. ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS
§ 12.08.01. DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that there is a need for an alternative method of
enforcement for violations of the City of Indio Municipal Code and applicable
state codes. The City Council further finds that an appropriate method of
enforcement for violations is an administrative citation program as authorized
by California Government Code § 53069.4. The procedures established in this
division shall be in addition to criminal, civil or any other legal remedy
established by law which may be pursued to address violations of the City of
Indio Municipal Code or applicable state codes.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.08.02. AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of the City of Indio Municipal Code
or applicable state code may be issued an administrative citation by an
enforcement official as provided in this division. The administrative citation
shall be issued on a form approved by the City Manager.
      (1)   If the violation is a continuing violation of this code that
pertains to building, plumbing, electrical, or other similar structural or
zoning issues, the enforcement official will first issue a compliance order
providing the responsible party a reasonable amount of time to correct or
otherwise remedy the violation. The amount of time shall not be less than ten
court days.
         (a)   The amount of time provided to correct or otherwise remedy the
violation shall be known as the grace period.
         (b)   A responsible party may submit a written request to extend the
grace period in accordance with the procedures provided in this division.
      (2)   Notwithstanding subparagraph (1), the enforcement official may
immediately issue an administrative citation for a continuing violation of this
code that pertains to building, plumbing, electrical, or other similar
structural or zoning issues when that violation creates an immediate danger to
health or safety.
         (a)   When a violation creates and immediate danger to health or
safety, no compliance order will be issued, and no grace period will be
provided.
   (B)   Each and every day a violation of the City of Indio Municipal Code or
applicable state code exists constitutes a separate and distinct offense for
which an administrative citation may be issued.
   (C)   An administrative fine shall be assessed by means of an administrative
citation issued by the enforcement official and shall be payable directly to
the City Finance Department.
   (D)   Administrative fines assessed by means of an administrative citation
shall be collected in accordance with the procedures specified in this
division.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.08.03. CONTENTS OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION AND COMPLIANCE ORDER.
   (A)   Contents of an administrative citation.
      (1)   The administrative citation shall refer to the date and location of
the violation(s) and the approximate time the violation(s) occurred.
      (2)   The administrative citation shall refer to the code sections
violated and describe how the sections are violated.
      (3)   The administrative citation shall describe the action required to
correct the violations.
      (4)   The administrative citation shall require the responsible person to
immediately correct the violations and shall explain the consequences of
failure to correct the violations.
      (5)   The administrative citation shall state the amount of penalty
imposed for the violations.
      (6)   The administrative citation shall explain how the penalty shall be
paid and the time period by which it shall be paid, and the consequences of
failure to pay the penalty.
      (7)   The administrative citation shall provide notice of the right to
appeal.
      (8)   The administrative citation shall provide notice of the right to
request a hardship waiver.
      (9)   The citation shall contain the signature of the enforcement
official and the signature of the responsible person if that person can be
located.
      (10)   If a compliance order was issued before the administrative
citation, the compliance order shall be attached to the administrative
citation, and the administrative citation shall describe how the responsible
party failed to fully comply with the compliance order.
   (B)   Contents of a compliance order.
      (1)   The compliance order shall refer to the date and location of the
violation(s) and the approximate time the violation(s) occurred.
      (2)   The compliance order shall refer to the code sections violated and
describe how the sections are violated.
      (3)   The compliance order shall describe the action required to correct
the violation(s).
      (4)   The compliance order shall provide the grace period the responsible
party has to correct the violation(s).
      (5)   The compliance order shall explain the consequences of failure to
correct the violations within the grace period.
      (6)   The compliance order shall state the fine amount for the violation
(s) and the amount the fine will increase each day the responsible party fails
to fully correct the violation(s).
      (7)   The compliance order shall explain how the responsible party can
show they have fully complied with the order.
         (a)   If the enforcement official determines that all violations
specified in the compliance order have been corrected within the grace period,
the compliance order shall be dismissed and no further action shall be taken
against the responsible party regarding the violation(s) identified in the
compliance order.
         (b)   If the responsible party fails to fully comply with the
compliance order within the grace period, the enforcement official may issue an
administrative citation as provided in this chapter. The issuance of the
administrative citation does not relieve the responsible person's obligation to
fully comply with the compliance order.
         (c)   The compliance order shall state the time period after which
administrative fines will begin to accrue if there is not full compliance with
the order.
      (8)   The compliance order shall provide notice of the right to request a
hardship waiver.
      (9)   The compliance order shall contain the signature of the enforcement
official and the signature of the responsible person if that person can be
located.
   (C)   Request to extend grace period.
      (1)   The compliance order shall explain how the responsible party can
submit a written request to extend the grace period.
         (a)   The responsible party my request to extend the grace period. The
request must be made in writing and must be served on the City Clerk in
accordance with the service procedures of this chapter at least three court
days before the end of the grace period.
         (b)   Upon receiving valid service of a written request to extend the
grace period from the responsible party, the grace period shall be tolled until
the enforcement agency serves a written response on the responsible party in
accordance with the service procedures of this chapter.
         (c)   If the request to extended the grace period is granted, a new
compliance order shall be issued showing the original grace period, the date
the extension was granted, and the new grace period within which the violation
must be corrected.
         (d)   If the request to extended the grace period is denied, the
original grace period will resume three court days after the enforcement agency
has provided service of the denial in accordance with the service procedures of
this chapter.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.08.04. ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION SERVICE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Upon discovering any violation of the City of Indio Municipal Code or
applicable state codes, an enforcement official may issue an administrative
citation to a responsible person in the manner prescribed in this division.
      (1)   In the case of a person.
         (a)   Personal service.
         (b)   For responsible parties who reside at, or occupy, the subject
property, by posting the administrative citation or compliance order in a
conspicuous place on the subject property, and then the administrative citation
or compliance order shall be mailed to the responsible person in the manner
prescribed in Division 3.
         (c)   If the enforcement official is unable locate a valid address for
the responsible person for the violation, then the administrative citation or
compliance order shall be mailed to the responsible person or posted on the
property in the manner prescribed in Division 3.
         (d)   The administrative citation or compliance order may also be
served on any person, in anyway permitted under California Code of Civil
Procedure §§ 416.60 through 416.90, or any other method allowed under state
law.
      (2)   In the case of a business:
         (a)   If the responsible party is an entity operating in the City of
Indio with a City of Indio business license, then provided in a manner
prescribed by Division 3 to that responsible party's agent for
service of process listed with the City of Indio, or to the holder of the
business license, or at the business address if the address is within the City
of Indio.
         (b)   The enforcement official shall attempt to locate the business
owner and issue the administrative citation or compliance order to the business
owner when possible.
         (c)   If the enforcement official unable to locate the business owner
and is only able to can only locate the person in apparent charge of the
business, the administrative citation may be issued to such person, who may
sign or receive the administrative citation as agent for the responsible person
or owner of the business. A copy of the administrative citation shall also be
served on the business owner or responsible person in the manner described in
Division 3 if possible.
         (d)   If a responsible party is an entity registered with the
Secretary of State, then by certified mail to that responsible party's agent
for service of process at the address registered with the Secretary of State.
         (e)   The administrative citation or compliance order may also be
served on any business, corporation or other entity in any way permitted by the
California Corporations Code or by any way permitted under California Code of
Civil Procedure § 416.10 through § 416.40, or any other method allowed under
state law.
   (D)   If the administrative citation or compliance order is properly served
upon a responsible person in accordance with this chapter, the failure of any
person with an interest in the property to receive notice shall not affect the
validity of any proceedings taken under this division.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.08.05. HEARING TO CONTEST ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS.
   (A)   Time to appeal.
      (1)   Any person named as a responsible person in an administration
citation or compliance order may contest the administrative citation or
compliance order by completing a request for hearing form and serving it on the
City Clerk in a manner described in Division 3 of this chapter within 30
calendar days from the date the administrative citation was served. A request
for hearing form may be obtained from the City of Indio as specified on the
administrative citation or compliance order.
      (2)   Upon the proper filing of a request for a hearing, the
administrative fines associated with the contested administrative citation(s)
shall be stayed pending the outcome of the hearing.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall forward any validly served request for hearing
form to the citing agency as soon as practicable after receipt.
   (B)   Failing to timely appeal.
      (1)   Failure to timely and properly request a hearing, including the
proper submission of a written declaration when a hearing by declaration is
requested, shall constitute a waiver of all rights of appeal and a failure to
exhaust administrative remedies. The administrative citation, along with any
imposed fines, fees, and charges, shall be deemed final.
   (C)   Calculation of time.
      (1)   The time in which any act described in this section is to be done
is computed by excluding the first day, and including the last, unless the last
day is a holiday, and then it is also excluded in accordance with California
Code of Civil Procedure § 12.
   (E)   Types of hearings and burden of proof.
      (1)   The recipient of the administrative citation may request an in-
person hearing or hearing by written declaration.
         (a)   In-person hearings shall be open to the public.
      (2)   The city bears the burden of proof to establish a violation of this
code by a preponderance of the evidence standard.
   (F)   Materials in support of the citation.
      (1)   All materials submitted to the hearing officer by the citing agency
in support of the citation shall be known as the agency file.
      (2)   Within 15 court days of receiving the request for hearing form from
the City Clerk, the citing agency shall send a copy of the agency file to the
hearing officer.
      (3)   Within 15 court days of receiving the request for hearing form from
the City Clerk, the citing agency shall make a copy of the agency file
available to the person who requested the hearing.
         (a)   The person requesting the hearing may obtain a copy of the
agency file in following ways:
            (i)    Retrieving the agency file from the citing agency in person,
or
            (ii)   By electronic service, or
            (iii)    Certified mail.
   (G)   Submission of additional materials to the hearing officer.
      (1)   The citing agency and the requester of the hearing may submit
additional materials to the hearing officer under the following conditions:
         (a)   The party submitting the additional materials to the hearing
officer shall serve the opposing party with the additional information at the
same time the additional information is provided to the hearing officer; and
         (b)   The materials are submitted at least ten court days before the
scheduled in-person hearing date, or at any time before the hearing officer
issues their ruling in a hearing by written declaration.
   (H)   In-person hearing procedure;
      (1)   Setting of an initial hearing date.
         (a)   The citing agency shall schedule the initial date and time for
the hearing.
         (b)   The initial hearing date shall be set not less than 30 court
days and not more than 90 calendar days from the date the citing agency
received the request for hearing form from the City Clerk.
         (c)   The person requesting the in-person hearing shall be served in a
manner described in Division 3 with written notice of the time and place of the
hearing at least 20 court days prior to the date of the hearing.
      (2)   Requests for accommodations.
         (a)   The person requesting the in-person hearing can submit a written
request for reasonable modification or accommodation as described in the
Americans with Disabilities Act ("ADA").
            (i)   The request must be in writing;
            (ii)   The request must specify the type of accommodation being
requested; and
            (iii)   The request must be served on the City Clerk in a manner
described in Division 3 at least ten court days prior to the hearing date.
      (3)    Request to continue the hearing date.
         (a)   The person requesting the in-person hearing shall be granted one
continuance to reschedule the initial hearing date.
         (b)   The request for a continuance of the initial hearing date shall
be made in writing and shall be served on the City Clerk at least ten court
days before the hearing in a manner described in Division 3. A failure to
timely request a continuance of the initial hearing date is a waiver of the
requesters one guaranteed continuance.
         (c)   Upon receiving a valid request to continue the initial hearing
date, the request shall be granted and the citing agency shall serve the person
requesting the hearing in a manner described in Division 3 with the next three
hearing dates compatible with the citing agency and the hearing officer. The
citing agency shall serve the person requesting the hearing with the next
available hearing dates within ten court days of receiving the initial request
for continuance.
         (d)   The person requesting the hearing shall select one of the three
hearing dates provided by the citing agency and shall serve their selection in
writing on the City Clerk in a manner described in Division 3 within ten court
days of being served with the next available hearing dates. A failure to timely
comply with requirements will constitute a waiver of the requesters one
guaranteed continuance and the original hearing date shall be reinstated, no
additional notice will be provided if the original hearing date is reinstated.
If the original hearing date is no longer available, one of the three hearing
dates provided to the requester will be chosen by the citing agency and notice
of the new hearing date shall be provided to the person requesting the hearing
in accordance with Division 3.
         (e)    Notwithstanding a timely request to continue the initial
hearing date, any other requests to continue a hearing date may only be ruled
upon by the hearing officer at the next scheduled hearing. If the person
requesting the hearing is not able to attend the next hearing, a written
request for continuance can be made at any time before the hearing by serving
the written request on the City Clerk and the hearing officer in a manner
described in Division 3. The written request shall include all of the days the
requesting party will be available to attend the hearing within the 90 calendar
days following hearing date to be continued. If the request for a continuance
does not include the days the requesting party is available the request shall
be denied.
         (f)   If the hearing officer grants or denies a request to continue
the hearing, the hearing officer will provided the basis for their ruling in
writing.
         (g)   If the hearing officer grants a request to continue the hearing,
the hearing officer and the citing agency shall select a new hearing date from
the dates provided by the requester. The citing agency shall provide notice of
the new hearing date and the hearing officers ruling to the person requesting
the hearing in a manner described in Division 3 within ten court days of
receiving the written ruling from the hearing officer.
         (h)   If the hearing officer denies a request to continue the hearing,
the hearing will proceed as scheduled even if the requesting party is not
present. The hearing officer's ruling on the request to continue will be
contained in the written decision after completion of the hearing.
      (4)   Failure to attend the in-person hearing.
         (a)   If a party is not present at the hearing on the date and time
the hearing is scheduled, and there are no pending requests to continue the
hearing date, the hearing will proceed as scheduled without the absent party.
      (5)   Evidence and case presentation.
         (a)   The in-person hearing will be informal, and formal rules of
evidence and discovery do not apply.
         (b)   Any disputes regarding witnesses or evidence in the case are to
be resolved by the hearing officer.
         (c)   At any time during the hearing, the hearing officer may continue
the hearing to a date agreeable to the parties and request additional
information from the parties prior to issuing a written decision or deciding
any dispute.
         (d)   A copy of the document or instrument of the citing agency
providing notice of the violation and imposition of the administrative fine or
penalty shall be admitted into evidence as prim a facie evidence of the facts
stated therein.
         (e)   The contents of the citing agency's file in the case shall be
received in evidence and the contents may be relied on by either party during
the hearing.
         (f)   Each party shall have the opportunity to present evidence, call
witnesses, in support of that party's case and to cross examine witnesses
called by the opposing party. The amount of time each side is given to present
their case and the structure of the case presentation is in the sole discretion
of the hearing officer.
      (6)   Hearing officer's decision for in-person hearings.
         (a)   The hearing officer's decision shall be titled "Administrative
Order''.
         (b)   No later than 30 calendar days after the date on which the
administrative hearing concludes, the hearing officer shall issue a written
decision to uphold or dismiss the contested administrative citation.
         (c)   The decision shall set forth the reasons for the decision along
with notice of the right to appeal pursuant to this chapter.
         (d)   The decision shall be served in a manner described in Division 3
of this chapter. The failure to receive a decision properly served in
accordance with a method described in Division 3 shall not invalidate the
administrative hearing officer's decision.
         (e)   If the hearing officer upholds an administrative citation, the
administrative fines shall be due in the time set forth in the written decision
but no later than 90 calendar days from the date of the decision.
         (f)   If the hearing officer dismisses the administrative citation,
the city shall retain the authority to issue additional administrative
citations for additional violations, or to take any other enforcement action
authorized by law.
         (g)   Rulings related to a responsible party's compliance with the
requirements of a compliance order.
            (i)   The hearing officer's written decision shall include a
section titled "Compliance Order Findings." Under the "Compliance Order
Findings" section the hearing officer shall make findings regarding the
existence of the violation(s) specified in the compliance order, and regarding
whether the responsible person took the required corrective action within the
time period set forth in the compliance order. If the hearing officer concludes
that the violation continues to exist, the administrative order shall set forth
a schedule for correction. In addition, the administrative order shall impose
administrative fines and costs as provided for in this chapter. The
administrative order shall set a deadline for compliance with its terms in the
event that the responsible person fails to file an appeal. If the hearing
officer determines that the violation(s) set forth in the compliance order did
not exist, or that the violation(s) was (were) timely corrected, all
proceedings regarding the violation(s) shall immediately cease and the
administrative citations shall be dismissed.
   (I)   Hearing by written declaration procedure;
      (1)   Evidence and case presentation.
         (a)   A copy of the document or instrument of the citing agency
providing notice of the violation and imposition of the administrative fine or
penalty shall be admitted into evidence as prima facie evidence of the facts
stated therein.
         (b)   The contents of the citing agency's file in the case shall be
received in evidence.
         (c)   The person requesting the hearing shall serve the City Clerk and
the hearing officer with any materials they would like the hearing officer to
consider within 15 court days of receiving the agency file in a manner
described in Division 3. The hearing officer shall not consider any materials
that fail to comply with these requirements.
      (2)   Hearing officer's decision for in-person hearings.
         (a)   The hearing officer's decision shall be titled "Administrative
Order."
         (b)   The hearing officer shall review the requester's written
declaration, the agency file, and any materials provided by the requester
submitted in compliance with th is chapter.
         (c)   Within 60 court days of receiving the agency file, the hearing
officer shall issue a written decision.
         (d)   The decision shall set forth the reasons for the decision along
with notice of the right to appeal pursuant to this chapter.
         (e)   The decision shall be served in a manner described in Division 3
of this chapter. The failure to receive a decision properly served in
accordance with a method described in Division 3 shall not invalidate the
administrative hearing officer's decision.
         (f)   If the hearing officer upholds an administrative citation, the
administrative fines shall be due in the time set forth in the written decision
but no later than 60 calendar days from the date of the decision.
         (g)   If the hearing officer dismisses the administrative citation,
the city shall retain the authority to issue additional administrative
citations for additional violations, or to take any other enforcement action
authorized by law.
         (h)   With regard to rulings related to a responsible party's
compliance with the requirements of a compliance order. The hearing officer's
written decision shall include a section titled "Compliance Order Findings."
Under the "Compliance Order Findings" section the hearing officer shall make
findings regarding the existence of the violation(s) specified in the
compliance order, and regarding whether the responsible person took the
required corrective action within the time period set forth in the compliance
order. If the hearing officer concludes that the violation continues to exist,
the administrative order shall set forth a schedule for correction. In
addition, the administrative order shall impose administrative fines and costs
as provided for in this chapter. The administrative order shall set a deadline
for compliance with its terms in the event that the responsible person fails to
file an appeal. If the hearing officer determines that the violation(s) set
forth in the compliance order did not exist, or that the violation(s) was
(were) timely corrected, all proceedings regarding the violation(s) shall
immediately cease and the administrative citations shall be dismissed.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.08.06. RIGHT OF JUDICIAL REVIEW OF HEARING OFFICER DECISION.
   (A)   Right of judicial review of hearing officer decision.
      (1)   Within 20 days after service of the hearing officer's decision upon
the responsible person, the responsible person may seek review of the
administrative decision by filing an appeal with the Superior Court of the
State of California, in the County of Riverside, in accordance with California
Government Code § 53069.4.
      (2)   A copy of the notice of appeal shall be served in person or by
first-class mail upon the local agency by the responsible person.
      (3)   If no notice of appeal of the final administrative order or
decision is filed within the period set forth in California Government Code §
53069.4, the order or decision shall be deemed confirmed.
   (B)   Hearing officer.
      (1)   Selection of hearing officer.
         (a)   The City Manager is authorized to develop and implement policies
and procedures relating to the qualifications, appointment and compensation of
hearing officers, hearing officer powers, hearing procedures, scope of the
hearing, and other matters relating to administrative enforcement hearings. The
City Manager shall promulgate rules and procedures as are necessary to
establish a list of qualified persons who are capable of acting on behalf of
the city as hearing officers. The hearing officers shall be appointed by
resolution of the City Council. Any person designated to serve as an
enforcement hearing officer is subject to disqualification for bias, prejudice,
conflict of interest, or for any other reason for which a judge may be
disqualified in a court of law.
      (2)   Disqualification of hearing officer.
         (a)   The enforcement hearing officer may continue a hearing based on
one of the parties showing good cause at the hearing, or if the hearing officer
independently determines that due process has not been adequately afforded.
      (3)   Power of hearing officer.
         (a)   The enforcement hearing officer shall retain jurisdiction over
the subject matter of an administrative enforcement hearing for the purposes of
granting a continuance, ensuring compliance with an administrative enforcement
order, modifying an administrative enforcement order, or where extraordinary
circumstances exist, granting a new hearing.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.08.07. PENALTIES ASSESSED .
   (A)   If the responsible person fails to correct the violation, subsequent
administrative citations may be issued for the same violation. The amount of
the penalty shall increase at a rate specified in this division in accordance
with California Government Code § 53069.4 and § 36900.
   (B)   Penalties for general violations.
      (1)   Every violation determined to be an infraction of the City of Indio
Municipal Code that is not subject to another fine schedule is punishable by
the following:
         (a)   A fine not exceeding $100 for a first violation.
         (b)   A fine not exceeding $200 for a second violation of the same
ordinance within one year.
         (c)   A fine not exceeding $500 for each additional violation of the
same ordinance within one year.
   (C)   Penalties for building and safety code violations.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other law, violations of the City of Indio
building and safety codes are determined to be infractions and are punishable
by the following:
         (a)   A fine not exceeding $130 for a first violation.
         (b)   A fine not exceeding $700 for a second violation of the same
ordinance within one year.
         (c)   A fine not exceeding $1,300 for each additional violation of the
same ordinance within one year of the first violation.
         (d)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for each additional violation of the
same ordinance within two years of the first violation if the property is a
commercial property that has an existing building at the time of the violation
and the violation is due to failure by the owner to remove visible refuse or
failure to prohibit unauthorized use of the property.
   (D)   Penalties for short-term rental violations.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other law, including subdivisions (2) and (3),
a violation of the City of Indio short-term rental ordinance that is an
infraction is punishable by the following:
         (a)   A fine not exceeding $1,000 for a first violation.
         (b)   A fine not exceeding $2,000 for a second violation of the same
ordinance within one year.
         (c)   A fine not exceeding $3,000 for each additional violation of the
same ordinance within one year of the first violation.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, "short-term rental" means a
residential dwelling, or any portion of a residential dwelling, that is rented
to a person or persons for 30 consecutive days or less.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, "residential dwelling" means a
private structure that is designed and available, pursuant to applicable law,
for use and occupancy by one or more individuals. "Residential dwelling" does
not include a commercially operated hotel, motel, bed and breakfast inn, or a
time-share property as defined by subdivision (aa) of § 11212 of the Business
and Professions Code.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.08.08. FAILURE TO PAY PENALTIES.
   The failure of any person to pay the administrative fines assessed by an
administrative citation within the time specified on the citation may result in
the enforcement official referring the matter to the City Finance Director to
file a claim with the small claims court. Alternatively, the enforcement
official may pursue any other legal remedy to collect the administrative fines
as provided in Division 16.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.08.09. ALLOCATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   Administrative fines collected pursuant to this division shall be deposited
in the code enforcement civil penalties fund established pursuant to Division
16.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
DIVISION 9. SUMMARY ABATEMENT
§ 12.09.01. DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that its purpose in adopting this division and
Division 10 is to establish a procedure for the summary abatement of public
nuisances and code violations. The procedures established herein are in
addition to any other legal remedy, criminal or civil, established by law which
may be pursued to address City of Indio Municipal Code or applicable state code
violations.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.09.02. SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   This division governs the procedures relating to summary abatement of public
nuisances.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.09.03. AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Whenever an enforcement official determines that an imminent life
safety hazard exists that requires immediate correction or elimination, the
enforcement official may exercise the following powers without prior notice to
the responsible person:
      (1)   Order the immediate vacation of any occupants and prohibit
occupancy until all repairs are completed. Violation of the enforcement
official's order of immediate vacation and prohibition of occupancy shall
constitute a misdemeanor;
      (2)   Post the premises as unsafe, substandard or dangerous;
      (3)   Board, fence or secure the building or site;
      (4)   Raze and grade that portion of the building or site to prevent
further collapse and remove any hazard to the general public;
      (5)   Make any minimal emergency repairs as necessary to eliminate any
imminent life safety hazard; and
      (6)   Take any other action as appropriate under the circumstances.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.09.04. PROCEDURES.
   (A)   An enforcement official shall pursue only the minimum level of
correction or abatement as necessary to eliminate the immediacy of the hazard.
Costs incurred by the city during the summary abatement process shall be
assessed and recovered against the responsible person or property owner through
the procedures outlined in §
12.10.04.
   (B)   The enforcement official may also pursue any administrative or
judicial remedy to abate any remaining public nuisance.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
DIVISION 10. ADMINISTRATIVE ABATEMENT
§ 12.10.01. DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that its purpose in adopting this division and
Division 9 is to establish a procedure for the abatement of public nuisances
and code violations. The procedures established in these sections are in
addition to any other legal remedy, criminal or civil, established by law which
may be pursued to address the City of Indio Municipal Code or applicable state
code violations.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.10.02. AUTHORITY.
   Any condition caused, maintained or permitted to exist in violation of any
provisions of the City of Indio Municipal Code or applicable state codes which
constitutes a public nuisance but which does not constitute an imminent life
safety hazard may be abated by the city pursuant to the procedures set forth in
this division.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.10.03. GENERAL PROCEDURES AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Abatement notice.
      (1)   Whenever an enforcement official determines that public or private
property or any portion of public or private property is a public nuisance as
generally defined in Division 1 or as declared in a specific section of the
City of Indio Municipal Code or applicable state codes, an abatement notice may
be issued to the responsible person or property owner to abate the public
nuisance.
      (2)   The abatement notice shall contain a description of the property in
general terms reasonably sufficient to identify the location of the property.
It shall refer to the City of Indio Municipal Code or applicable state code
violations which render the property a public nuisance.
      (3)   The abatement notice shall describe the action required to abate
the public nuisance which may include corrections, repairs, demolition,
removal, obtaining the necessary permits, vacation of tenants or other
appropriate action and shall establish deadlines by which each action must
occur.
      (4)   The abatement notice shall explain the consequences should the
responsible person fail to comply with the terms of the notice.
      (5)   The abatement notice shall identify all applicable hearing and
appeal rights.
   (B)   Service of abatement notice. The abatement notice shall be served by
any one of the methods of service listed in Division 3.
   (C)   The enforcement official shall establish a reasonable time frame for
compliance based on the nature and severity of the nuisance. The time frame
shall normally be ten days for a nuisance that does not involve an imminent
threat to public health and safety.
   (D)   Right to appeal.
      (1)   The responsible person may appeal the abatement notice within ten
calendar days from the date of service of the abatement notice by filing a
written request to appeal to an enforcement official.
      (2)   Upon receiving a written request to appeal an abatement notice, an
enforcement official shall follow the procedures set forth in Divisions 11 and
12 and request the enforcement hearing officer to schedule a hearing to hear
any objections why abatement should not be ordered and effected.
      (3)   Abatement shall not proceed until the enforcement hearing officer
issues an order after an appeal by the responsible person or an appeal has not
been timely filed, unless the enforcement hearing officer concludes that an
imminent threat to the public's health and safety exists.
      (4)   If the enforcement hearing officer issues an order confirming the
existence of a public nuisance, the city may immediately abate the public
nuisance pursuant to the procedures set forth in §
12.10.04. of this division. The hearing officer's decision is the final
administrative decision and shall become effective upon the date of issuance by
the enforcement hearing officer.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.10.04. ABATEMENT OF A PUBLIC NUISANCE BY THE CITY.
   (A)   Once an enforcement official follows the procedures set forth in §
12.10.03 of this division and obtains authorization to abate a public nuisance,
the public nuisance may be abated by city personnel or by a private contractor.
   (B)   City personnel or a private contractor can enter upon private property
in a reasonable manner to abate the public nuisance as specified in the
abatement notice or abatement order. Interference with the city's abatement of
the public nuisance by a property owner or responsible person shall constitute
a misdemeanor.
   (C)   When abatement is completed, a report describing the work performed
and an itemized account of the total abatement costs shall be prepared by the
enforcement official. The report shall contain the names and addresses of the
responsible persons or property owners of each parcel, the tax assessor's
parcel number and a legal description of the property.
   (D)   The enforcement official shall request the hearing officer to schedule
a confirmation of costs hearing, unless waived in writing by all responsible
persons.
   (E)   All administrative and actual costs incurred by the city in abating
the public nuisance may be assessed and recovered against the responsible
person.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
DIVISION 11. ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT APPEALS
§ 12.11.01. APPEAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A person served with one of the following documents, orders or notices
may file an appeal within ten calendar days from the date of service:
      (1)   Any administrative abatement or civil penalties notice and order;
      (2)   A letter from an enforcement official indicating an intent to
record a notice of violation.
   (B)   The appeal shall be made in writing and filed with the City Clerk.
   (C)   The appeal shall be accompanied by an appeal fee in an amount
established by resolution of the City Council.
   (D)   The receipt of a written appeal shall stay all actions, or put in
abeyance all approvals or permits which may have been granted, pending the
effective date of the decision of the body hearing the appeal. Upon the filing
of a proper appeal fines shall cease to be imposed unless such cessation would
result in the co0tinuation of a life, health, or safety risk.
   (E)   After receiving the written notice of appeal, the enforcement official
shall request an administrative enforcement hearing officer to schedule a date,
time, and place for the hearing.
   (F)   Written notice of the date, time and place of the hearing shall be
served at least ten calendar days prior to the date of the hearing on the
person appealing the notice by any one of the methods listed in Division 3.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.11.02. APPEAL HEARING.
   (A)   The appeal hearing shall be conducted pursuant to the administrative
enforcement hearing procedures set forth in Division 12.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.11.03. FAILURE TO ATTEND AN ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING.
   (A)   Failure to attend the administrative enforcement hearing by the
appellant shall constitute a waiver of their rights to an administrative
enforcement hearing and administrative adjudication of the notice or any
portion of the notice.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
DIVISION 12. ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING PROCEDURES
§ 12.12.01. DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   This division establishes the procedures for conducting administrative
enforcement hearings.
   (B)   The City Council finds that there is a need to establish a uniform
procedure for administrative enforcement hearings conducted pursuant to the
City of Indio Municipal Code. It is the purpose and intent of the City Council
to afford due process of law to any person who is directly affected by an
administrative action. Due process of law includes: adequate notice, an
opportunity to participate in the administrative hearing and an adequate
explanation of the reasons justifying the administrative action. These
procedures are also intended to establish a forum to efficiently, expeditiously
and fairly resolve issues raised in any administrative enforcement action.
   (C)   The City Manager is authorized to develop and implement policies and
procedures relating to the qualifications, appointment and compensation of
hearing officers, hearing officer powers, hearing procedures, scope of the
hearing, and other matters relating to administrative enforcement hearings. The
City Manager shall promulgate rules and procedures as are necessary to
establish a list of qualified persons who are capable of acting on behalf of
the city as hearing officers. The hearing officers shall be appointed by
resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.12.02. PROCEDURES FOR NOTIFICATION OF ENFORCEMENT HEARING.
   (A)   Where an administrative enforcement remedy or proceeding authorized by
this title provides for an enforcement hearing, the enforcement official may
request a hearing officer to schedule a day, time and place for the hearing.
   (B)   Written notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be served at
least ten calendar days prior to the date of the hearing to the responsible
person or property owner.
   (C)   The format and contents of the hearing notice shall be in accordance
with rules and policies promulgated by the City Manager.
   (D)   The notice of hearing shall be served by any of the methods of service
listed in Division 3.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.12.03. DISQUALIFICATION OF ENFORCEMENT HEARING OFFICER.
   Any person designated to serve as an enforcement hearing officer is subject
to disqualification for bias, prejudice, conflict of interest, or for any other
reason for which a judge may be disqualified in a court of law.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.12.04. POWERS OF ENFORCEMENT HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   The enforcement hearing officer may continue a hearing based on good
cause shown by one of the parties to the hearing or if the hearing officer
independently determines that due process has not been adequately afforded.
   (B)    The enforcement hearing officer shall retain jurisdiction over the
subject matter of an administrative enforcement hearing for the purposes of
granting a continuance, ensuring compliance with an administrative enforcement
order, modifying an administrative enforcement order, or where extraordinary
circumstances exist, granting a new hearing.
   (C)   The enforcement hearing officer has the authority to require a
responsible person to post a code enforcement performance bond to ensure
compliance with an administrative enforcement order. Procedures for the use of
a code enforcement performance bond shall be promulgated by the City Manager.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.12.05. PROCEDURES AT ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING.
   (A)   Administrative enforcement hearings are intended to be informal in
nature. Formal rules of evidence and discovery do not apply. The procedure and
format of the administrative hearing shall be promulgated by the City Manager.
   (B)   The city bears the burden of proof at an administrative enforcement
hearing or a nuisance abatement hearing to establish the existence of a
violation of the City of Indio Municipal Code or applicable state code, or to
establish the existence of a public nuisance.
   (C)   The standard of proof to be used by the enforcement hearing officer in
deciding the issues at an administrative hearing is a preponderance of the
evidence standard.
   (D)   Each party shall have the opportunity to cross-examine witnesses and
present evidence in support of their case.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.12.06. FAILURE TO ATTEND ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING.
   Any party whose property or actions are the subject of an administrative
enforcement hearing and who fails to appear at the hearing is deemed to waive
the right to a hearing and to an adjudication of the issues related to the
hearing, provided that proper notice of the hearing has been provided.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.12.07. ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT ORDER.
   (A)   The decision of the enforcement hearing officer shall be made within
ten days of the hearing, entitled "Administrative Enforcement Order" and be
issued in accordance with the rules and procedures promulgated by the city
manager.
   (B)   The “Administrative Enforcement Order” shall be served on all parties
by any one of the methods listed in Division 3 of this code.
   (C)   The “Administrative Enforcement Order” shall become final on the date
of service of the order.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.12.08. JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Judicial review of an “Administrative Enforcement Order” may be sought
pursuant to a writ of administrative mandamus. Once an administrative
enforcement order becomes final as provided in this division, the time in which
judicial review of the order must be sought shall be governed by California
Code of Civil Procedure § 1094.6 except as otherwise specifically provided
elsewhere in this code.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.12.09. FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT ORDER.
   It is unlawful for any party to an administrative enforcement hearing who
has been served with a copy of the final Administrative Enforcement Order to
fail to comply with the order. Failure to comply with a final administrative
enforcement order may be prosecuted as an infraction or a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
DIVISION 13. RECOVERY OF CIVIL PENAL TIES, ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS AND ABATEMENT
COSTS
§ 12.13.01. DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that, in addition to the filing of civil collection
actions by the City Attorney, the use of nuisance abatement liens collected as
personal obligations against property owners and the use of special assessments
on real property will assist in the collection of civil penalties, abatement
costs, administrative costs, re-inspection fees and late fees assessed pursuant
to administrative citations, administrative hearings, judicial orders and other
appropriate code enforcement actions. The City Council further finds that
collection of civil penalties, costs and fees assessed for code enforcement
violations is important in deterring future violations and maintaining the
integrity of the city's code enforcement system. The city has the authority to
make the expense of enforcement actions and abatement of any nuisance a lien
against the property on which it is maintained and a personal obligation
against the property owner, in accordance with California Government Code §
38773.1; or, in the alternative, the city has the authority to make the cost of
abatement of a nuisance upon a parcel of land a special assessment against that
parcel, in accordance with California Government Code § 38773.5. The procedures
established in this division shall be used to complement existing
administrative or judicial remedies which may be pursued to address violations
of the City of Indio Municipal Code or applicable state codes.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.13.02. PROCEDURES FOR RECOVERING COSTS.
   This division governs the procedures for recovery of all administrative and
actual costs incurred by the city in the recovery of civil penalties, in the
abatement of a public nuisance, and for recordation and recovery of costs of
enforcing nuisance abatement liens pursuant to the procedures and authority
found in the California Government Code. The provisions of Government Code §§
38771-38773.5 and any amendments to those sections are hereby incorporated by
reference and made a part of this division.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.13.03. RECOVERY OF CIVIL PENALTIES.
   The enforcement official may collect all civil penalties and related
administrative costs by the use of all appropriate legal means, including
referral to the Finance Director or City Attorney.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.13.04. AUTHORITY TO IMPOSE LIEN/SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   Whenever the amount of any nuisance abatement charge, administrative
penalty, administrative cost, or other debt incurred by the city in connection
with real property has not been satisfied in full within 90 days and/or has not
been successfully challenged by a timely writ of mandate, this obligation may
constitute a lien or, in the alternative, a special assessment against the real
property on which the violation occurred.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.13.05. RECOVERY AS A LIEN ON PROPERTY.
   (A)   In addition to constituting a personal financial obligation of the
person or persons responsible therefor, any nuisance abatement charge,
administrative penalty, administrative cost, administrative citation or other
debt imposed by the city in connection with real property may be recovered by
recordation of a lien against the subject real property.
   (B)   Upon determination by the City Manager or his designee that the
nuisance abatement charge, administrative penalty, administrative cost, or
other debt imposed by the city has not been satisfied in full within 90 days of
the date it was imposed, the City Manager or his designee shall recommend that
the City Council adopt a resolution confirming imposition of the debt and
approving the filing of a lien against the subject real property. Before taking
these actions, however, the City Manager or his designee shall wait until any
timely filed writ of mandate challenging the penalty/cost/charge/debt is
disposed of by a court of law.
   (C)   The resolution shall state the amounts due and owing, the name of the
agency imposing the lien City of Indio, the date of the order or other notice
describing the property violation or nuisance in question, the street address
and assessor's parcel number of the subject property, and the name and address
of the recorded owner of the property.
   (D)   A copy of the resolution shall be served on the property owner, along
with notice to the property owner that a lien in the amounts stated in the
resolution will be filed against the subject property in the Riverside County
Recorder's Office.
   (E)   The notice set forth in subsection (D) shall be served in the same
manner as a summons in a civil action in accordance with the Code of Civil
Procedure § 415.10 et seq. If the owner of record cannot be found after
diligent search, then the notice shall be served by posting a copy thereof in a
conspicuous place upon the property for a period of ten days and publication
thereof in a newspaper of general circulation published in Riverside County.
   (F)   Following proper notice to the owner of record as provided in
subsection (E), the resolution and notice shall be recorded as a lien with the
county recorder. Once recorded, the resolution and notice shall have the force
and effect and priority of a judgment lien governed by the provisions of Code
of Civil Procedure § 697.340 and may be extended as provided in Code of Civil
Procedure §§ 683.110-683.220, inclusive.
   (G)   The interest rate set for money judgments in Code of Civil Procedure §
685.010 shall accrue on the principal amount of the lien until satisfied
pursuant to law.
   (H)   A lien pursuant to this section may be foreclosed by an action brought
by the city for a money judgment.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.13.06. RECOVERY OF COSTS BY SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   As an alternative to the procedure above in this division, there is
hereby established a procedure for making any nuisance abatement charge,
administrative penalty, administrative cost or other debt imposed by the city
in connection with real property a special assessment against the subject real
property.
   (B)   Upon determination by the City Manager or his designee that the
nuisance abatement charge, administrative penalty, administrative cost, or
other debt incurred by the city has not been satisfied in full within 90 days
of the date it was imposed and/or has not been successfully challenged by a
timely writ of mandate, the City Manager or his designee shall recommend that
the City Council adopt a resolution confirming imposition of the debt and
approving the filing of a special assessment against the subject real property.
Before taking these actions, however, the City Manager or his designee shall
wait until any timely filed writ of mandate challenging the penalty/cost/
charge/debt is disposed of by a court of law.
   (C)   The resolution shall state the amounts due and owing, the name of the
agency imposing the special assessment City of Indio, the date of the order or
other notice describing the property violation or nuisance in question, the
street address and assessor's parcel number of the subject property, and the
name and address of the recorded owner of the property.
   (D)    A copy of the resolution shall be served on the property owner, along
with notice that the property may be sold after five years by the tax collector
for unpaid delinquent assessments. If the owner of record cannot be found after
diligent search, then the notice shall be served by posting a copy thereof in a
conspicuous place upon the property for a period of ten days and publication
thereof in a newspaper of general circulation published in Riverside County.
The tax collector's power of sale shall not be affected by the failure of the
property owner to receive notice.
   (E)   The assessment may be collected at the same time and1in the same
manner as ordinary municipal taxes are collected, and shall be subject to the
same penalties and the same procedure and sale in case of delinquency as
provided for ordinary municipal taxes. All laws applicable to the levy,
collection, and enforcement of municipal taxes shall be applicable to the
special assessment. However if any real property to which the assessment
relates has been transferred or conveyed to a bona fide purchaser for value, or
if a lien of a bona fide encumbrance for value has been created and attaches
thereon, prior to the date on which the first installment of the taxes would
become delinquent, then the assessment shall not result in a lien against the
real property but instead shall be transferred to the unsecured roll for
collection.
   (F)   The interest rate set for money judgments in Code of Civil Procedure §
685.010 shall accrue on the principal amount of the lien until satisfied
pursuant to law.
   (G)    The city may, subject to the requirements applicable to the sale of
property pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code § 3691, conduct a sale of vacant
residential developed property for which the payment of the assessment is
delinquent.
   (H)   The resolution adopted by the City Council under this section shall be
entitled to recordation.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.13.07. REPAYMENT TO CODE ENFORCEMENT CIVIL PENALTIES FUND.
   All monies recovered by payment of the charge or assessment or from the sale
or transfer of the property shall be remitted to the City Finance Director who
shall credit the appropriate amount to the code enforcement civil penalties
fund provided for in Division 16, or alternatively use the monies to reimburse
the department responsible for the subject code enforcement action where
appropriate.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.13.08. SATISFACTION OF LIEN/SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Once payment in full is received by the city for the outstanding debt,
the Finance Director or his designee shall:
      (1)   With respect to a lien, either record a notice of satisfaction or
provide the property owner or financial institution with a notice of
satisfaction so they may record this notice with the County Recorder. Such
notice of satisfaction shall cancel the city's lien; and
      (2)   With respect to a special assessment, provide written notice to the
tax collector that the special assessment amount has been paid in full and
should no longer be imposed against the subject property. Such written notice
shall cancel the city's special assessment.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
DIVISION 14. ATTORNEYS' FEES AND COSTS
§ 12.14.01. DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
   The City Council hereby finds that there is a need to recover costs and fees
incurred by the city to abate public nuisances. The City Council further finds
that the recovery of attorneys' fees in nuisance abatement actions and
proceedings will further the strong public policy of encouraging the abatement
of public nuisances in the city, will facilitate the city's efforts to maintain
effective and efficient nuisance abatement programs within the city and will,
accordingly, serve as an effective deterrent to the maintenance of public
nuisances.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.14.02. RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   Pursuant to California Government Code § 38773.5, or its successor statutes,
in any action, administrative proceeding or special proceeding to abate a
public nuisance wherein the city elects at the initiation of the action or
proceeding to seek recovery of its attorneys' fees, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover the amount of its reasonable attorneys' fees incurred in
the action or proceeding.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
DIVISION 15. CODE ENFORCEMENT COST RECOVERY
§ 12.15.01. CODE ENFORCEMENT COSTS.
   This division governs the general procedures for recovering code compliance
costs incurred by the city unless other provisions of this code establish
another specific procedure for a particular type of code compliance cost
recovery.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.15.02. DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds there is a need to recover costs, including legal
costs, incurred by enforcement officials and other city personnel, who spend
considerable time and resources in an effort to ensure that compliance with the
City of Indio Municipal Code or applicable state codes has been obtained.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.15.03. AUTHORIZATION.
   Whenever an enforcement official determines a property to be in violation of
provisions of the City of Indio Municipal Code or applicable state codes and
those violations have been listed in a notice of violation, the enforcement
official shall assess code enforcement costs against the responsible person or
property owner.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.15.04. ASSESSMENT OF CODE ENFORCEMENT COSTS.
   A code compliance cost fee schedule shall be established and revised as
necessary by the City Council to reflect current actual costs. The fee schedule
shall be filed in, and available for public review at, the City Clerk's office.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.15.05. NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT OF CODE ENFORCEMENT COSTS.
   (A)   Where the assessment of code enforcement costs is authorized under
this division, the appropriate city enforcement official shall provide the
responsible person with a written notice of the amount of costs assessed. The
written notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   An itemized list of the amounts charged;
      (2)   The corresponding dates when code enforcement costs were incurred;
      (3)   A deadline by which the costs must be paid; and
      (4)   Notice that additional fees may be charged for late payment.
   (B)   Service of notice of the code enforcement cost assessment shall be
provided to the responsible person or property owner by any of the means
outlined in Division 3.
   (C)   Code enforcement costs may be assessed as part of any judicial or
administrative enforcement action as provided for in this division.
   (D)   The failure of any responsible person or property owner to receive
notice of the code enforcement cost assessment shall not affect the validity of
any costs imposed under this division.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.15.06. FAILURE TO PAY CODE ENFORCEMENT COSTS.
   The failure of any person to pay code enforcement cost assessment by the
deadline specified in the written notice shall result in the assessment of an
additional late fee. The amount of the late fee shall be established by the
City Council.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.15.07. COLLECTION OF CODE ENFORCEMENT COSTS.
   The enforcement official shall collect the assessed code enforcement costs
and late fees by the use of all appropriate legal means, including but not
limited to referral to the City Finance Department or City Attorney for
collection or by lien or special assessment pursuant to Division 13.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.15.08. PAYMENT TO CODE ENFORCEMENT CIVIL PENALTIES AND COST RECOVERY FUND.
   All code enforcement costs and late fees recovered shall be remitted to the
City Finance Director who shall credit the appropriate amount to the code
enforcement civil penalties fund provided for in Division 16, or alternatively
use the monies to reimburse the department responsible for the subject code
enforcement action where appropriate.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
DIVISION 16. CODE ENFORCEMENT CIVIL PENALTIES AND COST RECOVERY FUND
§ 12.16.01. DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that there is a need to create and maintain a funding
source for the administration and operation of code enforcement activities in
the city. In order to effectively administer such activities as nuisance
abatement, inspections and re-inspections, imposition of liens and special
assessments on real property, administrative hearings related thereto,
departmental code enforcement cost reimbursement, and other activities to
enhance and improve code enforcement for the public safety and welfare, the
establishment of a code enforcement civil penalties and cost recovery fund is
essential.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.16.02. ESTABLISHMENT OF CODE ENFORCEMENT CIVIL PENALTIES AND COST RECOVERY
FUND.
   There shall be established a code enforcement civil penalties and cost
recovery fund which shall be administered by the Finance Director and shall
consist of all monies collected by the imposition of fines, civil penalties,
nuisance abatement recovery monies and all other costs and reimbursements
recovered by code enforcement actions.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.16.03. USE OF FUNDS.
   All funds collected from code enforcement actions shall be deposited into a
separate fund and used for the supplemental financing of code enforcement
programs or, where appropriate, to reimburse the department responsible for the
subject code enforcement action.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
DIVISION 17. PRIVATE NUISANCE ABATEMENT
§ 12.17.01. PRIVATE NUISANCE.
   No person on private property shall engage in any activity or create any
condition which unreasonably disturbs, or would tend to unreasonably disturb, a
person of reasonable sensibilities on private property in the same vicinity, or
which is so harsh, prolonged, unnatural or unusual in use, time or place as to
cause physical discomfort to such person on private property in the same
vicinity, if the disturbing activity or condition can be eliminated or
ameliorated with reasonable accommodation on the part of the disturbing party.
As used in this division, an unreasonably disturbing activity or condition
shall include the emission of harsh, prolonged or unusual lighting from
privately owned property, the emission of unreasonably loud, prolonged or
unusual noise from privately owned property, or the emission of noxious, foul
or nauseating odors, vapors, smoke or fumes from privately owned property.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 12.17 .02. PRIVATE NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Subject to the requirement of subsection (B), any person who is
unreasonably disturbed, or whose property is damaged, by private nuisance
activity or a private nuisance condition existing on private property as
defined in §
12.17.01(A) may bring a private nuisance cause of action for damages and/or
injunctive relief to abate that private nuisance.
   (B)   Any person who intends to institute a private nuisance lawsuit
pursuant to subsection (A) shall first attempt to informally resolve the
dispute with the person or persons allegedly responsible for the nuisance
including, if agreed to by the person allegedly responsible for the nuisance,
submitting the dispute to mediation. If mediation is not successful or if the
person allegedly responsible for the nuisance does not agree to mediation, a
private nuisance lawsuit pursuant to subsection (A) may be initiated.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   CITY COUNCIL
         
31.   CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
         
32.   CITY COMMISSIONS
         
33.   FINANCE; PURCHASING
         
34.   TAXATION
         
35.   DISASTER RELIEF
         
36.   CLAIM PRESENTATION
         
37.   REGULATION OF SHORT-TERM RENTALS
         
38.   ELECTRONIC FILING
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   City Hall designated; use
   
30.02   Compensation
   
30.03   Dealing with administrative services through City Manager
Elections
   
30.15   Filing fee required
   
30.16   Payment of fee
   
30.17   Deposit of fee to General Fund
   
30.18   Elections to be held in even-numbered years
   
30.19   City Council districts established
   
30.20   Election of members of the City Council by district
   
30.21   Commencement of district elections
   
30.22   Adjustment of Council district boundaries
Meetings
   
30.30   Regular meetings
   
30.31   Special meetings
   
30.32   Emergency meetings
   
30.33   Adjourned meetings
   
30.34   Meetings to be public; exceptions; closed sessions
   
30.35   Meetings to be held within city limits; exceptions
   
30.36   Quorum
   
30.37   Council agenda
   
30.38   Mailing notices of meetings and copies of agendas to members of the
public; City Manager duties; Deputy City Clerk duties
   
30.39   Presiding officer
   
30.40   Conduct of business
   
30.41   Call to order
   
30.42   Roll call
   
30.43   Reading of minutes
   
30.44   Minutes
   
30.45   Distribution of minutes
   
30.46   Recording of minutes
   
30.47   Consent calendar
   
30.48   Gaining the floor by council members
   
30.49   Questions to the staff
   
30.50   Council member statements
   
30.51   Points of order
   
30.52   Point of personal privilege
   
30.53   Privilege of closing debate
   
30.54   Calling the question
   
30.55   Protest against council action
   
30.56   Request to address the council on agenda items other than items listed
for public hearing
   
30.57   Opportunity for public to address the council on non-agenda items;
"Public Comment"
   
30.58   Decorum and order; Council and city staff
   
30.59   Decorum and order; audience
   
30.60   Enforcement of decorum
   
30.61   Voting procedures
   
30.62   Request for determination of conflict of interest
   
30.63   Failure to vote
   
30.64   Tie vote
   
30.65   Changing vote
   
30.66   Reconsideration
   
30.67   Public hearings; when held
   
30.68   Public hearings; procedure
   
30.69   Public hearings; evidence
   
30.70   Public hearings; continuation
   
30.71   Public hearings; closing
   
30.72   Public hearings; reopening
   
30.73   Public hearings; decision
   
30.74   Motions
   
30.75   Precedence of motions
   
30.76   Particular motions, purpose and criteria
   
30.77   Legislative action
   
30.78   Preparation of ordinances
   
30.79   Procedure for adoption of ordinances
   
30.80   Resolutions
   
30.81   Resolutions; adoption
   
30.82   Ralph M. Brown Act
   
30.83   Correspondence addressed to the City Council; authority of City
Manager, City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk; treatment at meetings
   
30.84   Correspondence to council members
   
30.85   Public inspection of written materials distributed for discussion or
consideration at meetings
   
30.86   Confidential communications
   
30.87   Council policy manual
   
30.88   Failure to observe procedure; waiver
   
30.89   Appeals procedure
   
30.90   Administrative hearings procedure
   
30.91   Administration of oath
 
   
30.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 CITY HALL DESIGNATED; USE.
   The City Hall is that building at 100 Civic Center Mall, and the City Hall
so designated is declared the official place for the transaction of all
official business of the city.
('61 Code, § 2.3) (Ord. 41, passed - -; Am. Ord. 695, passed - -)
§ 30.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is enacted pursuant to § 36516 of the Government
Code, which authorizes the City Council to provide by ordinance that each
Councilmember may receive compensation based upon the population of the city.
   (B)   Population.
      (1)   Section 36516(a)(3) of the Government Code states that “... the
population of a city shall be determined by the last preceding federal
census...”
      (2)   On April 1, 2020, the federal census determined that the population
of the city is 89,137.
   (C)   Compensation. The compensation for each Councilmember shall be $1,900
per month. The compensation is payable at the same time and in the same manner
as the compensation paid to each of the officers and employees of the city. Any
amounts paid for retirement, health and welfare, and federal social security
benefits, as well as amounts paid by the city to reimburse a Councilmember for
actual and necessary expenses, shall not be included for purposes of
determining compensation.
   (D)   Pursuant to Government Code § 36515.5 and Senate Bill 329, the above
amendment to Councilmember salary shall be effective when at least one member
of the City Council commences a new term on or after the effective date of this
section.
(Ord. 1807, passed 2-21-24)
§ 30.03 DEALING WITH ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES THROUGH CITY MANAGER.
   The City Council and its members shall deal with the administrative services
of the city only through the City Manager, except for the purpose of inquiry,
and neither the Council nor any members thereof shall give orders to any
subordinates of the City Manager.
('61 Code, § 2.16) (Ord. 182, passed - - )
Cross-reference:
   City Manager, see §§
31.45 through 31.56
ELECTIONS
§ 30.15 FILING FEE REQUIRED.
   A filing fee of $25 is established for candidate's nomination papers for
elective offices at municipal elections held in the city.
('61 Code, § 2.88) (Ord. 661, passed - - )
§ 30.16 PAYMENT OF FEE.
   The filing fee required by §
30.15 shall be paid to the City Clerk by each candidate for an elective office
at the time the candidate's nomination paper is filed with the Clerk.
('61 Code, § 2.89) (Ord. 661, passed - - )
§ 30.17 DEPOSIT OF FEE TO GENERAL FUND.
   The City Clerk shall pay to the City Treasurer all fees received in
accordance with this subchapter, which shall be deposited in the General Fund.
('61 Code, § 2.90) (Ord. 661, passed - - )
§ 30.18 ELECTIONS TO BE HELD IN EVEN-NUMBERED YEARS.
   (A)   In accordance with Cal. Gov't Code § 36503.3, the city of hereby
changes the date of the general municipal election from November of odd-
numbered years to be consolidated with the statewide general election held in
November of even-numbered years.
   (B)   The terms of officeholders shall be extended as necessary, but not
more than twelve months
   (C)   The City Clerk is hereby ordered to cause a notice to be mailed to all
registered voters in the city, informing them of this change in the election of
officeholders.
   (D)   This section will become operative on the date of approval by the
Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 1313, passed 3-20-02)
§ 30.19 CITY COUNCIL DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   Five City Council districts are hereby established in the city. The
boundaries and identifying number of each district shall be as described on the
official “Council District Map” on file in the Office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1720, passed 9-20-17)
§ 30.20 ELECTION OF MEMBERS OF THE CITY COUNCIL BY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Commencing with the November 2018 general municipal election, members
of the City Council shall be elected "by District" as defined in Cal.
Government Code, § 34871. A person shall not be eligible to be elected to be a
member of the City Council unless he or she is otherwise qualified as required
by law, resides in the geographical area making up the district from which he
or she is nominated to be elected and is a registered voter of the City of
Indio at the time nomination papers are issued to the candidate as provided in
Cal. Elections Code, § 10227. No term of any member of the City Council that
commenced on or prior to the effective date of this Chapter shall be affected
prior to its expiration date.
   (B)   Registered voters signing nomination papers or voting for a member of
the City Council shall be residents of the geographical area making up the
district from which the member is to be elected.
   (C)   The terms of the office of each member elected to the City Council
shall be four years.
(Ord. 1720, passed 9-20-17)
§ 30.21 COMMENCEMENT OF DISTRICT ELECTIONS.
   Commencing with the general municipal election in November of 2018 and
thereafter, the voters in Council Districts 2, 3, and 4 shall elect members of
the City Council by district for full four year terms. At the general municipal
election in 2020 and thereafter, the voters in Council Districts 1 and 5 shall
elect members of the City Council by district for full four year terms.
(Ord. 1720, passed 9-20-17)
§ 30.22 ADJUSTMENT OF COUNCIL DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Pursuant to Elections Code, § 21601 the City Council shall adjust the
boundaries of any or all of the districts following each decennial federal
census. Using the census as a basis, the City Council shall adjust the
boundaries so that the districts shall be as nearly equal in population as
practicable and in compliance with all applicable provisions of law. Any
adjustment of district boundaries shall be made by ordinance adopted by the
City Council before the first day of November of the year following the year in
which each decennial Federal census is taken commencing with the 2020 Federal
census. The City Council shall hold a public hearing on the proposed district
boundaries as required by Cal. Election Code, § 21607 prior to the introduction
of an ordinance adjusting of the district boundaries,.
   (B)   At the time of any annexation of territory to the City, the City
Council shall designate, by resolution adopted by a vote of at least a majority
of the City Council, the contiguous district to which the annexed territory
shall be a part and shall amend the district boundaries if necessary in
accordance with Cal. Elections Code, § 21603.
   (C)   Pursuant to Cal. Elections Code, § 21606 the term of office of any
council member who has been elected and whose term of office has not expired
shall not be affected by any change in the boundaries of the district from
which he or she was elected.
   (D)   At the first election for council following adjustment of the
boundaries of the districts, a person meeting the requirements of Cal.
Government Code, § 34882 shall be elected to the City Council for each district
under the readjusted district plan that has the same district number as a
district whose incumbent's term on the council is due to expire.
(Ord. 1720, passed 9-20-17)
MEETINGS
§ 30.30 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The City Council shall hold regular meetings at a date and time
established by city council resolution in the council chambers at 150 Civic
Center Mall Indio, California.
   (B)   When the day for any regular meeting falls on a legal holiday such
meeting shall be held at the same hour and place on the next succeeding day not
a holiday or such other time as designated by the City Council.
   (C)   The City Council may hold adjourned or special meetings at such other
place as may be established in the notice of the adjourned or special meeting.
In event of an emergency, meetings may be held at any place designated pursuant
to Government Code Section 54956.5.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.31 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings may be called at any time by the Mayor, or by three members
of the City Council, directing the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk to prepare and
to deliver personally, or by mail, written notice of the special meeting to
each council member and to each local newspaper of general circulation, radio
or television station having filed written request for such notice. Such notice
shall be delivered personally or by mail at least 24 hours before the time of
such meeting as specified in the notice. The call and notice shall also be
posted at least 24 hours prior to the special meeting on the public information
board located in front of the council chambers. The call and notice shall
specify the time and place of the special meeting and the business to be
transacted. No other business shall be considered at such meetings. Such
written notice may be dispensed with as to any council member who at or prior
to the time the meeting convenes files with the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk a
written waiver of notice. Such waiver may be given by telegram or facsimile.
Such written notice may also be dispensed with as to any council member who is
actually present at the meeting at the time it convenes. The City Clerk/Deputy
City Clerk shall give the notices required by this section upon direction by
the Mayor or the members of the council calling the special meeting.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.32 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding anything in this code to the contrary, the City
Council may hold an emergency meeting pursuant to and in accordance with the
provisions of Section 54956.5 of the California Government Code.
   (B)   If by reason of fire, earthquake, flood or other emergency, it is
unsafe to meet in the council chambers, the meetings may be held for the
duration of the emergency at a place designated by the Mayor, or Mayor Pro Tem
if the Mayor is unavailable, or if he/she fails, or be unable, to act, by the
City Manager. Notice of the meeting place shall be given to the members of the
City Council, the City Manager, the City Attorney, the City Clerk/Deputy City
Clerk and to the local media that have filed with the City Clerk/Deputy City
Clerk a written request for notice of special meetings, by most rapid means of
communication available at the time. The failure of a person to receive notice
shall not affect the jurisdiction of the City Council.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.33 ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   All meetings may be adjourned to a time, place and date certain, but not
beyond the next regular meeting. Once adjourned, the meeting may not be
reconvened. Meetings may be adjourned by the Mayor by a simple declaration
thereof in the absence of a protest by any council member. Meetings may also be
adjourned upon the making and seconding of such a motion in accordance with the
procedures on motions established by this subchapter. If a quorum is not
present, less than a quorum may adjourn a meeting. If all members of the
council are absent, the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk may declare the meeting
adjourned to a stated time and place and shall cause a written notice of the
adjournment to be given in the same manner as provided in §
30.31 for special meetings. When any meeting is adjourned, the City Clerk/
Deputy City Clerk shall post notice of such adjournment on the council chamber
door within 24 hours after the time of the adjournment, unless sooner notice is
required by law. When a regular or adjourned regular meeting is adjourned as
provided in this section, the resulting meeting is a regular meeting for the
purpose of transacting business.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.34 MEETINGS TO BE PUBLIC; EXCEPTIONS; CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   All meetings of the City Council shall be open to the public provided
however, the City Council may hold closed sessions pursuant to state law.
   (B)   City council members who are disqualified from participation with
respect to a matter to be discussed in closed session shall be excluded from
the closed session and shall not knowingly receive any confidential
communications with respect thereto.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.35 MEETINGS TO BE HELD WITHIN CITY LIMITS; EXCEPTIONS.
   All meetings shall be held within the boundaries of the city except when a
meeting outside the city boundaries is authorized by Government Code Section
54954 (b) or (d). If a meeting is to be held outside of the boundaries of the
city, the posted agenda or notice calling the meeting shall state the place of
the meeting and the statutory ground for the meeting outside of the city.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.36 QUORUM.
   (A)   Three members of the council shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. Motions may be passed by a majority of the quorum but
ordinances and resolutions granting franchises or authorizing the payment of
money require at least three affirmative votes. Less than quorum may adjourn
from time to time. Where there is no quorum, the Mayor, Mayor Pro Tem or any
member of the council, in the absence of the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem, shall
adjourn such meeting, or if no member of the council is present, the City
Clerk/Deputy City Clerk shall adjourn the meeting.
   (B)   When a member of the council is disqualified due to a financial
conflict of interest from making, participating in making or using his/her
position to influence a governmental decision, his/her presence shall not be
considered in determining the presence of a quorum, with respect to the
particular governmental decision. If disqualification due to a financial
conflict of interest reduces those in attendance to less than a quorum, the
meeting need not be adjourned but, without need for any formal action by the
council, consideration on the item shall be deferred or continued until a
quorum is present of council members without disqualifying conflicts of
interest. If more than a quorum of the City Council are disqualified because of
a conflict of interest, then the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk shall determine
by lot from among the disqualified members the member or members who will be
permitted to participate in order to achieve a quorum. This division shall be
applied in a manner which is consistent with Government Code Sections 1090 et
seq. and Government Code Sections 81000 et seq. and any regulations lawfully
adopted pursuant thereto.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.37 COUNCIL AGENDA.
   (A)   The City Manager or his/her designee shall prepare an agenda for each
council meeting. Items of business may be placed on the agenda at the direction
of a member of the council, the City Manager or the City Attorney.
   (B)   The agenda shall contain information relating to the time and place of
the meeting, the order of business and a brief general description including
the specific action requested to be taken by the council, of each item of
business to be transacted or discussed at the meeting. The description of items
to be discussed in closed session may be done by substantially complying with
provisions of Government Code Section 54954.5. The agenda shall also contain
information relating to special services available to persons with disabilities
to permit those persons to participate in City Council meetings. The agenda may
contain other information deemed necessary by the City Manager or City
Attorney.
   (C)   The agenda may indicate a time certain for consideration of an item.
Council members may request a time certain by filing a written request with the
Mayor which request will be accommodated to the extent feasible in light of the
business to be conducted. If a time certain is indicated, consideration of the
item shall not occur before the specified time, but may be commenced after the
specified time.
   (D)   The City Manager shall be responsible for establishing the process for
preparation of the agenda, agenda reports, and packets or books of documents
relevant to matters of business listed on the agenda. All items listed on the
agenda other than presentations, oral communications and closed session items
shall have a corresponding agenda report included in the agenda packet. The
agenda packet shall include all written material delivered or to be delivered,
to all or majority of the city council members with respect to an item listed
on the agenda. The agenda and agenda packet shall be delivered to the council
members on the Friday preceding the regular meeting or such earlier time as the
Manager deems appropriate. The agenda packet shall be made available to the
public as soon thereafter as practicable. In order to facilitate public access
to the agenda packet, the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk shall place a copy of
the agenda packet for public inspection in city hall.
   (E)   Before presentation to the City Manager for inclusion on an agenda,
all ordinances, resolutions and contract documents shall have been approved as
to form and legality by the City Attorney or Attorney's authorized
representative.
   (F)   Before presentation to the City Council, all agenda items requesting
action, other than agenda items placed by the City Attorney, shall have been
examined and approved for administration by the City Manager or the Manager's
representative, where there are substantive matters of administration involved.
The City Manager may refer any agenda item to the City Attorney for a report
and recommendation, before the matter is placed on an agenda.
   (G)   The City Manager or City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk, or an employee
designated by the Manager or Clerk, shall post the agenda on a publicly
accessible place at city hall at least 72 hours before a regular council
meeting. The person posting the agenda shall prepare and file with the City
Clerk/Deputy City Clerk a signed declaration of the time and place of posting
and a certified copy of the posted agenda. Except as provided in division (I)
of this section, no business shall be transacted or matter discussed at the
meeting on any item not appearing on the posted agenda. Questions for
clarification, providing a reference to staff or other resources for factual
information, or directions by the Mayor or the Council to refer a matter to
staff for report or to place a matter on a future agenda shall not constitute
prohibited action or discussion.
   (H)   The order of business established on the agenda shall be followed
unless the presiding officer permits a matter to be taken out of the regular
agenda order. The City Manager at the time of preparation of the agenda may
indicate, or the presiding officer at a meeting may establish time limits for
consideration of any agenda item in order that city business is conducted in an
orderly manner with due regard for public input.
   (I)   An agenda shall be prepared and posted for adjourned meetings in the
same manner as for regular meetings, unless the adjourned meeting is five or
fewer days from the date of the original meeting and the items considered are
limited to those listed on the agenda of the prior meetings. If the matters to
be considered at an adjourned meeting are limited to those stated on the agenda
of the prior meeting, then the agenda of the prior meeting may suffice as the
agenda for an adjourned meeting.
   (J)   The City Council may discuss or take action on items of business not
appearing on the posted agenda under any of the following conditions:
      (1)   An item has been continued by the Council to a date certain from a
properly posted agenda at a meeting held five days or less before the date
action is taken on the item:
      (2)   Upon a determination by a two-thirds vote of the Council, or if
less than two-thirds of the members are present, a unanimous vote of those
present that there is a need to take immediate action and that the need for
action came to the attention of the city after the agenda was posted;
      (3)   Upon a determination by a majority vote of the Council that an
emergency exists. For purposes of this subdivision "emergency" means a
crippling disaster, work stoppage or other activity which severely impairs
public health or safety where prompt action is necessary due to the disruption
or threatened disruption of public facilities.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.38 MAILING NOTICES OF MEETING AND COPIES OF AGENDAS TO MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC; CITY MANAGER DUTIES; CITY CLERK/DEPUTY CITY CLERK DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk shall give the mailed notice of
regular and special meetings as required by Government Code Section 54954.1.
The City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk shall charge an annual fee in an amount
determined by the Clerk to reasonably cover the cost of the preparing, copying
and mailing the notice.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk shall mail an agenda to each person
who has filed a request therefore. The agenda may be mailed at the time the
agenda is posted. Written requests shall be valid for one year and shall be
filed according to procedures in the City Manager's office. The City Clerk/
Deputy City Clerk shall charge an annual fee in an amount determined to cover
the reasonably estimated cost of copying and mailing the agenda. The
inadvertent failure of the Clerk to mail an agenda, or the failure of any
person to receive the agenda, shall not deprive the City Council of
jurisdiction of constitute grounds to invalidate any action.
   (C)   The City Clerk/deputy City Clerk shall be responsible for the posting
of all notices required by this chapter or by the Ralph M. Brown Act, unless
otherwise specifically stated in this chapter.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.39 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor, or in the Mayor's absence, the Mayor Pro Tem is the
presiding officer at all meetings of the city Council. If the Mayor or Mayor
Pro Tem are both absent from a meeting, the remaining members shall choose a
temporary presiding officer of the meeting. Upon the arrival of the Mayor or
the Mayor Pro Tem, the temporary presiding officer shall relinquish the chair
at the conclusion of the business then before the Council. Whenever the term
"presiding officer" or "mayor" is used in this chapter, and the Mayor is
absent, it shall apply equally to the Mayor Pro Tem, and if the Mayor Pro Tem
is also absent, to the presiding officer elected pursuant to this section.
   (B)   The presiding officer is not deprived of any of the rights and
privileges of a council member by reason of being the presiding officer. The
presiding officer may move, second, debate, and vote from the chair.
   (C)   The presiding officer shall be responsible for the maintenance of
order and decorum at all meetings. The presiding officer shall decide all
questions of order and procedure, under this chapter or the Ralph M. Brown Act
subject, however, to an appeal to the Council. Any council member may as a
point of personal privilege request that the presiding officer enforce the
rules of procedure, order and decorum.
   (D)   Any member of the City Council may appeal any direction, instruction
or determination of the presiding officer regarding order or procedure to the
City Council for a determination, in which case the matter shall be determined
by the majority of the quorum, including the presiding officer.
   (E)   Prior to any final ruling on a matter of order or procedure, the
presiding officer or any member of the City Council may request the assistance
of the City Attorney regarding the matter.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.40 CONDUCT OF BUSINESS.
   At the time set for each regular meeting, each member of the council, the
City Manager, City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk, City Attorney and such department
heads or others as have been requested to be present shall take their regular
places in the council chambers. The business of the council shall be conducted
in substantially the order and in the manner provided on the agenda, and shall
include an appropriate number of recesses, including lunch and dinner recess.
The presiding officer shall endeavor to conduct the meeting in an orderly,
even-handed and businesslike manner.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.41 CALL TO ORDER.
   The Mayor or in his or her absence the Mayor Pro Tem shall take the chair at
the hour appointed for the meeting and shall call the council to order. In the
absence of the Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem, the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk shall
call the council to order, whereupon a temporary presiding officer shall be
elected by the council members present.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.42 ROLL CALL.
   Before proceeding with business of the council, the City Clerk/Deputy City
Clerk shall call the roll of the council members and the names of those present
shall be entered in the minutes.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.43 READING OF MINUTES.
   Unless the reading of the minutes is requested by a majority of the quorum,
the minutes may be approved without reading if the Clerk has furnished each
member of the council with a copy thereof before the meeting. If the minutes
have not been so distributed, approval of those minutes shall automatically be
deferred to the next meeting.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.44 MINUTES.
   (A)   The minutes of the council meetings, except closed sessions, shall be
kept by the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk. The minutes shall be an action record
of each particular type of business transacted. A semi-verbatim or verbatim
transcript of the proceedings will not be required.
   (B)   A council member may request the privilege of having an abstract of
his or her statement on any subject under consideration by the council entered
in the minutes. If there is no objection from any member of the council, such
statement shall be entered in the minutes.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.45 DISTRIBUTION OF MINUTES.
   As soon as possible after each meeting, the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk
shall furnish a copy of the minutes to each council member, the City Manager,
City Attorney, and any other individuals designated by the City Manager.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.46 RECORDING OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   The City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk shall tape record City Council
meetings as an aid in the preparation of the minutes. The tapes shall be
retained for a period of two calendar years at which time approval from the
City Attorney must be obtained before the tapes are reused or erased.
   (B)   While the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk has possession of the tape
recordings, the tape recordings shall be subject to inspection pursuant to the
California Public Records Act. Members of the public may hear tape recordings
of the City Council meetings during office hours when it will not inconvenience
the ordinary operation of the Clerk's Office. Mechanical recordings may be made
from the tapes under procedures established by the City Clerk/Deputy City
Clerk. The Clerk shall allow city tape recording or playing machines to be used
by the public, free of charge, for listening or recording purposes when such
machines are not necessary for use by the City Clerk in the ordinary function
of the office. The City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk is authorized to adopt
administrative rules, regulations or procedures for the implementation of this
section, including without limitation procedures to safeguard the tape
recordings against theft, mutilation or accidental damage, to prevent
inspection or recording from interfering with orderly function of the office,
and to ensure that integrity of the records is maintained. Except as otherwise
prohibited by law, the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk may charge a fee sufficient
to cover and which does not exceed the cost, including labor and materials, of,
but not limited to, providing records and administering this provision.
   (C)   If any person desires to have a matter reported by a stenographer
reporter, the person may employ one directly at his or her expense. The City
Clerk/Deputy City Clerk may make reasonable accommodations in order to assure
such reporter is seated in such a position at the meeting as to permit accurate
recording of the proceedings.
   (D)   Any person may film, video tape, photograph or audio tape a City
Council meeting in the absence of a reasonable finding by the City Council that
the recording cannot continue without noise, illumination or obstruction of
view that constitutes or would constitute a persistent disruption of the
proceedings. City Council meetings may be broadcast or cablecast by a person
utilizing equipment installed in the council chambers pursuant to a contract
approved by the City Council, or by any other person provided that the
broadcast or cablecast by such other person can be accomplished without noise,
illumination, or obstruction of view that constitutes or would constitute a
persistent disruption of the proceedings.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.47 CONSENT CALENDAR.
   (A)   Certain items for inclusion on the agenda which have been reviewed by
the City Manager, delivered to the City Council and made available to the
public prior to the council meeting, shall be grouped together for action and
listed under the consent calendar, when such matters are considered to be
noncontroversial or routine in nature. The actions recommended by the City
Manager shall be summarized in the agenda statement for each item on the
consent calendar. The consent calendar items may be approved by a single
motion. Before adoption of the consent calendar the Mayor shall first determine
whether any member of the Council, City Staff or the audience desires to remove
an item for comment or discussion. In that event, the Mayor may defer action on
the particular matter or matters and place them on the regular agenda for
consideration in any order deemed appropriate. A request from the public to
comment on an item must be filed with the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk in
writing prior to Council consideration of the consent calendar. Any member of
the City Council may record a negative vote or an abstention on a consent
calendar item without removing the item for discussion by so noting before or
after a motion to approve the consent calendar is on the floor.
   (B)   The written agenda available to the public and to the City Council
shall provide an explanation to the public concerning the consent calendar
which reads substantially as follows:
"All items listed on the consent calendar are considered to be routine matters
or are considered formal documents covering previous City Council instruction.
The items listed on the consent calendar may be enacted in the form listed
below by one motion and a second. There will be no separate discussion of the
consent calendar items unless members of the City Council, the city staff or
the public request discussion on specific consent calendar items at the
beginning of the meeting. Public requests to discuss consent calendar items
must be filed with the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk before the consent calendar
is called."
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.48 GAINING THE FLOOR BY COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   A council member desiring to speak shall first request and gain recognition
by the presiding officer. This may be done by either a verbal request or a
recognition light-button system.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.49 QUESTIONS TO STAFF.
   A council member desiring to question the city staff shall, after
recognition by the presiding officer, address his or her questions to the City
Manager, the City Attorney, or to an appropriate staff member.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.50 COUNCIL MEMBER STATEMENTS.
   (A)   After gaining recognition from the presiding officer a council member
shall confine his/her comments to the issue under discussion, avoiding
reference to character and indecorous language. Members of the Council should
limit his/her remarks on any particular item of discussion to five minutes or
less.
   (B)   A council member, once recognized, shall not be interrupted when
speaking unless called to order by the presiding officer, or unless a point of
order or personal privilege is raised by another council member, or unless the
speaker chooses to yield to a question by another council member. If a council
member while speaking is called to order, he/she shall cease speaking until the
question of order is determined and, if determined to be in order, he/she may
proceed.
   (C)   Members of the city staff, after recognition by the presiding officer,
shall hold the floor until completion of his/her remarks or until recognition
is withdrawn by the presiding officer.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.51 POINTS OF ORDER.
   The presiding officer shall determine all points of order subject to the
right of any council member to request full council ruling. The question on the
ruling shall be, "Shall the decision of the Presiding Officer be sustained?" A
majority vote shall conclusively determine such question of order. The
presiding officer may participate in the vote on the motion.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.52 POINT OF PERSONAL PRIVILEGE.
   The right of a council member to address the Council on a question of
personal privilege shall be limited to cases in which the council member's
integrity, character or motives are directly impinged or however the welfare of
the Council is concerned. A council member raising a point of personal
privilege may interrupt another council member who has the floor only if the
presiding officer recognizes the privilege.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.53 PRIVILEGE OF CLOSING DEBATE.
   Subject to the provisions of §
30.55, the council member moving the adoption of an ordinance, resolution or
motion shall have the privilege of speaking last on an item under debate.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.54 CALLING THE QUESTION.
   A member of the Council who wishes to terminate discussion of a motion may
call for the question. If the call is seconded, the presiding officer shall ask
for a vote. If the call carries, the Council shall then vote on the pending
motion without further discussion.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.55 PROTEST AGAINST COUNCIL ACTION.
   Any council member shall have the right to have the reasons for his/her
dissent from or his/her protest against any action of the Council entered in
the minutes. Such dissent or protest to be entered in the minutes shall be made
in substantially the following manner. "I would like the minutes to show that I
am opposed to this action for the following reasons..."
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.56 REQUEST TO ADDRESS THE COUNCIL ON AGENDA ITEMS OTHER THAN ITEMS LISTED
FOR PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   It is the policy of the Council to permit limited presentation by
members of the public on nonpublic hearing agenda items. The amount of time
allocated to speakers on a particular item shall be established by presiding
officer, but in no event shall be in excess of three minutes unless a greater
time limit is approved by the City Council. Unless further time is granted by
majority vote of the Council, the speaker shall limit his/her remarks to the
time limit established by the presiding officer.
   (B)   Any person desiring to address the Council on a matter not formally
scheduled for public hearing must file a written request for permission to
address the Council which must be filed with the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk
in advance of the Council's consideration of that item. The presiding officer,
with the consent of the Council, may allow a person who has not filed such a
request to address the Council.
   (C)   Each person desiring to address the Council shall approach the podium,
state his/her name and address or area of the city in which he/she lives for
the record, and state whom he/she is representing if he/she represents an
organization or other persons. All remarks shall be addressed to the Council as
a whole and not any member thereof. No questions shall be asked of a council
member or a member of the city staff without obtaining the permission of the
presiding officer. The presiding officer shall not permit any communications
oral or written, to be made or read where it does not bear directly on the
agenda item then under discussion.
   (D)   No person shall address the Council without first securing the
permission of the presiding officer.
   (E)   After a motion has been made, no member of the public shall address
the Council from the audience on the matter under consideration without first
securing permission to do so from the presiding officer which permission shall
be subject to approval by a majority vote of the City Council.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96; Am. Ord. 1358, passed 12-17-03)
§ 30.57 OPPORTUNITY FOR PUBLIC TO ADDRESS THE COUNCIL ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS;
PUBLIC COMMENT.
   (A)   Every agenda for a council meeting shall provide a period for members
of the public to address the Council on items of city business that are not on
the agenda but are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the City Council.
   (B)   Speakers shall be limited to three minutes each. Anyone desiring to
speak shall reserve time at the meeting by filing a written request with the
City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk in advance of the time stated on the agenda for
oral communications. Speakers will be called in the order reserved within the
available time. The presiding officer with the consent of the Council may, if
time permits allow persons to speak who have not filed a written request to
reserve time.
   (C)   Each person desiring to address the Council shall approach the podium,
state his/her name and address for the record, state matter of city business
he/she wishes to discuss, and state whom he/she is representing if he/she
represents an organization or other persons. All remarks shall be addressed to
the Council as a whole and not to any member thereof. No questions shall be
asked of a council member or a member of the city staff without obtaining the
permission of the presiding officer. The presiding officer shall not permit any
communication, oral or written, to be made or read where it does not bear on a
matter of city business which is within the subject matter jurisdiction of the
City Council.
   (D)   No action or discussion shall occur on any item raised during oral
communications, except for matters requiring immediate attention which are
added to the agenda. Members of the City Council may briefly respond to
statements made or questions posed by persons speaking during oral
communications. Members of the City Council may also ask a question for
clarification, or provide a reference to staff or other resources for actual
information, or request a report back from the City Manager, or his/her staff,
or the City Attorney at a subsequent meeting. Matters requiring City Council
action may be referred to the City Manager for placement before the City
Council at a later date upon direction by the presiding officer or at the
request of any member of the Council.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96; Am. Ord. 1358, passed 12-17-03)
§ 30.58 DECORUM AND ORDER; COUNCIL AND CITY STAFF.
   While the Council is in session the council members and city staff shall
observe good order and decor. A member of the City Council or city staff shall
neither, by conversation or otherwise, delay or interrupt the proceedings or
the peace of the Council, nor disturb any member while speaking.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
Penalty, see § 30.99
§ 30.59 DECORUM AND ORDER; AUDIENCE.
   Members of the public attending Council meetings shall observe the same
rules of order and decorum applicable to the City Council and staff and shall
comply with the provisions of §
30.60.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
Penalty, see § 30.99
§ 30.60 ENFORCEMENT OF DECORUM.
   (A)   Unauthorized remarks from the audience or members thereof, stamping of
feet, unruly applause, whistles, yell, and raucous demonstrations shall not be
permitted by the presiding officer. If such conduct continues after directions
by the presiding officer to cease, the presiding officer may order such
offenders to leave the meeting room. If a person fails to leave as ordered the
person shall be removed from the meeting room by the sergeant-at-arms upon
direction by the presiding officer.
   (B)   Any person willfully disrupting the proceedings of the Council, and
who continues to do so after being directed by the presiding officer to cease
or being ruled out of order by the presiding officer, or who otherwise refuses
to carry out directions or instructions given by the presiding officer for the
purpose of maintaining order and decorum at the Council meeting, may be ordered
by the presiding officer to leave the meeting room. If the person fails to
leave as ordered, the person shall be removed from the meeting room by the
sergeant-at-arms upon direction by the presiding officer.
   (C)   It is an infraction punishable pursuant to §
30.99 of this code for any person who once has been ordered removed from the
meeting room, thereafter to disrupt the same or any subsequent meeting in the
manner described in division (A) or (B) above.
   (D)   The presiding officer shall not find a person in violation of division
(A) or (B) solely because the statements made by the person criticize the
policies, procedures, programs or services of the city, or the acts or
omissions of the City Council.
   (E)   The chief of police or such member of the police department as the
chief may designate shall be sergeant-at-arms of the City Council and shall
attend meetings at the request of the presiding officer, City Manager, or City
Council. The sergeant-at-arms shall be available to respond to all meetings
immediately upon call. The sergeant-at-arms shall carry out all instructions
given by the presiding officer or City Council for the purpose of maintaining
order and decorum at the Council meetings. The performance of the duties of the
sergeant-at-arms pursuant to this section shall be official duties of the
purposes of Penal Code Section 148.
   (F)   In addition to the provisions of this section, the presiding officer,
with consent of the City Council, may invoke the remedies and procedures
established by Government Code Section 54957.9.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.61 VOTING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Voting shall be conducted by the use of the voting light system
installed in the council chambers. A red light designates a "no or negative"
vote, a green light designates a "yes or affirmative" vote, and a white light
designates a vote to "abstain".
   (B)   The Council may at any time, or from time to time, dispense with use
of the voting light system by voice vote of the majority. In such an event,
voting shall be conducted by voice vote until such time as a determination is
made to again use the voting light system or some other system.
   (C)   When the Council is voting the voice vote, a negative vote shall be
registered by the oral statement of "no" by the council member voting.
Affirmative vote shall be registered by the oral statement of "yes" or "aye" by
the council member voting.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.62 REQUEST FOR DETERMINATION OF CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   If a council member has reason to believe he/she has a conflict of interest
with respect to a governmental decision he/she may give the full facts of the
matter to the City Attorney and request advice thereon. The request for advice
should be submitted to the City Attorney sufficiently in advance of the meeting
to allow the City Attorney a reasonable opportunity to analyze the facts stated
and the applicable law and to seek appropriate assistance from the Fair
Political Practices Commission. Any response by the City Attorney shall be in
writing, if time permits, and delivered to each council member before the
meeting in question. Oral responses shall be stated on the public record. If a
determination whether it is reasonably foreseeable that a financial interest
would be affected by a governmental decision depends on the advice of an
appraiser or similar professional, except an attorney, the City Attorney may
retain such professional at city expense. Nothing in this section shall be
deemed to preclude the member or the City Attorney from seeking assistance or
advice on a conflict of interest matter from the Fair Political Practices
Commission.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.63 FAILURE TO VOTE.
   Every council member should vote unless disqualified by reason of conflict
of interest. A council member who abstains from voting acknowledges that a
majority of the quorum may decide the question voted upon.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.64 TIE VOTE.
   (A)   Tie votes or a vote lacking the required number of affirmative votes
shall constitute "no action," and the matter voted upon remains before the
Council and is subject to further Council consideration. If the City Council is
unable to take action on a matter before it because of a tie vote or the lack
of the required number of votes, the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk shall place
the item on the next regular meeting of the City Council for further
consideration. If after subsequent consideration, the vote remains tied or the
requisite number of affirmative votes is not obtained, the vote shall be deemed
to result in a failure of the pending motion or a denial of the requested
action.
   (B)   Subsection (A) shall not apply to votes in which all members of the
City Council participate, unless a member abstains for reasons other than a
conflict of interest, or to votes on matters from which a council member is
disqualified from participation by operation of state law, in which event a tie
vote or vote lacking the requisite number of affirmative votes shall be deemed
to result in a failure of the pending motion or a denial of the requested
action.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.65 CHANGING VOTE.
   A council member may change his/her vote only if a timely request to do so
is made immediately following the announcement of the vote by the City Clerk/
Deputy City Clerk and prior to the time the next item in the order of business
is taken up. A council member who publicly announces that he or she is
abstaining from voting on a particular matter shall not subsequently be allowed
to withdraw the abstention.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.66 RECONSIDERATION.
   (A)   A motion to reconsider any action taken by the Council may be made
only at the meeting such action was taken. It may be made either immediately
during the same session, or at a recessed or adjourned session thereof. Such
motion may be made only by one of the council members who voted with prevailing
side. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent any council member
from making or remaking the same or any other motion at a subsequent meeting of
the Council.
   (B)   A motion to rescind, repeal, cancel or otherwise nullify prior council
action shall be in order at any subsequent meeting of the Council and may be
made by any council member. The effect of such action shall operate
prospectively and not retroactively and shall not operate to adversely affect
rights which may have been vested in interim without notice and an opportunity
to be heard having been given to the affected party or parties.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.67 PUBLIC HEARINGS; WHEN HELD.
   (A)   Wherever by law the City Council required to hold a public hearing on
any matter before it, such hearing will be held in accordance with the rules
and procedures set forth in this chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall
prohibit or limit the City Council from holding a public hearing on any matter
before it whether required by law or not, and nothing in this chapter shall
prohibit or limit any member of the public from addressing the Council in
accordance with the procedures provided for in this chapter, irrespective of
whether or not a public hearing is being held.
   (B)   Public hearings shall be scheduled to begin at a time certain which
shall be the hour the Council convenes or such other time as may be stated on
the agenda. The Council shall hold public hearings in the order scheduled on
the agenda at the time stated, or as soon thereafter as practicable. The
presiding officer, with the consent of the Council and for good cause, may
alter the scheduled order of public hearings. Time certain public hearing items
shall have priority over other matters set for consideration at a time certain.
If the hearing is continued to a time less than 24 hours after the time
specified in the notice of such hearing a notice of continuance shall be posted
immediately after the meeting at the place designated for such postings.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.68 PUBLIC HEARINGS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The presiding officer shall announce that it is the time and place for
a public hearing scheduled on the agenda.
   (B)   Prior to all City Council public hearings, copies of the Council's
agenda with attachments, including the staff report, if any, shall be available
at the office of the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk at least 24 prior to
commencement of the hearing; provided however, the Council may allow in its
discretion the filling of supplemental reports which shall be made public at
the commencement of the hearing.
   (C)   The order of the hearing shall be as follows unless otherwise required
by law:
      (1)   Presentation of staff and/or advisory commission report.
      (2)   Presentation by the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk of previously
filed written correspondence or petitions.
      (3)   Questions from the Council.
      (4)   Presentation by the applicant, if any.
      (5)   Testimony of people in favor and people in opposition.
      (6)   Rebuttal by applicant of facts presented during other testimony.
      (7)   Further questions from Council.
   (D)   After rebuttal by the applicant no further public testimony shall be
permitted, except direct responses to questions by a council member if
permitted by the presiding officer. The presiding officer may order the
testimony of persons in favor or in opposition in any manner deemed appropriate
by the presiding officer.
   (E)   If the matter is on appeal from a decision of a city commission, the
appellant shall speak before the applicant, if any, and shall be entitled to
rebuttal after the applicant.
   (F)   The provisions of §
30.56 for addressing the Council shall apply to persons testifying at public
hearings except that:
      (1)   A written request to speak shall not be required;
      (2)   An applicant shall have 20 minutes, including rebuttal time;
      (3)   An appellant, if any, shall have 20 minutes including rebuttal
time.
   (G)   The presiding officer may, with the consent of the Council, dependent
upon the necessity for ensuring adequate presentation of testimony and evidence
to provide a fair hearing, set longer or shorter time limits than otherwise
allowed by this chapter.
   (H)   If a public hearing cannot be reasonably concluded in light of other
business to be conducted and the number of persons desiring to present
testimony, the hearing may be continued to another date or dates by presiding
officer.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.69 PUBLIC HEARINGS; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   During the public hearing, the Council shall receive oral or written
evidence relevant to the matter being considered which shall become part of the
record. The presiding officer, or any member of the Council through the
presiding officer, may require the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk to swear any
person giving evidence at the time of the hearing on the matter under
consideration, if in the opinion of the presiding officer or any member of the
Council, the oath is necessary. Evidence received at public hearings provided
for in this chapter shall be relevant and material to the issues before the
Council; provided, however, that the rules of evidence as established by law
for judicial proceedings in the State of California shall be substantially
relaxed in order to afford a full presentation of the facts essential for
judicious consideration by the Council of the matter which is the subject of
public hearings. Failure on the part of the City Council to strictly enforce
rules of evidence or to reject matters which may irrelevant or immaterial shall
not affect the validity of the hearing. Any procedural errors which do not
affect the substantial rights of the parties shall be disregarded. The Council
may order the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk to issue and the Chief of Police of
his representative to serve subpoenas for attendance of any witnesses or for
production of any records at a Council meeting with respect to any duly
scheduled hearing.
   (B)   If there is a staff report, it shall be considered as evidence and
shall become part of the record of a public hearing. Such report need not be
read in full as part of the staff presentation. A synopsis of such report may
be presented orally by staff members to the Council. In addition, any of the
following may be presented to the City Council and, if presented, shall also
become part of the record:
      (1)   Exhibits and documents used by the city staff and any person
participating in the hearing;
      (2)   Maps and displays presented for use at the hearing; provided that,
whenever practicable, they shall be displayed in full view of the participants
and the audience;
      (3)   All communications and petitions concerning the subject matter of
the hearing; provided that, a reading of such matters only shall be had at the
request of a council member;
      (4)   Information obtained outside the council chambers, such as a view
of the site, provided such information, to the extent it forms the basis for
finding in a quasi-adjudicative matter, shall be disclosed for the record.
   (C)   All exhibits, reports, maps and other physical evidence placed before
the Council shall be retained by the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk. Such
exhibits may be released by the Clerk with the approval of City Attorney. Items
that are large, perishable, bulky or otherwise difficult to store may be
returned to the person submitting the item provided that a photographic or
videotape record of the item is retained by the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.70 PUBLIC HEARINGS; CONTINUATION.
   At any time that it appears to the presiding officer, or a majority of the
Council through the presiding officer, that inadequate evidence has been
presented to afford judicious consideration of any matter before the Council at
the time of a public hearing, or for other just cause, a continuation of said
hearing may be ordered to afford the applicant, the applicant's opponents, or
the city staff adequate time to assemble additional evidence for the Council's
consideration. Any continuation ordered by the Council through its presiding
officer shall be to a date certain, which said date shall be publicly announced
in the council chamber and shall constitute notice to the public of the time
and place that further evidence will be taken. A public hearing may be
continued in the event the matter is to be returned to the Planing Commission
for further consideration. In this event, the presiding officer shall publicly
state in open council meeting the fact that the matter has been returned to the
Planning Commission for consideration and that the council hearing will be
continued to a date certain. The public announcements provided for in this
section shall constitute notice to the applicant and/or appellant and to all
members of the public of the time and place when further evidence will be taken
by the Council. The Council shall also have the option to set the matter to a
hearing de novo.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.71 PUBLIC HEARINGS; CLOSING.
   When neither the applicant, public members in attendance, nor the city staff
have further evidence to produce, or when, in the opinion of a majority of the
Council or of the presiding officer with the consent of the Council, sufficient
evidence has been presented, the presiding officer shall order the public
hearing closed, at which time no further evidence, either oral or written, will
be accepted by the Council; provided, however, that this rule may be relaxed by
the presiding officer or a majority of the Council through the presiding
officer where it appears that good cause exists to hear further evidence
concerning the matter which is the subject of the public hearing.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.72 PUBLIC HEARINGS; REOPENING.
   A public hearing on any matter once closed cannot be reopened on the date
set for hearing unless the presiding officer determines that all persons who
were present when the hearing closed are still present. Nothing in this
section, however, is intended to prevent or prohibit the reopening of public
hearing at any subsequent regular or special meeting of the Council. No public
hearing may be reopened without due and proper notice being given to the
applicant and his or her opponents designating the time and place of said
reopening.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.73 PUBLIC HEARINGS; DECISION.
   (A)   The City Council shall consider all evidence properly before them in
accordance with this chapter. Unless the documents are presented as part of the
staff report, the Council shall then indicate its intended decision and
instruct the City Attorney to return with the documents necessary to effect
that decision including findings as may be appropriate to the matter. Upon
return of such documents, the Council shall determine if the findings are
supported by the evidence before it at the hearing, and if the decision is
supported by the findings, and after making any changes render its decision by
taking action on the documents. The City Council's decision is not final until
approval of the documents.
   (B)   A council member who was absent from all or part of a public hearing
on matters for which a public hearing is required by law shall not participate
in a decision on the matter unless he or she has examined all the evidence
including listening to a recording of the oral testimony and can represent that
he or she has a full understanding of the matter.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.74 MOTIONS.
   (A)   A motion is the formal statement of a proposal or question to the
Council for consideration and action. Every council member has the right to
present a motion. A motion is generally not be considered as a legislative or
quasi-judicial action of the Council, but is in the nature of direction or
instruction, however, a motion will generally suffice unless a resolution or
ordinance is specifically called for by law or unless there is some reason for
desiring the particular action formalized by separate instrument. Resolutions
or ordinances may be introduced or adopted by appropriate motion.
   (B)   If a motion contains two or more divisible propositions, the presiding
officer may divide the same.
   (C)   If a motion is properly made, the presiding officer shall call for a
second. No further action is required on a motion which does not receive a
second.
   (D)   When a motion is made and seconded, it shall be restated by the
presiding officer, or the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk upon request by the
presiding officer, before a vote.
   (E)   A motion once before the Council may not be withdrawn by the maker
without the consent of the second.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.75 PRECEDENCE OF MOTIONS.
   (A)   When a main motion is before the Council, no motion shall be
entertained except the following which shall have precedence, one over the
other, in the following order:
      (1)   Adjourn;
      (2)   Recess;
      (3)   Table;
      (4)   Previous question (calling the question);
      (5)   Limit or extend debate;
      (6)   Refer to committee or staff;
      (7)   Amend;
      (8)   Postpone;
      (9)   Main motion.
   (B)   The order of preference in division (A) is subject to the following
restrictions:
      (1)   A motion shall not be in order which repeats a motion made
previously at the same meeting unless there has been some intervening Council
action or discussion. A motion shall not be in order to revive a previous
motion previously defeated at the meeting, or to rescind or otherwise change
the nature of a motion previously approved at the meeting, unless a motion to
reconsider is first made and approved.
      (2)   A motion shall not be in order when the previous question has been
ordered.
      (3)   A motion shall not be in order while a vote is being taken.
      (4)   A motion shall not be in order when made as an interruption of a
council member while speaking.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.76 PARTICULAR MOTIONS, PURPOSE AND CRITERIA.
   The purpose and salient criteria of the motions listed in §
30.75 is as follows:
   (A)   Motion to adjourn:
      (1)   Purpose. To terminate a meeting;
      (2)   Debatable or amendable. No, except a motion to adjourn to another
time is debatable and amendable as to the time to which the meeting is to be
adjourn.
   (B)   Motion to recess:
      (1)   Purpose. To permit an interlude in the meeting and to set a
definite time for continuing the meeting.
      (2)   Debatable or amendable. Yes, but restricted as to time for
continuing the meeting.
   (C)   Motion to table:
      (1)   Purpose. To set aside, on a temporary basis, a pending main motion:
provided that, it may be taken up again for consideration during the current
meeting or at the next regular meeting;
      (2)   Debatable or amendable. It is debatable but not amendable.
   (D)   Motion for previous question ("calling the question"):
      (1)   Purpose. To prevent or stop discussion on the pending question or
questions and to bring such question or questions to vote immediately. If the
motion passes, a vote shall be taken on the pending motion or motions:
      (2)   Debatable or amendable. No.
   (E)   Motion to limit or extend debate:
      (1)   Purpose. To limit or determine the time that will be devoted to
discussion of a pending motion or to extend or remove limitations already
imposed on its discussion.
      (2)   Debatable or amendable. Not debatable; amendments are restricted to
period of time of the proposed limit or extension.
   (F)   Motion to refer to committee or staff:
      (1)   Purpose. To refer the question before the Council to a committee or
to the city staff for the purpose of investigating or studying the proposal and
to make a report back to the Council. If the motion fails, discussion or vote
on the question resumes.
      (2)   Debatable or amendable. Yes.
   (G)   Amend:
      (1)   Purpose. To modify or change a motion that is being considered. An
amendment may be in any of the following forms: to "add" or "insert" certain
words or phrases: to "strike out certain words or phrases and to add other": to
"substitute" certain words, phrases or actions on the same subject matter as
the one pending; to "divide the question" into two or more questions so as to
get a separate vote on particular points. A motion to amend shall relate to the
subject of the main motion. A motion to amend by substitution shall not be used
to change the nature of the main motion. If the motion to amend passes, then
the main motion should be voted on as amended.
      (2)   Debatable or amendable. It is debatable unless applied to an
undebatable main motion. It is amendable. A motion to amend an amendment is not
further amendable.
   (H)   Motion to postpone (continue):
      (1)   Purpose. To prevent further discussion and voting on the main
motion until a future date or event. If the motion fails, discussion and voting
on the main motion resumes. If it passes, the subject of the main motion shall
not be brought up again until the specified date or event.
      (2)   Debatable or amendable. It is debatable but not amendable.
   (I)   Main motion:
      (1)   Purpose. The primary proposal or question before the Council for
discussion and decision:
      (2)   Debatable or amendable. Yes.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.77 LEGISLATIVE ACTION.
   All legislative action undertaken by the City Council shall generally be by
means of an ordinance or resolution. Legislation of a permanent nature which is
to remain in force until amended or repealed, which establishes rights and
obligations and the failure to comply with which may result in a penalty, shall
be by ordinance.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.78 PREPARATION OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances shall be prepared or approved by the City Attorney. No
ordinance shall be presented to the Council unless the City Attorney has
approved the ordinance.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.79 PROCEDURE FOR ADOPTION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The first item of business on the consent calendar shall be a motion
to waive the reading of the text of ordinances after the reading of the title.
If that motion passes unanimously then ordinances presented at the meeting for
introduction or adoption shall not be read in full unless, after the reading of
the title a reading of the text is requested by a majority of the Council. If a
majority of the council members so requests the ordinance shall be read in
full.
   (B)   After the reading of the title, an ordinance may be introduced by a
motion approved by the affirmative vote of three members of the Council.
   (C)   When an ordinance is altered after introduction, it shall be re-
introduced prior to adoption. Correction of typographical or clerical error are
not alterations within the meaning of this subsection.
   (D)   Not sooner than five days after introduction, an ordinance shall be
returned to the City Council for consideration of adoption. Adoption shall be
by motion approved by the affirmative vote of at least three members of the
Council.
   (E)   The City Attorney is designated as the official responsible for
preparing summaries of ordinances or approving summaries prepared by the City
Clerk/Deputy City Clerk. When requested by the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk,
the City Attorney shall prepare a summary of an ordinance for publication
pursuant to the provisions of Government Code Section 39633. If approved by the
City Attorney, the title of an ordinance may serve as the summary.
   (F)   The provisions of this section are intended to supplement the
provisions of California Government Code Section 36931 et seq. relating to
enactment of ordinances. Urgency ordinances may be adopted at the time of
introduction pursuant to the provisions of the Government Code.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.80 RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   In most cases, a resolution is little more than a formal motion set
forth in a formal document. In some matters, such as an assessment proceeding,
general plan amendment or the granting or denial of variance, a resolution is
required. A resolution should be required under any circumstances where it is
desirable that the action be formally recorded in the office of the City Clerk
as a numbered document which can be used for future reference. Legislative
actions as set forth in §
30.77 should be by ordinance or resolution.
   (B)   Resolutions appropriating or ordering the payment of money shall be
adopted only upon the affirmative vote of at least three members of the
Council.
   (C)   Resolutions fixing the rate of taxes to be levied or the amount of
revenue required to be raised by taxation shall be published in the same manner
and within the same time as ordinances are required to be published.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.81 RESOLUTIONS; ADOPTION.
   (A)   Where a particular resolution has been prepared and is before the
Council, it shall be adopted by motion, second, discussion and vote. It is not
necessary to read the resolution by title or in full, provided it is identified
by the presiding officer. Upon request of a majority of the quorum a resolution
shall be read in full.
   (B)   Where a particular resolution has not been prepared, a motion to
direct the City Attorney to prepare the document and return it to the Council
is ordered.
   (C)   Where necessary, a resolution may be presented verbally in motion form
together with instructions for written preparation. Upon preparation and
execution of such a resolution, it shall become an official action of the
Council without the need for further City Council action.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.82 RALPH M. BROWN ACT.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter are intended to supplement the
provisions of the Ralph M. Brown Act with respect to matters not covered by the
Act or which are the subject of local regulation under the Act. To the extent
of any conflict between the provisions of this chapter and the Act, the
provisions of the Act shall prevail.
   (B)   If a matter arises at a council meeting which is not covered by this
chapter or applicable provisions of federal or state law or the Indio City
Code, the latest revised edition of The Standard Code of Parliamentary
Procedure may be used as a guide for resolution of the particular procedural
issue raised to the extent that such rules are applicable to meetings of a
legislative body of a city.
   (C)   The City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk shall provide a copy of this chapter
and of the Ralph M. Brown Act to each person elected to serve as a member of
the City Council who has not assumed the duties of office.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.83 CORRESPONDENCE ADDRESSED TO THE CITY COUNCIL; AUTHORITY OF CITY
MANAGER, CITY CLERK/DEPUTY CITY CLERK; TREATMENT AT MEETINGS.
   (A)   The City Manager or his or her designated representative, is
authorized to open and examine all mail or other written communications
addressed to the City Council, except correspondence addressed to individual
council members, and to give it warranted attention to the end that all
administrative business referred to in said communications and not requiring
City Council action may be acted upon between council meetings: provided, that
all communications and any action taken pursuant thereto shall be reported to
the City Council. The City Manager may keep, distribute, copy or direct the
keeping, distribution, or copying of such mail or other written communications
as the Manager deems necessary or appropriate for the efficient conduct of city
business.
   (B)   The City Manager's office and City Clerk's office shall coordinate
with respect to mail received by the City Clerk's office in order to
effectively accomplish the purposes of this section.
   (C)   Correspondence concerning a matter on an agenda for consideration by
the Council, and received by the City Manager's office or City Clerk's office
prior to twelve noon two days before delivery of agenda packages to City
Council members, shall be made a part of the agenda item package. A copy of
correspondence received after that time shall be delivered to each council
member as soon as feasible before the meeting, or at the meeting, and a copy
shall be filed with the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk as soon as practicable
after receipt. Such correspondence shall be a part of the record of the
meeting, but generally shall not be read aloud at a council meeting unless
directed by the Mayor with the consent of the City Council. Correspondence
delivered to the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk, or two members of the City
Council, at a meeting shall be part of the record; upon request by any member
of the City Council such correspondence may be read aloud or paraphrased by the
City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk in lieu of oral testimony by the person submitting
the letter. In the preparation of the record of a meeting, the city is not
required to keep duplicate copies of a document.
   (D)   Correspondence requiring or requesting Council action on a subject
matter within its jurisdiction shall be placed on an agenda as soon as
practicable, together with a report and recommendation from the City Manager.
   (E)   The City Manager may establish administrative policies to implement
the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.84 CORRESPONDENCE TO COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   Routine correspondence addressed to the City Council which is received
by individual council members, the City Manager, the City Clerk/Deputy City
Clerk or any other officer or employee of the city shall not be a matter of
public record unless it is received and filed by the Council or any member
thereof at a regular, special, or adjourned meeting of the Council or is kept
and used by the city in the course of city business.
   (B)   Correspondence received by the Mayor or individual members of the City
Council containing evidence relevant to an administrative or quasi-judicial
hearing shall be delivered by the member to the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk
for distribution to all members of the City Council at or before the hearing.
Petitions of residents received by the Mayor or members of the City Council
relating to matters scheduled for a City Council meeting shall be delivered to
the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk upon receipt for distribution to the City
Manager and other members of the City Council. Compliance with this section
shall not be necessary with respect to correspondence or petitions that
indicate distribution to all members of the City Council.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require distribution of
other correspondence or disclosure of information protected by the deliberative
process privilege.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.85 PUBLIC INSPECTION OF WRITTEN MATERIALS DISTRIBUTED FOR DISCUSSION OR
CONSIDERATION AT MEETINGS.
   In order to assure timely compliance with Government Code Section 54957.5
agendas of public meetings and any other writings, when distributed to all, or
a majority of all, of the members of the legislative body of the city by a
member of the city staff or by a member of the city staff on behalf of any
person in connection with a matter subject to discussion or consideration at
public meeting of the shall be made available for public review at the Clerk's
office. This section shall not apply to any writing exempt from public
disclosure under Section 6253.5, 6254, or 6254.7 of the Government Code.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.86 CONFIDENTIAL COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   No member of the City Council, city officer or employee of the city or
any other person present during a closed session of the Council shall disclose
to any person the content or substance of any information presented or
discussion which took place during the closed session unless the City Council
first authorizes the disclosure of such information by the affirmative vote of
three members.
   (B)   Except when disclosure is mandated by state or federal law, no member
of the City Council, officer or employee of the city or any other person shall
disclose to any person the content or substance of any confidential or
privileged communication relating to matters of city business, received under
circumstances where the confidential or privileged nature of the communication
is reasonably conveyed or understood, unless the disclosure is first authorized
by the affirmative vote of three members of the City Council.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) shall not apply to:
      (1)   Confidential disclosures to other officers or employees of the
city;
      (2)   Disclosures to members, officers or employees of other governmental
agencies, where the disclosure is in confidence and is necessary for
furtherance of official city business;
      (3)   Disclosures necessary to report a crime or violation of law to a
responsible enforcement agency;
      (4)   Disclosures by the City Attorney, City Manager or the city's
designated negotiators when such disclosures are deemed necessary by such
person to accomplish the official business of the city pursuant to directions
obtained during the closed session.
   (D)   Pursuant to Government Code Section 1098, no member of the City
Council or officer or employee of the city shall use confidential information
received in the course and scope of their office or employment for private
financial gain. Such use of confidential information constitutes a violation of
Government Code Section 1098, a misdemeanor.
   (E)   Members of the City Council who violate divisions (A) or (B) may be
subject to censure upon the affirmative vote of three members of the City
Council.
   (F)   Other officers or employees of the city who violate divisions (A) or
(B) may be subject to disciplinary action be the appointing authority.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.87 COUNCIL POLICY MANUAL.
   The City Manager shall maintain a council policy manual to contain such
written policies as the Council may adopt. The purpose of council policies are
to indicate how the Council intends to rule in the future on particular matters
of a recurring nature which are subject to their discretion. Policies shall be
numbered and dated and shall remain in effect until rescinded.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.88 FAILURE TO OBSERVE PROCEDURES; WAIVER.
   (A)   The failure to strictly observe the procedural provisions of this
subchapter shall not affect the jurisdiction of the Council or invalidate any
action taken at a meeting that is otherwise held in conformity with law so long
as the requisite number of council members have agreed to the particular
action. To the extent that this subchapter establishes requirements that are
more retroactive than the Ralph M. Brown Act, or other provisions of state
statute applicable to meetings of the City Council, the provisions of this
subchapter shall prevail.
   (B)   A failure on the part of any person to register a timely objection of
an alleged violation of the procedures of this subchapter shall constitute a
waiver of all such objections. An objection shall be deemed be timely only if
it is made during the meeting, proceeding or public hearing to which the
alleged violation relates. Nothing in this section shall preclude the City
Council from taking any action deemed appropriate by the Council to cure a
violation or alleged violation of the procedures of this subchapter that is
brought to its attention.
   (C)   The procedural provisions of this subchapter establishing duties of
city officers or employees are directory in nature and shall not be deemed to
create a mandatory duty the breach of which could result in liability to the
city or to the officer or employee pursuant to state or other law.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.89 APPEALS PROCEDURE.
   Where no specific appeals procedure exists for an appeal, any decision of a
commission, committee or person which substantially affects the rights, duties
or privileges of an aggrieved person, such decision may be appealed to the City
Council by filing a written notice of appeal with the City Clerk/Deputy City
Clerk within ten calendar days of the date of the decision. Fees, if any, for
filing an appeal shall be established by resolution of the City Council. The
decision of the City Council shall be final.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.90 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS PROCEDURE.
   Whenever the requirement of this code or other law require that hearings
with regard to a particular matter be conducted pursuant to a specific
procedure, the provisions of the law establishing the requirements shall
prevail over this chapter to the extent of any inconsistency.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.91 ADMINISTRATION OF OATH.
   Whenever any law requires that testimony presented to the City Council be
under Oath or affirmation, the persons presenting such testimony shall be sworn
in by the City Clerk/Deputy City Clerk or the Mayor.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of §
30.34(D)(3) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided
by §
10.99.
('61 Code, § 2.7-1(d)(3)) (Ord. 1057, passed 9-5-90)
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
30.58 and
30.59 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided by §
10.99.
(Ord. 1205, passed 11-6-96)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Unclaimed property in city offices
   
31.02   Contract with State Public Employee's Retirement System
City Attorney
   
31.15   Compensation
City Clerk
   
31.25   Bond required; approval; filing
   
31.26   Elected City Clerk duties and responsibilities
City Treasurer
   
31.35   Bond required; approval; filing
   
31.36   City Treasurer duties and responsibilities
  City Manager
   
31.45   Office created; appointment of Manager; qualifications
   
31.46   Residency
   
31.47   Eligibility of Councilmembers
   
31.48   Bond
   
31.49   Acting City Manager
   
31.50   Compensation; expense allowance; reimbursement of expenses
   
31.51   Administrative head of government; powers and duties
   
31.52   Limitation on exercise of powers and duties
   
31.53   Removal; procedure
   
31.54   Limitation on removal during or after election
   
31.55   Exclusion from civil service system
Personnel Officer; Personnel Board; Personnel System
   
31.70   Adoption of Personnel Plan
   
31.71   Personnel Officer
   
31.72   Applicability; exemptions
   
31.73   Adoption and amendment of rules
   
31.74   Appointments
   
31.75   Criminal conduct; ineligibility for employment
   
31.76   Status of present employees
   
31.77   Age limit for civil service examination
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 UNCLAIMED PROPERTY IN CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   If any officer, employee or department of the city shall have in his
or her possession any property not belonging to the city, but which shall have
been left with and be in possession of the person or department for a period of
three months and shall not be claimed by any person during that three-month
period, then the officer, employee or department shall, at the end of the
three-month period, deliver the same into the custody and possession of the
Police Department of the city.
('61 Code, § 2.1)
   (B)   Unclaimed property which shall have come into the Police Department as
provided in division (A) above shall be kept and retained by the Police
Department for a further period of six months, during which time the owner
shall have the right to reclaim the same. In the event no person shall claim
the property during that six-month period, it shall thereafter be sold by the
Police Chief at a public auction to the highest bidder. The Chief shall give
notice of the sale of this property at least five days before the time fixed
therefor by publication once in a newspaper of general circulation published in
the city.
('61 Code, § 2.2)
(Ord. 211, passed - - )
§ 31.02 CONTRACT WITH STATE PUBLIC EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   A contract is hereby authorized between the City Council and the State
Public Employees' Retirement System (PERS). This contract is made a part hereof
as though set out in full herein.
('61 Code, § 2.26)
   (B)   The Mayor is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to execute the
contract provided for in division (A) above on behalf of the City Council.
('61 Code, § 2.27)
(Ord. 247, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1293, passed 3-21-01)
CITY ATTORNEY
§ 31.15 COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of the City Attorney may be fixed from time to time by
resolution.
('61 Code, § 2.28) (Ord. 91, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 397, passed - - )
CITY CLERK
§ 31.25 BOND REQUIRED; APPROVAL; FILING.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall furnish a security bond to the city, in an amount
established by City Council from time to time , which bond shall be subject to
the approval of the City Attorney. When the bond has been so approved, it shall
be filed with and held for safekeeping by the City Manager.
('61 Code, § 2.29)
   (B)   The bond of the City Clerk and City Treasurer shall be in full force
and effect so long as each shall hold office.
('61 Code, § 2.31)
(Ord. 91, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 175, passed - - )
Cross-reference:
   Bond for City Treasurer, see §
31.35
§ 31.26 ELECTED CITY CLERK DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The elected City Clerk position is not full time, does not include a
dedicated office or staff, and access to the city's computer network is
restricted to ensure network security. Accordingly, day-to-day activity of the
City Clerk is accomplished working in partnership with city staff, in
particular the City Manager, and his or her designee, such as the Director of
Clerk Services, while providing appropriate high-level review of the actions
taken in support of the City Clerk function by the abovementioned individuals.
The City Manager, and his or her designee, shall be principally responsible for
maintaining the city's records management system and carrying out those duties
assigned to the City Clerk under this code, unless a duty is otherwise required
to be performed by the City Clerk under state law.
(Ord. 1812, passed 6-19-24)
CITY TREASURER
§ 31.35 BOND REQUIRED; APPROVAL; FILING.
   The City Treasurer shall furnish a security bond to the city, in an amount
established by City Council from time to time , which bond shall be subject to
the approval of the City Attorney. When the bond has been so approved, it shall
be filed with and held for safekeeping by the City Clerk.
('61 Code, § 2.30) (Ord. 175, passed - - )
Cross-references:
   Term of bond same as term of office, see §
31.25(B)
   Water Main Fund, see §
54.030
§ 31.36 CITY TREASURER DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The City Treasurer position is not full time, does not include a
dedicated office or staff, and access to the city's computer network is
restricted to ensure network security. Accordingly, day-to-day activity of the
City Treasurer is accomplished working in partnership with city staff, in
particular the City Manager, and his or her designee, such as Finance Director,
while providing appropriate high-level review of the actions taken in support
of the City Treasurer function by the abovementioned individuals. The City
Manager, or his or her designee, shall be principally responsible for the
professional, supervisorial, administrative and technical accounting and
finance functions necessary to maintain the accounting and financial records
and systems and carrying out those duties assigned to the City Treasurer under
this code, unless a duty is otherwise required to be performed by the City
Treasurer under state law.
   (B)   Pursuant to Government Code § 53601, the City Council has the
authority to invest or reinvest city funds. This authority may be delegated to
the City Treasurer, or such other person as determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 1812, passed 6-19-24)
CITY MANAGER
§ 31.45 OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT OF MANAGER; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The office of City Manager is created and established.
   (B)   The City Manager shall be appointed by the City Council solely on the
basis of his or her executive and administrative qualifications and ability and
shall hold office at and during the pleasure of the City Council.
('61 Code, § 2.8) (Ord. 182, passed - - )
§ 31.46 RESIDENCY.
   Residence in the city at the time of appointment shall not be required as a
condition of employment.
('61 Code, § 2.9) (Ord. 182, passed - - )
§ 31.47 ELIGIBILITY OF COUNCILMEMBERS.
   No person elected to membership on the City Council shall, subsequent to
election, be eligible for appointment as City Manager until one year has
elapsed after he or she has ceased to be a member of the City Council.
('61 Code, § 2.10) (Ord. 182, passed - - )
§ 31.48 BOND.
   The City Manager shall furnish a corporate bond to be approved by the City
Council in the sum that may be determined by the Council and shall be
conditioned on the faithful performance of the duties imposed on the City
Manager as prescribed in this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 2.11) (Ord. 182, passed - - )
§ 31.49 ACTING CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager shall appoint, subject to the approval of the City Council,
one of the other officers or department heads of the city to serve as Acting
Manager during any temporary absence or disability of the City Manager, and
failure to so appoint a Acting City Manager, the Council may designate some
duly qualified person to perform the duties of the City Manager during the
period of absence or disability of the City Manager, subject to that person
furnishing a corporate surety bond conditioned on faithful performance of the
duties required to be performed, as set forth in §
31.48.
('61 Code, § 2.12) (Ord. 182, passed - - )
§ 31.50 COMPENSATION; EXPENSE ALLOWANCE; REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES.
   (A)   The City Manager shall receive compensation as the City Council shall,
from time to time, determine and fix by resolution and that compensation shall
be a proper charge against the funds of the city as the City Council shall
designate.
   (B)   The City Manager shall be reimbursed for all sums necessarily incurred
or paid by him or her in the performance of his or her duties or incurred when
traveling on business pertaining to the city under the direction of the City
Council. Reimbursement shall be made only when a verified itemized claim,
setting forth the sums expended for the reimbursement is requested, has been
presented to the City Council and duly approved and allowed by the Council.
('61 Code, § 2.13) (Ord. 182, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 397, passed - - )
§ 31.51 ADMINISTRATIVE HEAD OF GOVERNMENT; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The City Manager shall be the administrative head of the city government
under the direction and control of the City Council, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter. He or she shall be responsible for the efficient
administration of all the affairs of the city which are under his or her
control. In addition to his or her general powers as administrative head, and
not as a limitation thereon, it shall be his or her duty and he or she shall
have the power:
   (A)   To see that all laws and ordinances of the city are duly enforced and
that all franchises, permits and privileges granted by the city are faithfully
observed.
   (B)   To control, order and give directions to all heads of departments
including, but not limited to, police, fire, public works and finance, and
subordinate officers and employees of the city except the City Clerk, City
Treasurer and City Attorney; and to transfer employees from one department to
another; and to consolidate or combine offices, positions, departments or units
under his or her directions; provided, nothing contained herein shall be
construed to supersede the authority of the civil service board in the manner
of classification of city officers or employees.
   (C)   To appoint, promote, demote and remove any officers and employees of
the city, except the City Clerk, City Treasurer and City Attorney, subject to
the civil service system.
   (D)   To exercise control over all departments of the city government
including, but not limited to, police, fire, public works and finance and all
appointive officers and employees thereof, except the City Attorney.
   (E)   To attend all meetings of the City Council unless excused therefrom by
the Council, except when his or her removal is under consideration by the
Council.
   (F)   To recommend to the City Council for adoption the measures and
ordinances as he or she deems necessary or expedient.
   (G)   To keep the City Council at all times fully advised as to the
financial conditions and needs of the city.
   (H)   To prepare and submit to the City Council the annual budget.
   (I)   To make investigations into the affairs of the city and any department
or division thereof and any contract or the proper performance of any
obligations running to the city.
   (J)   To investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning the
administration of the city government and in regard to the service maintained
by the public utilities in the city and to see that all franchises, permits and
privileges granted by the city are faithfully performed and observed.
   (K)   To exercise general supervision over all public buildings, public
parks and other public property which are under the control and jurisdiction of
the City Council and not specifically delegated to a particular board or
officer.
   (L)   To devote his or her time to the duties of the office and the interest
of the city.
   (M)   To provide leadership for city-related programs designed to benefit
the residents of the city when so authorized by the City Council.
   (N)   To perform other duties and exercise other powers as may be delegated
by him or her from time to time by ordinance or resolution of the City Council.
   (O)   To designate certain classifications of city officers and employees as
authorized to issue notice to appear citations for certain violations of law.
   (P)   To execute such instruments whether requiring the city seal or not,
and such contracts and conveyances, including but not limited to real estate
instruments, legal settlement agreements and indemnifications, as may prove
necessary in order to effectuate any prior approval by vote of the City
Council, with the full authority to bind the city per Cal. Gov’t Code § 40602.
('61 Code, § 2.14) (Ord. 182, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 630, passed - - ; Am. Ord.
982, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1009, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1553, passed 3-18-09)
Cross-reference:
   City Manager as Personnel Officer, see §
31.71
§ 31.52 LIMITATION ON EXERCISE OF POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The exercise of the powers and duties of the City Manager set out in §
31.51 and the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to §§
31.70 through 31.79, relating to the civil service system, and to any rules and
regulations adopted pursuant to those sections as to classification of
employees, the appointment, transfer, promotion, demotion, removal, suspension,
dismissal and reinstatement of the employees and the procedures outlined
therein governing the same.
('61 Code, § 2.15) (Ord. 182, passed - - )
§ 31.53 REMOVAL; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The removal of the City Manager shall be only on a 3/5 majority vote
of the whole City Council, subject to the provisions of §
31.54. In case of his or her intended removal by the Council, the City Manager
shall be furnished with a written notice stating the Council's intention to
remove him or her and the reasons therefor at least 30 days before the
effective date of the removal.
('61 Code, § 2.17)
   (B)   Within seven days after delivery to the City Manager of the notice
required by division (A) above, he or she may, by written notification to the
City Clerk, request a public hearing before the Council. Thereafter, the
Council shall fix a time for the public hearing, which shall be held at its
usual meeting place but before the expiration of the 30-day period and at which
the City Manager shall appear and be heard.
('61 Code, § 2.18)
   (C)   After furnishing the City Manager with a written notice of intended
removal in accordance with this section the City Council may suspend the
Manager from duty but his or her compensation shall continue until his or her
removal by resolution of the Council, passed subsequent to the public hearing
requested by the City Manager in accordance with division (B) above.
('61 Code, § 2.19)
   (D)   In removing the City Manager, the City Council shall use its
uncontrolled discretion and its action shall be final and shall not depend upon
any particular showing or degree of proof at the public hearing requested by
the City Manager in accordance with division (B) above, the purpose of which is
to allow the City Manager to publicly present to the City Council his or her
grounds of opposition to removal prior to its action.
('61 Code, § 2.20)
(Ord. 182, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1172, passed 2-15-95)
§ 31.54 LIMITATION ON REMOVAL DURING OR AFTER ELECTION.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this subchapter, the City Manager shall
not be removed from office during or within a period of 90 days next succeeding
any general municipal election held int he city at which election a member of
the City Council is elected. The purpose of this provision is to allow any
newly elected member to the City Council or a reorganized City Council to
observe the actions and ability of the City Manager in the performance of the
powers and duties of his or her office. After the expiration of the 90-day
period, the provisions of §
31.53 as to the removal of the City Manager shall apply and be effective.
('61 Code, § 2.21) (Ord. 182, passed - - )
§ 31.55 EXCLUSION FROM CIVIL SERVICE SYSTEM.
   The office of City Manager is hereby specifically excluded from the civil
service or personnel system of the city and the City Manager shall not be
entitled to the benefits, advantages or protection of the civil service or
personnel system, nor shall he or she be subject to the procedures outlined or
prevailing in that system.
('61 Code, § 2.22) (Ord. 182, passed - - )
PERSONNEL OFFICER; PERSONNEL BOARD; PERSONNEL SYSTEM
§ 31.70 ADOPTION OF PERSONNEL PLAN.
   In order to establish an equitable and uniform procedure for dealing with
personnel matters; to attract to municipal service the best and most competent
persons available; to assure appointments and promotions of employees will be
based on merit and fitness and to provide a reasonable degree of security for
qualified employees, the following personnel system is hereby adopted.
('61 Code, § 2.40) (Ord. 503, passed - - )
§ 31.71 PERSONNEL OFFICER.
   The City Manager shall be the Personnel Officer and shall be the appointing
authority for all positions in the city service, except elective offices and
those appointed by the City Council. The City Manager may delegate any of the
powers and duties conferred upon him or her as personnel officer under this
subchapter to any other officer or employee of the city or may recommend that
the powers and duties be performed under contract. The Personnel Officer shall:
   (A)   Administer all the provisions of this subchapter and of the personnel
rules not specifically reserved to the City Council or the Personnel Board.
   (B)   Prepare and recommend to the City Council personnel rules and
revisions and amendments to those rules. The City Attorney shall approve the
legality of those rules and amendments prior to their submission to the City
Council.
   (C)   Prepare or cause to be prepared a position classification plan,
including class specifications and revisions of the plan. The plan, and any
revisions thereof, shall become effective upon approval by the City Council.
   (D)   Prepare or cause to be prepared a plan of compensation, and revisions
thereof, covering all classifications in the competitive service. The plan, and
any revisions thereof, shall become effective upon approval by the City
Council.
   (E)   Provide for the publishing or posting notices of tests for positions
in the competitive service; the receiving of applications therefor; the
conducting and grading of tests; the certification to the appointing power of a
list of all persons eligible for appointment to the appropriate position in the
competitive service.
('61 Code, § 2.41) (Ord. 503, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1146, passed 11-3-93)
Cross-reference:
   City Manager designated head of government; powers and duties, see §
31.51
§ 31.72 APPLICABILITY; EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all offices, positions and
employments in the service of the city, except:
   (A)   The following are fully excluded from this subchapter:
      (1)   Elective officers;
      (2)   Members of appointive boards, commissions, committees and agencies;
      (3)   Contract employees;
      (4)   Reserve and\or volunteer personnel, such as firefighters and police
officers;
      (5)   The City Attorney;
      (6)   Emergency employees; and
      (7)   Part-time employees.
   (B)   The City Manager shall be a member of the public employees' retirement
system and shall receive benefits accrued under this subchapter and the rules
that are not specifically prohibited by law.
('61 Code, § 2.44) (Ord. 503, passed - - )
§ 31.73 ADOPTION AND AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   Personnel rules shall be adopted by resolution of the City Council after
notice of the action has been publicly posted at least five days prior to City
Council consideration. Amendments and revisions may be suggested by any
interested party and shall be processed as provided in the personnel rules. The
rules shall establish regulations governing the personnel system.
('61 Code, § 2.45) (Ord. 503, passed - - )
§ 31.74 APPOINTMENTS.
   Appointments to vacant positions in the competitive service shall be made in
accordance with the personnel rules. Appointments, demotions, dismissal,
reduction in pay, suspension or other action regarding an employee shall be
made in accordance with personnel rules.
('61 Code, § 2.46) (Ord. 503, passed - - )
§ 31.75 CRIMINAL CONDUCT; INELIGIBILITY FOR EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, conviction (including
pleas of guilty and nolo contendere) of a felony or a misdemeanor shall be
prima facie disqualification of an applicant for employment by the city;
provided, the appointing authority may disregard the conviction if it is found
and determined by the appointing authority that mitigating circumstances exist.
In making the determination, the appointing authority shall consider the
following factors:
      (1)   The classification, including its sensitivity to which the person
is applying or being certified and whether the classification is unrelated to
the conviction;
      (2)   The nature and seriousness of the offense;
      (3)   The circumstances surrounding the conviction;
      (4)   The length of time elapsed since the conviction;
      (5)   The age of the person at the time of the conviction;
      (6)   The presence or absence of rehabilitation or efforts at
rehabilitation;
      (7)   The presence or absence of rehabilitation or efforts at
rehabilitation;
      (8)   Contributing social or environmental conditions.
   (B)   The appointing authority shall give notice of disqualification to an
applicant disqualified under this provision. The notice shall be in writing and
delivered personally or mailed to the applicant at the address shown on the
application for employment.
   (C)   An applicant who is disqualified for employment under this provision
may appeal the determination of disqualification. The appeal shall be in
writing and filed with the City Manager within ten days of the date of the
notice of disqualification. The City Manager shall hear and determine the
appeal within 90 days after it is filed. The determination of the City Manager
on the appeal shall be final.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, an applicant for a peace officer
position shall be disqualified, without right of appeal, from employment if the
applicant shall have been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor.
   (E)   Pursuant to Cal. Penal Code § 11105, the following officers of the
city are authorized to have access to and to utilized state summary criminal
history information when it is needed to assist them in fulfilling employment
duties set forth in this section: City Manager, Personnel Officer, City
Attorney.
('61 Code, § 2.46) (Ord. 722, passed - - )
§ 31.76 STATUS OF PRESENT EMPLOYEES.
   Any person holding a position included in the competitive service who,on the
effective date of this subchapter, shall have served continuously in that
position or in some other position in the competitive service for a period
equal to the probationary period prescribed in the rules for his or her class
shall assume regular status in the competitive service and the position held on
the effective date, without qualifying test, and shall thereafter be subject in
all respects to the provisions of this subchapter and the personnel rules. Any
other persons holding positions in the competitive service shall be regarded as
probationers while serving out the balance of their probationary periods, as
prescribed in the rules before obtaining regular status. The probationary
period shall be computed from the date of appointment or employment.
('61 Code, § 2.47) (Ord. 503, passed - - )
§ 31.77 AGE LIMIT FOR CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION.
   Minimum or maximum age limits for civil service examinations shall not be
established and age shall not be a minimum qualification for any city
employment in the classified service, other than police officers and
firefighters.
('61 Code, § 2.48) (Ord. 1009, passed - - )
CHAPTER 32: CITY COMMISSIONS
Section
   
32.01   Commissions in general
   
32.02   Commissioner qualifications
   
32.03   Appointment process and commissioner terms
   
32.04   Operational procedures
   
32.05   Selection of Chair and Vice Chair
   
32.06   Attendance
   
32.07   Commissioner removal; commissioner review
   
32.08   Automatic termination from office
Planning Commission
   
32.09   Planning Commission; establishment and duties
Community Services Commission
   
32.10   Community Services Commission; establishment and duties
Public Arts Commission
   
32.11   Public Arts Commission; establishment and duties
Sustainability Commission
   
32.12   Sustainability Commission; establishment and duties
§ 32.01 COMMISSIONS IN GENERAL.
   (A)   The City Council shall create such commissions as required by state
law or as deemed appropriate in the conduct of the city's business. All
commissions shall consist of five members unless otherwise provided for in this
Code.
   (B)   Commission position availability shall, in accordance with Gov't Code
§§ 54970-54975 (the Maddy Act), be advertised in a newspaper of local
circulation and/or on the city's website. Any resident interested in serving on
a commission shall file an application in the form provided by the city with
the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall keep all applications received on file for
one year.
(Ord. 1750, passed 4-15-20)
§ 32.02 COMMISSIONER QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All members of a commission shall be residents of the City of Indio at
the time of their appointment and continuously during their term of office.
Membership shall terminate automatically if a member ceases to reside in the
city.
   (B)   City employees appointed under the authority of the City Manager are
not eligible to serve on a commission.
   (C)   Any commission nominee shall be qualified by experience, training,
education and/or knowledge to act on matters before the commission to which he
or she is appointed.
(Ord. 1750, passed 4-15-20)
§ 32.03 APPOINTMENT PROCESS AND COMMISSIONER TERMS.
   (A)   Each Council member shall nominate one member to each city commission,
which nomination and appointment shall be subject to ratification by a three-
fifths vote of all the Council members. Commissioners may be selected from
among residents of the city at-large whom have submitted an application with
the City Clerk.
   (B)   Council members may use any one or combination of selection methods
including but not limited the interview of candidates individually at a
location determined by the Council member, or interview of candidates as a
group at a location determined by the Council member.
   (C)   A commissioner's term shall mirror the term of the Council member who
nominates him or her. Notwithstanding, if the nominating Council member's seat
becomes vacant, the commissioner's term shall continue until he or she is
replaced by the incoming Council member. There are no limits as to the number
of terms a commissioner may serve.
   (D)   A newly elected or re-elected Council member shall appoint, re-appoint
or replace his or her commissioners within 60 days of said Council member's
swearing in.
   (E)   In the event a newly elected or re-elected Council member fails to
appoint, re-appoint or replace a commissioner within 60 days of the Council
member's swearing in, the incumbent commissioner shall continue to serve until
such time a successor is appointed.
   (F)   A commissioner vacancy occurring during the term of the commissioner's
office shall be filled by the respective nominating Council member within
ninety (90) days from the date the vacancy occurs in the same manner as the
original nomination and appointment. Any person appointed to fill a vacancy
shall serve for the remainder of the nominating Council member's term. If the
vacancy is not filled within the time prescribed by the respective Council
member, the majority of the City Council shall make the appointment.
   (G)   A commissioner may serve on no more than one commission at a time;
except Commissioners may also serve on the Mobile Home Fair Practices
Commission, if they meet the requirements to serve on that Commission.
Commissioners may not serve on the Mobile Home Fair Practices Commission if
they are (1) owners, (2) tenants, (3) landlords, (4) operators or (5) managers
of a mobile home.
   (H)   The city values the independent advice of those persons appointed to
city commissions and recognize that commissioner are independent and their
positions on matters before them may not reflect the position of their
nominating Council members.
(Ord. 1750, passed 4-15-20; Am. Ord. 1796, passed 8-16-23)
§ 32.04 OPERATIONAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Meetings.
      (1)   Each commission shall establish its own meeting schedule, including
date, time and place of meetings. A quorum of the majority of all the members
appointed shall be required for the transaction of any business. All meetings
of each commission, board or committee shall be held in compliance with the
Ralph M. Brown Act (Government Code §§ 54950 et seq.).
      (2)   Commissions shall present annually, either orally or in writing, a
report of activities to the City Council.
      (3)   Minutes of commission meetings shall be prepared by staff or a
contractor designated as the secretary. Said minutes shall be reviewed and
approved as presented or modified by the commission at the earliest
opportunity.
   (B)   Stipend.
      (1)   Planning Commissioners shall receive a stipend of $100 per meeting.
      (2)    All other commissioners shall receive a stipend of $50 per
meeting.
      (3)   Commissioners may voluntarily waive receipt of the stipend
associated with their appointed commission.
   (C)   Advisory function. Except as provided by state law or the city's
Municipal Code, commissioners serve as advisory bodies to the City Council and
the City Manager. Neither the commission nor their individual members are
granted any executive or administrative authority.
   (D)   Administrative assistance. The City Manager shall assign staff to
provide administrative support with such matters as the preparation and posting
of agendas, the preparation of agenda reports and meeting minutes and the
coordination of clerical and technical work of the commission in administering
their official functions. Supervision of administrative staff assigned to the
commission is the responsibility of the City Manager.
   (E)   Commission committees. A commission may appoint ad hoc subcommittees
from its membership from time to time as may be necessary for the conduct of
study or research.
   (F)   No spending authority. A commission shall have no authority to expend
or authorize the expenditure of any public funds. The City Council shall
provide the funds necessary for the operation of each commission.
(Ord. 1750, passed 4-15-20; Am. Ord. 1796, passed 8-16-23)
§ 32.05 SELECTION OF CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR.
   (A)   The position of Chair and Vice Chair shall rotate at the commission
meeting that follows the following the annual rotation of Mayor and Mayor Pro
Tem by the City Council. A Chairperson and a Vice Chairperson shall serve for
one year.
   (B)   A rotation progression of the Chair and the Vice Chair position among
commissioners shall be established based upon seniority of appointment, as that
term is defined in §
32.05(C), to the commission. Notwithstanding the definition of seniority of
appointment, for newly appointed commissioners, the order of seniority among
those newly appointed commissioners shall be established according to their
nominating Council members’ Council District number from lowest to highest. If
a commissioner declines to serve as Chairperson, such commissioner shall wait
until the other commissioners currently serving at such time are eligible for
Chairperson before assuming the Chair, regardless of seniority of appointment.
A Commissioner, however, shall not serve as Chairperson or Vice Chairperson
until after a full rotation of Chairperson and Vice Chairperson has occurred
and in the case of Chairperson, a Commissioner must have previously served as
Vice Chairperson.
   (C)   As used in this section, SENIORITY OF APPOINTMENT is defined as the
length of the commissioner's tenure which begins from the date of their
appointment by the City Council as set forth in §
32.03 of the Code regardless of which Council member nominated such
commissioner. In the case of an incumbent commissioner that has been held over
as described in § 32.03(E), the date of their appointment shall be when that
incumbent commission was first appointed. In the event two or more
commissioners have equal seniority, the affected commissioners are encouraged
to work collaboratively to choose amongst themselves the order of seniority.
   (D)   If the commissioners with equal seniority are unable to determine the
order of seniority, the decision regarding seniority shall be determined by lot
(i.e., the drawing of straws) in the manner conducted by city staff ("staff")
as follows: (1) Staff will gather a number of straws and will ensure that the
straws are of varying lengths; (2) The number of straws to be gathered by the
staff will equal the number of commissioners that have equal seniority; (3)
Staff will then grab all the straws in his or her fist, such that all of them
appear to be the same length and offer the clenched fist to the commissioners
with equal seniority; (4) Each commissioner with equal seniority shall draw a
straw from the fist of staff. The straw the commissioner touches is the straw
the commissioner chooses; (5) Once all the straws are chosen, staff will
compare the length of the straws and the person with the shortest straw will
have the most seniority, followed by the next shortest straw and so forth. This
process shall not be used for those commissioners that are newly appointed
(i.e., commissioners that have never served on that commission).
(Ord. 1750, passed 4-15-20)
§ 32.06 ATTENDANCE.
   (A)   If any commissioner is absent from three (3) consecutive meetings or
absent from more than 33% of meetings in any twelve month period, the
commissioner is considered to have resigned from office and unless the City
Council takes action pursuant to §
32.06(B) the office of that commissioner will be deemed vacant, and the term of
that commissioner is automatically terminated. Notice of the termination of the
commissioner's term shall be mailed to the commissioner by the City Clerk
("notice"). The resulting vacancy shall be filled in the manner provided for in
§
32.03(F).
   (B)   A commissioner whose attendance record results in resignation may
request that his or her commission service be continued by sending a letter to
the City Clerk that is received by the city within five days of the date the
notice. The City Council shall consider a commissioner's continued service at a
regularly scheduled Council meeting to discuss the reasons for such absence. If
the City Council, in its sole discretion, finds that the absences were due to
health reasons or for other unusual hardship that justifies the absence, the
City Council may excuse the absences or the City Council can confirm the
automatic vacancy and termination of term of such commissioner. Such action
shall be by a majority vote.
(Ord. 1750, passed 4-15-20)
§ 32.07 COMMISSIONER REMOVAL; COMMISSIONER REVIEW.
   (A)    A commissioner may be removed from office prior to the end of his or
her term with or without any reason. Removal may be initiated only by the
nominating Council member and must be ratified by a four-fifths vote of the
City Council. If the commissioner was appointed by the City Council as provided
for in §
32.03(F), then the commissioner may be removed by a majority vote of the entire
City Council. In either case, the action to remove the commissioner is final
and not subject to review.
   (B)    A commissioner who has been removed from office may not be re-
appointed to fill the vacancy created by his or her removal.
   (C)   With the concurrence of a majority of the City Council, at any time a
Council member may request that the City Council review the participation and
performance of any commissioner for any reason or no reason. If such
concurrence is received, the commissioner's review will be placed on a
subsequent City Council agenda.
(Ord. 1750, passed 4-15-20)
§ 32.08 AUTOMATIC TERMINATION FROM OFFICE.
   Unless otherwise specifically provided in this Code, membership on a
commission shall automatically terminate upon the resignation or death of a
commissioner or if the commissioner ceases to reside in the city.
(Ord. 1750, passed 4-15-20)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.09 PLANNING COMMISSION; ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Establishment. The Planning Commission is established pursuant to
Government Code §§ 65100 et seq.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The Planning Commission shall perform the following
functions:
      (1)   Periodically review, and as necessary revise the General Plan.
      (2)   Implement the General Plan through actions including, but not
limited to, the administration of specific plans and zoning and subdivision
ordinances.
      (3)   Annually review the city's capital improvement program and the
local public works projects of other local agencies for their consistency with
the General Plan.
      (4)   Act as the city's planning agency and carry out the duties of the
planning agency as set forth in state planning and zoning law, except that the
City Council shall serve as the city's planning agency for purposes of
reviewing real property acquisitions and dispositions for General Plan
conformity when conformity review is required by Government Code § 65402, as it
may be amended from time to time.
      (5)   To advise the City Council as necessary on historic preservation
matters;
      (6)   Perform such other functions as directed by the City Council.
      (7)   Establish its own rules and procedures not inconsistent with the
intent of this chapter or any other ordinances or laws of the city or state.
(Ord. 1750, passed 4-15-20)
COMMUNITY SERVICES COMMISSION
§ 32.10 COMMUNITY SERVICES COMMISSION; ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established the Community Services
Commission.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The Community Services Commission shall perform the
following functions:
      (1)   Make recommendations to the City Council on matters pertaining to
park properties and programming, recreation activities and programs including
those serving youth, seniors and the disabled.
      (2)   Make recommendations to the City Council concerning the parks and
recreation element of the General Plan.
      (3)   Work with other governmental agencies, civic organizations, and
non-profit groups to facilitate coordination of the efficient and effective use
of recreation facilities.
      (4)   Make recommendations to the City Council concerning the
development, use and maintenance of the city's trails system, having secured
input from individuals and organizations in the community with interest and
expertise in trails.
      (5)   Perform such other functions as directed by the City Council.
      (6)   Establish its own rules and procedures not inconsistent with the
intent of this chapter or any other ordinances or laws of the city or state.
(Ord. 1750, passed 4-15-20)
PUBLIC ARTS COMMISSION
§ 32.11 PUBLIC ARTS COMMISSION; ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES.
   The Public Arts Commission shall:
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established the Public Arts Commission.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The Public Arts Commission shall perform the following
functions:
      (1)   Solicit artist proposals, select and recommend purchases of public
art to the City Council.
      (2)   Review artwork proposed by developers under the Art in Public
Places Program, as specified in the Unified Development Code, for aesthetic
quality, maintenance requirements and appropriateness of the donation to the
overall goals of the Art in Public Places Program and make a recommendation to
the City Council.
      (3)   Recommend sites for public art projects.
      (4)   Provide technical and aesthetic recommendations for all public and
private public art projects.
      (5)   Review artist applications for participation in the Art in Public
Places Artist Registry.
      (6)   Create and recommend policy in conformity with the Indio General
Plan for visual arts.
      (7)   Perform such other functions as directed by the City Council.
      (8)   Establish its own rules and procedures not inconsistent with the
intent of this chapter or any other ordinances or laws of the city or state.
(Ord. 1750, passed 4-15-20)
SUSTAINABILITY COMMISSION
§ 32.12 SUSTAINABILITY COMMISSION; ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established the Sustainability
Commission.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The Sustainability Commission shall perform the
following functions:
      (1)   Advise, assist and make recommendations to the City Council on
matters related to sustainability.
      (2)   Develop and recommend for adoption by the City Council a
Sustainability Plan that identifies and brings together the city's current
sustainability efforts, sets specific goals and includes a long range vision
that addresses and promotes sustainability through water and energy efficiency
and conservation, renewable resources, climate change strategies, waste
management and recycling, and community education.
      (3)   Facilitate public outreach, education and collaboration with the
community with regards to sustainability.
      (4)   Perform such other functions as directed by the City Council.
      (5)   Establish its own rules and procedures not inconsistent with the
intent of this chapter or any other ordinances or laws of the city or state.
(Ord. 1750, passed 4-15-20)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE; PURCHASING
Section
Finance Department
   
33.001   Created; Budget System––General Finance Policies
   
33.002   Duties and responsibilities
Finance Officer
   
33.015   Established; appointment
   
33.016   Duties and functions
Special Gas Tax Street Improvement Fund
   
33.030   Created
   
33.031   Revenue
   
33.032   Expenditures
Air Quality Trust Fund; Vehicle Registration Fee
   
33.045   Findings
   
33.046   Intent
   
33.047   Definitions
   
33.048   Administration of vehicle registration fee
   
33.049   Establishment of Air Quality Improvement Trust Fund
   
33.050   Transfer of funds
   
33.051   Expenditures
   
33.052   Audits
   
33.053   Legal construction
Development Impact Fee
   
33.065   Findings and intent
   
33.066   Definitions
   
33.067   Purpose of fees
   
33.068   Types of impact fees
   
33.069   Exemptions and credits
   
33.070   Use of fees
   
33.071   Establishment of fee by implementing resolution
   
33.072   Fee adjustments
   
33.073   Automatic annual fee adjustment
   
33.074   Amount to be paid and timing of payment
   
33.075   Limitations
   
33.076   Accounting and expenditure of fees
   
33.077   Disposition of unexpended or unappropriated fee revenues
   
33.078   Protest of fees
   
33.079   Appeal to City Council
Transportation Uniform Mitigation Fee
   
33.080   Purpose, use and findings
   
33.081   Definitions
   
33.082   Transportation uniform mitigation fee established
   
33.083   Fund established
   
33.084   Calculation and collection of the TUMF
   
33.085   Use restrictions
   
33.086   Exemptions and credits
   
33.087   Appeal process
   
33.088   Administrative fee
Coachella Valley Multiple Species Habitat Conservation Plan/Natural Community
Conservation Plan Mitigation Fee
   
33.090   Coachella Valley Multiple Species Habitat Conservation Plan/Natural
Community Conservation Plan mitigation fee
Investment Committee
   
33.100   Investment Committee
Purchasing
   
33.115   Purpose
   
33.116   Purchasing policies and guidelines
   
33.117   Reserved
   
33.118   Purchasing procedures
   
33.119   Payment procedures
   
33.120   Definitions and special requirements
   
33.121   Reserved
   
33.122   Balance in excess of obligations required prior to delivery of
purchase
   
33.123   Declaration and sale of surplus or obsolete equipment
   
33.124   Informal bidding for public works contracts
Industrial Development Authority
   
33.200   Industrial Development Authority
FINANCE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.001 CREATED; BUDGET SYSTEM–GENERAL FINANCE POLICIES.
   There is hereby created and established in and for the city a Finance
Department to carry out the “Budget System–General Financial Policies” as
approved .
   The following Financial Policies are established to see that the City/
Agency/Other Entity finances are managed in a manner which will (1) continue to
provide for the delivery of quality services, (2) maintain and enhance service
delivery as the community grows in accordance with the General Plan, (3)
guarantee a balanced budget annually providing assurance of always living
within our means, and (4) establish reserves necessary to meet known and
unknown future obligations. To achieve these goals the following Financial
Policies are presented which include General Policies, Reserve Polices, Revenue
Policies, Cost of Services Policy, Expenditure and Budgeting Polices, Debt
Policies, and Capital Improvement Plan (CIP)/Capital Equipment Program (CEP)
Policies.
   (A)   General Policies.
      (1)   The City/Agency/Other Entities will manage its financial assets in
a sound and prudent manner.
      (2)   The City/Agency/Other Entities will maintain sound financial
practices in accordance with state law, and direct its financial resources
toward meeting the City/Agency/Other Entity's long-term goals.
      (3)   The City/Agency/Other Entities will maintain and further develop
programs to assure its long-term ability to pay all the costs necessary to
provide the level and quality of service by its citizens.
      (4)   City/Agency/Other Entities will establish and maintain investment
policies in accordance with state laws that stress safety and liquidity over
yield.
      (5)   City/Agency/Other Entities will deliver service in the most
effective manner, including utilizing the services of volunteers in areas where
it is economically viable.
   (B)   Reserve Policies.
      (1)   The City/Agency/Other Entities will establish, dedicate and
maintain reserves annually to meet known and estimated future obligations.
      (2)   The City/Agency/Other Entities will establish Specific Reserve
Accounts which include but are not limited to designated reserves for the
following:
         (a)   Reserve funds for Economic Uncertainties established during
“Budget Sessions” to meet General Fund Reserve Goal. Using FY 2000 as a base
line the fund balance was 4% of general fund expenses;
         (b)   Totally funded workers compensation;
         (c)   Liability insurance;
         (d)   Estimated cost of retirees medical payments;
         (e)   Depreciation and replacement of vehicles and major equipment;
and
         (f)   Major maintenance and renovation of buildings, parks, and
landscape maintenance;
      (3)    The City/Agency/Other Entities will establish reserves for
replacement of facilities and infrastructure.
      (4)   The City/Agency/Other Entities will establish reserves for cash
flow purposes.
   (C)   Revenue Policies.
      (1)   The City/Agency/Other Entities will strive to maintain a
diversified, stable revenue base that is not overly dependent on any land use,
major taxpayer, revenue type, restricted revenue, inelastic revenue, or
external revenue.
      (2)   The City/Agency/Other Entities will aggressively pursue revenue
collection and auditing to assure that moneys due are received in a timely
manner.
      (3)   The City/Agency/Other Entities will seek federal and state grants
and reimbursements for mandated costs whenever possible.
      (4)   The City/Agency/Other Entities will investigate potential new
revenue sources, particularly those which will not add to the tax burden of
residents or local businesses.
      (5)   The City/Agency/Other Entities will work proactively with the
League of California Cities and local communities to monitor legislation that
may impact us financially.
      (6)   The City/Agency/Other Entities will avoid targeting revenues for
specific purposes whenever possible.
      (7)   The City/Agency/Other Entities will impose user fees when
appropriate.
      (8)   The City/Agency/Other Entities will adopt a user fee policy, which
establishes desired levels of cost recovery and determines the minimum
frequency of user fee reviews.
      (9)   The City/Agency/Other Entities will prepare periodic financial
reports of actual revenue received, for review by the City Council, to provide
information on the status of the financial condition.
      (10)   The City/Agency/Other Entities will maintain and further develop
methods to track major revenue sources and evaluate financial trends.
      (11)   The City/Agency/Other Entities will establish methods to maximize
the accuracy of revenue forecasts.
   (D)   Cost of services policies.
      (1)   The City/Agency/Other Entities will review user fees and charges
and attempt to set them as close as possible to the cost of providing services,
except as provided by a Users Fee Policy or specific direction.
      (2)   The fees and charges will be set at a level that fully supports the
total direct and indirect cost of the activity, including administrative
overhead and depreciation, and in accordance with the Users Fee Policy.
      (3)   The City/Agency/Other Entities will require large developments to
prepare a fiscal analysis, which measures direct and indirect costs and
benefits to the city.
   (E)   Expenditure and budgeting Policies.
      (1)   The operating budget will be prepared to fund current year
expenditures with current year revenue. However, surplus fund balances may be
used to increase reserves, fund Capital Improvements Projects, Capital
Equipment Programs, or be carried forward to fund future years' operating
budgets when necessary to stabilize or meet a fund balance goal.
      (2)   The operating budget will state the objectives of the operating
programs, and identify the service and resources being provided to accomplish
the specified objectives.
      (3)   The operating budget will fully track and apportion all costs,
fees, and General Fund transfers associated with the Enterprise Funds.
      (4)   Department expenditures are limited to:
         (a)   Department expenditures are limited to:
            1.   Personnel Services (Salary and Benefits).
            2.   Services and Charges.
            3.   Materials and Supplies.
            4.   Capital Outlay.
         (b)   All budget transfers across categories and funds require the
approval of the City Manager.
         (c)   The City/Agency/Other Entities will fully accrue unused vacation
annually.
         (d)   The City/Agency/Other Entities will periodically update project,
equipment replacement and maintenance financing plans, and incorporate them
into the Budget.
   (F)   Debt policies. The debt policies of the city/agency/other entities
will be as set forth in a debt management policy adopted by resolution of the
City Council.
   (G)   Capital Improvement Plan (CIP)/Capital Equipment Program (CEP)
Policies.
      (1)   The City/Agency/Other Entities will construct all capital
improvements in accordance with an adopted capital improvements program (CIP).
      (2)   The City/Agency/Other Entities will develop a five-year plan for
capital improvements and a three-year plan for capital equipment to be updated
at least annually. Future capital expenditures will be projected annually for a
five-year CIP and three-year CEP based on changes in the community population,
real estate development or replacement of the infrastructure.
      (3)   The City/Agency/Other Entities will coordinate preparation of the
Capital Improvement Budget as close as possible with preparation of the annual
Operating Budget taking into consideration the federal and state Funding
Cycles. Future operating costs associated with new capital improvements and
capital equipment will be projected and included in Operating Budget forecasts.
      (4)   The City/Agency/Other Entities will identify the estimated costs
and potential funding sources for each proposed capital project(s) and
replacement of capital equipment, before it is submitted to Council for
approval.
      (5)   The City/Agency/Other Entities will attempt to determine the least
costly financing method for all new projects and equipment.
      (6)   The estimated cost of Capital Improvement and Capital Equipment
replacement for enterprise funds such as water, golf, or other enterprises will
be updated at least every two years to ensure that rates and charges are
covering the full costs of operating these programs.
(‘61 Code, § 2.70) (Ord. 278, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1255, passed 10-6-99; Am.
Ord. 1713, passed 4-19-17)
§ 33.002 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Finance Department is vested and charged with the following duties and
responsibilities:
   (A)   To maintain and operate the general accounting system of the city and
of each of the respective departments, offices and agencies thereof;
   (B)   To perform the accounting functions and duties in accordance with the
latest and most modern accounting methods as the science of accounting
progresses;
   (C)   To keep and maintain, or to prescribe and require the keeping and
maintaining of inventory records of municipal properties necessary in
accordance with modern municipal accounting practices;
   (D)   To assume, maintain and perform all functions and duties relating to
the administration and control of sales taxes levied by the city and of the
collection thereof;
   (E)   To assume and perform all municipal functions and duties relating to
the preparation, auditing, presenting and disbursement of claims and demands
against the city, including payrolls;
   (F)   To assist the City Manager in the preparation of the annual budget and
in the administration thereof;
   (G)   To prepare and present to the City Council through the City Manager in
sufficient detail to show the exact financial condition:
      (1)   A monthly (or more frequently as may be desired) statement of all
receipts, disbursements and balances of the city;
      (2)   An annual statement and report of the financial condition of the
city;
      (3)   Other financial reports as may be required by the City Council or
City Manager.
   (H)   To prepare and present the annual report required by law to the State
Controller and other further and additional reports as may be required by the
City Council or City Manager.
('61 Code, § 2.71) (Ord. 278, passed - - )
FINANCE OFFICER
§ 33.015 ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT.
   The position of Finance Director is hereby established in and for the city.
The Finance Director shall be appointed by the City Manager subject to the
approval of the City Council in the manner as pertains to the appointment of
other department heads.
('61 Code, § 2.72) (Ord. 278, passed - - )
§ 33.016 DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS.
   The duties and functions of the Finance Director are as follows:
   (A)   The financial and accounting duties heretofore imposed upon the City
Clerk under Cal. Gov't Code §§ 40802 through 40805 are hereby transferred to
the Finance Director and the performance of those duties as required by those
code sections is hereby imposed upon the Finance Director.
   (B)   Supervise the Finance Department of the city.
   (C)   Appoint, subject to civil service procedures, subordinate employees as
may be authorized by the City Council for the Finance Department.
   (D)   Cooperate with the City Treasurer and other department heads of the
city in establishing and maintaining sufficient and satisfactory procedures and
controls over municipal revenues and expenditures in all departments of the
city in accordance with modern municipal accounting practices.
   (E)   The Finance Director, before entering upon the duties of his or her
office, shall furnish a surety bond in favor of the city in an amount that the
City Council shall establish from time to time , which bond shall be subject to
approval by the City Manager and upon that approval shall be filed with the
City Clerk.
   (F)   Perform other duties as the City Council or City Manager may, from
time to time, direct.
('61 Code, § 2.73) (Ord. 278, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 322, passed - - )
SPECIAL GAS TAX STREET IMPROVEMENT FUND
§ 33.030 CREATED.
   To comply with the provisions of Cal. Sts. & High. Code div. I, ch. 1, art.
5, with particular reference to the amendments made thereto by 1935 Cal. Stat.
Chapter 642, there is hereby created in the city treasury a special fund to be
known as the Special Gas Tax Street Improvement Fund.
('61 Code, § 2.74) (Ord. 72, passed - - )
§ 33.031 REVENUE.
   All money received by the city from the state under the provisions of the
Streets and Highways Code of the state for the acquisition of real property or
interests therein, or for the construction, maintenance or improvement of
streets or highways other than state highways shall be paid into the fund
created by §
33.030.
('61 Code, § 2.75) (Ord. 72, passed - - )
§ 33.032 EXPENDITURES.
   All money in the fund created by §
33.030 shall be expended exclusively for the purposes authorized by and subject
to all of the provisions of Cal. Sts. & High Code div. I, ch. 1, art. 5.
('61 Code, § 2.76) (Ord. 72, passed - - )
AIR QUALITY TRUST FUND; VEHICLE REGISTRATION FEE
§ 33.045 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The city hereby finds and declares that:
      (1)   The city is committed to improving the public health, safety and
welfare, including air quality;
      (2)   Mobile sources are a major contributor to air pollution in the
south coast air basin;
      (3)   Air quality goals for the region established by state law cannot be
met without reducing air pollution from mobile sources;
      (4)   The South Coast Air Quality Management Plan (SCAQMP) calls upon
cities and counties to reduce emissions from motor vehicles consistent with the
requirements of the California Clean Air Act of 1988 by developing and
implementing mobile source air pollution reduction programs.
      (5)   These programs place demands upon the city's funds; those programs
should be financed by shifting the responsibility for financing from the
General Fund to the motor vehicles fund creating the demand, to the greatest
extent possible;
      (6)   Cal. Health & Safety Code § 44223, added to the by action of the
California legislature on September 30, 1990 (Chapter 90-1705), authorized the
South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) to impose an additional
motor vehicle registration fee of $2, commencing April 1, 1991, increasing to
$4 commencing April 1, 1992, to finance the implementation of transportation
measures embodied in the [SC]AQMP and provisions of the California Clean Air
Act;
      (7)   $.40 of every $1 collected under Cal. Health & Safety Code § 44223
shall be distributed to cities and counties located in the South Coast Air
Quality Management District that comply with Cal. Health & Safety Code § 44223,
based on the jurisdictions' pro-rated share of population as defined by the
state Department of Finance;
      (8)   The city is located within the South Coast Air Quality Management
District and is eligible to receive a portion of the revenues from the
additional motor vehicle registration fees contingent upon adoption of the
ordinance codified in this subchapter;
      (9)   The pro-rated share of the fee revenues for cities that fail to
adopt an ordinance pursuant to Cal. Health & Safety Code § 44243(b)(3) shall be
distributed instead to the jurisdictions within the district that have adopted
an ordinance;
   (B)   The city, after careful consideration, hereby finds and declares the
imposition of the additional motor vehicle registration by the SCAQMD to
finance mobile source air pollution reduction programs is in the best interest
of the city and promotes the general welfare of its residents.
('61 Code, § 20.47) (Ord. 1091, passed - - )
§ 33.046 INTENT.
   This subchapter is intended to support the SCAQMD's imposition of the
vehicle registration fee and to bring the city into compliance with the
requirements set forth in Cal. Health & Safety Code § 44243 in order to receive
fee revenues for the purpose of implementing programs to reduce air pollution
from motor vehicles.
('61 Code, § 20.48) (Ord. 1091, passed - - )
§ 33.047 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FEE ADMINISTRATOR. The Director of Finance of the city, or the Director's
designee.
   MOBILE SOURCE AIR POLLUTION REDUCTION PROGRAMS. Any program or project
implemented by the city to reduce air pollution from motor vehicles which it
determines will be consistent with the California Clean Air Act of 1988 or the
plan proposed pursuant to Cal. Health & Safety Code §§ 40460 et seq.
('61 Code, § 20.49) (Ord. 1091, passed - - )
§ 33.048 ADMINISTRATION OF VEHICLE REGISTRATION FEE.
   The additional vehicle registration fees disbursed by the SCAQMD and
remitted to the city, pursuant to this section, shall be accepted by the Fee
Administrator.
('61 Code, § 20.50) (Ord. 1091, passed - - )
§ 33.049 ESTABLISHMENT OF AIR QUALITY IMPROVEMENT TRUST FUND.
   The Fee Administrator shall establish a separate interest-bearing trust fund
account in the financial institution authorized to receive deposits of city
funds.
('61 Code, § 2.51) (Ord. 1091, passed - - )
§ 33.050 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   Upon receipt of vehicle registration fees, the Fee Administrator shall
deposit those funds into the separate account established pursuant to §
33.049. All interest earned by the trust fund account shall be credited only to
that account.
('61 Code, § 2.52) (Ord. 1091, passed - - )
§ 33.051 EXPENDITURES.
   All revenues received from the SCAQMD and deposited in the trust fund
account shall be exclusively expended on mobile source emission reduction
programs. These revenues and any interest earned on the revenues shall be
expended within one year of the completion of the programs.
('61 Code, § 20.53) (Ord. 1091, passed - - )
§ 33.052 AUDITS.
   The city consents to an audit of all programs and projects funded by vehicle
registration fee revenues received from the SCAQMD pursuant to Cal. Health &
Safety Code § 44223. The audit shall be conducted by an independent auditor
selected by the SCAQMD as provided in Cal. Health & Safety Code §§ 44244 and
44244.1(a).
('61 Code, § 20.54) (Ord. 1091, passed - - )
§ 33.053 LEGAL CONSTRUCTION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be construed as necessary to
effectively carry out its purposes, which are hereby found and declared in
furtherance of the public health, safety, welfare and convenience.
('61 Code, § 20.55) (Ord. 1091, passed - - )
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE
§ 33.065 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   New construction of dwelling units and commercial and industrial
buildings, as well as the establishment of new and more intense uses in
existing buildings, places demands on the city to provide new services, expand
and improve public facilities, and accelerate the replacement and repair of
existing public facilities.
   (B)   In order to provide an equitable source of funding for these new
services and facilities, the City Council finds that it is fair and equitable
to charge such new development and new, more intense changes in use of existing
buildings, for a proportionate share of the costs of new services and facility
improvements and repairs.
   (C)   Charges on new development will ensure that there are appropriate
revenues to minimize the potential threat to public health, safety, and welfare
caused by new development which incrementally impacts water and sewer supply,
drainage, fire and police protection, and other public services and thereby
reduce the reliance on other public funds to essentially underwrite the cost of
services and facilities generated by new development.
   (D)   This subchapter of the Code of Indio may be referred to as the "Impact
Fee Ordinance," and is enacted under the city's police power pursuant to the
California Constitution, Article XI, Section 7, and pursuant to Government Code
§§ 66000 et seq., (hereinafter "Mitigation Fee Act"). All words, phrases, and
terms used in this title shall be interpreted in accordance with the
definitions set forth in the Mitigation Fee Act, unless otherwise specifically
defined herein.
(Ord. 1463, passed 5-17-06)
§ 33.066 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL. Any approval or permit from the city, whether
discretionary or ministerial, including but not limited to, a development plan,
conditional use permit, tentative subdivision map, tentative parcel map, final
subdivision map, final parcel map, building permit, or other permit for
construction or reconstruction, including but not limited to recreational
vehicle space permits and trailer space permits.
   DEVELOPMENT PROJECT. Any project undertaken for the purpose of development,
as defined in the Mitigation Fee Act, requiring development approval.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Director of Public Works of the City of Indio,
or any person designated by the City Manager or Director of Public Works to
perform the function of the Director of Public Works specified in this
subchapter.
   DWELLING UNIT. Each single-family dwelling and each habitation unit of an
apartment, duplex or multiple-dwelling structure designated as a separate place
of habitation.
   FEE. A monetary exaction, other than a tax or an assessment, imposed in
connection with approval of a development project for the purpose of defraying
all or a portion of the cost of providing public facilities related to the
development project, as more specifically defined in the Mitigation Fee Act.
   FINANCE DIRECTOR. The Finance Director of the City of Indio, or any person
designated by the City Manager or Finance Director to perform the function of
the Finance Director specified in this subchapter.
   IMPACT FEE ORDINANCE. This subchapter of the Code of Indio.
   IMPLEMENTING RESOLUTION.A resolution of the City Council of the City of
Indio establishing or modifying a fee under this subchapter and in which the
findings specified in §§
33.070 or
33.071 are made.
   LOT. An individual undivided parcel of real property described on a final
subdivision map or final parcel map approved by the city.
   MITIGATION FEE ACT. California Government Code §§ 66000 et seq.
   PUBLIC FACILITY. Public improvements, public services, and community
amenities, as defined by the Mitigation Fee Act, including, but not limited to:
roadways (including streets, traffic signals, and other public right-of-way
improvements), storm drainage, water (including supply, treatment, and
distribution), wastewater (including collection and treatment), parks, public
buildings, parking lots, and other improvements or services identified in
implementing resolutions adopted pursuant to this title.
   SUBDIVIDER. A person, or other legal entity, who applies to the city to
divide or cause to be divided real property into a development project, or who
applies to the city to develop or improve (into a development project) any
existing parcel of real property.
(Ord. 1463, passed 5-17-06)
§ 33.067 PURPOSE OF FEES.
   Pursuant to the Mitigation Fee Act and this title, the city has established
fees that shall be imposed upon development projects for the purpose of
mitigating the impact of development projects upon the city's ability to
provide specified public facilities.
(Ord. 1463, passed 5-17-06)
§ 33.068 TYPES OF IMPACT FEES.
   The following development impact fees are hereby established and imposed on
the issuance of development approvals for development projects within the city
to finance the cost of the following categories of public facilities and
improvements reasonably related to development projects. The development impact
fees consist of the following fees which are hereby established:
   (A)   Public Building Fees. In addition to any other fee prescribed by law,
every person constructing any development project in the city shall pay to the
city a public building fee to be used for public buildings, including but not
limited to additions to city yards, city administrative buildings, animal
control facilities, senior citizens centers, teen centers, community centers,
libraries.
   (B)    Park Fees. In addition to any other fee prescribed by law, every
person constructing any development project in the city shall pay to the city a
park fee to be used for improvements and facilities to park lands for
recreation and leisure activities. The city's use of these fees shall be
independent of and shall complement the development of new and/or
rehabilitation of existing neighborhood or community park or recreational
facilities through Quimby Fees collected per Code of Indio §§
156.130 et seq.
   (C)   Fire and Police Capital Impact Fees. In addition to any other fee
prescribed by law, every person constructing any development project in the
city shall pay to the city a fire and police capital impact fee to be used for
police and fire department buildings, equipment and training facilities.
     (D)    Water Impact Fees. In addition to any other fee prescribed by law,
every person constructing any development project in the city on land that has
not had prior water service, shall pay to the city a water impact fee to be
used for water system facilities and improvements, including, but not limited
to, wells, pipelines, pump stations, reservoirs, and related facilities. The
fees shall be due and payable for residential development concurrent with the
recording of the final map and for commercial development, upon application to
the city for a building permit for the construction of any dwelling unit or
building or addition.
   (E)    Storm Drain Facilities Fees. In addition to any other fee prescribed
by law, every person constructing any development project in the city shall pay
to the city a storm drain facilities fee to be used for defraying the costs of
constructing planned drainage facilities for the removal of surface waters and
storm waters from local or neighborhood drainage areas established pursuant to
the master plan of drainage.
   (F)    Road, Bridge and Thoroughfare Fees. In addition to any other fee
prescribed by law, every person constructing any development project in the
city shall pay to the city a road, bridge and thoroughfare fee to be used for
defraying the actual or estimated costs of construction of roads, bridges, and
major thoroughfares as identified in the Circulation Element of the General
Plan that serve the development project.
   (G)    Traffic Signal Fees. In addition to any other fee prescribed by law,
every person constructing any development project in the city shall pay to the
city a traffic signal fee for traffic signal improvements.
(Ord. 1463, passed 5-17-06)
§ 33.069 EXEMPTIONS AND CREDITS.
   (A)   Exemptions. Unless otherwise provided in the implementing resolution,
the following types of development projects are exempt from paying development
impact fees pursuant to this subchapter:
      (1)   Addition of habitable living space to an existing single-family
dwelling.
      (2)   Addition of an accessory structure to a single-family dwelling.
      (3)   Second dwelling units on residential single-family lots.
   (B)   Credits. The city may within its sole and absolute discretion
negotiate credits as to fees charged for a development project per this
subchapter, when such a development project is also covered by assessment
districts, Mello-Roos Community Facilities Districts, or other financing
mechanisms.
(Ord. 1463, passed 5-17-06)
§ 33.070 USE OF FEES.
   The fees imposed by the city pursuant to this subchapter shall be solely
used (1) to pay for the cost of providing specified public facilities, as
described in §
33.068 and in implementing resolutions, and (2) for reimbursing developers who
have constructed public facilities determined by the city to be beyond that
needed to mitigate the impacts of the developer's project or projects.
(Ord. 1463, passed 5-17-06)
§ 33.071 ESTABLISHMENT OF FEE BY IMPLEMENTING RESOLUTION.
   (A)   Pursuant to the Mitigation Fee Act, the City Council shall establish
the amount of each type of impact fee in an implementing resolution, that is a
legislative act.
   (B)   Notice and Hearing. Prior to approving or amending a fee, the City
Council shall hold at least one regularly scheduled public meeting at which
oral or written presentations may be made. Notice of said meeting shall be
given as provided in Government Code §§ 66016, 66017, and/or 66018. No new fee
shall be imposed sooner than 60 days following the City Council's final action
on the adoption or increase of the fee.
   (C)   Required Findings. The implementing resolution shall identify the
findings required by the Mitigation Fee Act, including:
      (1)    The purpose of the fee.
      (2)    The use to which the fee is to be put, including a description of
the specified public facilities to be provided.
      (3)   The reasonable relationship between the fee's use and the type of
development project on which the fee is imposed.
      (4)    The reasonable relationship between the need for the specified
public facilities and the type of development project within the specified
geographical area.
      (5)    The reasonable relationship between the amount of the fee and the
cost of the specified public facilities attributable to the development project
on which the fee is imposed.
(Ord. 1463, passed 5-17-06)
§ 33.072 FEE ADJUSTMENTS.
   By resolution, the City Council may periodically update and adjust each fee,
as authorized and/or required by the Mitigation Fee Act. Any resolution
updating or adjusting any fee shall comply with the notice and hearing
provisions and contain the findings required by §
33.071.
(Ord. 1463, passed 5-17-06)
§ 33.073 AUTOMATIC ANNUAL FEE ADJUSTMENT.
   Any fees established pursuant to this subchapter shall be revised annually
by means of an automatic adjustment on July 1 of each year based on the average
percentage change over the previous calendar year set forth in the Engineering
News Record Construction Cost Index for the City of Los Angeles or, if the
index is no longer published, an index determined by the Director of Public
Works to be a recognized standard of the construction industry.
(Ord. 1463, passed 5-17-06)
§ 33.074 AMOUNT TO BE PAID AND TIMING OF PAYMENT.
   The fee to be paid for each lot or dwelling unit within a development
project shall be the amount of the fee in effect, pursuant to implementing
resolution, at the time that full payment is made to the city. The fee for each
lot or dwelling unit within a development project shall be paid in-full prior
to the issuance of any certificate of occupancy, unless otherwise authorized by
the Mitigation Fee Act.
(Ord. 1463, passed 5-17-06; Am. Ord. 1586, passed 2-2-11)
§ 33.075 LIMITATIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not release any owner of residential
or nonresidential property from:
   (A)   The obligation of paying other applicable fees relating to development
of property, including, without limitation, the application fees, processing
fees, mitigation fees, Quimby Fees, and other development fees within the
control of the city;
   (B)   Compliance with any public facility or improvement requirements
imposed pursuant to applicable law, including, without limitation, the
provisions of the Code of Indio and the Government Code, at the time of
approval of a tentative subdivision map, tentative parcel map, certificate of
compliance, building permit, or other land use entitlement; and/or
   (C)   Compliance with any obligation to pay fees or exactions, or to comply
with mitigation requirements of identified project-related environmental
effects.
(Ord. 1463, passed 5-17-06)
§ 33.076 ACCOUNTING AND EXPENDITURE OF FEES.
   (A)   Compliance with Mitigation Fee Act. The fees collected pursuant to
this subchapter shall be accounted for and invested as required by California
Government Code Sections 66001 and 66006, or such other requirements as the law
may impose with respect to such fees.
   (B)   Placement of Fees in Separate City Account. The Finance Director shall
create a separate capital facilities account for each type of fee imposed and
collected pursuant to this subchapter. The Finance Director shall receive all
fees paid and place them in the appropriate capital facilities account. Within
the capital facilities account, the Finance Director shall create sub-accounts
as necessary. The Finance Director shall keep account of all funds received,
their source, all expenditures therefrom and the purpose of all expenditures.
All interest earned on investment of the funds in the capital facilities
accounts shall be deposited in the capital facilities accounts and the sub-
accounts therein and shall be expended only for the purpose for which the fee
was originally collected.
   (C)   Annual Report. The Finance Director shall prepare an annual report
thereon pursuant to Government Code 66006, and make such report available to
the public stating: (1) the type of fee in the account, (2) the amount of the
fee, (3) the beginning and ending balance of the account or fund, (4) the
amount of the fees collected and the interest earned, (5) information relating
to the public improvements on which the fees were expended, (6) the approximate
date by which the construction of the improvement will commence if sufficient
funds have been collected, (7) a description of inter-fund transfers or loans
and (8) the amount of any refunds.
   (D)   Review of Annual Report. The City Council shall review said annual
report at the first regularly scheduled public meeting more than 15 days after
the report is made available to the public. Notice of such meeting shall be
mailed at least 15 days prior to the meeting to any interested person who files
a written request with the local agency for mailed notice of the meeting
pursuant to Government Code Section 66006.
(Ord. 1463, passed 5-17-06)d
§ 33.077 DISPOSITION OF UNEXPENDED OR UNAPPROPRIATED FEE REVENUES.
   (A)   Commencing with the fifth fiscal year following the first year of
receipt of any revenues from the fees established, assessed and levied pursuant
to the provisions of the Impact Fee Ordinance, and each fiscal year thereafter,
the Finance Director shall provide the City Council with a report that sets
forth the total amount of all the fee revenues that were received and deposited
in the capital facilities accounts in each fiscal year prior to the date of the
report, but that remain unexpended or un-appropriated as of the date of the
report; provided, however, that no report shall be required for any year in
which there were no unspent or un-appropriated fee revenues in the capital
facilities accounts that were received and deposited in the capital facilities
accounts more than five years prior to the date of the required report.
   (B)   Upon review of the report described in division (A) of this §
33.077, the City Council shall take one of the following actions with respect
to any unexpended or un-appropriated fee revenue in a capital facilities
account that was received and deposited in the capital facilities account five
or more years prior to the date of the report:
      (1)   Appropriate all or any part of the unexpended or un-appropriated
fee revenue for the design, construction, or installation of the facilities for
which the fee was imposed;
      (2)    Make all of the following findings with respect to that portion of
the capital facilities account remaining unexpended, whether committed or
uncommitted:
         (a)   Identify the purpose to which the fee is to be put;
         (b)    Demonstrate a reasonable relationship between the fee and the
purpose for which it is charged;
         (c)   Identify all sources and amounts of funding anticipated to
complete financing in incomplete improvements for which the fee is charged; and
         (d)   Designate the approximate dates on which the funding referred to
in division (B)(2)(c) is expected to be deposited into the appropriate sub-
account.
      (3)   Provide for the refund of all or any part of the unexpended or un-
appropriated fee revenue, together with any actual interest accrued thereon, in
the manner described in Government Code Section 66001(e), to the current record
owner of the development project, or any portion thereof, for which a fee was
paid; provided that if the administrative costs of refunding the fee revenue
exceed the amount to be refunded, the City Council, after considering the
matter at a public hearing, notice of which is given in the manner proved for
in Government Code Section 66001(f), may appropriate the revenue for any other
facility for which impact fees are charged or otherwise imposed pursuant to the
Impact Fee Ordinance and which the City Council determines will benefit the
properties for which the fee was charged or otherwise imposed; and further
provided that the portion of any fee revenue received by the city as
reimbursement of its costs in administering the provisions of this subchapter
shall not be refunded.
   (C)   The provisions of divisions (d), (e), and (f) of Government Code
Section 66001 shall apply fully to any refund of fees remaining unexpended or
uncommitted in the capital facilities account for five or more years after
deposit, and the provisions of this section shall be subordinate to the
Mitigation Fee Act and shall be applied consistently therewith.
(Ord. 1463, passed 5-17-06)
§ 33.078 PROTEST OF FEES.
   (A)   A subdivider subject to a fee established pursuant to this subchapter
may apply to the Director of Public Works for a reduction, adjustment, or
waiver or any one or more of the fees, or any portion thereof, based upon the
absence of a reasonable relationship or nexus between the impacts of the
subdivider's development project and either the amount of the fee charged or
the type of public infrastructure to be financed, or both. The application
shall state in detail the factual basis for the claim of reduction, adjustment,
or waiver, and shall include any and all written materials which the landowner
deems appropriate in support of the application.
   (B)   The application shall be made in writing and filed with the Director
at or before the time required for the filing of protests under Government Code
Sections 66020 and 66021. For purposes of determining the applicable
limitations period set forth in Government Code Section 66020, the date of the
imposition of fees under this subchapter shall be the date of the earliest
discretionary approval by the city of the subject development project. In the
case of a development project where no discretionary approval is granted by the
city, the date of the imposition of the fees under this subchapter shall be the
date of the earliest ministerial approval by the city of the subject
development project. The application shall be accompanied by the payment of a
filing fee in an amount established by the City Council. The applicant shall be
liable for the actual cost of the city in processing and ruling upon the
application to the extent such cost exceeds the filing fee. Such excess amount
may be deducted from any refund found due and owing to the applicant or may be
added to the amount of development impact fees to be due or owing from the
applicant, as the case may be.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the filing of an application and the pendency of any
hearing or procedure under this section, the subdivider shall pay the
development impact fees originally determined by the city in a timely manner
pursuant to §
33.074. Such payment shall be deemed to be a payment under protest pursuant to
Government Code Sections 66020 and 66021.
   (D)   An application for a reduction, adjustment, or waiver or any one or
more of the fees, or any portion thereof, shall be reviewed by the Director of
Public Works. The Director of Public Works shall approve a fee adjustment
application only if he or she determines that there is the absence of a
reasonable relationship or nexus between the impacts of the subdivider's
development project and either the amount of the fee charged or the type of
public infrastructure to be financed, or both. No formal public hearings need
be conducted nor any notice given except to the applicant in connection with
the granting or denial of such a fee adjustment application. The decision of
the Director of Public Works shall be final and not appealable, except as
provided in §
33.079.
   (E)   The protest procedures set forth in this section are administrative
procedures which must be exhausted prior to the institution of any judicial
proceeding concerning the fees protested. Any petition seeking judicial review
of a decision by the City Council shall be made under Code of Civil Procedure §
1094.5 and shall be filed by or before (1) 90 days following the date of which
such decision is mailed to the applicant or (2) the expiration of the
limitation period set forth in subsection (d) of Government Code Section 66020,
whichever occurs later.
(Ord. 1463, passed 5-17-06)
§ 33.079 APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL.
   Any person aggrieved by determination of the City Council or the Director of
Public Works under this subchapter may appeal to the City Council as provided
in §
30.89 of this Code.
(Ord. 1463, passed 5-17-06)
TRANSPORTATION UNIFORM MITIGATION FEE
§ 33.080 PURPOSE, USE AND FINDINGS.
   The City Council finds and determines as follows:
   (A)   The city is a member agency of the Coachella Valley Association of
Governments ("CVAG"), a joint powers agency consisting of public agencies
situated in the Coachella Valley (collectively, "member agencies").
   (B)   Acting in concert, the member agencies developed a plan whereby the
shortfall in funds needed to enlarge the capacity of the regional system of
highways and arterials within CVAG's jurisdiction (the "regional system") could
be made up in part by a transportation uniform mitigation fee ("TUMF") imposed
on future residential, commercial and industrial development within the
jurisdiction.
   (C)   That CVAG commissioned the preparation of various studies ("fee
studies") which evaluate population and employment growth, future
transportation needs and the availability of traditional transportation funding
sources to establish updated TUMF levels and program revenue collection
targets.
   (D)   That the fee studies, as periodically updated, make it possible to
determine a reasonable relationship between the cumulative regional impacts of
new land development projects in the Coachella Valley on the regional system
and the need to mitigate these transportation impacts using funds levied
through the TUMF program.
   (E)   That the fee studies, as periodically updated, establish the purposes
of the TUMF, which may be summarized as a uniform development impact fee to
help fund construction of the regional system needed to accommodate growth in
the Coachella Valley to the year 2030.
   (F)   That the fee studies, as periodically updated, establish that the TUMF
proceeds will be used to help pay for the engineering, construction and
acquisition of the regional system improvements identified therein. Such
improvements are necessary for the safety, health and welfare of the
residential and non-residential users of the development projects on which the
TUMF will be levied.
   (G)   That the fee studies, as periodically updated, establish a reasonable
and rational relationship between the use of the TUMF proceeds and the type of
development projects on which the TUMF is imposed.
   (H)   That the fee studies, as periodically updated, establish the
reasonable relationship between the impact of new development and the need for
the TUMF.
   (I)   That the TUMF program revenues to be generated by new development will
not exceed the total fair share of these costs.
   (J)    That the projects and methodology identified in the fee studies, as
periodically updated, for the collection of fees is consistent with the goals,
policies, objectives and implementation measures of the city's General Plan.
   (K)   That the TUMF program complies with the provisions of the Mitigation
Fee Act.
(Ord. 1786, passed 11-2-22)
§ 33.081 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them as follows.
   CHANGE OF USE. Any change in the use of an existing building that results in
the increase of vehicular trips.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any activity which requires discretionary or ministerial action
by the city resulting in the issuance of grading, building, plumbing,
mechanical or electrical permits, or certificates of occupancy issued by the
city to construct, or change the use of, a building or property. Where
DEVELOPMENT applies to an enlargement of an existing building, or a change of
use of an existing building that results in increased vehicle trips, the
average weekday trips shall be only the additional trips in excess of those
associated with the existing use.
   FEE STUDY. The studies prepared by CVAG and adopted by the City Council,
which supports the fee established by this chapter, and includes all the
underlying reports and documents referenced therein.
   IMPACT FEE SCHEDULE. The schedule of development impact fees approved by
resolution of the City Council.
   MITIGATION FEE ACT. The law set forth in the California Government Code
(Government Code §§ 66000 et seq.) that establishes the criteria for
establishing a fee as a condition of approval of a development project.
   REGIONAL SYSTEM. The regional system of roads, streets and highways
identified by CVAG in its 2016 Transportation Project Prioritization Study
(TPPS) to accommodate growth in the Coachella Valley to the year 2040. Only
those projects scoring above seven and one-half points in the TPPS are included
for TUMF consideration.
   TRANSPORTATION MITIGATION TRUST FUND. The fund established pursuant to this
chapter.
   TUMF. The Transportation Uniform Mitigation Fee established by this chapter.
(Ord. 1786, passed 11-2-22)
§ 33.082 TRANSPORTATION UNIFORM MITIGATION FEE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is established a transportation uniform mitigation fee
("'TUMF"), which shall apply to new development yet to receive final
discretionary approval and/or issuance of a building permit or other
development right and to any reconstruction or new use of existing buildings
that results in change of use and generates additional vehicular trips.
   (B)   The facilities to be funded by the TUMF are detailed in the fee study,
which is on file with the city's Public Works Department.
   (C)   The TUMF is in addition to the requirements imposed by other city
laws, policies or regulations relating to the construction or the financing of
the construction of public improvements within subdivisions or developments.
   (D)   If the amount of the recommended mitigation fee is amended by CVAG
pursuant to CVAG's annual review, the TUMF applied within the city limits shall
be automatically adjusted and said adjustment(s) shall be administered by the
City Manager or designee.
(Ord. 1786, passed 11-2-22)
§ 33.083 FUND ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is established a transportation mitigation trust fund ("trust
fund") into which TUMF proceeds shall be deposited.
   (B)   TUMF proceeds shall be imposed and collected by the city and shall be
transmitted to CVAG to be placed in the trust fund. All interest or other
earnings of the trust fund shall be credited to the trust fund.
   (C)   CVAG shall administer the trust fund in accordance with the Mitigation
Fee Act.
(Ord. 1786, passed 11-2-22)
§ 33.084 CALCULATION AND COLLECTION OF THE TUMF.
   (A)   The method of calculating the TUMF shall be described in CVAG's
Transportation Uniform Mitigation Fee Handbook, a copy of which is on file with
the city's Community Development Department.
   (B)   The amount of the fees due shall be the amount set forth in the
applicable impact fee schedule in effect at the time each fee is due. The TUMF
shall be collected pursuant to the city's established procedures for the
collection of development impact fees.
(Ord. 1786, passed 11-2-22)
§ 33.085 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   TUMF proceeds shall be solely used for the engineering, construction and
acquisition of the regional system improvements identified in the fee study and
any other purpose consistent with this chapter. TUMF proceeds shall not be used
for regional system maintenance.
(Ord. 1786, passed 11-2-22)
§ 33.086 EXEMPTIONS AND CREDITS.
   (A)   The following developments are exempted from payment of the fee
required by this chapter:
      (1)   Low and lower-income residential housing, including single-family
homes, apartments and mobile homes built for those whose income is no more than
80% of the median income in the San Bernardino-Riverside Standard Metropolitan
Statistical Area and as determined and approved by the City Council or its
designee. The sales or rental price shall not exceed the affordability criteria
as established under HUD Section 8 guidelines.
   (B)   Credit against the TUMF shall be given where a developer improves
streets included within the regional system beyond the city's requirements
established for on-site and off-site improvements imposed upon projects. To
receive a credit, the developer shall obtain in advance an agreement with CVAG
pursuant to CVAG's rules and regulations. That credit shall be an amount equal
to the actual engineering and construction costs incurred at the time of the
development to the extent that CVAG has included those costs in its estimated
cost of constructing the regional system.
(Ord. 1786, passed 11-2-22)
§ 33.087 APPEAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Any developer, who, because of the nature or type of uses proposed for
a development project, contends that application of the TUMF is
unconstitutional or unrelated to mitigation of the burdens of the development,
may file a written appeal with the city within 90 days after imposition of the
TUMF as a condition of approval or as otherwise provided by the Mitigation Fee
Act.
   (B)   The appeal shall be heard by the CVAG Executive Committee in
accordance with CVAG's established policies and procedures for conducting such
matters. The decision of the Executive Committee shall be final.
(Ord. 1786, passed 11-2-22)
§ 33.088 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   (A)   The city may impose an administrative fee in amount computed to cover
the average cost to the city of processing the TUMF. The city shall establish
such fee in accordance with the city's procedures for establishing service-
related fees.
   (B)   The administrative fee authorized by this section shall be in addition
to the fee imposed under § 3.44.030. The administrative fee, when collected,
shall be retained by the city to recover its costs.
(Ord. 1786, passed 11-2-22)
COACHELLA VALLEY MULTIPLE SPECIES HABITAT CONSERVATION PLAN/NATURAL COMMUNITY
CONSERVATION PLAN MITIGATION FEE
§ 33.090 COACHELLA VALLEY MULTIPLE SPECIES HABITAT CONSERVATION PLAN/NATURAL
COMMUNITY CONSERVATION PLAN MITIGATION FEE.
   (A)   Short title. This section shall be known as the "Coachella Valley
Multiple Species Habitat Conservation Plan/Natural Community Conservation Plan
Mitigation Fee Ordinance."
   (B)   Findings. City Council finds and determines as follows:
      (1)   In order to realize the goals and objectives of the Coachella
Valley Multiple Species Habitat Conservation Plan/Natural Community
Conservation Plan ("MSHCP") and to mitigate the impacts caused by new
development in the city, lands supporting species covered by the MSHCP must be
acquired, monitored and managed in order to achieve habitat conservation in
perpetuity.
      (2)   The local development mitigation fee (the "fee") is necessary in
order to supplement the financing of the acquisition of lands supporting
species covered by the MSHCP and related public services, and to pay for new
development's fair share of the cost of acquisition and perpetual conservation.
      (3)   The appropriate source of funding for the costs associated with
mitigating the impacts of new development to the natural ecosystems and covered
species within the city, as identified in the MSHCP, is a fee paid for by
residential, commercial and industrial development. The amount of the fee is
determined by the nature and extent of the impacts from the development to the
identified natural ecosystems and the relative cost of mitigating such impacts.
      (4)   The fee does not reflect the entire cost of the lands which need to
be acquired and perpetually conserved in order to implement the MSHCP and
mitigate the impact caused by new development. Additional revenues will be
required from other sources. The city finds that the benefit to each
development project is greater than the amount of the fee to be paid by that
project.
      (5)   The use of the fee is apportioned relative to the type and extent
of impacts caused by the development.
      (6)   The costs of funding the proper mitigation for natural ecosystems
and covered species identified in the MSHCP which are impacted by new
development are apportioned relative to the type and extent of impacts caused
by the development.
      (7)   The facts and evidence provided to and considered by the City
Council establish that there is a reasonable relationship between the need for
acquiring and conserving in perpetuity the natural ecosystems and covered
species identified in the MSHCP, and the impacts to such natural ecosystems and
species created by the types of development on which the fee will be imposed;
and that there is a reasonable relationship between the fee's use and the types
of development for which the fee is charged. This reasonable relationship is
described in more detail in the mitigation fee nexus report.
      (8)   The fees collected pursuant to this section are reasonable and will
not exceed the estimated total cost of the acquisition and perpetual
conservation of the lands necessary to protect natural ecosystems and covered
species, the plan and schedules for which are set forth in the MSHCP.
Conservation of the land shall require monitoring and management beyond the
life of the MSHCP permit.
      (9)   The fee shall be used to finance the acquisition and perpetual
conservation of lands and certain improvements necessary to implement the goals
and objectives of the MSHCP.
   (C)   Administrative responsibility.  The Building and Safety Division of
the Community Development Department of the city shall be responsible for the
administration of this section. Detailed administrative procedures concerning
the implementation of this section may be established and set forth in a
resolution adopted by the City Council.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate of occupancy issued by the city
in accordance with all applicable ordinances, regulations, and rules of the
city and state law.
      CITY. The City of Indio, California.
      CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Indio, California.
      COMMISSION. The Coachella Valley Conservation Commission, the governing
body established pursuant to the MSHCP that is delegated the authority to
oversee and implement the provisions of the MSHCP.
      CONSERVATION. All the actions necessary for the permanent protection of
species, natural communities and habitat land as required of the Coachella
Valley Conservation Commission under the MSHCP including land acquisition, land
management, biological monitoring, law enforcement and administration.
      CONSERVATION AREAS. The same meaning and intent as such term is defined
and utilized in the MSHCP.
      CREDIT. A credit allowed pursuant to division (L) of this section, which
may be applied against the fee paid.
      FEE. The local development mitigation fee adopted pursuant to the
Mitigation Fee Act, Cal. Gov. Code §§ 66000 et seq.
      FINAL INSPECTION. A final inspection of a project as defined by the
building codes of the city.
      GROSS ACREAGE. The total property area as shown on a land division map of
record, or described through a recorded legal description of the property. This
area shall be bounded by road right-of-way and/or legal property lines.
      LOCAL DEVELOPMENT MITIGATION FEE or FEE. The development impact fee
imposed pursuant to the provisions of this section.
      MULTIPLE SPECIES HABITAT CONSERVATION PLAN or MSHCP. The Coachella Valley
Multiple Species Habitat Conservation Plan/Natural Community Conservation Plan,
adopted by the City Council on October 17, 2007.
      ORDINANCE. Ordinance No.1596 of the City of Indio, California.
      PROJECT. Any project undertaken pursuant to the issuance of a building
permit or any other approval, ministerial or discretionary development permit,
by the city as required by the applicable ordinances, regulations, and rules of
the city and state law. Projects undertaken by or on behalf of the city are
subject to the fee.
      PROJECT AREA. The area, measured in acres, from the adjacent road right-
of-way line to the limits of project improvements. PROJECT AREA includes all
project improvements and areas that are disturbed as a result of the project
improvements on an owner's gross acreage, including all areas depicted on the
forms required to be submitted to the city pursuant to this section and/or
other applicable development ordinance or regulation of the city.
      RESIDENTIAL UNIT. A building or portion thereof used by one family and
containing but one kitchen, which unit is designed or occupied for residential
purposes, including a single-family  dwelling, a unit within a multiple-family
dwelling, and mobile homes on permanent foundations, but not including hotels
and motels.
      REVENUE or REVENUES. Any funds received by the city on behalf of the
Commission pursuant to the provisions of this section for the purpose of
defraying all or a portion of the cost of acquiring and perpetually conserving
vegetation communities and natural areas within the city and the region which
are known to support threatened, endangered or key sensitive populations of
plant and wildlife species.
   (E)   Local development mitigation fee. 
      (1)   To assist in providing revenue for the conservation of lands
necessary to implement the MSHCP, the fee shall be paid for each project, or
portion thereof, to be constructed within the city. Five categories of the fee
are defined and include:
         (a)   Residential units, density less than 8.0 dwelling units per
acre;
         (b)   Residential units, density between 8.1 and 14.0 dwelling units
per acre;
         (c)   Residential units, density greater than 14.1 dwelling units per
acre;
         (d)   Commercial acreage; and
         (e)   Industrial acreage.
      (2)   Because there can be mixed traditional commercial, industrial and
residential uses within the same project, for fee assessment purposes only, the
fee which is applicable to commercial or industrial projects shall be
calculated by reference to the project area of each parcel upon which the
commercial or industrial portions shall be sited. If the mixed use includes
residential units, the fee applicable to the parcels upon which residential
units are to be sited shall be calculated by reference to the appropriate
residential fee category. If the mixed use occurs on the same parcel, the fee
which is applicable to commercial or industrial projects shall be calculated by
reference to the project area of the parcel. A fee schedule which contains the
fee which is applicable to each of the five fee categories shall be adopted and
may, from time to time, be amended by resolution ("resolution").
      (3)   The amount of the fee required to be paid for a commercial or
industrial project shall be based on the project area, as calculated by city
staff based on the subdivision map, plot plan, and/or other information
submitted to or required by the city.
   (F)   Imposition of the local development mitigation fee. Notwithstanding
any other provision of the city's Municipal Code, no permit shall be issued for
any project except upon the condition that the fee applicable to such project
has been paid in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (G)   Payment of local development mitigation fee.
      (1)   The fee shall be paid in full prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for the project.
      (2)   The fee shall be assessed one time per lot or parcel, except in
cases of the construction of additional residential units, subsequent
development of portions of a commercial or industrial parcel for which the fee
was not originally collected, or changes in land use. The additional fee
required to be paid in the case of such exceptions shall not include the amount
of any previously paid fee for that parcel. No refunds shall be provided for
changes in land use to a lower fee category. It shall be the responsibility of
the applicant to provide documentation of any previously paid fee.
      (3)   The fee required to be paid under this section shall be the fee in
effect at the time of payment.
      (4)   Notwithstanding anything in the city's Municipal Code, or any other
written documentation to the contrary, the fee shall be paid whether or not the
project is subject to conditions of approval by the city.
      (5)   If all or part of the project is sold prior to payment of the fee,
the project shall continue to be subject to the requirement to pay the fee as
provided herein.
      (6)   For projects which the city does not require a permit, final
inspection or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, the fee shall be paid
prior to any use or occupancy.
      (7)   For purposes of this section, congregate care residential
facilities and recreational vehicle parks shall pay the commercial acreage fee.
   (H)   Refunds.  
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2) below, there shall be no refund
of all or part of any fee paid under this section, except in cases of
overpayment or miscalculation of the applicable fee.
      (2)   Collection of the fee associated with the Fringe-toed Lizard
Habitat Conservation Plan (FTL HCP) ceased upon issuance of the MSHCP permit.
Projects that paid the FTL HCP fee are required to pay the Local development
mitigation fee but may obtain a refund of the FTL HCP fee from the Commission.
Refunds shall be granted subject to the rules and regulations established by
the Commission.
   (I)   Collection, accounting and disbursement of local development
mitigation fees.
      (1)   Subject to the provisions of this section, all fees collected
pursuant to this section shall be collected, administered and remitted for
deposit on a monthly basis into the account established therefore, to the
Commission in compliance with all applicable policies and procedures of the
Commission. The fees will be expended solely for the purpose of conservation of
the vegetation communities and natural areas within the city and the region
which support species covered in the MSHCP in accordance with the plan and
schedules set out in the MSHCP and the policies that have or may be adopted
pursuant thereto.
      (2)   The city may recover the costs of administering the provisions of
this section using the revenues generated by the fees, in an amount and subject
to the rules and regulations established by the Commission.
   (J)   Automatic annual fee adjustment. The fee established by this section
shall be revised annually by means of an automatic adjustment at the beginning
of each fiscal year based on the average percentage change over the previous
calendar year set forth in the Consumer Price Index for "All Urban Consumers"
in the Los Angeles-Anaheim-Riverside Area, measured as of the month of December
in the calendar year which ends in the previous fiscal year. The first fee
adjustment shall not be made prior to a minimum of ten months subsequent to the
effective date of this section
   (K)   Exemptions. The following types of construction shall be exempt from
the provisions of this section:
      (1)   Reconstruction of a residential unit or commercial or industrial
building damaged or destroyed by fire or other natural causes.
      (2)   Rehabilitation or remodeling to an existing residential unit,
commercial or industrial building, and additions to an existing residential
unit or commercial or industrial building.
      (3)   Secondary residential units, constructed on residential property
and meeting all state and city requirements for such units.
      (4)   Existing improvements that are converted from an existing permitted
use to a different permitted use, provided that no additional area of the
property is disturbed as a result of such conversion.
      (5)   Projects for which the city is restrained by law from collecting
the fee due to a development agreement or vested tentative map entered into
with or issued by the city prior to October 1, 2008.
      (6)   Construction of a single-family residential unit upon property
wherein a mobile-home, installed pursuant to an installation permit, was
previously located prior to the effect date of this section.
      (7)   Guest dwellings constructed on residential property previously
developed with a single-family dwelling.
      (8)   Additional single family residential units located on the same
parcel pursuant to the provisions of any agricultural zoning classifications
set forth in the Unified Development Code.
      (9)   Kennels and catteries established in connection with an existing
single-family residential unit and as defined in the Unified Development Code.
      (10)   Projects are exempt from paying the fee provided they meet each of
the following three conditions:
         (a)   Completion of required infrastructure improvements including,
but not limited to, underground utilities, exterior project area walls, streets
and curbs and issuance of at least one building permit for a discrete primary
structure, such as a single family home, prior to October 1, 2008 (date of
MSHCP Permit Approval);
         (b)   Continuous construction activity since October 1, 2008 as
demonstrated by issuance of a building permit for a discrete primary structure
and/or a certificate of occupancy permit for a discrete primary structure in
each six-month period between October 1, 2008 and April 1, 2011; and
         (c)   City registration of the project and proposed lots to be
exempted, in accordance with CVCC procedures, by September 1, 2011.
Projects not meeting the standard exemption criteria above, that made
verifiable payments, as part of a legal settlement, to specifically fund
acquisition of habitat for a species listed as "endangered" under the federal
Endangered Species Act are required to pay the LDMF but are eligible to receive
a refund, on a pro rata per acre basis based on the actual acreage being
assessed the LDMF. Any such projects and proposed lots to be exempted must be
registered in accordance with CVCC procedures by September 1, 2011.
   (L)   Fee credits.  
      (1)   (a)   The city may grant to owners or developers of real property,
a credit against the fee that would otherwise be charged pursuant to this
ordinance, for the dedication of land within a MSHCP conservation area,
provided, however, that no credit shall be given unless:
            1.   The dedication is secured by a conservation easement
acceptable to a grantee legally authorized to accept and hold such easements
pursuant to Cal. Civil Code § 815.3 or pursuant to other legal instrument that
ensures the area will be conserved in perpetuity;
            2.   The land to be dedicated is appropriate for conservation and
dedication thereof is consistent with and furthers the goals of the MSHCP; and
            3.   The dedication and credit complies with all procedures and
policies of the Commission.
         (b)   The amount of the credit granted shall be determined by an
estimate of the fair market value of the land dedicated. Any credit granted by
the city shall be given in stated dollar amounts only.
      (2)   An applicant for a proposed project may apply for credit to reduce
the amount of the fee required to be paid prior to approval of the project.
Any credit granted and the amount of the fee to be paid shall be included as a
condition of approval of the project. However, if an applicant has already
received approval from the city and has not previously applied for a credit to
reduce the amount of the fee required to be paid, an applicant may apply for
such credit at any time prior to issuance of a grading permit for the project
and any credit granted shall in that case be included as a condition of
approval of the grading permit issued for the project.
(Ord. 1535, passed 3-19-08; Am. Ord. 1596, passed 7-20-11)
INVESTMENT COMMITTEE
§ 33.100 INVESTMENT COMMITTEE.
   There is hereby established in the city an Investment Committee composed of
the City Treasurer, Finance Director and two members of the City Council. The
Council members shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to concurrence by the
Council. The Investment Committee will serve in an advisory capacity regarding
investments and deposits of money deemed by the Finance Director to be
available as set forth in the Investment Policy of the city. The function of
the Investment Committee shall extend to the investments and deposits of the
city, the various government agencies in which the city participates or is a
member, and the Indio Water Authority. The Investment Committee shall meet not
less than once per quarter during each fiscal year.
(Ord. 1750, passed 4-15-20)
PURCHASING
§ 33.115 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter defines the policies and procedures for the procurement of
supplies, equipment, and services for the city, and is in conformance with the
requirements of federal and state codes and regulations and city ordinance.
(Ord. 1294, passed 3-7-01)
§ 33.116 PURCHASING POLICIES AND GUIDELINES.
   The basic purchasing policy of the city is to obtain quality supplies,
services, vehicles and equipment needed for the proper operation of its various
city departments and divisions at the lowest possible cost. This will be
accomplished through the use of quotes and competitive bidding whenever
possible. Purchasing functions are to be conducted by the Finance Department,
except as provided for herein. The purchasing function shall be supervised by
the Finance Director who shall be responsible for its operation and staffing.
Whereas the city also administers the purchasing function for other entities:
Municipal Water Department, Municipal Golf Course, the process may vary as
provided within accounting procedures related to posting to Enterprise and
Internal Service Funds.
   (A)   Ethics and standards of behavior.  All purchasing functions will be
conducted with absolute integrity. The very highest ethical standards will be
maintained in all material activities and the city departments will remain
constantly aware of its responsibilities in spending public funds. Guidelines
for transacting city business are derived from the California State Government
Code and the municipal code of the city. The Finance Department also subscribes
to the principles and standards of purchasing practice advocated by the
National Association of Purchasing Management and the California Association of
Public Purchasing Officers.
   (B)   Local vendor purchasing preference.  Local preference is the practice
of procurement from certain suppliers/contractors because they are also local
taxpayers. Local preference is desirable because it stimulates the local
economy and encourages businesses to locate and operate locally. All orders/
contracts are awarded on the basis of quality, previous performance, ability to
meet the contract requirements, availability of service and parts, delivery
schedule, and payment terms/discounts. When all these factors are equal except
price, a preference will be given to local vendors equal to 10% of the quoted
price. To be eligible for the 10% preference the vendor must certify under
penalty of perjury that its primary place of business or its point of sale for
more than 50% of its sales is located within the city limits. A further
condition of eligibility for a preference is the local businesses having a
current and active business license. Nothing in this local vendor purchasing
preference shall in any way limit the application of the California Public
Contract Code or California Labor Code to any city agreement.
   (C)   Purchasing authority. There are three levels of authority for normal
purchases: Department award, City Manager award, and City Council award.
Generally, authority is established by the dollar amount of the purchase.
Except as permitted by below regarding "exceptions," a formal purchase order,
approved by the requesting Department Director and the City Manager or designee
is required for all purchases where any single item exceeds $5,000. The
following procedures will apply to professional services or consultant
contracts.
      (1)   Department award: Up to $5,000. The Department Director may
authorize the purchase of supplies, equipment, or services as needed for his or
her area of responsibility for purchases up to $1,000. No purchase requisition
or purchase order is required. Note: Purchase orders may be issued regardless
of amount when required by the vendor, or when the complexity of the contract
demands a formal document for clarity.
      (2)   City Manager award: $5,000 to $75,000. When seeking goods or
services exceeding $5,000 but not exceeding $75,000, and specific to the
department's operation, the department completes a purchase requisition form
and submits it, including specifications, quotes and other supporting data, to
the City Manager or designee for review. After review of approved budget funds
a purchase order may be issued.
      (3)   City Council award: over $75,000. The Council award procedures may
be utilized for all purchases, contracts, or agreements of more than $75,000 as
follows:
         (a)   Specifications and other relative data may be sent to the City
Manager, or his or her authorized representative, for approval prior to the
issuance of a notice inviting sealed proposals, if a bid process is required to
be used.
         (b)   All formal bid opening dates will be at a time, date, and
location specified. The City Clerk, or a designee, will publicly open and log
the cost and content of bids received at the time and place specified in the
notice. Bid results will be made available to all interested parties as soon as
possible following the bid reading. The department responsible for the notice
will prepare the agenda report for approval and submission with cost benefit
justification and forward to the City Manager for review.
         (c)   After review by the City Manager the results of any bidding will
be presented to the City Council along with recommendations regarding results
and recommendation to award. The Council will declare the outcome of bids at a
public session. The exemptions set out below are exemptions only as to the bid
process, and do not excuse City Council approval when required.
         (d)   The City Manager or his designee will determine whether or not
to utilize an RFQ or RFP process for professional services or consultant
contracts, subject to any Council policy which may be adopted from time to
time.
      (4)   Exceptions to standard purchasing procedures.
         (a)   Emergency conditions.  An emergency is defined as a breakdown in
machinery or equipment resulting in the interruption of an essential service,
or a distinct threat to public health, safety, or welfare. In the case of an
emergency requiring the immediate purchase of supplies, materials, equipment or
contractual services, the City Manager may authorize the Finance Director or
his or her designee to secure in the open market, at the lowest obtainable
price, any supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual services required,
regardless of the amount of the expenditure.
            During an emergency condition, the using departments may purchase
any supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual services. This may be done
only after the department head has concluded that the purchase is essential to
prevent delays, which may affect the life, health, or safety of citizens. The
department head shall, as soon as possible, provide a completed purchase
requisition to the Finance Director or his or her designee, as well as a full
written explanation of the circumstances.
            In the case of a disaster or for civil defense, nothing contained
in this document shall limit the authority of the Director of Emergency
Services (City Manager) or his or her designee to make purchases and take such
other emergency steps as are, or may be, later ratified by the City Council.
         (b)   Limited availability/ sole source. Occasionally, required
supplies, material, equipment, or services are of a proprietary nature, or are
otherwise of such specific design or construction, or are specifically desired
for purposes of maintaining cost effective system consistency, as to be
available from only one source. After reasonable efforts to find alternative
suppliers, a department head or his or her designee may dispense with the
requirement of a minimum of two bids and recommend making the purchase from the
sole source. All other standard approval procedures and documentation will be
adhered to.
         (c)   Cooperative purchasing. The Finance Director or his or her
designee shall have the authority to join with other public jurisdictions in
cooperative purchasing agreements. The Finance Director or his or her designee
may also buy directly from a vendor at a price established by competitive
bidding by another public jurisdiction in substantial compliance with this
policy, even if the city has not joined with that public agency in a formal
agreement. The Finance Director or his or her designee may also purchase from
the United States of America or any state, municipality or other public
corporation or agency without following formal purchasing procedures as defined
in this policy.
         (d)   Two-bid minimum.  A two-bid minimum is established to guide
purchases. If only one bid is obtained, the initiating city department shall
consult with the City Manager and may exercise the option to extend the bid
period up to 30 days, without opening the submitted bid, to allow for
additional bids. If the determination is made to open the sole original bid, or
if no additional bids are received during the bid extension, the department
head may:
            1.    Re-advertise;
            2.   Order the work done by city employees;
            3.   Award the contract to the sole bidder based on a cost analysis
evidencing the relationship of the one bid to expected market price; or
            4.    Negotiate a contract to the best advantage of the city.
         (e)   Record keeping.  The Finance Department is responsible for
maintenance of purchasing records. During the course of a contract the
initialing department will maintain records. At the conclusion of the contract,
the original bids, specifications, and other pertinent data will be forwarded,
along with the request for final payment, to the Finance Department. These
records will be maintained in the accounts payable (A/P) files indefinitely, or
as prescribed by law.
         (f)   Purchases of Artwork. A purchase of public art pursuant to the
Art in Public Places Program is not subject to bidding and shall be made by the
appropriate purchasing authority as set forth in §
33.116(C).
(Ord. 1294, passed 3-7-01; Am. Ord. 1421, passed 5-4-05; Am. Ord. 1600, passed
9-7-11; Am. Ord. 1619, passed 9-19-12)
§ 33.117 RESERVED.
§ 33.118 PURCHASING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Requisition.  When a purchase order is required, the request shall be
completed, budgeted funds checked and certified and forwarded to the Department
Director for approval. The requisition must contain sufficient information to
insure acquisition of the correct item(s). Requests that will put an account
over- budget must be accompanied by a request for supplemental funds or
transfer of funds so the proposed account will have sufficient funds for the
purchase. The Finance Director may allow a budget over-ride as long as such
action would not put the fund over-budget when reasonably projected to the end
of the fiscal year. Requisitions will not be made utilizing accounts that are
unrelated to the type of item or service being purchased. Original quotes or
bids, specifications, and other documentation are to accompany the request.
   (B)   Request for proposal (RFP)/request for qualifications (RFQ). The RFP/
RFQ defines, in detail, the terms, conditions, and specifications of goods or
services required by the city. An RFQ is primarily intended for professional
services. An RFP is primarily intended for large, complex, projects where cost
and performance are equally important. The RFP/RFQ may be utilized for smaller
projects as well. The RFP/RFQ will be used whenever the acquisition of goods or
services is multi-faceted and carries a high possibility of liability for the
city. Generally, the RFQ/RFP is not applicable to purchases below the City
Manager award level of $1,000.
   (C)   Notice inviting sealed proposals. The notice inviting sealed proposals
is prepared by the initiating department and is formal notification, through
posting and advertisement by the City Clerk, that goods or services are being
solicited by the city. This gives widespread exposure to the city's needs,
expanding the vendor base, and fulfills the legal responsibility of giving fair
access to supplying the city's needs. The notice must contain sufficient
information to define the work and other details to the reader, and the date
and time at which the bids will be publicly opened and read. If expanded
documentation is available, the notice must indicate the cost, if any, plus the
procedures for acquiring such documents.
   (D)   Contract-out vs in-house.  The city may, at the direction of the City
Manager and the City Council, elect to have certain public works projects
performed by city employees. Generally, the decision to perform a public works
project "in-house" is based on the following four factors:
      (1)   A lack of available outside sources for the type of work to be
done;
      (2)   The assurance that the needs of the city will best be served both
technically and financially;
      (3)   Work will be performed within the time-frame normally associated
with outside contracting; and
      (4)   City staff needs to be trained and qualified to perform the work in
the event an emergency response may be required.
   (E)   Purchase order.  The purchase order number is generated by the Finance
Department upon final approval and acceptance of the purchase requisition. Upon
completion of the purchase order, the Finance Department will distribute copies
to the ordering department, purchasing file, and the vendor/contractor. It is
the responsibility of the initiating department to return to the Finance
Department the tracking copy plus packing/delivery slips associated with
receipt of the item purchased.
   (F)   Open purchase order.  Open purchase orders are entered into with
vendors that are expected to supply products or services to the city on an
ongoing and/or regular basis throughout the year. Open purchase orders are
closed at the conclusion of each fiscal year. The new year's open purchase
order group is determined by the Finance Department, utilizing the previous
year's open purchase orders, and adding or deleting vendors based on division
input and current needs. A list of vendors having open purchase orders with the
city shall be distributed to each department at the beginning of each fiscal
year.
   (G)   Amendment to purchase order (change order). It is sometimes necessary
to change a purchase order after it has been issued. The three most common
changes are monetary, time extension, and scope of work. Only the City Manager
may approve a formal change to an existing purchase order. The requesting
department must complete an internal memorandum citing the nature of the change
order and submit it, with appropriate documentation, to the City Manager or
designee for approval. Upon approval, the requesting department and vendor will
receive an amended purchase order reflecting the change(s).
   (H)   Credit card purchase.  All purchases using a city-issued credit card
shall take place in strict accord with the “City of Indio Procurement Card
Guidelines” as adopted and amended from time to time by resolution of the City
Council.
   (I)   Petty cash. The high cost of payment processing makes it imperative
that small-dollar purchases be made by cash. The exception is when the vendor
is heavily patronized by the city and the vendor is willing to establish a
credit account with the city. Each department has access to a petty cash fund
and should use it for minor purchases of up to $30 when buying from uncommon
sources or vendors unwilling to establish a credit account with the city. Each
department should submit their petty cash expenditures for reimbursement
monthly. The Finance Department periodically audits the petty cash fund.
   (J)   Receiving of goods/equipment.
      (1)   Inspection and testing.  All goods procured by the city shall be
subject to inspection and/or testing upon receipt or completion by the
department receiving the product to assure conformance with the specifications
set forth in the order. If a product fails to meet specifications, it shall be
identified as "on hold pending rejection," and a written report of the findings
shall be forwarded to the Finance Department. If a product is determined to be
unusable, it shall be rejected and returned to the vendor as the vendor
directs, and at their expense, for credit or replacement. Items found not to
specifications, but of limited usability, may be conditionally accepted but
only after re-negotiation of the original contract. A department head or his or
her designee shall have the authority to require chemical and physical tests or
any other tests deemed necessary to assure full compliance with the
specifications.
      (2)   Acceptance.  When goods have been received or a project has been
completed to the satisfaction of the ordering department and the
specifications, the packing slip and/or other completion documentation shall be
signed-off by the receiver/inspector. Information to be noted on the documents
must include, as a minimum, the acceptor's signature and a legible rendering of
their name and the date of receipt/completion. Any deviation from the exact
ordering specifications must be noted on the receiving/acceptance documents.
(Ord. 1294, passed 3-7-01; Am. Ord. 1569, passed 3-17-10)
§ 33.119 PAYMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Each department head, as defined in this code, or management level
designee, shall certify each check or warrant request prior to submission to
the Finance Department. Such certification shall include the following
language:
I hereby certify under penalty of perjury that to the best of my knowledge, the
goods and services ordered or reflected herein have been duly received or
rendered satisfactory; or that payment is authorized in advance of receipt of
goods or services; accordingly I hereby certify that payment may be made to
vendor names hereon and that the expenditure/disbursement hereby requested is
authorized with appropriate and available budgetary authority. (To be placed
onto city purchasing requisitions and/or purchase orders)
   (B)   The Finance Director shall establish a schedule for the issuance of
checks/warrants. In general terms, checks shall be issued on a weekly basis,
and reported to the City Council as an information item on at the next regular
meeting.
   (C)   Recognizing the “pre-issue” checks/warrants represent a departure from
the established internal control system, and that such requests are more costly
to process than check/warrants on the normal demand warrant register, “pre-
issued” checks/warrants shall be approved only on an urgency basis or as
otherwise determined by the City Finance Director. Approval for “pre-issue”
checks/warrants shall require the approval of the department head or designee,
the Director of Finance and the City Manager.
   (D)   “Pre-issued” checks/warrants may be issued for the following purposes:
      (1)   Travel advances;
      (2)   Payroll related trust benefit premiums;
      (3)   Insurance payments;
      (4)   Purchases that otherwise adversely impact the health/safety of the
community if otherwise not paid at the next scheduled weekly check run; and
      (5)   Purchases as determined on a case-by- case basis by the City
Manager.
(Ord. 1294, passed 3-7-01; Am. Ord. 1303, passed 11-7-01)
§ 33.120 DEFINITIONS AND SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   BID. Written offer, more formal than a quote, to furnish supplies,
equipment, vehicles, services in conformity with the specifications, delivery
terms, and conditions required at a guaranteed maximum cost.
   BID SECURITY. On council award procedures, except materials and supplies
contracts, each bidder shall be required to submit, with the bid, either by
cash, cashier's check, certified check, or surety bond, an amount not to exceed
10% of the aggregate amount of the bid. This requirement may be waived by the
City Manager, on a case-by-case basis, prior to initiation of the bid.
   CONTINUING PERFORMANCE. A continuing activity or service, which extends over
a period of time not involving solely the delivery of goods or materials.
   LABOR AND MATERIALS GUARANTEE. All contractors in "continuing performance"
service on contracts over $25,000, and all public works project contracts over
$5,000, are required to submit a labor and materials bond, letter of credit, or
cash deposit equivalent to 50% of the contract within 10 working days following
award of the contract, unless specifically exempted or modified by the City
Manager or City Attorney.
   LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE. All landscape contractors in "continuing
performance" service on contracts over $25,000 are required to submit a
landscape maintenance bond, letter of credit, or cash deposit equivalent to 50%
of the contract within 10 working days following award of the contract,
guaranteeing landscape maintenance for a minimum of 30 days after installation,
unless specifically exempted or modified by the City Manager or City Attorney.
   LOWEST RESPONSIBLE BIDDER.  A bidder who, in addition to lowest price, is
financially responsible and possesses the resources, judgment, skills, ability,
capacity, and integrity necessary to perform the contract according to its
terms.
   MATERIALS. Basic ingredients in a relatively raw, unrefined, or un-
manufactured state, that may be worked into a more finished form (e.g., sand,
wood, asphalt).
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. All contractors in "continuing performance" service
on contracts over $25,000, and all public works project contracts over $5,000,
are required to submit a performance bond, letter of credit, or cash deposit
equivalent to 100% of the Contract within 10 working days following award of
the Contract, unless specifically exempted or modified by the City Manager or
City Attorney.
   PREVAILING WAGE. Payment of prevailing wages established by City Council
shall be required on all publicly funded public works contracts of $5,000 or
more. When a contract requires this, notification will be included in the call
to bid.
   PROFESSIONAL SERVICES. Professional or specialized services such as, but not
limited to, those rendered by architects, attorneys, engineers, technicians,
etc.
   PROPERTY DAMAGE INSURANCE. All contractors engaged in service on city
property are required to maintain minimum property damage insurance of
$1,000,000 for each occurrence naming the city as additional insured. Certain
high-risk activities require higher limits.
   PUBLIC LIABILITY INSURANCE. All contractors engaged in service on city
property are required to maintain minimum public liability insurance of
$1,000,000 for each occurrence naming the city as additional insured. Certain
high-risk activities require higher limits.
   PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT. Specific planned undertaking for the creation,
improvement and/or repair of buildings and works, including parks; for the
construction and installation of streets and sewers; for the general benefit of
the citizenry (e.g., street lights, drains, etc.). Part of an approved Capital
Improvement Project (CIP).
   QUOTE. Verbal or written promise from the vendor/contractor guaranteeing the
cost of specific goods, supplies, or services.
   SUPPLIES. Goods in a manufactured state kept in the ordinary course of
business for regular use or consumption (e.g., pencils, light bulbs, street
signs).
   WORKER’S COMPENSATION INSURANCE. All contractors engaged in service on
behalf of the city are required to maintain WORKER’S COMPENSATION INSURANCE in
accordance with the provisions of the state contractor's licensing laws.
(Ord. 1294, passed 3-7-01)
§ 33.121 RESERVED.
§ 33.122 BALANCE IN EXCESS OF OBLIGATIONS REQUIRED PRIOR TO DELIVERY OF
PURCHASES.
   Except in case of emergency, the Finance Department shall not issue any
order for delivery on a contract or open market purchase until the Department
Director and Finance Director certify that there is, to the credit of the
department, commissions, boards and employees of the city concerned, a
sufficient unencumbered appropriation balance in excess of all unpaid
obligations, to defray the cost of the order.
(Ord. 1294, passed 3-7-01)
§ 33.123 DECLARATION AND SALE OF SURPLUS OR OBSOLETE EQUIPMENT.
   In the event any materials, supplies, equipment or other personal property
is no longer needed by any department, commission, board or employee of the
city, it shall be transferred to the custody of the Finance Department Director
or designee if no other department, commission, board or employee has need for
that item and he or she shall declare it to be surplus or obsolete. If the
surplus or obsolete item or group of related items shall exceed the value of
$500, the Finance Director or designee shall obtain approval of the City
Council before the sale thereof.
(Ord. 1294, passed 3-7-01)
§ 33.124 INFORMAL BIDDING FOR PUBLIC WORKS CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Informal bidding on public projects and maintenance. The city may let
any "public project" or "maintenance work," as those terms are defined by the
Uniform Public Construction Cost Accounting Act codified at Cal. Pub. Cont.
Code §§ 22000 et seq., to contract in accord with informal bidding procedures
provided that the project or work has an aggregate cost estimate of $125,000 or
less. Further, upon a 4/5 vote of the City Council determining that a city cost
estimate was reasonable, the city may award a contract in an instance when all
informal bids gathered by the city exceed $125,000 but there exists a lowest
responsible bidder with a bid of $137,500 or less. To the extent that the State
Controller may modify the monetary limits prescribed by the Uniform Public
Construction Cost Accounting Act for informal bidding, such modifications shall
supersede the limits specified herein.
   (B)   Contractors list.  Each City Department shall develop and maintain a
list of qualified contractors, identified according to categories of work, who
may informally bid public projects and maintenance work. Criteria for the
city's development and maintenance of this list shall be in accord with all
applicable determinations by the California Uniform Construction Cost
Accounting Commission. The city may also include on its list any contractor who
submitted a valid informal bid as to one or more public project or instance of
maintenance work during the preceding year, per an exercise of discretion by
the Public Works Director or his/her designee.
   (C)   Updating the contractors list. City Department shall mail written
notice to construction journals inviting licensed contractors to submit
qualifications that may support their inclusion by the city on the list of
qualified contractors that will be authorized to informally bid public projects
and maintenance work for the following year.
   (D)   Notices to contractors re individual public projects and maintenance
work. Not less than ten calendar days before date when informal bids are due,
the city shall mail all contractors on its list for the category of work being
bid, together with all construction trade journals identified for receipt of
notices by the California Uniform Construction Cost Accounting Commission, a
written notice inviting informal bids. Beyond this standard notice to be
issued, within the discretion of the City Department soliciting informal bids,
additional contractors and/or construction trade journals may be issued notice.
The notice requirement of this provision shall apply to each public project or
instance of maintenance work let to informal bid unless a product or service is
proprietary. If the product of service is proprietary in nature such that it
can be obtained only from a certain contractor or contractors, the notice
inviting informal bids may be sent exclusively to such contractor or
contractors. Finally, if within the reasonable discretion of the City Manager
or his/her designee, no list of qualified contractors maintained by the city
for the particular category of work to be performed exists, the notice inviting
informal bids shall be sent only to construction trade journals identified for
receipt of notices by the California Uniform Construction Cost Accounting
Commission.
   (E)   Content of notices. The notice shall describe the public project or
maintenance work in general terms, and state how an interested contractor may
obtain more detailed information. The notice shall also state the time and
place for the submission of bids, indicate the city's license requirements, and
provide a city contact name and mailing address.
   (F)   Award of informal contracts. The City Council hereby delegates the
authority to award informal contracts to the City Manager or his/her designee.
(Ord. 1555, passed 4-1-09)
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 33.200 INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Findings. The City Council finds and declares that there exists in the
city a need to assist industry in the financing of capital outlays required to
acquire, construct or rehabilitate facilities in order to increase employment
opportunities and to contribute to economic development in the city.
   (B)   Need for an Authority. The City Council further finds and declares
that there is a need for an industrial development authority of the city in
order to assist in providing industry in the city with an alternative method of
financing in acquiring, constructing or rehabilitating facilities in accordance
with provisions of the California Industrial Development Financing Act, being
Cal. Gov't Code §§ 91500 et seq. (i.e., "the Act").
   (C)   Establishment. The Industrial Development Authority of the city
established by the Act referred to in division (B) herein is declared organized
under the name of "Industrial Development Authority of the City of Indio" and
shall function under and in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
   (D)   Construction of provisions. The provisions of this subchapter, being
necessary for the welfare of the city and its inhabitants, shall be liberally
construed to effect its purposes.
   (E)   Recodification. The Industrial Development Authority was established
by Ordinance No. 882 adopted by the City Council on November 2, 1983.
Accordingly, this § 33.200 is a recodification of existing law and not a new
enactment.
(Ord. 1750, passed 4-15-20)
CHAPTER 34: TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01    Transfer of certain city tax functions to county
Sales and Use Tax
   
34.15    Short title
   
34.16    Purpose
   
34.17    Operative date; contract with state
   
34.18    Sales tax
   
34.19    Use tax
   
34.20    Effect of amendments to State Revenue and Taxation Code
   
34.21    Enjoining collection of tax forbidden
   
34.22    Suspension of existing rules and use of tax ordinances
Transient Occupancy Tax
   
34.35    Title
   
34.36    Definitions
   
34.37    Imposition; amount; when and where payable
   
34.38    Exemptions
   
34.39    Collection by operators; advertising that payment of tax not required
prohibited
   
34.40    Registration of hotels; registration certificate
   
34.41    Returns and remittances
   
34.42    Penalty for failure to remit tax when due
   
34.43    Tax Administrator to determine tax due upon operator's failure to
collect and remit tax
   
34.44    Appeal from determination of Tax Administrator
   
34.45    Operator to retain records for three years
   
34.46    Refunds
   
34.47    Action by city to collect tax
   
34.48    Liability of successor of operator
Real Property Transfer Tax
   
34.60    Short title; adoption authority
   
34.61    Imposition
   
34.62    Payment
   
34.63    Exemption from tax; instruments to secure debt
   
34.64    Public agencies
   
34.65    Plans of reorganization and adjustment
   
34.66    Orders of Securities and Exchange Commission
   
34.67    Partnerships
   
34.68    Administration
   
34.69    Refunds
   
34.70    Operative date
Bonds or Other Security
   
34.85    Posting of bond or other security
Refunds
   
34.90   Claim for refund; extent of refund
Utility Users’ Tax
   
34.150   Definitions
   
34.151   Constitutional, statutory, and other exemptions
   
34.152   Senior/disabled exemption
   
34.153   Telecommunication users’ tax
   
34.154   Video users’ tax
   
34.155   Electricity users’ tax
   
34.156   Gas users’ tax
   
34.157   Collection of tax from service users receiving direct purchase of gas
or electricity
   
34.158   Water tax
   
34.159   Bundling taxable items with non-taxable items
   
34.160   Substantial nexus/minimum contacts
   
34.161   Duty to collect – procedures
   
34.162   Collection penalties – service suppliers
   
34.163   Actions to collect
   
34.164   Deficiency determination and assessment – tax application errors
   
34.165   Administrative remedy – non-paying service users
   
34.166   Additional powers and duties of the Tax Administrator
   
34.167   Records
   
34.168   Refunds
   
34.169   Appeals
   
34.170   No injunction/writ of mandate
   
34.171   Notice of changes to ordinance
   
34.172   Effect of state and federal reference/authorization
   
34.173   Independent audit of tax collection, exemption, remittance, and
expenditure, annual public report
   
34.174   Remedies cumulative
   
34.175   Interaction with prior tax
   
34.176   Citizens' Finance Advisory Commission
Transactions and Use Tax
   
34.200   Title
   
34.201   Operative date
   
34.202   Purpose
   
34.203   Contract with state
   
34.204   Transactions tax rate
   
34.205   Place of sale
   
34.206   Use tax rate
   
34.207   Adoption of provisions of state law
   
34.208   Limitations on adoption of state law and collection of use taxes
   
34.209   Permit not required
   
34.210   Exemptions and exclusions
   
34.211   Amendments
   
34.212   Enjoining collection forbidden
   
34.213   Severability
   
34.214   Independent financial audit
   
34.215   Citizens’ Finance Advisory Commission
 
   
34.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 TRANSFER OF CERTAIN CITY TAX FUNCTIONS TO COUNTY.
   (A)    The duties of the Assessor and Tax Collector of the city, relating to
the assessing and collecting of city taxes, shall be hereafter performed by the
County Assessor and County Tax Collector, in the manner and as provided by Cal.
Rev. & Tax. Code §§ 51500 to 51519, and the city does elect, under the
authority of the aforementioned sections of the Revenue and Taxation Code of
the state, to avail itself of the provisions of those sections.
   (B)    The net amount of all taxes collected for the city by the County Tax
Collector shall be paid to the Treasurer of the city under the general
requirements and penalties provided by law for the settlement of other taxes.
('61 Code, § 20.1) (Ord. 6, passed - - )
SALES AND USE TAX
§ 34.15 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law”
of the city.
('61 Code, § 20.2) (Ord. 263, passed - - )
§ 34.16 PURPOSE.
   The City Council hereby declares that this subchapter is adopted to achieve
the following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be
interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:
   (A)    To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance, which complies with the
requirements and limitations contained in Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code div. 2, part
1.5.
   (B)    To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the state insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained
in Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code div. 2, part 1.5.
   (C)    To adopt sales and use tax regulations which impose a 0.9% tax and
provide a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practical to
and requires the least possible deviation from the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the state sales and use taxes.
   (D)    To adopt sales and use tax regulations which can be administered in a
manner that will, to the degree possible, consistent with the provisions of
Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code div. 2, part 1.5, minimize the cost of collecting city
sales and use taxes and at the same time minimize the burden of record-keeping
upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 20.3) (Ord. 263, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 351, passed - - )
§ 34.17 OPERATIVE DATE; CONTRACT WITH STATE.
   This subchapter shall become operative on July 1, 1957 and prior thereto the
city shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all
functions incident to the administration and operation of this subchapter;
provided, if the city shall not have contracted with the State Board of
Equalization, as above set forth, this subchapter shall not be operative until
the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a
contract by the city and by the State Board of Equalization; provided further,
this subchapter shall not become operative prior to the operative date of the
uniform local sales and use tax ordinance of the county.
('61 Code, § 20.4) (Ord. 263, passed - - )
§ 34.18 SALES TAX.
   (A)    (1)    For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at
retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon every retailer in the city at the rate of
1% or less of the gross receipts of the retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold by that person at retail in the city and a use tax of 1%
or less of purchases prices on the storage, use or other consumption of
tangible personal property purchased from a retailer for storage, use or
consumption in the city.
      (2)    For the purposes of this subchapter, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible
personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or the retailer's agent to
an out-of-state destination or to common carrier for delivery to an out-of-
state destination. The gross receipts from these sales shall include delivery
charges, when those charges are subject to the state sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has
no permanent place of business in the state or has more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall
be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the
Board of Equalization.
   (B)    (1)    Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code div. 2, part 1.5, all
of the provisions of Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code div. 2, part 1, as amended and in
force, and effect on the operative date of this subchapter, applicable to sales
taxes are hereby adopted and made a part of this section as though fully set
forth herein.
      (2)    Where, and to the extent that, in Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code §§ 1001 et
seq., insofar as they relate to sales and use taxes, the state is named or
referred to as the taxing agency, the name of the city as the taxing agency
shall be substituted for that of the state (but the name of the city shall not
be substituted for the word “state” in the phrase, “retailer engaged in
business in the state” in Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code § 6203 nor in the definition of
that phrase in Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code §62) and an additional seller's permit
shall not be required if one has been or is issued to the seller under Cal.
Rev. & Tax. Code § 56067.
      (3)    If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Cal. Rev.
& Tax. Code § 6067, an additional seller's permit shall not be required by
reason of this section.
      (4)    There shall be excluded from the gross receipts by which the tax
is measured:
         (a)    The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a
retailer or consumer.
         (b)    The gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property
to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the city in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the user of that
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the
laws of this state, the United States or any foreign government.
('61 Code, § 20.5) (Ord. 363, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 351, passed - - ; Am. Ord.
599, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 660, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 883, passed - - ; Am.
Ord. 1036, passed - - )
§ 34.19 USE TAX.
   (A)    An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the city of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer on or after the operative date of this subchapter, for storage, use or
other consumption in the city at the rate of 0.9% of the sales prices of the
property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when those charges are
subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is
made.
   (B)    (1)    Except as hereinafter provided and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code div. 2, part 1.5, all
of the provisions Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code div. 2, part 1, as amended and in force
and effect on the operative date of this subchapter, applicable to use taxes
are hereby adopted and made a part of this section as though fully set forth
herein.
      (2)    Wherever, and to the extent that, in Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code §§ 1001
et seq., insofar as they relate to sales and use taxes, the state is named or
referred to as the taxing agency shall be substituted for that of the state
(but the name of the city shall not be substituted for the word, “state” in the
phrase, “Retailer engaged in business in the state” in Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code §
6203 nor in the definition of that phrase in Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code § 62) and an
additional seller's permit shall not be required if one has been or is issued
to the seller under Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code § 56067.
      (3)    There shall be exempt from the tax due under this section:
         (a)    The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a
retailer or consumer.
         (b)    The storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property, the gross receipts from the sale of which has been subject to sales
tax under a sales and use tax ordinance enacted in accordance with Cal. Rev. &
Tax. Code div. 2, part 1.5 by any city and county, county or city in this
state.
         (c)    In addition to the exemptions provided in Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code
§§ 6366 and 6366.1, the storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by those
operators directly and exclusively in the use of the aircraft as common
carriers or persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this state, the
United States or any foreign government.
('61 Code, § 20.6) (Ord. 883, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 263, passed - - ; Am. Ord.
351, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 660, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1036, passed - - )
§ 34.20 EFFECT OF AMENDMENTS TO STATE REVENUE AND TAXATION CODE.
   All amendments of the Revenue and Taxation Code enacted subsequent to the
effective date of this (subchapter) which relate to the sales and use tax and
which are not inconsistent with Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code div. 2, part 1.5 shall
automatically become a part of this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 20.7) (Ord. 263, passed - - )
§ 34.21 ENJOINING COLLECTION OF TAX FORBIDDEN.
   No injunction or write of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the state or this
city or against any officer of the state or this city to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this subchapter, or Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code div. 2, part 1.5, of
any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.
('61 Code, § 20.8) (Ord. 263, passed - - )
§ 34.22 SUSPENSION OF EXISTING RULES AND USE OF TAX ORDINANCES.
   At the time this subchapter goes into operation, the provisions of Ord. 166
(existing city sale and use tax ordinance) shall be suspended and shall not
again be of any force or effect until and unless for any reason the State Board
of Equalization ceases to perform the functions incident to the administration
and operation of the sales and use tax hereby imposed; provided, if for any
reason it is determined that the city is without power to adopt this
subchapter, or that the State Board of Equalization is without power to perform
the functions incident to the administration and operation of the taxes imposed
by this subchapter, the provisions of Ord. 166 (existing city sales and use tax
ordinance) shall not be deemed to have been suspended but shall be deemed to
have been in full force and effect at the rate of 1% continuously from and
after the operative date of this subchapter. Upon the ceasing of the State
Board of Equalization to perform the functions incident to the administration
and operation of the taxes imposed by this subchapter, the provisions of
Ordinance 166 (existing city sales and use tax ordinance) shall again be in
full force and effect at the rate of 1%. Nothing in this subchapter shall be
construed as relieving any person of the obligation to pay to the city any
sales or use tax accrued and owing by reasons of the provisions of Ord. 166 in
force and effect prior to the operative date of this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 20.9) (Ord. 263, passed - - )
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
§ 34.35 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Uniform Transient Occupancy Tax
Ordinance” of the city.
('61 Code, § 20.10) (Ord. 408, passed - - )
§ 34.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPGROUND.  Any real property where transients may locate a tent, trailer,
tent trailer, pick-up, camper, vehicle or other similar temporary structure for
the purposes of lodging, dwelling, or sleeping, whether or not water,
electricity or sanitary facilities are provided. Real property includes but is
not limited to a camping site or a space at a CAMPGROUND .
   HOTEL. Any structure or any portion of any structure which is occupied or
intended or designed for use or occupancy by transients including, but not
limited to, dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes and includes any hotel, inn,
tourist home or house, motel, studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodginghouse,
roominghouse, apartment house, dormitory, public or private club, mobile home
or house trailer at a fixed location, or other like structure or portion
thereof. HOTEL includes a recreational vehicle, as defined in Cal. Health &
Safety Code § 18010.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession or the right to the use of possession of
any room or rooms or portion thereof in any hotel for dwelling, lodging or
sleeping purposes.
   OPERATOR. The person who is proprietor of the hotel, whether in the capacity
of the owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee or any other
capacity. Where the OPERATOR performs his or her functions through a managing
agent of any type or character other than employee, the managing agent also
shall be deemed an OPERATOR for the purposes of this subchapter and shall have
the same duties and liabilities as his or her principal. Compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter by either the principal or the managing agent
shall, however, be considered compliance by both.
   RENT. The consideration charged, whether or not received, for the occupancy
of space in a hotel valued in money, whether to be received in money, goods,
labor or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property and
services of any kind or nature without any deduction therefrom.
   TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The City Manager or the City Manager's designated agent.
   TRANSIENT. Any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy by
reason of concession, permit, right of access, license, time-share arrangement,
or ownership or agreement or other agreement for a period of 30 consecutive
calendar days or less counting portions of calendar days as full days. Any such
person so occupying space in a hotel shall be deemed a transient until the
period of 30 days has expired. Unless days of occupancy or entitlement to
occupancy by one person are consecutive without any break, then prior to
subsequent periods of the occupancy or entitlement to occupancy shall not be
counted when determining whether a period exceeds the stated 30 consecutive
days. In determining whether a person is a transient, uninterrupted periods of
time extending both prior and subsequent to the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this subchapter may be considered.
(‘61 Code, § 20.11) (Ord. 408, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 877, passed - - ; Am. Ord.
1036, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1667, passed 11-4-14)
§ 34.37 IMPOSITION; AMOUNT; WHEN AND WHERE PAYABLE.
   (A)   For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel that has less than 50
sleeping rooms or occupancy in any campground or recreational vehicle park,
each transient is subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount of 13% of the
rent charged by the operator.
   (B)   For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel that has 50 or more
sleeping rooms, each transient is subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount
of 10% of the rent charged by the operator; provided, however, that each
transient is subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount of 13% of the rent
charged by the operator in the event that: (i) the boundaries of the Palm
Springs Desert Resort Communities Tourism Business Improvement District, as
established by Ordinance No. 883 of the County of Riverside (as amended from
time to time) (“Tourism BID”) and the Greater Palm Springs Convention &
Visitors Bureau Tourism Marketing District, as established by Ordinance No.
2013-001 of the Palm Springs Desert Resort Communities Convention and Visitors
Authority (as amended from time to time) (“Marketing BID”), no longer include a
portion of the City of Indio or (ii) the respective governing entities of the
Tourism BID and Marketing BID cease to levy an assessment on any hotel subject
to the tax imposed by this division (B).
   (C)   This tax set forth in this section constitutes a debt owed by the
transient to the city which is extinguished only by payment to the operator or
to the city. The transient shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel at
the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate
share of the tax shall be paid in each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due
upon the transient’s ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. If, for any reason,
the tax due is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the Tax Administrator may
require the tax shall be paid directly to the Tax Administrator.
(‘61 Code, § 20.12) (Ord. 408, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 502, passed - - ; Am. Ord.
649, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 877, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 878, passed - - ; Am.
Ord. 1036, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1667, passed 11-4-14)
§ 34.38 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)    No tax shall be imposed upon:
      (1)    Any person as to whom or any occupancy as to which it is beyond
the power of the city to impose a tax herein provided.
      (2)    Any officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt by
reason of expressed provision of federal law or international treaty.
   (B)    No exemptions shall be granted except upon a claim therefor made at
the time rent is collected and under penalty of perjury upon form prescribed by
the Tax Administrator.
('61 Code, § 20.13) (Ord. 408, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 442, passed - - )
§ 34.39 COLLECTION BY OPERATORS; ADVERTISING THAT PAYMENT OF TAX NOT REQUIRED
PROHIBITED.
   (A)    Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this subchapter to the
same extent and at the same time as the rent is collected from every transient.
The amount of tax shall be separately stated from the amount of the rent
charged, and each transient shall receive a receipt for payment from the
operator.
   (B)    No operator of a hotel shall advertise or state in any manner,
whether directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof will be
assumed or absorbed by the operator or that it will not be added to the rent or
that, if added, any part will be refunded except in the manner hereinafter
provided.
('61 Code, § 20.14) (Ord. 408, passed - - )
§ 34.40 REGISTRATION OF HOTELS; REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE.
   Within 30 days after the effective date of this subchapter, or within 30
days after commencing business, whichever is later, each operator of any hotel
renting occupancy to transient shall register the hotel with the Tax
Administrator and obtain from the Administrator a “transient occupancy
registration certificate” to be, at all times, posted in a conspicuous place on
the premises. The certificate shall, among other things, state the following:
   (A)    The name of the operator.
   (B)    The address of the hotel.
   (C)    The date upon which the certificate was issued.
   (D)    “This Transient Occupancy Registration Certificate signifies that the
person named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the Uniform
Transient Occupancy Tax Ordinance by registering with the Tax Administrator for
the purpose of collecting from transients the Transient Occupancy Tax and
remitting the tax to the Tax Administrator. This certificate does not authorize
any person to conduct any unlawful business or to conduct any lawful business
in an unlawful manner or to operator a hotel without strictly complying with
all local applicable laws, including, but not limited to, those requiring a
permit from any board, commission, department or office of the city. This
certificate does not constitute a permit.”
('61 Code, § 20.15) (Ord. 408, passed - - )
§ 34.41 RETURNS AND REMITTANCES.
   Each operator shall, on or before the last day of the month following the
close of each calendar quarter or at the close of any shorter reporting period
which may be established by the Tax Administrator, make a return to the Tax
Administrator on forms provided by him or her of the total rents charged and
received and the amount of tax collected for transient occupancies. At the time
the return is filed, the full amount of the tax collected shall be remitted to
the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator may establish shorter reporting
periods for any certificate holder if he or she deems it necessary in order to
ensure collection of the tax, and he or she may require further information in
the return. Returns and payments are due immediately upon cessation of business
for any reason. All taxes collected by operators pursuant to this subchapter
shall be held in trust for the account of the city until payment thereof is
made to the Tax Administrator.
('61 Code, § 20.16) (Ord. 408, passed - - )
§ 34.42 PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO REMIT TAX WHEN DUE.
   (A)    Original delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any tax imposed
by this subchapter within the time required shall pay a penalty of 10% of the
amount of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax.
   (B)    Continued delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any delinquent
remittance on or before a period of 30 days following the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent shall pay a second delinquency penalty of
10% of the amount of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax and the 10%
penalty first imposed.
   (C)    Fraud. If the Tax Administrator determines that the nonpayment of any
remittance due under this subchapter is due to fraud, a penalty of 25% of the
amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties stated in
divisions (A) and (B) above.
   (D)    Interest. In addition to the penalties imposed, any operator who
fails to remit any tax imposed by this subchapter shall pay interest at the
rate of 0.5% per month or fraction thereof on the amount of the tax, exclusive
of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent
until paid.
   (E)    Lien imposed on real property and bulk sales of business.
      (A)    If any amount required to be remitted to the city under this
section is not paid when due, the city may, within three years after the amount
is due, file for record in the office of the Riverside County Recorder, a
certificate specifying the amount of tax, penalties and interest due, the name
and address as it appears on the records of the city of the operator liable for
the same and the fact that the city has compiled with provisions of this
section in the determination of the amount required to be paid. Before such
filing, the city shall give 5 days written notice of its intent to file the
lien to the operator. If the property is owned by a different party than the
operator, then the city shall also give five days written notice to the real
property owner before filing the lien.
      (B)    At the time of filing for record, the amount required to be
remitted together with penalties and interest constitutes a lien upon all real
property in the County of Riverside and upon all bulk sales of personal
property owned by the operator or afterwards acquired by him and prior to the
expiration of the lien. The lien has the force, effect, and priority of a
judgement lien and shall continue in force for ten years from the time of
filing of the certificate unless released or otherwise discharged by payment of
the amount of taxes, interest, and penalties due to the city.
(Ord. 1144, passed 9-1-93)
   (F)    Penalties merged with tax. Every penalty imposed and the interest as
accrued under the provision of this section shall become a part of the tax
herein required to be paid.
('61 Code, § 20.17) (Ord. 408, passed - - )
§ 34.43 TAX ADMINISTRATOR TO DETERMINE TAX DUE UPON OPERATOR'S FAILURE TO
COLLECTED AND REMIT TAX.
   If any operator shall fail or refuse to collect the tax and to make, within
the time provided in this subchapter, any report and remittance of the tax or
any portion thereof required by this subchapter, the Tax Administrator shall
proceed in such manner as he or she may deem best to obtain facts and
information on which to base his or her estimate of the tax due. As soon as the
Tax Administrator shall procure the facts and information as he or she is able
to obtain upon which to base the assessment of any tax imposed by this
subchapter, and payable by any operator, who has failed or refused to collect
the same and to make the report and remittance, he or she shall proceed to
determine and assess against the operator the tax, interest and penalties
provided for by this subchapter. In case the determination is made, the Tax
Administrator shall give a notice of the amount so assessed by serving it
personally or by depositing it in the United States mail, postage prepaid,
addressed to the operator so assessed at his or her last-known place of
address. The operator may, within ten days after the serving or mailing of the
notice, make application in writing to the Tax Administrator for a hearing on
the amount assessed. If application by the operator for a hearing is not made
within the time prescribed, the tax interest and penalties, if any, determined
by the Tax Administrator shall become final and conclusive and immediately due
and payable. If the application is made, the Tax Administrator shall become
final and conclusive and immediately due and payable. If the application is
made, the Tax Administrator shall give not less than five days' written notice
in the manner prescribed herein to the operator to show cause at a time and
place fixed int he notice why the amount specified therein should not be fixed
of the tax, interest and penalties. At the hearing, the operator may appear and
offer evidence why the specified tax, interest and penalties should not be so
fixed. After the hearing the Tax Administrator shall determine the proper tax
to be remitted and shall thereafter give written notice to the person in the
manner prescribed herein of the determination and the amount of the tax,
interest and penalties. The amount determined to be due shall be payable after
15 days unless an appeal is taken as provided in §
34.44.
('61 Code, § 20.18) (Ord. 408, passed - - )
§ 34.44 APPEAL FROM DETERMINATION OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the Tax Administrator with respect
to the amount of the tax, interest and penalties, if any, may appeal to the
City Council by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk within 15 days of
the serving or mailing of the determination of tax due. The Council shall fix a
time and place for hearing the appeal and the City Clerk shall give notice in
writing to the operator at his or her last-known place of address. The findings
of the City Council shall be final and conclusive and shall be served upon the
appellant in the manner prescribed above for service of notice of hearing. Any
amount found to be due immediately shall be due and payable upon the service of
notice.
('61 Code, § 20.19) (Ord. 408, passed - - )
§ 34.45 OPERATOR TO RETAIN RECORDS FOR THREE YEARS.
   It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the collection and payment
to the city of any tax imposed by this subchapter to keep and preserve for a
period of three years all records as may be necessary to determine the amount
of the tax as he may have been liable for the collection of and payment to the
city, which records the Tax Administrator shall have the right to inspect at
all reasonable times.
('61 Code, § 20.20) (Ord. 408, passed - - )
§ 34.46 REFUNDS.
   (A)    When the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid or
paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received
by the city under this subchapter, it may be refunded as provided in divisions
(B) and (C) below; provided, a claim in writing therefor, stating under penalty
of perjury the specific grounds upon which the claim is founded, is filed with
the Tax Administrator within three years of the date of payment. The claim
shall be on forms furnished by the Tax Administrator.
   (B)    An operator may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes
collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously
or illegally collected or received when it is established in a manner
prescribed by the Tax Administrator that the person from whom the tax has been
collected as not a transient; provided, neither a refund nor a credit shall be
allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has either been refunded to
the transient or credited to rent subsequently payable by the transient to the
operator.
   (C)    A transient may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid or paid more than
once or erroneously or illegal collected or received by the city by filing a
claim in the manner provided in division (A) above but only when the tax was
paid by the transient directly to the Tax Administrator or when the transient,
having paid the tax to the operator, establishes to the satisfaction of the Tax
Administrator that the transient has been unable to obtain a refund from the
operator who collected the tax.
   (D)    No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless
the claimant establishes his or her right thereto by written record showing
entitlement thereto.
('61 Code, § 20.21) (Ord. 408, passed - - )
§ 34.47 ACTION BY CITY TO COLLECT TAX.
   Any tax required to be paid by any transient under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the operator to the city. Any person
owing money to the city under the provisions of this subchapter shall be liable
to an action brought in the name of the city for the recovery of that amount.
('61 Code, § 20.22) (Ord. 408, passed - - )
§ 34.48 LIABILITY OF SUCCESSOR OF OPERATOR.
   If an operator who is liable for any unreported or unremitted tax, interest,
or penalties under this section sells, conveys, or otherwise disposes of his
business in any manner, his successor shall withhold a sufficient portion of
the sales price equal to the amount of such unreported or unremitted tax,
interest, or penalties until the selling operator producers either (1) a
receipt from the City Finance Department stating that no tax, interest or
penalty is due. If the seller does not present either a receipt or tax
clearance certificate within 30 days after such successor commences to conduct
business, the successor shall deposit the withheld amount with the City Finance
Department pending settlement of the account of the seller. If the successor to
the business fails to withhold and/or deposit a potion of the purchase price as
required by this section, the successor shall be personally liable to the city
for the payment of the amount required to be withheld and/or deposited. Within
30 days after receiving written request from the operator or his successor for
a receipt or tax clearance certificate stating that no tax or penalty is due,
the City Finance Department shall either issue a record or certificate or mail
notice to the requesting party at its address as it appears on the records of
the City Finance Department of the estimated amount of tax, interest and
penalty that must be paid as a condition of issuing the certificate. This
section is intended to impose liability upon a successor for any taxes,
interest, and penalties which may be due at the time of transfer.
(Ord. 1144, passed 9-1-93)
REAL PROPERTY TRANSFER TAX
§ 34.60 SHORT TITLE; ADOPTION AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Real Property Transfer Tax Ordinance”
of the city. It is adopted pursuant to the authority contained in Cal. Rev. &
Tax. Code §§ 11901 et seq.
('61 Code, § 20.24) (Ord. 500, passed - - )
§ 34.61 IMPOSITION.
   There is hereby imposed on each deed, instrument or writing by which any
lands, tenements or other realty sold within the city shall be granted,
assigned, transferred or otherwise conveyed to or vested in the purchaser or
purchasers, or any other person or persons, by his or their direction, when the
consideration or value of the interest or property conveyed (exclusive of the
value of any lien or encumbrances remaining thereon at the time of sale)
exceeds $100, a tax at the rate of $.275 for each $500 or fractional part
thereof.
('61 Code, § 20.25) (Ord. 500, passed - - )
§ 34.62 PAYMENT.
   Any tax imposed pursuant to §
34.61 shall be paid by any person who makes, signs or issues any document or
instrument subject to the tax or for whose use or benefit the same is made,
signed or issued.
('61 Code, § 20.26) (Ord. 500, passed - - )
§ 34.63 EXEMPTION FROM TAX; INSTRUMENTS TO SECURE DEBT.
   (A)    Any tax imposed pursuant to this subchapter shall not apply with
respect to any deed, instrument or writing to a beneficiary or mortgagee, which
is taken from the mortgagor or trustor as the result of or in lieu of
foreclosure, provided, that tax shall not apply to the extent that the
consideration exceeds the unpaid debt, including accrued interest and cost of
foreclosure. Consideration, unpaid debt amount and identification of grantee as
beneficiary or mortgagee shall be noted on the deed, instrument or writing or
stated in an affidavit or declaration under penalty of perjury for tax
purposes.
   (B)    Any tax imposed pursuant to this subchapter shall not apply with
respect to any deed, instrument or other writing which purports to transfer,
divide or allocate community, quasi-community or quasi-marital property assets
between spouses for the purpose of effecting a division of community, quasi-
community or quasi-marital property pursuant to Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code § 11927.
('61 Code, § 20.27) (Ord. 500, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1036, passed - - )
§ 34.64 PUBLIC AGENCIES.
   In a deed, instrument or writing to which the United States or any agency or
instrumentality thereof, any state or territory or political subdivision
thereof is a party shall be exempt from any tax imposed pursuant to this
subchapter when the exempt agency is acquiring title.
('61 Code, § 20.28) (Ord. 500, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1036, passed - - )
§ 34.65 PLANS OF REORGANIZATION AND ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)    Any tax imposed pursuant to this subchapter shall not apply to the
making, delivering or filing of conveyances to make effective any plan of
reorganization or adjustment:
      (1)    Confirmed under the Federal Bankruptcy Act, as amended;
      (2)    Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court involving
a railroad corporation, as defined in subdivision (m) of § 205 of Title 11 of
the United States Code, as amended;
      (3)    Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court involving
a corporation, as defined in subdivision (3) of § 506 of Title 11 of the United
States Code, as amended; or,
      (4)    Whereby a mere change in identity, form or place of organization
is affected.
   (B)    Divisions (A)(1) through (4) above, inclusive, shall only apply if
the making, delivery or filing of instruments of transfer or conveyances occurs
within five years from the date of the confirmation, approval or change.
('61 Code, § 20.29) (Ord. 500, passed - - )
§ 34.66 ORDERS OF SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION.
   Any tax imposed pursuant to this subchapter shall not apply to the making or
delivery of conveyances to make effective any order of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, as defined in subdivision (a) of § 1083 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1954 but only if:
   (A)    The order of the SEC in obedience to which the conveyance is made
recites that the conveyance is necessary or appropriate to effectuate the
provisions of §79k of Title 15 of the United States Code, relating to the
Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935;
   (B)    The order specifies the property which is ordered to be conveyed;
   (C)    The conveyance is made in obedience to the order.
('61 Code, § 20.30) (Ord. 500, passed - - )
§ 34.67 PARTNERSHIPS.
   (A)    In the case of any realty held by a partnership, no levy shall be
imposed pursuant to this subchapter by reason of any transfer of an interest in
a partnership or otherwise if:
      (1)    That partnership (or another partnership) is considered a
continuing partnership within the meaning of § 708 of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1954; and,
      (2)    The continuing partnership continues to hold the realty concerned.
   (B)    If there is a termination of any partnership within the meaning of §
708 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 for purposes of this subchapter, the
partnership shall be treated as having executed an instrument whereby there was
conveyed, for fair market value (exclusive of the value of any lien or
encumbrance remaining thereon) all realty held by the partnership at the time
of the termination.
   (C)    Not more than one tax shall be imposed pursuant to this subchapter by
reason of a termination described in division (B) above and any transfer
pursuant thereto, with respect to the realty held by the partnership at the
time of the termination.
('61 Code, § 20.31) (Ord. 500, passed - - )
§ 34.68 ADMINISTRATION.
   The County Recorder shall administer this subchapter in conformity with the
provisions of Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code §§ 11901 et seq. and the provisions of any
county ordinance adopted pursuant thereto.
('61 Code, § 20.32) (Ord. 500, passed - - )
§ 34.69 REFUNDS.
   Claims for refund of taxes imposed pursuant to this subchapter shall be
governed by the provisions of Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code §§ 5096 et seq.
('61 Code, § 20.33) (Ord. 500, passed - - )
§ 34.70 OPERATIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become operative upon the operative date of any
ordinance adopted by the county, pursuant to Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code §§ 11901 et
seq. or upon the effective date of this subchapter, whichever is later.
('61 Code, § 20.34) (Ord. 500, passed - - )
BONDS OR OTHER SECURITY
§ 34.85 POSTING OF BOND OR OTHER SECURITY.
   At the discretion of the Finance Director of the city, any operator may be
required to post a sufficient bond or other appropriate security in order to
assure remittance to the city of any transient occupancy tax, interest, or
penalty due under this section. Such bond or other appropriate security shall
be posted and maintained in a form and in an amount approved by the City
Finance Director and the City Attorney and may be required to be posted and
maintained immediately upon an operator's failure to remit any tax, interest,
or penalty due.
(Ord. 1144, passed 9-1-93)
REFUNDS
§ 34.90 CLAIM FOR REFUND; EXTENT OF REFUND.
   Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid, or
paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received
by the City, a claim for refund may be filed pursuant to the City's claims for
money or damages procedures in Chapter 36 hereof. Notwithstanding any other
provision to the contrary and to the full extent allowed by law, the amount of
such refund shall not exceed the amount paid in the year immediately preceding
filing of the claim.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
UTILITY USERS’ TAX
§ 34.150 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANCILLARY TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES. Services that are associated with or
incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of telecommunications services,
including but not limited to the following services:
      CONFERENCE BRIDGING SERVICE. An ancillary service that links two or more
participants of an audio or video conference call and may include the provision
of a telephone number. CONFERENCE BRIDGING SERVICE does not include the
telecommunications services used to reach the conference bridge.
      DETAILED TELECOMMUNICATIONS BILLING SERVICE. An ancillary service of
separately stating information pertaining to individual calls on a customer's
billing statement.
      DIRECTORY ASSISTANCE. An ancillary service of providing telephone number
information, and/or address information.
      VERTICAL SERVICE. An ancillary service that is offered in connection with
one or more telecommunications services, which offers advanced calling features
that allow customers to identify callers and to manage multiple calls and call
connections, including conference bridging services.
      VOICE MAIL SERVICE. An ancillary service that enables the customer to
store, send or receive recorded messages. VOICE MAIL SERVICE does not include
any vertical services that the customer may be required to have in order to
utilize the voice mail service.
   ANCILLARY VIDEO SERVICES. Services that are associated with or incidental to
the provision or delivery of video services, including but not limited to
electronic program guide services, search functions, recording services, or
other interactive services or communications that are associated with or
incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of video services.
   BILLING ADDRESS. The mailing address of the service user where the service
supplier submits invoices or bills for payment by the customer.
   CITY. The City of Indio.
   GAS. Natural or manufactured gas or any alternate hydrocarbon fuel which may
be substituted therefor.
   MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Has the meaning and usage as set forth in
the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. § 124) and the regulations
thereunder.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   PAGING SERVICE. A "telecommunications service" that provides transmission of
coded radio signals for the purpose of activating specific pagers; such
transmissions may include messages and/or sounds.
   PERSON. Without limitation, any natural individual, firm, trust, common law
trust, estate, partnership of any kind, association, syndicate, club, joint
stock company, joint venture, limited liability company, corporation (including
foreign, domestic, and non-profit), municipal district or municipal corporation
(other than the city), cooperative, receiver, trustee, guardian, or other
representative appointed by order of any court.
   PLACE OF PRIMARY USE. The street address representative of where the
customer's use of the telecommunications service primarily occurs, which must
be the residential street address or the primary business street address of the
customer.
   POST-PAID TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE. The telecommunication service obtained
by making a payment on a telecommunication-by-telecommunication basis either
through the use of a credit card or payment mechanism such as a bank card,
travel card, credit card, or debit card, or by charge made to a service number
which is not associated with the origination or termination of the
telecommunication service.
   PREPAID TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE. The right to access telecommunication
services, which must be paid for in advance and which enables the origination
of telecommunications using an access number or authorization code, whether
manually or  electronically dialed, and that is sold in predetermined units or
dollars of which the number declines with use in a known amount.
   PRIVATE TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE. A telecommunication service that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of a telecommunications channel or
group of channels between or among termination points, regardless of the manner
in which such channel or channels are connected, and includes switching
capacity, extension lines, stations, and any other associated services that are
provided in connection with the use of such channel or channels. A
telecommunications channel is a physical or virtual path of telecommunications
over which signals are transmitted between or among customer channel
termination points (such as the location where the customer either inputs or
receives the telecommunications).
   SERVICE ADDRESS. The residential street address or the business street
address of the service user. For a communication service user, SERVICE ADDRESS
means either:
      (1)   The location of the service user's communication equipment from
which the communication originates or terminates, regardless of where the
communication is billed or paid; or
      (2)   If the location in division (1) of this definition is unknown (such
as mobile telecommunications service or VoIP service), the service address
shall mean the location of the service user's place of primary use.
      (3)   For prepaid telecommunication service, SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean
the location associated with the service number.
   SERVICE SUPPLIER. Any entity or person, including the city, that provides
telecommunication or video service to a user of such service within the city.
   SERVICE USER. A person required to pay a tax imposed under the provisions of
this subchapter.
   STATE. The State of California.
   STREAMLINED SALES AND USE TAX AGREEMENT. The multi-state agreement commonly
known and referred to as the Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement, and as it
is amended from time to time.
   TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The Management Services Director of the city or his or
her designee.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES. The transmission, conveyance, or routing of
voice, data, audio, video, or any other information or signals to a point, or
between or among points, whatever the technology used. The term
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES includes such transmission, conveyance, or routing
in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form, code or
protocol of the content for purposes of transmission, conveyance or routing
without regard to whether such services are referred to as voice over internet
protocol (VoIP) services or are classified by the Federal Telecommunications
Commission as enhanced or value added, and includes video and/or data services
that is functionally integrated with "telecommunication services".
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES include, but are not limited to the following
services, regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are
calculated or billed: ancillary telecommunication services; mobile
telecommunications service; prepaid telecommunication service; post-paid
telecommunication service; private telecommunication service; paging service;
800 service (or any other toll-free numbers designated by the Federal
Telecommunications Commission); 900 service (or any other similar numbers
designated by the Federal Telecommunications Commission for services whereby
subscribers who call in to pre-recorded or live service).
   VIDEO PROGRAMMING. Those programming services commonly provided to
subscribers by a "video service supplier" including but not limited to basic
services, premium services, audio services, video games, pay-per-view services,
video on demand, origination programming, or any other similar services,
regardless of the content of such video programming, or the technology used to
deliver such services, and regardless of the manner or basis on which such
services are calculated or billed.
   VIDEO SERVICES. "Video programming" and any and all services related to the
providing, recording, delivering, use or enjoyment of "video programming"
(including origination programming and programming using Internet Protocol,
such as IP-TV and IP-Video) using  one or more channels by a "video service
supplier", regardless of the technology used to deliver, store or provide such
services, and regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are
calculated or billed, and includes ancillary video services, data services,
"telecommunication services", or interactive communication services that are
functionally integrated with "video services".
   VIDEO SERVICE SUPPLIER. Any person, company, or service which provides or
sells one or more channels of video programming, or provides or sells the
capability to receive one or more channels of video programming, including any
telecommunications that are ancillary, necessary or common to the provision,
use or enjoyment of the video programming, to or from a business or residential
address in the city, where some fee is paid, whether directly or included in
dues or rental charges for that service, whether or not public rights-of-way
are utilized in the delivery of the video programming or telecommunications. A
VIDEO SERVICE SUPPLIER includes, but is not limited to, multichannel video
programming distributors [as defined in 47 U.S.C.A. § 522(13)]; open video
systems (OVS) suppliers; and suppliers of cable television; master antenna
television; satellite master antenna television; multichannel multipoint
distribution services (MMDS); video services using internet protocol (such as
IP-TV and IP-Video, which provide, among other things, broadcasting and video
on demand), direct broadcast satellite to the extent federal law permits
taxation of its video services, now or in the future; and other suppliers of
video services (including two-way communications), whatever their technology.
   VoIP (VOICE OVER INTERNET PROTOCOL). The digital process of making and
receiving real-time voice transmissions over any Internet Protocol network.
   800 SERVICE. A "telecommunications service" that allows a caller to dial a
toll-free number without incurring a charge for the call. The service is
typically marketed under the name "800", "855", "866", "877", and "888" toll-
free calling, and any subsequent numbers designated by the Federal
Communications Commission.
   900 SERVICE. An inbound toll "telecommunications service" purchased by a
subscriber that allows the subscriber's customers to call in to the
subscriber's prerecorded announcement or live service. 900 SERVICE does not
include the charge for: collection services provided by the seller of the
"telecommunications services" to the subscriber, or service or product sold by
the subscriber to the subscriber's customer. The service is typically marketed
under the name "900" service, and any subsequent numbers designated by the
Federal Communications Commission.
(Ord. 1539, passed 7-16-08)
§ 34.151 CONSTITUTIONAL, STATUTORY, AND OTHER EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon
any person or service when the imposition of such tax upon such person or
service would be in violation of a federal or state statute, the Constitution
of the United States or the constitution of the state.
   (B)   Any service user that is exempt from the tax imposed by this
subchapter pursuant to division (A) of this section shall file an application
with the Tax Administrator for an exemption; provided, however, this
requirement shall not apply to a service user that is a state or federal agency
or subdivision with a commonly recognized name for such service. Said
application shall be made upon a form approved by the Tax Administrator and
shall state those facts, declared under penalty of perjury, which qualify the
applicant for an exemption, and shall include the names of all utility service
suppliers serving that service user. If deemed exempt by the Tax Administrator,
such service user shall give the Tax Administrator timely written notice of any
change in utility service suppliers so that the Tax Administrator can properly
notify the new utility service supplier of the service user's tax exempt
status. A service user that fails to comply with this section shall not be
entitled to a refund of utility users' taxes collected and remitted to the Tax
Administrator from such service user as a result of such noncompliance.
   The decision of the Tax Administrator may be appealed pursuant to §
34.169 of this subchapter. Filing an application with the Tax Administrator and
appeal to the City Manager pursuant to §
34.169 of this subchapter is a prerequisite to a suit thereon.
(Ord. 1539, passed 7-16-08)
§ 34.152 SENIOR/DISABLED EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Eligibility. Any service user who is 62 years of age or older and is
head of the household shall be eligible for an exemption from the taxes imposed
by this subchapter on service supplied to the service user's residential living
quarters. The provisions of this exemption shall also apply to any individual
who meets the criteria for disability, as established by the Social Security
Administration's Supplemental Security Income Program for the Aged, Blind and
Disabled (Title XLII of the Social Security Act, as amended) without regard to
the age of the disabled individual.
   (B)   Application: time to file. Applications for exemption shall be filed
with the Tax Administrator on forms as he or she may provide. Applications may
be filed at any time.
   (C)   Application: contents. Applications shall be verified by declaration
under penalty of perjury and shall contain information as may be required by
the Tax Administrator.
   (D)   Application: review and certification. The Tax Administrator shall
review each application and shall certify the service user as exempt if the
eligibility requirements of division (A) are met. If a service user is exempt
under the eligibility requirements of division (A) and the service user is
receiving service from a service supplier through a master meter, upon
application and approval, the Tax Administrator shall refund the eligible
service user as provided in §
34.168. However, no exemption shall be granted with respect to any tax imposed
by this subchapter which is or has been paid by a public agency or where the
service user received funds from a public agency specifically for the payment
of the tax.
   (E)   Notice to service supplier. If a service user is certified as exempt,
the Tax Administrator shall promptly notify the service user's service
suppliers, stating the name of the service user, the address to which exempt
service is being supplied, the account number, if any, and such other
information as may be necessary for the service supplier to remove the exempt
service user from its tax billing procedure.
   (F)   Discontinuance of billing. Upon receipt of the notice referred to in
division (E), the service supplier shall, within 60 days, discontinue billing
the service user for taxes imposed by this subchapter, except as otherwise
provided in division (G).
   (G)   Prior taxes to be collected. Taxes billed by the service supplier to
the service user from its tax billing procedure shall be collected from the
service user and the service user shall pay these taxes to the service
supplier. Taxes billed to and paid by the service user between the time the
application for exemption is filed and the service supplier removes the service
user from its billing procedure will not be refunded to the service user.
   (H)   Duration. Exemptions certified by the Tax Administrator shall continue
as long as the facts supporting the qualification for exemption shall exist;
provided, the exemption shall automatically terminate with any change in the
service address or residence of the exempt individual and provided, further,
that the individual may nevertheless apply for a new exemption with each change
of address of residence.
   (I)   Duty to disclose.
      (1)   Any service user who has been exempted under this subchapter shall
notify the collector within ten days of any change in fact or circumstance
which might disqualify the individual from receiving the exemption. It shall be
a misdemeanor for any person to knowingly receive the benefits of the exemption
provided by this subchapter when the basis for that exemption does not exist or
ceases to exist.
      (2)   Any service supplier who determines, by any means, that a new or
nonexempt service user is receiving service through a meter or connection
exempt by virtue of an exemption issued to a previous user or exempt user of
the same meter or connection shall immediately notify the Tax Administrator of
that fact and the Tax Administrator shall conduct an investigation to ascertain
whether or not the provisions of this subchapter have been complied with and,
where appropriate, order the service supplier to commence collecting the tax
from the nonexempt service user.
(Ord. 1539, passed 7-16-08)
§ 34.153 TELECOMMUNICATION USERS' TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the city using
telecommunication services. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the
rate of 6% of the charges made for such services and shall be collected from
the service user by the telecommunication services supplier or its billing
agent. There is a rebuttable presumption that telecommunication services, which
are billed to a billing or service address in the city, are used, in whole or
in part, within the city's boundaries, and such services are subject to
taxation under this subchapter. If the billing address of the service user is
different from the service address, the service address of the service user
shall be used for purposes of imposing the tax. As used in this Section, the
term CHARGES shall include the value of any other services, credits, property
of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the service user in
exchange for the telecommunication services.
   (B)   "Mobile Telecommunications Service" shall be sourced in accordance
with the sourcing rules set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act
(4 U.S.C. § 124). The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to
telecommunication service suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection
requirements of this subchapter, sourcing rules for the taxation of other
telecommunication services, including but not limited to post-paid
telecommunication services, and prepaid telecommunication services, provided
that such rules are based upon custom and common practice that further
administrative efficiency and minimize multi-jurisdictional taxation (such as
Streamline Sales and Use Tax Agreement).
   (C)   The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to telecommunication
service suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this
subchapter, an administrative ruling identifying those telecommunication
services, or charges therefore, that are subject to or not subject to the tax
of division (A) above.
   (D)   As used in this section, the term TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES shall
include, but are not limited to charges for: connection, reconnection,
termination, movement, or change of telecommunication services; late payment
fees; detailed billing; central office and custom calling features(including
but not limited to call waiting, call forwarding, caller identification and
three-way calling); voice mail and other messaging services; directory
assistance; access and line charges; universal service charges; regulatory,
administrative and other cost recovery charges; and local number portability
charges. "Telecommunication  services" shall not include digital downloads that
are not "ancillary telecommunications services", such as books, music,
ringtones, games, and similar digital products.
   (E)   To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of telecommunication
services subject to tax under this section, any service user, upon proof to the
Tax Administrator that the service user has previously paid the same tax in
another state or local jurisdiction on such telecommunication services, shall
be allowed a credit against the tax imposed to the extent of the amount of such
tax legally imposed in such other state or local jurisdiction; provided,
however, the amount of credit shall not exceed the tax owed to the city under
this section.
   (F)   The tax on telecommunication services imposed by this section shall be
collected from the service user by the service supplier. The amount of tax
collected in one month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be
received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth day of the
following month.
(Ord. 1539, passed 7-16-08; Am. Ord. 1578, passed 11-2-10)
§ 34.154 VIDEO USERS’ TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the city using
video services. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of 6% of
the charges made for such services and shall be collected from the service user
by the video service supplier or its billing agent. There is a rebuttable
presumption that video services, which are billed to a billing or service
address in the city, are used, in whole or in part, within the city's
boundaries, and such services are subject to taxation under this subchapter. If
the billing address of the service user is different from the service address,
the service address of the service user shall be used for purposes of imposing
the tax.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term CHARGES shall include, but is not
limited to, charges for the following:
      (1)   Regulatory fees and surcharges, franchise fees and access fees
(PEG);
      (2)   Initial installation of equipment necessary for provision and
receipt of telecommunication services;
      (3)   Late fees, collection fees, bad debt recoveries, and return check
fees;
      (4)   Activation fees, reactivation fees, and reconnection fees;
      (5)   Video programming and video services;
      (6)   Ancillary video programming services (such as electronic program
guide services, search functions, recording functions, or other interactive
services or communications that are ancillary, necessary or common to the use
or enjoyment of the video services);
      (7)   Equipment leases (such as remote, recording and/or search devises;
converters); and
      (8)   Service calls, service protection plans, name changes, changes of
services, and special services.
   (C)   As used in this section, the term CHARGES shall include the value of
any other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other
consideration provided by the service user in exchange for the video services.
   (D)   The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to video service
suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this
subchapter, an administrative ruling identifying those telecommunication
services, or charges therefor, that are subject to or not subject to the tax of
division (A) above.
   (E)   The tax imposed by this section shall be collected from the service
user by the video service supplier, its billing agent, or a reseller of such
services. In the case of video service, the service user shall be deemed to be
the purchaser of the bulk video service (such as an apartment owner), unless
such service is resold to individual users, in which case the service user
shall be the ultimate purchaser of the video service. The amount of tax
collected in one month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be
received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth day of the
following month.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the 6% tax rate imposed upon persons using video
services and collected by video service suppliers in the city specified in
division (A) above, the tax imposed upon service users that obtain video
services through a supplier of cable television shall be at the rate of 3% of
the charges made for such services, and shall be collected from the service
user by the supplier of cable television or its billing agent
(Ord. 1539, passed 7-16-08; Am. Ord. 1578, passed 11-2-10)
§ 34.155 ELECTRICITY USERS’ TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using electricity in
the city. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of 6% of the
charges made for such electricity, and for any supplemental services or other
associated activities directly related to and/or necessary for the provision of
electricity to the service user, which are provided by a service supplier or
non-utility service supplier to a service user. The tax shall be collected from
the service user by the service supplier or non-utility service supplier, or
its billing agent.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term CHARGES shall apply to all services,
components and items that are:
      (1)   Necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of
electric service; or
      (2)   Currently are or historically have been included in a single or
bundled rate for electric service by a local distribution company to a class of
retail customers. The term CHARGES shall include, but is not limited to, the
following charges:
         (a)   Energy charges;
         (b)   Distribution or transmission charges;
         (c)   Metering charges;
         (d)   Stand-by, reserves, firming, ramping, voltage support,
regulation, emergency, or other similar charges for supplemental services to
self-generation service users;
         (e)   Customer charges, late charges, service establishment or
reestablishment charges, demand charges, fuel or other cost adjustments, power
exchange charges, independent system operator (ISO) charges, stranded
investment or competitive transition charges (CTC), public purpose program
charges, nuclear decommissioning charges, trust transfer amounts (bond
financing charges), franchise fees, franchise surcharges, annual and monthly
charges, and other charges, fees or surcharges which are necessary for or
common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of electric service; and
         (f)   Charges, fees, or surcharges for electricity services or
programs which are mandated by the California Public Utilities Commission or
the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, whether or not such charges, fees, or
surcharges appear on a bundled or line item basis on the customer billing.
   (C)   As used in this section, the term CHARGES shall include the value of
any other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other
consideration provided by the service user in exchange for the electricity or
services related to the provision of such electricity.
   (D)   The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the electric
service suppliers to identify the various unbundled billing components of
electric retail service that they commonly provide to residential and
commercial/industrial customers in the city, and the charges therefor,
including those items that are mandated by state or federal regulatory agencies
as a condition of providing such electric service. The Tax Administrator,
thereafter, may issue and disseminate to such electric service suppliers an
administrative ruling identifying those components and items which are:
      (1)   Necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of
electric service; or
      (2)   Currently are or historically have been included in a single or
bundled rate for electric service by a local distribution company to a class of
retail customers. Charges for such components and items shall be subject to the
tax of division (A) above.
   (E)   As used in this section, the term USING ELECTRICITY shall not include
the mere receiving of such electricity by an electrical corporation or
governmental agency at a point within the city for resale.
   (F)   The tax on electricity provided by self-production or by a non-utility
service supplier not under the jurisdiction of this subchapter shall be
collected and remitted in the manner set forth in §
34.157 of this subchapter. All other taxes on charges for electricity imposed
by this section shall be collected from the service user by the electric
service supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax collected in one month
shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the twentieth day of the following month; or, at the
option of the person required to collect and/or remit the tax, such person
shall remit an estimated amount of tax measured by the tax billed in the
previous month or upon the payment pattern of the service user, which must be
received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth day of the
following month, provided that such person shall submit an adjusted payment or
request for credit, as appropriate, within 60 days following each calendar
quarter. The credit, if approved by the Tax Administrator, may be applied
against any subsequent remittance that becomes due.
(Ord. 1539, passed 7-16-08; Am. Ord. 1578, passed 11-2-10)
§ 34.156 GAS USERS’ TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using gas in the city,
which is transported and delivered through a pipeline or by mobile transport.
The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of 6% of the charges made
for such gas, including all services related to the storage, transportation and
delivery of such gas. The tax shall be collected from the service user by the
service supplier or non-utility service supplier, or its billing agent, and
shall apply to all uses of gas, including but not limited to, heating,
electricity generation, and the use of gas as a component of a manufactured
product.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term CHARGES shall apply to all services,
components and items for gas service that are:
      (1)   Necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of gas
service; or
      (2)   Currently are or historically have been included in a single or
bundled rate for gas service by a local distribution company to a class of
retail customers. The term CHARGES shall include, but is not limited to, the
following charges:
         (a)   The commodity charges for purchased gas, or the cost of gas
owned by the service user (including the actual costs attributed to drilling,
production, lifting, storage, gathering, trunk line, pipeline, and other
operating costs associated with the production and delivery of such gas), which
is delivered through a gas pipeline distribution system;
         (b)   Gas transportation charges (including interstate charges to the
extent not included in commodity charges);
         (c)   Storage charges; provided, however, that the service supplier
shall not be required to apply the tax to any charges for gas storage services
when the service supplier cannot, as a practical matter, determine the
jurisdiction where such stored gas is ultimately used; but it shall be the
obligation of the service user to self-collect the amount of tax not applied to
any charge for gas storage by the service supplier and to remit the tax to the
appropriate jurisdiction;
         (d)   Capacity or demand charges, late charges, service establishment
or reestablishment charges, transition charges, customer charges, minimum
charges, annual and monthly charges, and any other charges which are necessary
for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of gas service; and
         (e)   Charges, fees, or surcharges for gas services or programs which
are mandated by the California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission, whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges
appear on a bundled or line item basis on the customer billing.
   (C)   As used in this section, the term CHARGES shall include the value of
any other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other
consideration provided by the service user in exchange for the gas or services
related to the delivery of such gas.
   (D)   The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the gas service
suppliers to identify the various unbundled billing components of gas retail
service that they commonly provide to residential and commercial/industrial
customers in the city, and the charges therefor, including those items that are
mandated by state or federal regulatory agencies as a condition of providing
such gas service. The Tax Administrator, thereafter, may issue and disseminate
to such gas service suppliers an administrative ruling identifying those
components and items which are:
      (1)   Necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of gas
service; or
      (2)   Currently are or historically have been included in a single or
bundled rate for gas service by a local distribution company to a class of
retail customers. Charges for such components and items shall be subject to the
tax of division (A) above.
   (E)   There shall be excluded from the calculation of the tax imposed in
this section, charges made for gas which is to be resold and delivered through
a pipeline distribution system.
   (F)   The tax on gas provided by self-production or by a non-utility service
supplier not under the jurisdiction of this subchapter shall be collected and
remitted in the manner set forth in §
34.157 of this subchapter. All other taxes on charges for gas imposed by this
section shall be collected from the service user by the gas service supplier or
its billing agent. The amount of tax collected in one month shall be remitted
to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator, on or
before the twentieth day of the following month; or, at the option of the
person required to collect and/or remit the tax, such person shall remit an
estimated amount of tax measured by the tax billed in the previous month or
upon the payment pattern of the service user, which must be received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the twentieth day of the following month, provided
that such person shall submit an adjusted payment or request for credit, as
appropriate, within 60 days following each calendar quarter. The credit, if
approved by the Tax Administrator, may be applied against any subsequent
remittance that becomes due.
(Ord. 1539, passed 7-16-08; Am. Ord. 1578, passed 11-2-10)
§ 34.157 COLLECTION OF TAX FROM SERVICE USERS RECEIVING DIRECT PURCHASE OF GAS
OR ELECTRICITY.
   (A)   Any service user subject to the tax imposed by §
34.155 or by §
34.156 of this subchapter, which produces gas or electricity for self-use;
which receives gas or electricity, including any related supplemental services,
directly from a non-utility service supplier not under the jurisdiction of this
subchapter; or which, for any other reason, is not having the full tax
collected and remitted by its service supplier, a non-utility service supplier,
or its billing agent on the use of gas or electricity in the city, including
any related supplemental services, shall report said fact to the Tax
Administrator and shall remit the tax due directly to the Tax Administrator
within 30 days of such use. In lieu of paying said actual tax, the service user
may, at its option, remit to the Tax Administrator within 30 days of such use
an estimated amount of tax measured by the tax billed in the previous month, or
upon the payment pattern of similar customers of the service supplier using
similar amounts of gas or electricity, provided that the service user shall
submit an adjusted payment or request for credit, as appropriate, within 60
days following each calendar quarter. The credit, if approved by the Tax
Administrator in writing, may be applied against any subsequent tax bill that
becomes due.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator may require said service user to identify its
non-utility service supplier and provide, subject to audit: invoices; books of
account; or other satisfactory evidence documenting the quantity of gas or
electricity used, including any related supplemental services, and the cost or
price thereof. If the service user is unable to provide such satisfactory
evidence, or if the administrative cost of calculating the tax in the opinion
of the Tax Administrator is excessive, the Tax Administrator may determine the
tax by applying the tax rate to the equivalent charges the service user would
have incurred if the gas or electricity used, including any related
supplemental services, had been provided by the service supplier that is the
primary supplier of gas or electricity within the city. Rate schedules for this
purpose shall be available from the city.
(Ord. 1539, passed 7-16-08)
§ 34.158 WATER TAX.
   (A)   There is imposed a tax upon every person using water in the city which
is transported and delivered through a pipeline distribution system. The tax
imposed by this section shall be at the rate of 6% of the charges made for such
water.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term CHARGES shall apply to all services,
components and items that are:
      (1)   Necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of water
service; or
      (2)   Currently are or historically have been included in a single or
bundled rate for water service by a local distribution company to a class of
retail customers. The term CHARGES shall include, but is not limited to, the
following charges:
         (a)   Water commodity charges (potable and non-potable);
         (b)   Distribution or transmission charges;
         (c)   Metering charges;
         (d)   Customer charges, late charges, service establishment or
reestablishment charges, franchise fees, franchise surcharges, annual and
monthly charges, and other charges, fees and surcharges which are necessary for
or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of water service; and
         (e)   Charges, fees, or surcharges for water services or programs,
which are mandated by a water district or a state or federal agency, whether or
not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a bundled or line item basis on
the customer billing.
   (C)   As used in this section, the term CHARGES shall include the value of
any other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other
consideration provided by the service user in exchange for the water services.
   (D)   The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the water service
suppliers in the city to identify the various unbundled billing components of
water retail service that they commonly provide to residential and commercial/
industrial customers in the city, and the charges therefor, including those
items that are mandated by a water district or a state or federal agency as a
condition of providing such water service. The Tax Administrator, thereafter,
may issue and disseminate to such water service suppliers an administrative
ruling identifying those components and items which are:
      (1)   Necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of water
service; or
      (2)   Currently are or historically have been included in a single or
bundled rate for water service by a local distribution company to a class of
retail customers. Charges for such components and items shall be subject to the
tax of division (A) above.
   (E)   There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed in this
section is computed charges made for water which is to be resold and delivered
through a pipeline distribution system; and charges made by a municipal water
department, public utility or a city or municipal water district for water used
and consumed by such department, public utility or water district in the
conduct of the business of such department, utility or district.
   (F)   The tax on water service imposed by this section shall be collected
from the service user by the water service supplier or its billing agent. The
amount of tax collected in one month shall be remitted to the Tax
Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the
twentieth day of the following month.
(Ord. 1539, passed 7-16-08; Am. Ord. 1578, passed 11-2-10)
§ 34.159 BUNDLING TAXABLE ITEMS WITH NON-TAXABLE ITEMS.
   If any nontaxable charges are combined with and not separately stated from
taxable service charges on the customer bill or invoice of a service supplier,
the combined charge is subject to tax unless the service supplier identifies,
by reasonable and verifiable standards, the portions of the combined charge
that are nontaxable and taxable through the service supplier's books and
records kept in the regular course of business, and in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and not created and maintained for
tax purposes. The service supplier has the burden of proving the proper
apportionment of taxable and non-taxable charges. If the service supplier
offers a combination of taxable and non-taxable services, and the charges are
separately stated, then for taxation purposes, the values assigned the taxable
and non-taxable services shall be based on its books and records kept in the
regular course of business and in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and not created and maintained for tax purposes. The service
supplier has the burden of proving the proper valuation of the taxable and non-
taxable services.
(Ord. 1539, passed 7-16-08)
§ 34.160 SUBSTANTIAL NEXUS/MINIMUM CONTACTS.
   For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a
tax under this subchapter, "substantial nexus" and "minimum contacts" shall be
construed broadly in favor of the imposition, collection and/or remittance of
the utility users tax to the fullest extent permitted by state and federal law,
and as it may change from time to time by judicial interpretation or by
statutory enactment. Any communication service (including VoIP) used by a
person with a service address in the city, which service is capable of
terminating a call to another person on the general telephone network, shall be
subject to a rebuttable presumption that "substantial nexus/minimum contacts"
exists for purposes of imposing a tax, or establishing a duty to collect and
remit a tax, under this subchapter. A service supplier shall be deemed to have
sufficient activity in the city for tax collection and remittance purposes if
its activities include, but are not limited to, any of the following: maintains
or has within the city, directly or through an agent or subsidiary, a place of
business of any nature; solicits business in the city by employees, independent
contractors, resellers, agents or other representatives; solicits business in
the city on a continuous, regular, seasonal or systematic basis by means of
advertising that is broadcast or relayed from a transmitter within the city or
distributed from a location within the city; or advertises in newspapers or
other periodicals printed and published within the city or through materials
distributed in the city by means other than the United States mail; or if there
are activities performed in the city on behalf of the service supplier that are
significantly associated with the service supplier's ability to establish and
maintain a market in the city for the provision of communication services that
are subject to a tax under this subchapter.
(Ord. 1539, passed 7-16-08)
§ 34.161 DUTY TO COLLECT – PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Collection by service suppliers. The duty of service suppliers to
collect and remit the taxes imposed by the provisions of this subchapter shall
be performed as follows:
      (1)   The tax shall be collected by service suppliers insofar as
practicable at the same time as, and along with, the collection of the charges
made in accordance with the regular billing practice of the service supplier.
Where the amount paid by a service user to a service supplier is less than the
full amount of the charge and tax which was accrued for the billing period, a
proportionate share of both the charge and the tax shall be deemed to have been
paid. In those cases where a service user has notified the service supplier of
refusal to pay the tax imposed on said charges, §
34.165 shall apply.
      (2)   The duty of a service supplier to collect the tax from a service
user shall commence with the beginning of the first regular billing period
applicable to the service user where all charges normally included in such
regular billing are subject to the provisions of this subchapter. Where a
service user receives more than one billing, one or more being for different
periods than another, the duty to collect shall arise separately for each
billing period.
   (B)   Filing return and payment. Each person required by this subchapter to
remit a tax shall file a return to the Tax Administrator, on forms approved by
the Tax Administrator, on or before the due date. The full amount of the tax
collected shall be included with the return and filed with the Tax
Administrator. The Tax Administrator is authorized to require such additional
information as he or she deems necessary to determine if the tax is being
levied, collected, and remitted in accordance with this subchapter. Returns are
due immediately upon cessation of business for any reason. Pursuant to Cal.
Rev. & Tax Code § 7284.6, the Tax Administrator, and its agents, shall maintain
such filing returns as confidential information that is exempt from the
disclosure provisions of the Public Records Act.
(Ord. 1539, passed 7-16-08)
§ 34.162 COLLECTION PENALTIES – SERVICE SUPPLIERS.
   (A)   Taxes collected by service supplier from a service user are delinquent
if not received by the Tax Administrator on or before the due date. Should the
due date occur on a weekend or legal holiday, the return must be received by
the Tax Administrator on the first regular working day following the weekend or
legal holiday. A direct deposit, including electronic fund transfers and other
similar methods of electronically exchanging monies between financial accounts,
made by a service supplier in satisfaction of its obligations under this
division shall be considered timely if the transfer is initiated on or before
the due date, and the transfer settles into the city's account on the following
business day.
   (B)   If the person required to collect and/or remit the utility users' tax
fails to collect the tax (by failing to properly assess the tax on one or more
services or charges on the customer's billing) or fails to remit the tax
collected on or before the due date, the Tax Administrator shall attach a
penalty for such delinquencies or deficiencies at the rate of 15% of the total
tax that is delinquent or deficient in the remittance, and shall pay interest
at the rate of and 0.75% per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of
the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first
became delinquent, until paid.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator shall have the power to impose additional
penalties upon persons required to collect and remit taxes pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter for fraud or gross negligence in reporting or
remitting at the rate of 15% of the amount of the tax collected and/or required
to be remitted, or as recomputed by the Tax Administrator.
   (D)   For collection purposes only, every penalty imposed and such interest
that is accrued under the provisions of this section shall become a part of the
tax herein required to be paid.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Tax Administrator may, in his or
her discretion, modify the due dates of this subchapter to be consistent with
any uniform standards or procedures that are mutually agreed upon by other
public agencies imposing a utility users' tax, or otherwise legally
established, to create a central payment location or mechanism.
(Ord. 1539, passed 7-16-08)
§ 34.163 ACTIONS TO COLLECT.
   Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the city. Any
such tax collected from a service user which has not been remitted to the Tax
Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed to the city by the person required to
collect and remit and shall no longer be a debt of the service user. Any person
owing money to the city under the provisions of this subchapter shall be liable
to an action brought in the name of the city for the recovery of such amount,
including penalties and interest as provided for in this subchapter, along with
any collection costs incurred by the city as a result of the person's
noncompliance with this subchapter, including, but not limited to, reasonable
attorneys fees. Any tax required to be collected by a service supplier or owed
by a service user is an unsecured priority excise tax obligation under 11
U.S.C.A. § 507(a)(8)(C).
(Ord. 1539, passed 7-16-08)
§ 34.164 DEFICIENCY DETERMINATION AND ASSESSMENT – TAX APPLICATION ERRORS.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator shall make a deficiency determination if he or
she determines that any service supplier or service user required to pay,
collect, and/or remit taxes pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter has
failed to pay, collect, and/or remit the proper amount of tax by improperly or
failing to apply the tax to one or more taxable services or charges. Nothing
herein shall require that the Tax Administrator institute proceedings under
this §
34.164 if, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, the cost of collection or
enforcement likely outweighs the tax benefit.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator shall mail a notice of such deficiency
determination to the person or entity allegedly owing the tax, which notice
shall refer briefly to the amount of the taxes owed, plus interest at the rate
of 0.75% per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax from the
date on which the tax should have been received by the city. Within 14 calendar
days after the date of service of such notice, the person or entity allegedly
owing the tax may request in writing to the Tax Administrator for a hearing on
the matter.
   (C)   If the person or entity allegedly owing the tax fails to request a
hearing within the prescribed time period, the amount of the deficiency
determination shall become a final assessment, and shall immediately be due and
owing to the city. If the person requests a hearing, the Tax Administrator
shall cause the matter to be set for hearing, which shall be scheduled within
30 days after receipt of the written request for hearing. Notice of the time
and place of the hearing shall be mailed by the Tax Administrator to such
person or entity at least ten calendar days prior to the hearing, and, if the
Tax Administrator desires said person or entity to produce specific records at
such hearing, such notice may designate the records requested to be produced.
   (D)   At the time fixed for the hearing, the Tax Administrator shall hear
all relevant testimony and evidence, including that of any other interested
parties. At the discretion of the Tax Administrator, the hearing may be
continued from time to time for the purpose of allowing the presentation of
additional evidence. Within a reasonable time following the conclusion of the
hearing, the Tax Administrator shall issue a final assessment (or non-
assessment), thereafter, by confirming, modifying or rejecting the original
deficiency determination, and shall mail a copy of such final assessment to
person or entity owing the tax. The decision of the Tax Administrator may be
appealed pursuant to §
34.169 of this subchapter. Filing an application with the Tax Administrator and
appeal to the City Manager pursuant to §
34.169 of this subchapter is a prerequisite to a suit thereon.
   (E)   Payment of the final assessment shall become delinquent if not
received by the Tax Administrator on or before the thirtieth day following the
date of receipt of the notice of final assessment. The penalty for delinquency
shall be 15% on the total amount of the assessment, along with interest at the
rate of 0.75% percent per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the
tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date of delinquency, until paid. The
applicable statute of limitations regarding a claim by the city seeking payment
of a tax assessed under this subchapter shall commence from the date of
delinquency as provided in this division.
   (F)   All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail, postage
prepaid, and shall be deemed received on the third calendar day following the
date of mailing, as established by a proof of mailing.
(Ord. 1539, passed 7-16-08)
§ 34.165 ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDY – NON-PAYING SERVICE USERS.
   (A)   Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a service user has
deliberately withheld the amount of the tax owed by the service user from the
amounts remitted to a person required to collect the tax, or whenever the Tax
Administrator deems it in the best interest of the city, he or she may relieve
such person of the obligation to collect the taxes due under this subchapter
from certain named service users for specific billing periods. To the extent
the service user has failed to pay the amount of tax owed for a period of two
or more billing periods, the service supplier shall be relieved of the
obligation to collect taxes due. The service supplier shall provide the city
with the names and addresses of such service users and the amounts of taxes
owed under the provisions of this subchapter. Nothing herein shall require that
the Tax Administrator institute proceedings under this §
34.165 if, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, the cost of collection or
enforcement likely outweighs the tax benefit.
   (B)   In addition to the tax owed, the service user shall pay a delinquency
penalty at the rate of 15% of the total tax that is owed, and shall pay
interest at the rate of 0.75% per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount
of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the due date, until paid.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator shall notify the non-paying service user that
the Tax Administrator has assumed the responsibility to collect the taxes due
for the stated periods and demand payment of such taxes, including penalties
and interest. The notice shall be served on the service user by personal
delivery or by deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage
prepaid, addressed to the service user at the address to which billing was made
by the person required to collect the tax; or, should the service user have a
change of address, to his or her last known address.
   (D)   If the service user fails to remit the tax to the Tax Administrator
within 30 days from the date of the service of the notice upon him or her, the
Tax Administrator may impose an additional penalty of 15% of the amount of the
total tax that is owed.
(Ord. 1539, passed 7-16-08)
§ 34.166 ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty, and is hereby
directed, to enforce each and all of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator may adopt administrative rules and regulations
consistent with provisions of this subchapter for the purpose of interpreting,
clarifying, carrying out and enforcing the payment, collection and remittance
of the taxes herein imposed. A copy of such administrative rules and
regulations shall be on file in the Tax Administrator's office. To the extent
that the Tax Administrator determines that the tax imposed under this
subchapter shall not be collected in full for any period of time from any
particular service supplier or service user, that determination shall be
considered an exercise of the Tax Administrator's discretion to settle disputes
and shall not constitute a change in taxing methodology for purposes of Cal.
Gov’t Code § 53750 or otherwise. The Tax Administrator is not authorized to
amend the city's methodology for purposes of Cal. Gov’t Code § 53750 and the
city does not waive or abrogate its ability to impose the communication users'
tax in full as a result of promulgating administrative rulings or entering into
agreements.
   (C)   Upon a proper showing of good cause, the Tax Administrator may make
administrative agreements, with appropriate conditions, to vary from the strict
requirements of this subchapter and thereby:
      (1)   Conform to the billing procedures of a particular service supplier
so long as said agreements result in the collection of the tax in conformance
with the general purpose and scope of this subchapter; or
      (2)   To avoid a hardship where the administrative costs of collection
and remittance greatly outweigh the tax benefit. A copy of each such agreement
shall be on file in the Tax Administrator's office, and are voidable by the Tax
Administrator or the city at any time.
   (D)   The Tax Administrator may conduct an audit, to ensure proper
compliance with the requirements of this subchapter, of any person required to
collect and/or remit a tax pursuant to this subchapter. The Tax Administrator
shall notify said person of the initiation of an audit in writing. In the
absence of fraud or other intentional misconduct, the audit period of review
shall not exceed a period of three years next preceding the date of receipt of
the written notice by said person from the Tax Administrator. Upon completion
of the audit, the Tax Administrator may make a deficiency determination
pursuant to §
34.164 of this subchapter for all taxes (and applicable penalties and interest)
owed and not paid, as evidenced by information provided by such person to the
Tax Administrator. If said person is unable or unwilling to provide sufficient
records to enable the Tax Administrator to verify compliance with this
subchapter, the Tax Administrator is authorized to make a reasonable estimate
of the deficiency. Said reasonable estimate shall be entitled to a rebuttable
presumption of correctness.
   (E)   Upon receipt of a written request of a taxpayer, and for good cause,
the Tax Administrator may extend the time for filing any statement required
pursuant to this subchapter for a period of not to exceed 45 days, provided
that the time for filing the required statement has not already passed when the
request is received. No penalty for delinquent payment shall accrue by reason
of such extension. Interest shall accrue during said extension at the rate of
0.75% per month, prorated for any portion thereof.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility of any person
who asserts a right to exemption from, or a refund of, the tax imposed by this
subchapter.
   (G)   Notwithstanding any provision in this subchapter to the contrary, the
Tax Administrator may waive any penalty or interest imposed upon a person
required to collect and/or remit for failure to collect the tax imposed by this
subchapter if the non-collection occurred in good faith. In determining whether
the non-collection was in good faith, the Tax Administrator shall take into
consideration industry practice or other precedence.
(Ord. 1539, passed 7-16-08)
§ 34.167 RECORDS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and/or remit
to the city any tax imposed by this subchapter to keep and preserve, for a
period of at least three years, all records as may be necessary to determine
the amount of such tax as he or she may have been liable for the collection of
and remittance to the Tax Administrator, which records the Tax Administrator
shall have the right to inspect at a reasonable time.
   (B)   The city, through the City Council, may issue an administrative
subpoena to compel a person to deliver, to the Tax Administrator, copies of all
records deemed necessary by the Tax Administrator to establish compliance with
this subchapter, including the delivery of records in a common electronic
format on readily available media if such records are kept electronically by
the person in the usual and ordinary course of business. As an alternative to
delivering the subpoenaed records to the Tax Administrator on or before the due
date provided in the administrative subpoena, such person may provide access to
such records outside the city on or before the due date, provided that such
person shall reimburse the city for all reasonable travel expenses incurred by
the city to inspect those records, including travel, lodging, meals, and other
similar expenses, but excluding the normal salary or hourly wages of those
persons designated by the city to conduct the inspection.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator is authorized to execute a non-disclosure
agreement approved by the City Attorney to protect the confidentiality of
customer information pursuant to Cal. Rev. & Tax Code §§ 7284.6 and 7284.7.
   (D)   If a service supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to
bill, collect, and/or remit the tax, the service supplier shall:
      (1)   Provide to the Tax Administrator the name, address and telephone
number of each billing agent and billing aggregator currently authorized by the
service supplier to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax to the city; and
      (2)   Upon request of the Tax Administrator, deliver, or effect the
delivery of, any information or records in the possession of such billing agent
or billing aggregator that, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, is
necessary to verify the proper application, calculation, collection and/or
remittance of such tax to the city.
   (E)   If any person subject to record-keeping under this section
unreasonably denies the Tax Administrator access to such records, or fails to
produce the information requested in an administrative subpoena within the time
specified, then the Tax Administrator may impose a penalty of $500 on such
person for each day following:
      (1)   The initial date that the person refuses to provide such access; or
      (2)   The due date for production of records as set forth in the
administrative subpoena. This penalty shall be in addition to any other penalty
imposed under this subchapter.
   (F)   The independent third party performing the tax audit and preparing the
annual public report required by §
34.173 shall verify that all city records generated and maintained per this
chapter comply with generally accepted accounting principles established by the
Governmental Accounting Standards Board, or shall report otherwise to the
Citizens' Finance Advisory Commission established by §
34.176.
(Ord. 1539, passed 7-16-08; Am. Ord. 1578, passed 11-2-10)
§ 34.168 REFUNDS.
   Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once or
has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax
Administrator under this subchapter from a service user or service supplier, it
may be refunded as provided in this section.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator may refund any tax that has been overpaid or
paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received
by the Tax Administrator under this subchapter from a service user or service
supplier, provided that no refund shall be paid under the provisions of this
section unless the claimant or his or her guardian, conservator, executor, or
administrator has submitted a written claim to the Tax Administrator within one
year of the overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of said tax. Such
claim must clearly establish claimant's right to the refund by written records
showing entitlement thereto. Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim
on behalf of a class or group of taxpayers unless each member of the class has
submitted a written claim under penalty of perjury as provided by this section.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator, where the claim is less than the City Manager
purchasing authority established in §
33.116(C)(2) of this code, or the City Council where the claim is in excess of
that amount, shall act upon the refund claim within 45 days of the initial
receipt of the refund claim. Said decision shall be final. If the Tax
Administrator/City Council fails or refuses to act on a refund claim within the
45-day period, the claim shall be deemed to have been rejected by the Tax
Administrator/City Council on the forty-fifth day. The Tax Administrator shall
give notice of the action in a form which substantially complies with that set
forth in Cal. Gov’t Code § 913.
   (C)   The filing of a written claim pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code § 935 is a
prerequisite to any suit thereon. Any action brought against the city pursuant
to this section shall be subject to the provisions of Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 945.6
and 946.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the notice provisions of division (A) of this section,
the Tax Administrator may, at his or her discretion, give written permission to
a service supplier, who has collected and remitted any amount of tax in excess
of the amount of tax imposed by this subchapter, to claim credit for such
overpayment against the amount of tax which is due the city upon a subsequent
monthly return(s) to the Tax Administrator, provided that:
      (1)   Such credit is claimed in a return dated no later than one year
from the date of overpayment or erroneous collection of said tax;
      (2)   The Tax Administrator is satisfied that the underlying basis and
amount of such credit has been reasonably established; and
      (3)   In the case of an overpayment by a service user to the service
supplier that has been remitted to the city, the Tax Administrator has received
proof, to his or her satisfaction, that the overpayment has been refunded by
the service supplier to the service user in an amount equal to the requested
credit.
   (E)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) though (D) above, a service supplier
shall be entitled to take any overpayment as a credit against an underpayment
whenever such overpayment has been received by the city within the three years
next preceding a deficiency determination or assessment by the Tax
Administrator in connection with an audit instituted by the Tax Administrator
pursuant to §
34.166(D). A service supplier shall not be entitled to said credit unless it
clearly establishes the right to the credit by written records showing
entitlement thereto. Under no circumstances shall an overpayment taken as a
credit against an underpayment pursuant to this section qualify a service
supplier for a refund to which it would not otherwise be entitled under the
one-year written claim requirement of this section.
(Ord. 1539, passed 7-16-08)
§ 34.169 APPEALS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section apply to any decision (other than a
decision relating to a refund pursuant to §
34.168 of this subchapter), deficiency determination, assessment, or
administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator. Any person aggrieved by any
decision (other than a decision relating to a refund pursuant to §
34.168 of this subchapter), deficiency determination, assessment, or
administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator, shall be required to comply
with the appeals procedure of this section. Compliance with this section shall
be a prerequisite to a suit thereon. [See Cal. Gov’t Code § 935(b)]. Nothing
herein shall permit the filing of a claim or action on behalf of a class or
group of taxpayers.
   (B)   If any person is aggrieved by any decision (other than a decision
relating to a refund pursuant to §
34.168 of this subchapter), deficiency determination, assessment, or
administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator; he or she may appeal to the
City Manager by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk within 14 days of
the date of the decision, deficiency determination, assessment, or
administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator which aggrieved the service user
or service supplier.
   (C)   The matter shall be scheduled for hearing before an independent
hearing officer selected by the City Manager, no more than 30 days from the
receipt of the appeal. The appellant shall be served with notice of the time
and place of the hearing, as well as any relevant materials, at least five
calendar days prior to the hearing. The hearing may be continued from time to
time upon mutual consent. At the time of the hearing, the appealing party, the
Tax Administrator, and any other interested person may present such relevant
evidence as he or she may have relating to the determination from which the
appeal is taken.
   (D)   Based upon the submission of such evidence and the review of the
city's files, the hearing officer shall issue a written notice and order
upholding, modifying or reversing the determination from which the appeal is
taken. The notice shall be given within 14 days after the conclusion of the
hearing and shall state the reasons for the decision. The notice shall specify
that the decision is final and that any petition for judicial review shall be
filed within 90 days from the date of the decision in accordance with Cal. Civ.
Proc. Code § 1094.6.
   (E)   All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail, postage
prepaid, and shall be deemed received on the third calendar day following the
date of mailing, as established by a proof of mailing.
(Ord. 1539, passed 7-16-08)
§ 34.170 NO INJUNCTION/WRIT OF MANDATE.
   No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action, or proceeding in any court against this city or
against any officer of the city to prevent or enjoin the collection under this
subchapter of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected and/or
remitted.
(Ord. 1539, passed 7-16-08)
§ 34.171 NOTICE OF CHANGES TO ORDINANCE.
   If a tax under this subchapter is added, repealed, increased, reduced, or
the tax base is changed, the Tax Administrator shall follow the notice
requirements of Cal. Pub. Util. Code § 799.
(Ord. 1539, passed 7-16-08)
§ 34.172 EFFECT OF STATE AND FEDERAL REFERENCE/AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   Unless specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a state or
federal statute in this subchapter shall mean such statute as it may be amended
from time to time, provided that such reference to a statute herein shall not
include any subsequent amendment thereto, or to any subsequent change of
interpretation thereto by a state or federal agency or court of law with the
duty to interpret such law, to the extent that such amendment or change of
interpretation would require voter approval under California law, or to the
extent that such change would result in a tax decrease (as a result of
excluding all or a part of a communication service, or charge therefor, from
taxation). Only to the extent voter approval would otherwise be required or a
tax decrease would result, the prior version of the statute (or interpretation)
shall remain applicable; for any application or situation that would not
require voter approval or result in a decrease of a tax, provisions of the
amended statute (or new interpretation) shall be applicable to the maximum
possible extent.
   (B)   To the extent that the city's authorization to collect or impose any
tax imposed under this subchapter is expanded or limited as a result of changes
in state or federal law, no amendment or modification of this subchapter shall
be required to conform the tax to those changes, and the tax shall be imposed
and collected to the full extent of the authorization up to the full amount of
the tax imposed under this subchapter.
(Ord. 1539, passed 7-16-08)
§ 34.173 INDEPENDENT AUDIT OF TAX COLLECTION, EXEMPTION, REMITTANCE, AND
EXPENDITURE, ANNUAL PUBLIC REPORT.
   The city shall annually verify that the taxes owed under this chapter have
been properly applied, exempted, collected, and remitted in accordance with
this chapter, and properly expended according to applicable municipal law. The
annual verification shall be performed by a qualified independent third party
and the review shall employ reasonable, cost-effective steps to assure
compliance, including the use of sampling audits. The verification shall not be
required of tax remitters where the cost of the verification may exceed the tax
revenues to be reviewed. The substance of the annual verification shall be
reduced to writing and issued as a public report to be reviewed and analyzed by
the Citizens' Finance Advisory Commission established per §
34.176, and ultimately received and filed by the City Council at a regularly
scheduled public meeting. This annual public report shall directly and
succinctly document the city's activity per this chapter, subject to limitation
only per Cal. Revenue and Taxation Code §§ 7284.6 and 7284.7 and other
applicable authority.
(Ord. 1539, passed 7-16-08; Am. Ord. 1578, passed 11-2-10)
§ 34.174 REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.
   All remedies and penalties prescribed by this subchapter or which are
available under any other provision of law or equity, including but not limited
to the California False Claims Act (Cal. Gov’t Code § 12650 et seq.) and the
California Unfair Practices Act (Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 17070 et seq.), are
cumulative. The use of one or more remedies by the city shall not bar the use
of any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this
subchapter, including the penalty specified in §
34.999.
(Ord. 1539, passed 7-16-08)
§ 34.175 INTERACTION WITH PRIOR TAX.
   (A)   Collection of tax by service providers. Service providers shall begin
to collect the tax imposed by this subchapter as soon as feasible after the
effective date of the subchapter, but in no event later than permitted by Cal.
Pub. Util. Code § 799.
   (B)   Satisfaction of tax obligation by service users. Prior to April 1,
2009, any person who pays the tax levied pursuant to
Chapter 53 (§§
53.01 through
53.99) of this code, as it existed prior to its amendment as provided herein,
with respect to any charge for a service shall be deemed to have satisfied his
or her obligation to pay the tax levied pursuant to §§
34.150 through
34.175 and §
34.999, with respect to that charge. The intent of this division is to prevent
the imposition of multiple taxes upon a single utility charge during the
transition period from the prior Utility Users' Tax ordinance to the amended
Utility Users' Tax ordinance (which transition period ends April 1, 2009) and
to permit service providers or other persons with an obligation to remit the
tax hereunder, during that transition period, to satisfy their collection
obligations by collecting either tax.
   (C)   Judicial determinations. In the event that a final court order should
determine that the election enacting this subchapter is invalid for whatever
reason, or that any tax imposed under this subchapter is invalid in whole or in
part, then the tax imposed under
Chapter 53 (§§
53.01 through
53.99), unless repealed, shall automatically continue to apply with respect to
any service for which the tax levied pursuant to this subchapter has been
determined to be invalid. Such automatic continuation shall be effective
beginning as of the first date of service (or billing date) for which the tax
imposed by this subchapter is not valid. However, in the event of an
invalidation, any tax (other than a tax that is ordered refunded by the court
or is otherwise refunded by the city) paid by a person with respect to a
service and calculated pursuant to this subchapter shall be deemed to satisfy
the tax imposed under
Chapter 53 (§§
53.01 through
53.99) on that service, so long as the tax is paid with respect to a service
provided no later than six months subsequent to the date on which the final
court order is published.
(Ord. 1539, passed 7-16-08)
§ 34.176 CITIZENS' FINANCE ADVISORY COMMISSION.
   (A)   A permanent Citizens' Finance Advisory Commission shall be
established. This Commission shall receive, review and analyze the annual
public report issued by the city's auditor per §
34.173. Within forty-five (45) days of completing this analysis, this
Commission shall present the annual public report to the City Council with its
recommendation to receive and file same. The Commission's recommendation shall
include but not be limited to identification of City Council action warranted
to address any irregularities noted in the annual public report.
   (B)   The Citizens' Finance Advisory Commission shall consist of five voting
citizen members, each shall be appointed by a member of the City Council and
shall serve on the Commission in a manner consistent with §
32.03, and as that section may be amended from time to time. In addition, the
City Treasurer shall serve on the Commission as an ex officio member. Voting
Commissioners shall be residents of the city; however, no voting Commissioner
shall be an elected official, an employee of the city, or a vendor, contractor
or consultant doing business with the city.
   (C)   Commission members shall serve without compensation.
   (D)   The Citizens' Finance Advisory Commission shall meet at least once per
calendar year. All Commission action, including but not limited to the setting,
conduct and notice of meetings, shall be subject to the Brown Act codified at
Cal. Gov't Code §§ 54950 et seq. The City Manager or his/her designee shall
provide such reasonable administrative or technical assistance as may be
required by the Commission.
   (E)   The City Manager shall ensure that Citizens' Finance Advisory
Commission members receive all reports and other documents provided to the City
Council relating to the administration of this chapter, excluding attorney-
client privileged communications. In addition, the City Manager shall, upon
written request of any Citizens' Finance Advisory Commission member, provide
said member with a copy of any specific document prepared by the Tax
Administrator per this chapter.
(Ord. 1578, passed 11-2-10; Am. Ord. 1592, passed 4-6-11; Am. Ord. 1750, passed
4-15-20)
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
§ 34.200 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the Indio Transactions and Use Tax
Ordinance. The City of Indio hereinafter shall be called “city.” This
subchapter shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the city as it
exists on the operative date of this subchapter, and in the incorporated
territory of the city as it may hereafter be amended through annexation
(“territory”).
(Ord. 1704, passed 11-8-16)
§ 34.201 OPERATIVE DATE.
   OPERATIVE DATE means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing
more than 110 days after the adoption of this subchapter, the date of such
adoption being November 8, 2016.
(Ord. 1704, passed 11-8-16)
§ 34.202 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes,
and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish
those purposes:
   (A)   To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with § 7251) of Division 2 of the Cal. Rev.
& Tax. Code and §
7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the city to adopt this tax
ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the
measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for
that purpose.
   (B)   To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the
requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Cal.
Rev. & Tax. Code.
   (C)   To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a
tax and provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by
the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as
practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use
Taxes.
   (D)   To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Cal. Rev. &
Tax. Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and
at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to
taxation under the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1704, passed 11-8-16)
§ 34.203 CONTRACT WITH STATE.
   Prior to the operative date, the city shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax subchapter; provided, that if the
city shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to
the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the
operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following
the execution of such a contract.
(Ord. 1704, passed 11-8-16)
§ 34.204 TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE.
   For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is
hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the city at
the rate of 1.0% of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all
tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the
operative date of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1704, passed 11-8-16)
§ 34.205 PLACE OF SALE.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, all retail sales are consummated at the
place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject
to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the state
or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.
(Ord. 1704, passed 11-8-16)
§ 34.206 USE TAX RATE.
   An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in
the city of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after
the operative date of this subchapter for storage, use or other consumption in
said territory at the rate of 1.0% of the sales price of the property. The
sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to
state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.
(Ord. 1704, passed 11-8-16)
§ 34.207 ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter and except insofar as they
are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Cal. Rev.
& Tax. Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with § 6001) of
Division 2 of the Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code are hereby adopted and made a part of
this subchapter as though fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 1704, passed 11-8-16)
§ 34.208 LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES.
   In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Cal. Rev. & Tax.
Code:
   (A)   Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this city shall be substituted therefor. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:
      (1)   The word “state” is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or
the Constitution of the State of California;
      (2)   The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by
or against this city or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by
or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this subchapter.
      (3)   In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where
the result of the substitution would be to:
         (a)   Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which
would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or
other consumption remain subject to tax by the state under the provisions of
Part 1 of Division 2 of the Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code, or;
         (b)   Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to
tax by the state under the said provision of that code.
      (4)   In §§ 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code.
   (B)   The word “city” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the
phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in § 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in § 6203.
(Ord. 1704, passed 11-8-16)
§ 34.209 PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.
   If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under § 6067 of the Cal.
Rev. & Tax. Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by
this subchapter.
(Ord. 1704, passed 11-8-16)
§ 34.210 EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and
the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of
California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-
Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-
administered transactions or use tax.
   (B)   There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions
tax the gross receipts from:
      (1)   Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside
the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of
the laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign government.
      (2)   Sales of property to be used outside the city which is shipped to a
point outside the city, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such
point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier
for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this division
(B)(2), delivery to a point outside the city shall be satisfied:
         (a)   With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with § 4000) of
Division 3 of the Cal. Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with §
21411 of the Cal. Pub. Util. Code, and undocumented vessels registered under
Division 3.5 (commencing with § 9840) of the Cal. Vehicle Code by registration
to an out-of-city address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed
by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place
of residence; and
         (b)   With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place
of business out-of-city and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.
      (3)   The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated
to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into
prior to the operative date of this subchapter.
      (4)   A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date
of this subchapter.
      (5)   For the purposes of divisions (B)(3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.
   (C)   There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this subchapter, the
storage, use or other consumption in this city of tangible personal property:
      (1)   The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.
      (2)   Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
pursuant to the laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in §§ 6366
and 6366.1 of the Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code of the State of California.
      (3)   If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
subchapter.
      (4)   If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this subchapter.
      (5)   For the purposes of division (C)(3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right
or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.
      (6)   Except as provided in division (C)(7), a retailer engaged in
business in the city shall not be required to collect use tax from the
purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers
the property into the city or participates within the city in making the sale
of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the
order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in
the city or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor,
subsidiary, or person in the city under the authority of the retailer.
      (7)   A RETAILER ENGAGED IN BUSINESS IN THE CITY shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with § 4000) of Division 3 of the Cal. Vehicle Code,
aircraft licensed in compliance with § 21411 of the Cal. Pub. Util. Code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with § 9840) of
the Cal. Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from
any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an
address in the city.
   (D)   Any person subject to use tax under this subchapter may credit against
that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a
district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code with respect to the sale to the
person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is
subject to the use tax.
(Ord. 1704, passed 11-8-16)
§ 34.211 AMENDMENTS.
   All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this subchapter to Part 1
of Division 2 of the Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code relating to sales and use taxes and
which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Cal.
Rev. & Tax. Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of
the Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code, shall automatically become a part of this
subchapter, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to
affect the rate of tax imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 1704, passed 11-8-16)
§ 34.212 ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN.
   No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the state or the
city, or against any officer of the state or the city, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this subchapter, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Cal. Rev. &
Tax. Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.
(Ord. 1704, passed 11-8-16)
§ 34.213 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this subchapter or the application thereof to any person
or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the subchapter and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be
affected thereby.
(Ord. 1704, passed 11-8-16)
§ 34.214 INDEPENDENT FINANCIAL AUDIT.
   The proceeds of the tax imposed by this subchapter, as well as the
expenditure thereof, shall be audited annually by an independent accounting
firm. The audit shall be placed on the agenda of a City Council meeting that is
open to the public for City Council review. The report of such audit shall be
posted on the city’s website.
(Ord. 1704, passed 11-8-16)
§ 34.215 CITIZENS’ FINANCE ADVISORY COMMISSION.
   The Citizens’ Finance Advisory Commission (“Commission”) established by §
34.176 shall receive, review and analyze the audit report issued by the
independent auditing firm described in §
34.214 at a Commission meeting that is open to the public. Within 45 days of
completing this analysis and before any review and receipt of said report by
the City Council as set forth in §
34.214, the Commission’s analysis and findings, if any, shall be reported to
the City Council with its recommendation to receive and file the same. The
Commission’s recommendation shall include but not be limited to identification
of City Council action warranted to address any irregularities noted in the
annual public audit report.
(Ord. 1704, passed 11-8-16)
§ 34.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this §§
34.35 through
34.47 shall be guilt of a misdemeanor. Any operator or other person who fails
or refuses to register as required herein or to furnish any return required to
be made or who fails or refuses to furnish a supplemental return or other data
required by the Tax Administrator or who renders a false or fraudulent return
or claim is guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person required to make, render, sign
or verify any report or claim who makes any false or fraudulent report or claim
with intent to defeat or evade the determination of any amount due required by
this subchapter to be made is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any person, service supplier or service user violating any provision
of §§
34.150 -
34.175 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day the violation exists shall be
deemed a separate offense. This section is intended to be cumulative to, and
not in place of, other rights and remedies available to the city pursuant to
this chapter.
('61 Code, §20.23) (Ord. 408, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1080, passed - -; Am. Ord.
1539, passed 7-16-08)
CHAPTER 35: DISASTER RELIEF
Section
   
35.01    Purpose
   
35.02    Definitions
   
35.03    Disaster Council membership
   
35.04    Disaster Council powers and duties
   
35.05    Director and assistant director of emergency services
   
35.06    Emergency organization
   
35.07    Emergency plan
   
35.08    Expenditures
   
35.09    Violations
 
   
35.99    Penalty
§ 35.01 PURPOSE.
   The declared purposes of this chapter are to provide for the preparation and
carrying out of persons and property within this city in the event of an
emergency; the direction of the emergency organization; and the coordination of
the emergency functions of this city with all other public agencies,
corporations, organizations and affected private persons.
(Ord. 1124, passed 8-5-92)
§ 35.02 DEFINITIONS.
   EMERGENCY. The actual or threatened existence of conditions of disaster or
of extreme peril to the safety of persons and property within this city caused
by such conditions as air pollution, fire, flood, storm, epidemic, riot or
earthquake or other conditions, including conditions resulting from war or
imminent threat of war, but other than conditions resulting from a labor
controversy, which conditions are or are likely to be beyond the control of the
services, personnel, equipment and facilities of this city requiring the
combined forces of other political subdivisions to combat.
   LOCAL EMERGENCY, STATE OF EMERGENCY, STATE OF WAR EMERGENCY. Each of these
terms shall have the meanings described in the California Emergency Services
Act (Government Code Sections 8550, et seq.) and specifically Government Code
Section 8558 as the same now reads or as it may hereafter be amended.
(Ord. 1124, passed 8-5-92)
§ 35.03 DISASTER COUNCIL MEMBERSHIP.
   The city Disaster Council is hereby created and shall consist of the
following:
   (A)    The Mayor, who shall be Chairman.
   (B)    The Director of Emergency Services, who shall be Vice-Chairman.
   (C)    The Assistant Director of Emergency Services.
   (D)    The Emergency Services Coordinator.
   (E)    Such Chiefs of Emergency Services as are provided for in a current
emergency plan of this city adopted pursuant to this chapter.
   (F)    Such representatives of civic, business, labor, veterans,
professional or other organizations having an official emergency responsibility
as may be appointed by the Director with the advice and consent of the City
Council.
(Ord 1124, passed 8-5-92)
§ 35.04 DISASTER COUNCIL POWERS AND DUTIES. 
   It shall be the duty of the city Disaster Council, and it is hereby
empowered, to develop and recommend for adoption by the City Council, emergency
and mutual aid plans and agreements and such ordinances and resolutions and
rules and regulations as are necessary to implement such plans and agreements.
The Disaster Council shall meet upon call of the Chairman, or in his absence
from the city or inability to call such meeting, upon call of the Vice-
Chairman.
(Ord. 1124, passed 8-5-92)
§ 35.05 DIRECTOR AND ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY SERVICES.
   (A)    There is hereby created the office of Director of Emergency Services.
The City Manager shall be the Director of Emergency Services.
   (B)    There is hereby created the office of Assistant Director of Emergency
Services who shall be appointed by the Director. The Director of Emergency
Services designates the Fire Chief as Assistant Director of Emergency Services.
   (C)    There is hereby created the office of Emergency Services Coordinator
who shall be appointed by the Director.
(Ord. 1124, passed 8-5-92)
§ 35.06 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR AND ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY
SERVICES.
   The Director is hereby empowered to:
   (A)    Request the City Council to proclaim the existence or threatened
existence of a “local emergency” if the City Council is in session, or to issue
such proclamation if the City Council is not in session. Whenever a “local
emergency” is proclaimed by the Director, the City Council shall take action to
ratify the proclamation within seven days thereafter or the proclamation shall
have no further force or effect.
   (B)    Request the Governor to proclaim a “state of emergency” when, in the
opinion of the Director, the locally available resources are inadequate to cope
with the emergency.
   (C)    Control and direct the effort of the emergency organization of this
city for the accomplishment of the purposes of this chapter.
   (D)    Direct cooperation between and coordination of services and staff of
the emergency organization of this city; and resolve questions of authority and
responsibility that may arise between them.
   (E)    Represent this city in all dealings with public or private agencies
on matters pertaining to emergencies as defined herein.
   (F)    In the event of a proclamation of a “local emergency” as herein
provided, the proclamation of a “state of war emergency”, the Director is
hereby empowered:
      (1)    To make and issue rules and regulations on matters reasonably
related to the protection of life and property as affected by such emergency;
provided, however, such rules and regulations must be confirmed at the earliest
practicable time by the City Council;
      (2)    To obtain vital supplies, equipment, and such other properties
found lacking and needed for the protection of life and property and to bind
the city for the fair value thereof and, if required immediately, to commandeer
the same for public use;
      (3)    To require emergency services of any city officer or employee and,
in the event of a proclamation of a “state of emergency” in the County in which
this City is located or the existence of a “state of war emergency”, to command
the aid of as many citizens of this community as he deems necessary in the
execution of his duties; such persons shall be entitled to all privileges,
benefits, and immunities as are provided by state law for registered disaster
service workers;
      (4)    To requisition necessary personnel or material of any City
department or agency; and;
      (5)    To execute all of his ordinary power as City Manager, all of the
special powers conferred upon him by this Ordinance or resolution or emergency
plan pursuant here to adopted by the City Council, all powers conferred upon
him by any statute, by any agreement approved by the City Council, and by any
other lawful authority.
   (G)    The Director of Emergency Services shall designate the order of
succession to that office, to take effect in the event the Director is
unavailable to attend meetings and otherwise perform his duties during an
emergency. Such order of succession shall be approved by the City Council.
   (H)    The Assistant Director shall, under the supervision of the Director
and with the assistance of emergency services chiefs, develop emergency plans
and manage the emergency programs of this city; and shall have such other power
and duties as may be assigned by the Director.
   (I)    The Emergency Services Coordinator shall, under the supervision of
the Assistant Director, assist in the execution of established local civil
defense operations, assist in the organization and training of civil defense
personnel, and serve as an advisor in technical areas of civil defense.
(Ord. 1124, passed 8-5-92)
§ 35.07 EMERGENCY ORGANIZATION.   
   All officers and employees of this city, together with those volunteer
forces enrolled to aid them during an emergency, and all groups, organizations
and persons who may by agreement or operation of law, including persons
impressed into service under the provision of §
35.06 (F) (3) of this chapter, be charged with duties incident to the
protection of life and property in this city during such emergency, shall
constitute the Emergency Organization of the city.
(Ord. 1124, passed 8-5-92)
§ 35.08 EMERGENCY PLAN.  
   The Disaster Council shall be responsible for the development of the city
Emergency Plan, which plan shall provide for the effective mobilization of all
of the resources of this city, both public and private, to meet any condition
constituting a local emergency, state of emergency or state of war emergency;
and shall provide for the organization, powers and duties, services and staff
of the Emergency Organization. Such plan shall take effect upon adoption by
resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 1124, passed 8-5-92)
§ 35.09 EXPENDITURES.   
   Any expenditures made in connection with emergency activities, including
mutual aid activities, shall be deemed conclusively to be for the direct
protection and benefit of the inhabitants and property of the city.
(Ord. 1124, passed 8-5-92)
§ 35.10 VIOLATIONS.
   The following are violations:
   (A)    To willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the Emergency
Organization in the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation issued
pursuant to this chapter or in the performance of any duty imposed upon him by
virtue of this chapter.
   (B)    Do any act forbidden by any lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant
to this chapter, if such act is of such a nature as to give or be likely to
give assistance to the enemy or to imperil the lives or property of inhabitants
of this city or to prevent, hinder or delay the defense or protection thereof.
   (C)    Wear, carry or display, without authority, any means of
identification specified by the emergency agency of the State.
(Ord. 1124, passed 8-5-92)
Penalty, see § 35.99
§ 35.99 PENALTY.   
   It shall be a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not to exceed $500 or by
imprisonment for not to exceed six months, or both, for any person, during any
emergency, to violate §
35.10.
CHAPTER 36: CLAIM PRESENTATION
Section
   
36.01    Claims for money or damages
   
36.02    Presentation procedure
§ 36.01 CLAIMS FOR MONEY OR DAMAGES.
   Pursuant to the authority contained in section 935 of the California
Government Code, the following claims procedures are established as a
prerequisite to bringing suit against the city or against any officer,
department, commission or board of the city, based on any claim for money or
damages that is not otherwise governed by state or local laws relating thereto.
This chapter shall relate only to the bringing of suit upon any claim, and is
not deemed to apply to the authority of the Finance Director, the City Council,
and other officers to process and pay, in the ordinary course of business, the
just obligations of the city, such as routine salaries and wages, principal and
interest on bonds, payments for purchases, and other like expenditures, for
which there is an express budget appropriation, and in connection with which
there is no dispute as to the obligation and amount being payable.
(Ord. 1142, passed 7-7-93)
§ 36.02 PRESENTATION PROCEDURE.
   Notwithstanding the exemptions set forth in section 905 of the California
Government Code, all claims against the city for damages or money, when a
procedure for processing such claims is not otherwise provided by state or
local laws, shall be presented and acted upon within the time limitations and
in the manner prescribed by Title 1, Division 3.6, Part 3, Chapter 1
(commencing with section 900) and Chapter 2 (commencing with section 910) of
the government code.G
(Ord. 1142, passed 7-7-93)
CHAPTER 37: REGULATION OF SHORT-TERM RENTALS
Section
   
37.001   Purpose
   
37.002   Definitions
   
37.003   Authorized agent or representative
   
37.004   Permit requirement
   
37.005   Short-term rental permit application
   
37.006   Inspection
   
37.007   Application investigation
   
37.008   Approval or denial of permit
   
37.009   Permit nontransferable/no property rights
   
37.010   Permit expiration and renewal
   
37.011   Change in mailing address and property ownership; cease use as a
short-term rental
   
37.012   Operational requirements and standards
   
37.013   Short-term rental registry
   
37.014   Hosting platform requirements
   
37.015   Prohibited activities
   
37.016   Permit suspension, modification or revocation
   
37.017   Notice and appeals
   
37.018   Violations and penalties
   
37.019   Recordkeeping
   
37.020   Requirements not exclusive
   
37.021   Administration and administrative regulations
§ 37.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations for the use of
privately owned residential dwelling units as short-term rentals to minimize
secondary impacts of such uses on surrounding residential neighborhoods and to
ensure the collection and payment of transient occupancy taxes.
   (B)   This chapter is not intended to provide any owner of residential
property with the right or privilege to violate any private conditions,
covenants and restrictions applicable to the owner's property that may prohibit
the use of such owner's residential property for short-term rental purposes as
defined in this chapter.
(Ord. 1766, passed 12-14-21)
§ 37.002 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in this section shall govern the meaning and
construction of the words and phrases used in this chapter, except where the
context of such words and phrases clearly indicates a different meaning or
construction.
   APPLICABLE LAWS, RULES AND REGULATIONS. Any laws, rules, regulations and
codes (whether local, state or federal) pertaining to the use and occupancy of
a privately owned dwelling unit as a short-term rental.
   APPLICANT. The owner of the short-term rental.
   BEDROOM. An area of a short-term rental normally occupied and being heated
or cooled by any equipment for human habitation, which consists of four walls
to the ceiling, at least one of which is located along an exterior wall with a
window, and contains a built-in closet.
   CLUSTER or COMPOUND. Any two or more short-term rentals that operate on a
unified or shared basis where occupants of such short-term rentals have
exclusive access to more than one short-term rental and/or the facilities of
such short-term rentals, including by way of example, a swimming pool, tennis
court, or cooking facilities.
   COACHELLA VALLEY. The territory within the boundaries of the cities of
Desert Hot Springs, Palm Springs, Cathedral City, Rancho Mirage, Palm Desert,
Indian Wells, La Quinta, Indio, Coachella, and the unincorporated area of
Riverside County that is within the territorial boundaries of the Palm Springs
and Desert Sands Unified School District, and that portion of the Coachella
Valley Unified School District located within Riverside County, as such
boundaries may be adjusted from time to time as allowed for under the law.
   CONTRACT. A written agreement or evidence of any tenancy that allows or
provides for the short-term rental of property.
   HOSTING PLATFORM. A person or entity that participates in the short-term
rental business by collecting or receiving a fee, directly or indirectly
through an agent or intermediary, for conducting a booking transaction using
any medium of facilitation. HOSTING PLATFORMS usually, though not necessarily,
conduct booking transactions through an internet-based platform that allows an
operator or owner to advertise a rental unit on a website provided by the
HOSTING PLATFORM and potential renters to arrange use and payment, whether the
renter pays rent directly to the operator, owner or the HOSTING PLATFORM.
   LOCAL CONTACT PERSON. The person designated by the owner who shall be
available 24 hours per day, seven days per week for the purpose of: (1)
responding in person to the short-term rental within 30 minutes to complaints
regarding the condition, operation, or conduct of occupants of the short-term
rental unit; and (2) taking remedial action to resolve any such complaints. The
LOCAL CONTACT PERSON must reside in the Coachella Valley.
   MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING. Any complex, structure or a portion of a structure
zoned, used and/or designated as rental dwellings and that includes two or more
independent dwelling units. This includes, but is not limited to, duplexes,
triplexes, quadriplex, apartments, and townhouses.
   OCCUPANT. An individual of any age that is present on the property during
the duration of the short-term rental contracted stay. An OCCUPANT may also be
a responsible person. Persons hired by the owner to perform bona fide cleaning,
maintenance, landscaping, construction, repair or similar services on the
property will not be considered to be OCCUPANTS, provided said persons are
solely engaged in activities directly related to the services for which they
were hired.
   OWNER. The person(s), corporation(s) or other legal entity(ies) that hold(s)
legal and/or equitable title to the property used as a short-term rental.
   PERMIT and RENEWAL PERMIT. A permit that allows the use of a privately owned
residential dwelling unit as a short-term rental pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter.
   PERMIT ADMINISTRATOR. The Finance Director or such other city employee as
may be designated by the City Manager to administer the provisions of this
chapter.
   PROPERTY. A residential legal lot of record on which a short-term rental is
located.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle intended for temporary occupancy, with or
without a motor, including without limitation any automobile, motorhome, travel
trailer, truck campers, camping trailers, park trailers, fifth wheel trailers,
house cars, trailer coaches, slide in or pop up campers, truck campers, tent
trailers and any boat or house boat.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON. The signatory on the contract for a short-term rental
and/or any person(s) occupying the short-term rental without a contract and
whom is legally responsible for ensuring that all occupants of the short-term
rental comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations pertaining to the
use and occupancy of the subject short-term rental unit.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. Any privately owned residential dwelling, as defined by
the city's zoning ordinance, that is offered for rent and/or rented by the
owner to another party with or without a contract for occupancy, dwelling,
lodging, or sleeping purposes for a period of not more than 30 consecutive
calendar days in exchange for any form of monetary or non-monetary
consideration, including but not limited to trade, fee, swap or any other
consideration in lieu of cash payment. The term "dwelling" does not include any
impermanent, transitory, or mobile means of temporary lodging that is located
on the same property as the SHORT-TERM RENTAL, including but not limited to a
vehicle parked on the property, storage sheds, mobile homes, recreational
vehicles (RVs), car trailers, boats or similar watercrafts, or any temporary
structure, including but not limited to camping tents and tree houses.
(Ord. 1766, passed 12-14-21)
§ 37.003 AUTHORIZED AGENT OR REPRESENTATIVE.
   An owner may authorize an agent or representative to comply with the
requirements of this chapter on behalf of the owner ("owner's agent"), unless
the requirement is to be fulfilled solely by the owner. Notwithstanding, the
owner shall not be relieved from any personal liability for noncompliance with
any provisions of this chapter or with any applicable laws, rules and
regulations pertaining to the use and occupancy of the subject short-term
rental, regardless of whether such noncompliance was committed by the owner's
agent or the occupants of the owner's short-term rental or their guests.
Failure of an owner's agent to comply with this chapter shall be deemed
noncompliance by the owner.
(Ord. 1766, passed 12-14-21)
§ 37.004 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No owner or any other person, shall advertise, cause, allow, conduct,
permit, maintain or facilitate a short-term rental at any residential dwelling
unit in the city without first obtaining a permit pursuant to this chapter, and
complying with all other applicable provisions of the Indio Municipal Code
("Municipal Code") such as the maintenance of a business license as set forth
in
Chapter 110 of the Municipal Code and compliance with the city's transient
occupancy tax ordinance set forth in
Chapter 34 of the Municipal Code.
   (B)   Failure to obtain an initial permit or renewal permit before renting
and/or advertising the short-term rental shall result in fines, penalties and
other remedies as provided for in this chapter, including but not limited to
future denial of such permit.
   (C)   The permit shall be valid only for the number of bedrooms the city
establishes as eligible for listing as a short-term rental.
(Ord. 1766, passed 12-14-21)
§ 37.005 SHORT-TERM RENTAL PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   The owner is required to submit an application, signed by the owner,
and obtain a permit from the city pursuant to the provisions of this chapter,
before renting any short-term rental. The application shall be in the form
provided for by the city and shall be submitted to the Permit Administrator.
   (B)   The short-term permit application and annual renewal application shall
be accompanied by an application fee in the amount established by resolution of
the City Council.
   (C)   The owner shall submit the following information and/or documents as
part of its application or renewal application:
      (1)   The name, address, telephone number and email address of the owner
of the property;
      (2)   A copy of the owner's current state-issued driver's license or
identification card;
      (3)   The name, address, telephone numbers and email addresses of any
other natural persons, limited liability companies or personal or family trusts
that hold any financial interests in the property as well as copies of legal
documents creating such financial interests;
      (4)   The name, address, telephone number and email address of the
owner's authorized agent or representative, if any;
      (5)   The name, address, telephone number and email address of the local
contact person available 24 hours a day;
      (6)   The address of the short-term rental;
      (7)   The number of bedrooms and the applicable occupancy limit of the
short-term rental;
      (8)   A parking plan indicating the areas where parking is legally
available on the property for all vehicles belonging to the occupants;
      (9)   The Uniform Resource Locator (URL) (i.e., website address) for any
and all advertisements of the short-term rental of the property;
      (10)   A photo of the front of the short-term rental sufficient to allow
the city to visually identify the unit;
      (11)   An executed indemnification and hold harmless agreement in the
form approved by the City Attorney;
      (12)   Such other information as the Permit Administrator deems
reasonably necessary to administer this chapter.
   (D)   If a short-term rental is located on a property in any area governed
by a homeowners' association or community association ("association") and
subject to covenants, conditions and restrictions ("CC&Rs"), the applicant
shall submit a letter from the association's governing board stating that the
CC&Rs and the rules and regulations of the association do not prohibit short-
term rentals from operating, including the short-term rental proposed by the
applicant. For short-term rentals subject to CC&Rs but not within an
association, a copy of the CC&Rs shall be submitted with the application and
the applicant shall identify the relevant provisions that demonstrate that
short-term rentals are neither regulated nor clearly prohibited by the CC&Rs. A
permit shall not be issued where short-term rentals are prohibited by the
CC&Rs.
   (E)   The permit application shall include an affidavit signed by the owner
under penalty of perjury attesting that all the information in the application
is correct and that the owner maintains full responsibility that the short-term
rental shall be advertised, rented, operated and maintained in compliance with
this chapter and all other relevant provisions of the Municipal Code.
   (F)   The owner shall provide proof of general liability insurance that
covers the rental of the property as a short-term rental in the aggregate sum
of not less than $1,000,000. Alternatively, the owner can provide evidence that
each rental occurs through a platform that provides equal or greater insurance
coverage. Proof of insurance shall be provided at the time of both initial
permit and renewal permit issuance and shall remain in effect for the duration
of the annual permit. Failure to maintain liability insurance shall result in
suspension of the permit.
   (G)   The permit application shall be accompanied by a consent to inspection
form signed by the owner of the property by which the owner agrees and consents
to a building, fire and health and safety inspection in addition to the
inspection fee in the amount established by resolution of the City Council. No
inspection shall occur that is inconsistent with an individual's fourth
amendment rights under the United States Constitution or otherwise in violation
of rights guaranteed by law.
(Ord. 1766, passed 12-14-21)
§ 37.006 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of a new permit or a renewal permit, the city
shall conduct a building, fire and health and safety inspection of the short-
term rental for compliance with this chapter, including verifying the number of
bedrooms that were originally permitted and authorized under the original
certificate of occupancy for the property as well as verifying that no space
has been converted into a bedroom or living space without all required permits.
An inspection conducted by city staff will be required for every application
for a new permit for a short-term rental and every five years thereafter for
the same short term rental permit as long as the owner has been in compliance
with this chapter. In the intervening years, the owner shall renew the permit
in the manner set forth in this chapter and in lieu of a city inspection, the
owner may submit a self-certification signed by the owner on a form approved by
the city. Notwithstanding, the city reserves the ability to require a city-
conducted inspection at the time permit renewal for any reason.
   (B)   The owner of the short-term rental shall ensure that the property
complies with all applicable codes regarding fire, building, health and safety,
zoning and all other laws and regulations. No permit shall be issued if the
short-term rental does not have functioning smoke and carbon monoxide
detectors, HVAC, electricity or plumbing, or if the structure has been
substantially modified in any way that required a building permit from the city
and a permit was not obtained, or the city determines that any other conditions
are present on the property that would present a threat to the health, safety
or welfare of the occupants.
   (C)   Inspection of the short-term rental by city staff shall be scheduled
within 30 days of receipt of a completed application. If corrections are
required, the owner shall complete the corrections within 30 days of being
notified by the city. An extension may be provided by the Permit Administrator,
however, failure to make the corrections shall result in the denial of the
permit. A re-inspection (and accompanying reinspection fee) may be required
with respect to the corrections.
(Ord. 1766, passed 12-14-21)
§ 37.007 APPLICATION INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a completed application, the Permit Administrator
shall cause an investigation of the applicant and the application as submitted.
As part of the investigation, the number of bedrooms in a short-term rental
shall be verified by the Permit Administrator using County Assessor and/or city
building records, prior to the issuance of a permit.
   (B)   The city shall have up to 30 days to process the application, however,
no permit shall be issued until such time as the application investigation is
complete. The applicant shall be notified of the result in writing.
(Ord. 1766, passed 12-14-21)
§ 37.008 APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   If, as a result of the investigation conducted by the city, the
applicant is found to satisfy all of the requirements of this chapter and no
grounds for denial exist, the application shall be approved, and a permit (or
renewal permit) shall be issued to the applicant.
   (B)   The Permit Administrator shall deny an application for a permit (or
renewal permit) or may revoke, suspend or modify a permit if any of the
following findings are made:
      (1)   Information contained in the application, or supplemental
information requested from the applicant, is false or misleading in any
material detail;
      (2)   The owner failed to provide a complete application, after having
been notified of the requirement to produce additional information or
documents;
      (3)   The owner is delinquent in payment of any city taxes, assessments,
fines, or penalties in relation to short-term rental;
      (4)   If the owner has had a prior short-term rental permit suspended or
revoked or has been cited for violating any provision of the Municipal Code
relating to any short-term rental property in the city within the past 12
months;
      (5)   The applicant has failed to pay any previous administrative fines,
remediate any other violations, and/or complete any other alternative
disposition associated with a previous violation of this chapter related to the
operation of a short-term rental;
      (6)   If there is evidence that any governing documents, including CC&Rs,
of a common interest development, or the rules or regulations enacted by the
association governing the common interest development, prohibit the use of a
property for short-term rental purposes;
      (7)   The applicant has failed to demonstrate an ability to conform to
the operational requirements and performance standards set forth in §
37.012;
      (8)   If, at the time the permit application is being submitted, the city
has commenced any enforcement proceedings against the owner with respect to the
property for which the owner seeks a permit or renewal of a permit;
      (9)   The short-term rental does not comply with all applicable codes
regarding fire, building and safety and other relevant laws, ordinance or
regulations, including any conditions placed on the permit by the city.
If the permit application is denied, written notice of such denial and the
reasons therefore shall be provided to the applicant.
   (C)   The Permit Administrator shall have the authority to impose additional
conditions on the permit for the use of any short-term rental to ensure that
any potential secondary effects unique to the subject rental unit are avoided
or adequately mitigated. Such conditions include but are not limited to, a
mitigating condition that would require the installation of a noise monitoring
device to keep time-stamped noise level data from the property that will be
made available to the city upon city's reasonable request, or occupancy
counting device that monitors the number of persons at the property.
   (D)   The permit shall contain the name, address of the permittee, a
description of the short-term rental to be offered, the number of bedrooms
eligible for listing, the maximum occupancy, the date of issuance and term of
the permit, a permit registration number, and the signature of the Permit
Administrator or his or her designee.
   (E)   Within 30 days of the issuance of the short-term rental permit or
renewal of such permit, the city shall mail a notice to all owners and
occupants of residences within 500 feet of the parcel boundaries of the short-
term rental notifying the residents that a permit has been issued and providing
information regarding howto lodge complaints, if any, regarding the short-term
rental.
(Ord. 1766, passed 12-14-21)
§ 37.009 PERMIT NONTRANSFERABLE/NO PROPERTY RIGHTS.
   A permit granted pursuant to this chapter shall not be transferable to
another person, entity, assessor's parcel number or to another property owner.
In addition, the issuance of a permit or renewal permit does not give the owner
any vested property rights and any such permit shall not run with the land or
property to which it applies.
(Ord. 1766, passed 12-14-21)
§ 37.010 PERMIT EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Permit shall be valid for 12 months from the date of issuance, and
shall automatically expire and become null and void on the anniversary date of
its issuance or upon sale or transfer of the property. The Permit shall be
renewed annually to remain valid. An invalid permit is equivalent to not having
a permit.
   (B)   An owner may apply for a permit renewal on a form provided by the city
submitted at least 60 days prior to the expiration of his or her active short-
term rental permit. The permit renewal application shall be processed in the
same manner as an application for a new permit and shall be approved or denied
as set forth in §
37.008. Applications received after the deadline but before the expiration of
the permit may be accepted at the discretion of the Permit Administrator.
   (C)   Payment of the renewal fee shall be paid with the submission of the
permit renewal application.
   (D)   Permit renewals are subject to any intervening changes in this chapter
and renewal shall be denied if the short-term rental no longer qualifies under
the requirements of this chapter, unless specifically exempted therefrom.
   (E)   If a renewal application is not submitted and the fees not paid by the
expiration of the existing permit, the owner is required to submit an
application for a permit as if it was a new short-term rental accompanied by an
application fee and a late penalty fee. The short-term rental may also be
subject to an inspection conducted by city staff.
(Ord. 1766, passed 12-14-21)
§ 37.011 CHANGE IN MAILING ADDRESS AND PROPERTY OWNERSHIP; CEASE USE AS A SHORT
TERM RENTAL.
   (A)   Upon a change of ownership of a property licensed to operate as a
short-term rental, the owner (i.e., seller of the property) shall notify the
city of such change immediately. The existing permit is null and void and the
property shall cease operating as a short-term rental immediately. The new
owner may submit an application and an application fee for a new permit, which
must be obtained prior to renting the subject property as a short-term rental.
   (B)   Within ten days of a change in material facts pertaining to the
information submitted by the owner in the permit application, the owner shall
submit an amendment to the application in the form provided by the city and the
applicable fee. The city shall process the amendment in the same manner as a
new application and after completion of its investigation shall notify the
owner of the result in writing.
   (C)   Any changes to the owner's, owner's agent and/or local contact
person's mailing and email addresses and/or telephone number and changes of the
local contact person shall be immediately submitted to the Permit Administrator
and shall not require the submission of an application for a new permit.
   (D)   If an owner determines to terminate the short-term rental use, the
owner or owner's agent shall within ten days notify the Permit Administrator
and request cessation of the short-term rental permit. In such case, the owner
or owner's agent shall promptly remove any and all advertisements of the short-
term rental. No refunds shall be provided to the owner in case of cancellation
of the permit.
(Ord. 1766, passed 12-14-21)
§ 37.012 OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   Compliance by owner, agents and occupants. The owner and/or owner's
agent shall use reasonably prudent business practices to ensure the property
used as a short-term rental is used in a manner that complies with all
applicable laws, rules and regulations pertaining to its use and occupancy, an
including applicable codes regarding fire, building and safety, and shall
further use reasonably prudent business practices to ensure the occupants of
the short-term rental do not create noise in violation of
Chapter 95C of the Indio Municipal Code or other disturbances, engage in
disorderly conduct, or violate any applicable law, rule or regulation
pertaining to the use and occupancy of the subject short-term rental.
   (B)   Overnight maximum occupancy limits.
      (1)   The owner shall limit overnight occupancy of the short-term rental
to a specific number of occupants. Overnight occupancy shall not exceed four
persons plus no more than two persons per bedroom within each short-term rental
as set forth in the chart below. As used in this section, OVERNIGHT OCCUPANCY
shall mean during the hours of 10:00 p.m. through 8:00 a.m. of the following
day.
Bedrooms Occupancy
Bedrooms  Occupancy
0-Studio  4
1         6
2         8
3         10
4         12
5         14
6         16
7         18
8 or more 20
 
      (2)   Any short-term rental located on a parcel or lot that is 14,500
square feet or more in size, may have a gathering of up to and including 40
persons. Such gatherings shall comply with the applicable operational standards
and regulations of this chapter except that no special event permit is
required.
      (3)   Any gathering of 25 to 39 persons at a short-term rental located on
a parcel or lot that is less than 14,500 square feet in size or a gathering of
41 persons or more at a short-term rental requires a special event permit
pursuant to the process set forth in the Unified Development Code or as such
other process as set forth in §
37.021 of the Indio Municipal Code.
   (C)   Minimum age of renter. The owner shall not rent a short-term rental to
a person that is under the age of 21.
   (D)   Maintenance of rental contracts to city. Owners shall maintain all
short-term rental contracts (in electronic or paper form) for a period of three
years from the date of occupancy. The exact number of occupants shall be
included in the contract as well as all city municipal code requirements
regulating occupancy limits, noise, outdoor amplified music prohibition, public
nuisance, parking, trash, no commercial activities and other code requirements
related to the use and occupancy of the short-term rental.
   (E)   Submission of informational form. The owner shall obtain from the
responsible person an "informational form," in the form provided by the city,
which contains but is not limited to the following: (a) the name, address,
telephone number and a copy of the valid government identification of the
responsible person; (b) a list of the names of all occupants of the short-term
rental; and (c) a list of all vehicle information and license plate numbers of
the responsible person and occupants and guests. The Permit Administrator is
authorized to amend the information required in the informational form pursuant
to adoption of an administrative regulation as set forth in §
37.021.
   (F)   Prior to occupancy procedures. Prior to occupancy of a short-term
rental, the owner or owner's agent or representative shall advise of or require
the following from the responsible person:
      (1)   Provide the responsible person with the local contact person's 24-
hour availability information;
      (2)   Require the responsible person to execute the informational form
and an acknowledgment form, which provides that responsible person understands
that he or she is legally responsible for compliance by all occupants of the
short-term rental and their guests with compliance with all applicable laws,
rules and regulations pertaining to the use and occupancy of the short-term
rental and that the responsible person must be present at the property during
the duration of the short-term rental period ("acknowledgment form").
Both the informational form and the acknowledgment form shall be maintained by
the owner for a minimum of three years and be made readily available upon
request of the city.
   (G)   Posting of permit and owner's local contact person. The owner shall
post a copy of the short-term rental permit, the name and phone number of the
local contact person and a notice in the form required by the city of the
applicable regulations near the primary entrance inside of the short-term
rental.
   (H)   Twenty-four hour availability. During the period of a short-term
rental, the owner or owner's agency and/or the owner's local contact person
shall be available 24 hours per day, seven days per week to respond to
complaints from third parties regarding the condition, operation, or conduct of
the occupants of the short-term rental, including responding in person at the
location of the short-term rental. The local contact person's response to
complaints can be made by telephone, text message or in person, however, in no
event shall the response time exceed 15 minutes if responding by telephone or
text or 45 minutes if an in-person response is required because of the severity
of the complaint. If the local contact person is contacted directly by the
city, the local contact person shall respond within 15 minutes of the city's
telephone call or text message. If the city requests an in-person response, the
local contact person shall respond in person at the location of the short-term
rental within 45 minutes of the city's request. In all circumstances,
complaints that the occupants of the short-term rental has created unreasonable
or unlawful noise or disturbances in violation of Chapter 95 of the Municipal
Code or the provisions of this chapter or is engaging in disorderly conduct,
requires an in-person response by the local contact person.
   (I)   Amplified sound. At a minimum, the occupants of the short-term rental
shall comply with the noise standards identified in Chapter 95C of the
Municipal Code. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Municipal Code, no
radio receiver, musical instrument, phonograph, compact disk player,
loudspeaker, karaoke machine, sound amplifier, or any machine, device or
equipment (including a cellular phone or other similar device) that produces or
reproduces any sound that is audible from the outside of any short-term rental
beyond the property line between the hours of 9:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. Sunday
through Thursday and 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Friday and Saturday. Any machine,
device or equipment that amplifies music inside any short-term rental shall not
be heard beyond the property line of the short-term rental at all times at any
time of day or night.
   (J)   Noise outside of short-term rental. Occupants of the short-term rental
shall be prohibited from using all outdoor amenities and/or engaging in outdoor
games or any outdoor activities that create noise between the hours of 9:00
p.m. to 8:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday and 10 p.m. and 8 a.m. Friday and
Saturday. A sign stating these restrictions must be clearly visible near any
such spa/pool and posted on all interior doors leading to the exterior
amenities.
   (K)   Trash containers. The owner and/or occupants shall not allow trash and
refuse to be stored within public view, except in proper containers for the
purpose of collection by the city's authorized waste hauler on scheduled trash
collection days and in compliance with Section 95A of the Municipal Code. The
owner of the short-term rental shall provide sufficient trash collection
containers and service to meet the demand of the occupants.
   (L)   No commercial vehicles or storage of delivered materials. The short-
term rental use shall not involve the use of commercial vehicles for the
delivery of materials to and from the premises beyond those commercial vehicles
normally associated with residential uses nor storage of delivered materials
beyond those items which would normally be associated with a residential use of
property by the owner, or any occupant.
   (M)   No commercial activities. The owner shall use reasonably prudent
business practices to ensure that the short-term rental is used for residential
purposes only.
   (N)   Retention of residential character. The owner of a short-term rental
shall not change the residential character of the outside appearance of the
residence, either by the use of colors, materials, lighting and/or advertising
mechanism.
   (O)   Required information for advertisements. The owner shall include the
current permit registration number on or in any advertisement appearing in any
newspaper, magazine, brochure, television trade paper, internet website, etc.,
that promotes the availability or existence of the short-term rental in a place
or location deemed acceptable by the Permit Administrator in the following
format: "City of Indio Short-Term Rental Permit No. _____". In the case of
audio-only advertising of the same, the permit number shall be read as part of
the advertising. In addition, the following shall be clearly identified in any
advertisement: (1) maximum occupancy; (2) the number of permitted bedrooms; (3)
maximum number of vehicles allowed; and (4) a photo of the front of the short-
term rental.
   (P)   Transient occupancy tax. The owner and/or owner's agent shall comply
with all provisions of §§
34.35 through
34.48 of the Municipal Code concerning transient occupancy taxes, including,
but not limited to, submission of a return in accordance with §
34.41 of the Municipal Code, which shall be filed even if the vacation rental
unit was not rented during each such reporting period.
   (Q)   Submission of internet listings. All internet listing sites (e.g.
website URLs) and listing numbers associated with a short-term rental shall be
submitted to the city by the owner or owner's agent within 30 days of approval
of the short-term rental permit and any revisions thereafter shall be submitted
to the Permit Administrator.
   (R)   Modification of operational requirements and standards. The
operational requirements and standards may be modified by the Permit
Administrator upon request of the owner based upon site-specific circumstances
for the purpose of allowing reasonable accommodation of a short-term rental
occupant as may be required by state or federal disability laws. All requests
must be in writing and shall identify how the strict application of the
standard conditions creates an unreasonable hardship to a property such that,
if the requirement is not modified, reasonable use of the property for a short-
term rental would not be allowed. Any hardships identified must relate to
physical constraints to the subject site and shall not be self-induced or
economic. Any modifications of the standard conditions shall not further
exacerbate an already existing problem.
(Ord. 1766, passed 12-14-21)
§ 37.013 SHORT-TERM RENTAL REGISTRY.
   The city shall maintain an online registry of active short-term rental
permits, which hosting platforms may reference and reply upon for the purposes
of complying with §
37.014 of this code. If a residential dwelling or other property purporting to
be a short-term rental matches with an address, permit number, and/or current
and valid permit dates set forth in the city's online registry, the housing
platforms may presume that the residential dwelling or other property has a
current and valid short-term renal permit.
(Ord. 1766, passed 12-14-21)
§ 37.014 HOSTING PLATFORM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Hosting platforms shall be responsible for collecting all applicable
transient occupancy tax and remitting the same to the city.
   (B)   Subject to applicable laws, hosting platforms shall disclose to the
city on a regular basis each short-term rental listing located in the city, the
names of the persons responsible for each such listing, the address of each
such listing, the length of stay for each such listing and the price paid for
each stay.
   (C)   Hosting platforms shall be required to prompt hosts to include the
city-issued permit registration number in their listing(s), in a format
designated by the city. Hosting platforms shall not complete any booking
transaction for any residential dwelling or other property purporting to be a
short-term rental in the city unless it is listed on the city's registry
created under §
37.013, at the time the hosting platform receives a fee for the booking
transaction.
   (D)   A hosting platform operating exclusively on the internet, which
operates in compliance with subsections (A), (B) and (C) above, shall be
presumed to be in compliance with this chapter.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall be interpreted in accordance with
otherwise applicable state and federal law(s) and will not apply if determined
by the city to be in violation of, or preempted by, any such law(s).
(Ord. 1766, passed 12-14-21)
§ 37.015 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No person, including an owner, shall rent, offer to rent, or advertise
for rent a balcony, patio, swimming pool or other outdoor area of a short-term
rental ("outdoor area") if such rental does not occur in connection with the
rental of the remaining residence or dwelling to which the outdoor area is
attached.
   (B)   No person, including an owner, shall charge a fee or request or
require a donation for entrance into any short-term rental.
   (C)   No person, including an owner, shall rent, offer to rent, or advertise
for rent structures not built for habitable use such as but not limited to
tents, trailers, tree houses, garages, storages sheds and the like, or any open
space on the property as a short-term rental.
   (D)   No person, including an owner, shall rent, offer to rent, or advertise
for rent any impermanent, transitory, or mobile means of temporary lodging that
is located on the same property as the short-term rental, including but not
limited to a vehicle parked on the property, a storage shed, mobile homes,
recreational vehicles, car trailers, boats or similar watercrafts, or any
temporary structure, including but not limited to camping tents and tree-
houses.
   (E)   No person, including an owner, shall rent, offer to rent, or advertise
for rent one or more short-term rentals as part of a cluster or compound. A
short-term rental cluster or compound is prohibited.
   (F)   A person who is renting a short-term rental is prohibited from
subleasing such dwelling unit, or any portion thereof, to any other person or
entity.
   (G)   The lessee of a long term rental property which includes but is not
limited to a condominium, multi-family housing, single-family dwelling,
accessory dwelling unit, junior accessory dwelling units, mobile home or house
trailer on a residential lot or within a mobile home park, or a month-to-month
renter of such properties, is prohibited from using their leased or rented
property as a short-term rental.
   (H)   The owner, lessee or renter of a mobile home, a manufactured or
prefabricated house or of a commercial or industrial structure is prohibited
from using such property as a short-term rental.
   (I)   The owner, lessee or renter of a recreational vehicle is prohibited
from using such property as a short-term rental.
   (J)   The owner, lessee or renter of an accessory dwelling unit or junior
accessory dwelling unit, as those terms are defined in the Municipal Code, is
prohibited from using such property as a short-term rental.
   (K)   Commercial activities and special events, including but not limited
to, weddings, receptions, large parties and sales events are prohibited on the
property used as a short-term rental unless a special event permit is obtained
pursuant to the Unified Development Code or as set forth in §
37.021.
(Ord. 1766, passed 12-14-21)
§ 37.016 PERMIT SUSPENSION, MODIFICATION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   In addition to any other remedy provided by this chapter, the Permit
Administrator may suspend, modify or revoke a short-term rental permit for
violations of this chapter, for violation of any other law on the premises of
the short-term rental, or for the maintenance of such other conditions as may
be shown to be injurious to the public health and safety or if the applicant
made any false, misleading or fraudulent statement of a material fact in the
application for permit, or any report or record required to be filed pursuant
to this chapter. The permit holder shall be notified in writing of the grounds
for denial or for suspension, modification or revocation of the short-term
rental and shall be notified of their right to appeal the decision.
   (B)   The Permit Administrator may revoke a short-term rental permit for a
third or subsequent violation related to permitting or noise during the permit
term. This section, however, shall not limit or prevent the Permit
Administrator from revoking a short-term rental permit for any single violation
of this chapter.
   (C)   An owner whose permit is revoked may not apply for a new short-term
rental permit until one year after the date of revocation.
   (D)   If a permit is suspended, revoked or denied, all property owners and
occupants of residences within 500 feet of the parcel boundaries of the short-
term rental shall be provided written notice within ten days of such action.
(Ord. 1766, passed 12-14-21)
§ 37.017 NOTICE AND APPEALS.
   (A)   The denial of an application for a short-term rental permit or the
renewal of such permit, or the revocation, suspension or modification of such
permit, may be appealed by submitting a written appeal form detailing the basis
for the appeal and any additional documentation the appellant would like to be
considered.
   (B)   The completed appeal form must be delivered to the City Clerk within
15 days from the date of the letter denying the application for a permit or
renewal permit or revoking, modifying or suspending the permit was sent. The
appeal form must include payment of a non-refundable appeal fee in the amount
established by resolution of the City Council. Failure to deliver the completed
appeal form and/or appeal fee as required by this subsection will result in the
denial or revocation, suspension or modification being deemed as final.
   (C)   While the appeals process is pending, the appellant is prohibited from
engaging in the short-term rental of the property and the short-term rental
permit at issue shall not be valid.
   (D)   Once a timely appeal form has been received by the City Clerk, a
hearing on the matter shall be scheduled before the City Manager within 20 days
of an appeal being filed. The appeal hearing shall be open to the public. The
decision of the City Manager or the designee shall be in writing and shall set
forth the findings and reasons for the decision. The decision of the City
Manager is final.
   (E)   If an appeal is filed, all property owners and occupants within 500
feet of the parcel boundaries of the short-term rental shall be notified of the
time, date, and location of the appeal hearing and shall be afforded the right
to testify during the hearing.
(Ord. 1766, passed 12-14-21)
§ 37.018 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)    Operating a short-term rental without a valid permit is prohibited.
Advertising shall be prima facie evidence of operation. Additional evidence of
operation may include, but not limited to guest testimony, online reviews,
rental agreements or any other information deemed relevant by the city.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter, including without
limitation the owner, responsible person, occupants and the local contact
persons may be subject to administrative and/or judicial remedies as set forth
herein. The owner of a short-term rental shall be deemed responsible for all
violations of this chapter occurring at the short-term rental or in connection
with its operation, provided that this shall not preclude the city from issuing
fines or citations to occupants, or exercising other remedies against
occupants, if the responsible person or occupants are deemed to have committed
the violation.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor. Such violation is punishable as set forth in Chapter 12 of this
code. Each and every day, or portion thereof, that a violation of this chapter
exists constitutes a separate and distinct violation.
   (D)   Alternatively, any person who violates any provision of this chapter
may be issued an administrative citation in accordance with Chapter 12 of this
code. The amount of the administrative fine shall be set forth in a schedule of
fines adopted by resolution of the City Council. Each and every day such a
violation exists shall constitute a separate and distinct violation of this
chapter.
   (E)   In addition to the foregoing, a violation of any provision of this
chapter shall constitute a public nuisance and shall be subject to abatement by
the city by means of a civil action or administrative abatement pursuant to
Chapter 12 of this code, and each day such condition continues it shall be
regarded as a new and separate offense.
   (F)   The remedies provided for in this section are in addition to, and not
in lieu of, all other legal remedies, criminal or civil, which may be pursued
by the city to address any violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 1766, passed 12-14-21; Am. Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
§ 37.019 RECORDKEEPING.
   Each owner shall maintain all written records related to the use and
occupancy of the short-term rental, including but not limited to compliance
with the operational requirements and standards set forth in §
37.010, for a period of three years, for the purpose of inspection or audit to
determine that the objective and conditions of this chapter are being
fulfilled.
(Ord. 1766, passed 12-14-21)
§ 37.020 REQUIREMENTS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The requirements of this chapter shall be in addition to any license, permit
or fee required under any other provision of the Indio Municipal Code. The
issuance of any permit pursuant to this chapter shall not relieve any person of
the obligation to comply with all other provisions of the Indio Municipal Code
pertaining to the use and occupancy of the short-term rental or the property on
which it is located.
(Ord. 1766, passed 12-14-21)
§ 37.021 ADMINISTRATION AND ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS.
   In order to facilitate orderly administration of this chapter, the Permit
Administrator shall have the authority to make interpretations of this chapter
and to promulgate administrative regulations consistent with the provisions of
this chapter for the purpose of interpreting, clarifying, carrying out,
furthering and enforcing the requirements and provisions herein. A copy of such
administration regulations shall be on file in the Office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1766, passed 12-14-21)
CHAPTER 38: ELECTRONIC FILING
Section
   
38.01   Electronic filing of campaign statement and statement of economic
interests
§ 38.01 ELECTRONIC FILING OF CAMPAIGN STATEMENT AND STATEMENT OF ECONOMIC
INTERESTS.
   (A)   Any elected officer, candidate, committee or other person required to
file statements, reports or other documents required by Chapter 4 (commencing
with Section 84100 of the Government Code), except an elected officer,
candidate, committee or other person who receives contributions totaling less
than $2,000 and makes expenditures totaling less than $2,000 in a calendar
year, shall file those statements, reports or other documents online or
electronically with the City Clerk.
   (B)   Any person holding a position listed in Government Code Section 82700
or designated in the City's local Conflict of Interest code adopted pursuant to
Government Code section 83700, shall file any required Statement of Economic
Interest reports (Form 700) online or electronically with the City Clerk.
   (C)   In any instance in which an original statement, report or other
document must be filed with the California Secretary of State and a copy of
that statement, report or other document is required to be filed with the City
Clerk, the filer may, but is not required to, file the copy electronically.
   (D)   If the City Clerk's electronic system is not capable of accepting a
particular type of statement, report or other document, an elected officer,
candidate, committee or other person shall file that document with the City
Clerk in an alternative format.
(Ord. 1737, passed 4-3-19)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   ELECTRICITY
         
51.   GARBAGE; RUBBISH; SWILL
         
51A.   MANDATORY ORGANIC WASTE DISPOSAL REDUCTION
         
52.   PUBLIC UTILITIES
         
53.   UTILITY USER FEE
         
54.   WATER
         
55.   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT AND DISCHARGE CONTROL
         
56.   WATER SERVICE WITHIN THE CITY AND THE CITY’S SPHERE OF INFLUENCE
         
57.   SANITARY SEWER COLLECTION AND TREATMENT
CHAPTER 50: ELECTRICITY
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Establishment of rules and regulations
   
50.03   Reports
   
50.04   Regulations and facilities
Rates and Charges
   
50.15   Rates
Administration and Enforcement
   
50.25   Delegation of authority
   
50.26   Hearings and judicial review
 
   
50.98   Violations
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Public utilities, see
Ch. 52
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CORPORATION. A corporation, company, association, district or political
subdivision of the state and a joint stock association.
   ELECTRICAL CORPORATION. Every corporation or person or district or political
subdivision owning, controlling, operating or managing any electric plant for
compensation within this state, except where electricity is generated on or
distributed by the producer through private property alone solely for his or
her own use or the use of his or her tenants and not for sale to others.
   ELECTRIC PLANT. All real estate, fixtures and personal property owned,
controlled operated or managed in connection with or to facilitate the
production, generation, transmission, delivery or furnishing of electricity for
light, heat or power and all conduits, ducts or other devices, materials,
apparatus or property for containing, holding or carrying conductors used or to
be used for the transmission of electricity for light, heat or power.
   PUBLIC OR ANY PORTION THEREOF. The public generally, or any limited portion
of the public, including a person, private corporation or other entity for
which service is performed or to which the commodity is delivered.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any district formed pursuant to Cal. Water Code div. 11,
part 2 or other municipal corporation or governmental agency of the state or
electrical corporation engaged in selling or delivering within the city
electrical power service, either directly or for resale to the public or any
portion thereof. The term shall not, for the purpose of this chapter, mean any
utility or agency subject to the jurisdiction, control and regulation of the
Public Utilities Commission of the state.
   RATES. Rates and charges, unless the context indicates otherwise.
('61 Code, § 8.3) (Ord. 573, passed - - )
§ 50.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   In accordance with Cal. Water Code § 22123, the City Council hereby
establishes the following basic rules and regulations covering any district
providing electric power within the limits of the city without limiting the
same to those rules and regulations hereinafter set forth but in addition,
incorporating herein any and all rules and regulations heretofore or hereafter
adopted by the Public Utilities Commission of the state as may be more
specifically adopted by resolution of the City Council, either setting the same
forth in full or by reference to the existing rule of the Public Utilities
Commission.
('61 Code, § 8.1) (Ord. 573, passed - - )
§ 50.03 REPORTS.
   (A)   Every public utility shall furnish to the City Council in the form and
detail as the Council prescribes all tabulations, computations, maps, profiles,
agreements, contracts, franchises, reports, books, accounts, papers, records or
other document or information in any way reflecting on the operation of the
utility or relating to its property or affecting its business in such form and
at such time as the Council may direct.
   (B)   No information furnished to the Council by the public utility, except
matters as are specifically required to be open to public inspection by the
provisions of this chapter, shall be open to public inspection or made public
except on order of the Council. Any officer or employee of the city or any
member of the Council who divulges any such information, except that which is
authorized to be open to the public, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   The Council may establish any further rules and regulations deemed
necessary by the Council for the furnishing of the information above set forth
or may require, as is deemed necessary, the public utility to maintain certain
prescribed forms of accounts, records, including but not limited to proper and
adequate depreciation and inventories.
('61 Code, § 8.4) (Ord. 573, passed - - )
§ 50.04 REGULATIONS AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   The City Council may supervise and regulate every public utility in
the city and may do all things, whether specifically designated in this chapter
or in addition thereto, which are necessary and convenient in the exercise of
power and jurisdiction.
   (B)   Every public utility shall obey and comply with every order, decision,
direction or rule made or prescribed by the Council in the matters specified in
this chapter, or any other matter in any way relating to or affecting its
business as a public utility and shall do everything necessary or proper to
secure compliance therewith by all of its officers, agents and employees.
   (C)   When the Council, after a hearing, finds that the rules, practices,
equipment, appliances, facilities or service of any public utility or the
methods of manufacture, distribution, transmission, storage or supply employed
by it are unjust, unreasonable, unsafe, improper, inadequate or insufficient,
the Council shall determine and by order or rule fix the rules, practices,
equipment, appliances, facilities, service or methods to be observed,
furnished, constructed, enforced or employed. The Council shall prescribe rules
for the performance of any service or the furnishing of any commodity of the
character furnished or supplied by any public utility and shall furnish the
commodity or render the service within the time and upon the conditions
provided in those rules.
   (D)   When the Council, after a hearing, finds that additions, extensions,
repairs or improvements to or changes in the existing plant, equipment,
apparatus, facilities or other physical property of any public utility or of
any two or more public utilities ought reasonably to be made or that new
structures should be erected, to promote the security or convenience of its
employees or the public or in any other way to secure adequate service or
facilities, the Council shall make and serve an order directing that the
additions, extensions, repairs, improvements or changes be made or the
structures be erected in the manner and within the time specified in the order.
If the Council orders the erection of a new structure it may also fix the site
thereof. If the order requires joint action by two or more public utilities,
the Commission shall so notify them and shall fix a reasonable time within
which they may agree upon the portion or division of the cost which each shall
bear. If, at the expiration of the time the public utilities fail to file with
the Council a statement that an agreement has been made for a division or
apportionment of the cost, the Council may, after further hearing, make an
order fixing the proportion of that cost to be borne by the public utility and
the manner in which payment shall be made or secured.
   (E)   The Council may, after a hearing, by general or special orders, rules
or otherwise, require every public utility to construct, maintain and operate
its line, plant, system, equipment, apparatus and premises in such manner as to
promote and safeguard the health and safety of its employees, passengers,
customers and the public and may prescribed, among other things, the
installation, use, maintenance and operation of appropriate safety or other
devices or appliance, establish uniform or other standards of construction and
equipment and require the performance of any other act which the health or
safety of its employees, customers or the public may demand.
   (F)   The Council may, after a hearing, do any and all things as set forth
in the Public Utilities Code of the state that may be accomplished by the
Public Utilities Commission of the state in its regulation of electrical power
companies deemed public utilities in the state.
('61 Code, § 8.5) (Ord. 573, passed - - )
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.15 RATES.
   (A)   All charges demanded or received by any public utility or by any two
or more public utilities for any product or commodity furnished or to be
furnished or any service rendered or to be rendered shall be just and
reasonable. Every unjust or unreasonable charge demanded or received for the
product or commodity or service is unlawful.
   (B)   No public utility shall, as to rates, charges, service, facilities or
in any other respect, make or grant any preference or advantage to any
corporation or person or subject any corporation or person to any prejudice or
disadvantage. No public utility shall establish or maintain any unreasonable
difference as to rates, charges, service, facilities or in any other respect
either as between localities or as between classes under this section.
   (C)   No public utility shall raise any rate or so alter any classification,
contract, practice or rule as to result in any increase in any rate except upon
a showing before the Council and a finding by the Council that the increase is
justified. The Council may establish the rules it considers reasonable and
proper for each class of public utility providing for the nature of the showing
required to be made in support of proposed increases, the form and manner of
the presentation thereof.
   (D)   The Council may, upon a hearing, investigate a single rate,
classification, rule, contract or practice, or any number thereof, or the
entire schedule or schedules of rates, classifications, rules, contracts and
practices or any thereof of any public utility and may establish new rates,
classifications, rules, contracts or practices or schedules or schedules in
lieu thereof.
('61 Code, § 8.6) (Ord. 573, passed - - )
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.25 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   The City Council may employ the officers, experts, engineers, statisticians,
accountants, inspectors, clerks and employees as it deems necessary to carry
out the provisions of this chapter or to perform the duties and exercise the
powers conferred upon the City Council by law or by this chapter or may
contract for service from any other agency of the state or any other
governmental entity for any service deemed necessary by the Council.
('61 Code, § 8.2) (Ord. 573, passed - - )
§ 50.26 HEARINGS AND JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   All hearings by the City Council hereunder shall be held in accordance with
the regulations set forth in the Public Utilities Code of the state, in
accordance with those held by the Commission, and all provisions therewith to
the extent possible by the Council shall be followed.
('61 Code, § 8.7) (Ord. 573, passed - - )
§ 50.98 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   When the city is of the opinion that any public utility is failing or
omitting or about to fail or omit to do anything required of it by law, or by
any order, decision, rule, direction or requirement of the city or is doing
anything or about to do anything or permitting anything or about to permit
anything to be done in violation of law or of any order, decision, rule,
direction or requirement of the city, it shall direct the City Attorney to
commence an action or proceeding in the Superior Court in and for this county,
for the purpose of having the violations or threatened violations stopped and
prevented, either by mandamus or injunction. The City Attorney shall thereupon
being the action or proceeding in the name of the people of the city by
petition to the Superior Court, alleging the violation or threatened violation
complained of and praying for appropriate relief by way of mandamus or
injunction.
   (B)   Every violation of the provisions of this chapter relating to
penalties; the act, omission or failure of any officer, agent or employee of
any public utility, acting within the scope of his or her official duties or
employment, shall, in every case, be the act, omission or failure of the public
utility.
   (C)   In construing and enforcing the provisions of this chapter relating to
penalties, the act, omission or failure of any officer, agent or employee of
any public utility, acting within the scope of his or her official duties or
employment, shall, in every case, be the act, omission or failure of the public
utility.
('61 Code, § 8.8 1.,3.,4.) (Ord. 573, passed - - )
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any public utility which violates or fails to comply with any
provision of the state constitution or of this chapter or which fails or
neglects to comply with any part or provision of any order, decision, decree,
rule, direction, demand or requirement of the city, in a case in which a
penalty has not otherwise been provided, is deemed a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Every public utility and every officer, agent or employee of any
public utility who violates or fails to comply with or who procures, aids, or
abets any violation by any public utility of any provision of the constitution
of this state, or of this chapter or who fails to comply with any part of any
order, decision, rule, direction, demand or requirement of the city or who
procures, aids or abets any public utility in the violation or noncompliance in
a case in which a penalty has not otherwise been provided is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
('61 Code, § 8.8 2.,5.) (Ord. 573, passed - - )
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE; RUBBISH; SWILL
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Deposit of garbage in streets; permitting accumulation; duty to dispose
of industrial wastes
   
51.03   Storage areas
Collection and Disposal
   
51.15   Removal unlawful; exceptions
   
51.16   Inspection and supervision
Contracts
   
51.30   Collection by other than contractor when contract in force is unlawful
   
51.31   Surety bond
Receptacles
   
51.40   Duty to provide; specifications
   
51.41   Preparation of household wastes
   
51.42   Cleanliness
   
51.43   Separation of swill from dry garbage by restaurants and the like
   
51.44   Placement of noncommercial receptacles
   
51.45   Clearance of path
   
51.46   Deposit in public highway; removal
   
51.47   Recycling and diversion of debris from construction and demolition
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURB COLLECTION. Collection of garbage, rubbish and swill placed in a
location not more than  five feet from the street curb or alley abutting the
occupied residence.
   DETACHABLE CONTAINER SERVICE. Collection of garbage, rubbish and swill from
a container serviced by mechanical means located at the rear of commercial
establishments where the material is produced, kept or accumulated.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A residential building designed for occupancy by more
than one family and consisting of more than one living unit, even where there
is no more than one water meter on the premises, but excluding hotels, motels
and lodges.
   DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY. A detached building designed for occupancy by one
family and consisting of a single living unit.
   GARBAGE. All animal or vegetable refuse from kitchens, restaurants and all
restaurant and household waste that shall have been prepared for or intended to
be used as food or shall have resulted from the preparation of the food and all
animal or vegetable refuse from establishments where foodstuffs intended for
human consumption shall be handled commercially. GARBAGE includes SWILL.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Solid waste resulting from industrial processes and
manufacturing operations including, but not limited to, wholesale and volume
food processing waste, boiler house cinders, lumber scraps and shavings, metal
scraps and shavings and chemical wastes.
   RUBBISH. All refuse other than garbage, including papers, rags, glass,
sawdust, sweepings, plaster, pasteboard boxes, metal shavings, boxes, ashes,
grass, shrubbery or tree cuttings or other agricultural debris and all other
refuse.
   STANDARD CONTAINER. A metallic or plastic can with a close-fitting cover,
cover handle and side bails, of 32-gallon or less gross capacity.
   SWILL. All classes of putrefied and easily decomposable animal or vegetable
matter and shall  include any matter or substance used in the preparation,
cooking, dealing in or storage of meats, fish, fruits and vegetables that are
subject to immediate decay and the attracting of rodents.
   WALK-IN SERVICE. Collection of garbage, rubbish and swill placed in a
location not more than five feet from the occupied residence with adequate
ingress and egress provided to the area for use by the collector.
('61 Code, § 10.1) (Ord. 299, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 361, passed - - ; Am. Ord.
443, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 498, passed - - )
§ 51.02 DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE IN STREETS; PERMITTING ACCUMULATION; DUTY TO DISPOSE
OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to throw or deposit
any garbage, rubbish, sweepings or debris or to cause the same to be thrown or
deposited upon any street, alley, gutter, curb, park or other public place or
to throw or deposit the same in or upon any vacant lot or backyard or to store
or keep the same otherwise than is lawful to have, store, deposit or keep
garbage or rubbish, swill and industrial waste when the accumulation shall be a
menace to health and safety.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every person in the city generating or
producing industrial waste to remove or cause the removal thereof before the
same shall become a menace to health and safety.
('61 Code, § 10.2) (Ord. 299, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 361, passed - - ; Am. Ord.
443, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 498, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.03 STORAGE AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, accumulate or permit to be kept
or accumulated any garbage or rubbish in or upon any public or private place
unless the same shall be in a container, either standard or detachable, having
a close-fitting cover such as herein specified, which container shall be closed
at all times except when opened to be filled or emptied.
('61 Code, § 10.2-1) (Ord. 443, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 498, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
§ 51.15 REMOVAL UNLAWFUL; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person, resident of the city, shall remove, transport or convey any
garbage, rubbish or swill upon or along any public street, alley or place
within the city unless he or she shall hold a contract with the city for the
collection and disposal thereof under §§
51.30 and
51.31 or shall have a valid or existing permit from the county to haul garbage,
rubbish or swill, except that the provisions of this section shall not apply to
contractors or buildings themselves or their employees only, removing their own
debris, rubbish and trash from construction sites, any person holding a valid
city business license to engage in the nursery or gardening business or to any
person removing shrubbery, grass, tree cuttings and other agricultural debris
from any property owned or occupied by the person or any person removing
industrial waste or any person removing large or oversized items of rubbish
from their premises. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person,
other than the city or its contract agent, shall collect, convey, convey over
any of the streets or alleys of the city or dispose of any refuse accumulated
in the city.
('61 Code, § 10.5) (Ord. 299, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 361, passed - - ; Am. Ord.
499, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 959, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.16 INSPECTION AND SUPERVISION.
   It shall be the duty of the Health Officer of the city to inspect and
supervise all trucks, carts or other vehicles used by the contractor in the
collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish or swill and see that the same are
kept clean and sanitary and also all places where garbage, rubbish or swill are
deposited. The Health Officer shall enforce the provisions of this chapter,
inspect any and all premises where garbage, refuse and swill are kept or
accumulated for the purpose of determining whether the provisions of this
chapter and all health ordinances of the city and health laws of the state are
complied with.
('61 Code, § 10.12) (Ord. 299, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 498, passed - - )
CONTRACTS
§ 51.30 COLLECTION BY OTHER THAN CONTRACTOR WHEN CONTRACT IN FORCE IS UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   When there is in force a contract entered into or franchise granted by
the city with any person for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish
and swill in the city, it shall be unlawful for any person other than the
contractor to collect any garbage and rubbish within the city. When an occupant
of any premises fails to engage the services of a garbage collection concern
holding a valid contract with the city for the collection thereof it shall be
prima facie evidence that the occupant or his or her agents are unlawfully
transporting garbage in violation of this section.
   (B)   At such time as there is in force a contract entered into by the city
with any person for the collection of swill, it shall be unlawful for any
person other than the persons in the employ of the contractor having the
contract to collect any swill within the city.
('61 Code, § 10.15) (Ord. 229, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 554, passed - - ; Am. Ord.
677, passed - - )
§ 51.31 SURETY BOND.
   The contractor who contracts with the city for the removal and disposal of
garbage, rubbish and swill shall be required to furnish a surety bond to the
city in the sum of $10,000, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the
contract and the provisions of this chapter, to collect all garbage, rubbish
and swill in the city and transport the same through the streets and public
ways of the city, to the destination as provided in this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10.18) (Ord. 299, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
RECEPTACLES
§ 51.40 DUTY TO PROVIDE; SPECIFICATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of every person served under this chapter to provide a
watertight receptacle for holding garbage constructed of substantial material
of sufficient strength to resist breaking under ordinary conditions of use and
have a close-fitting cover to prevent insects, including flies, rodents and
other animals, from coming into contact with garbage. No container shall have
an irregular surface or be in a condition which is likely to cause injury to
persons moving or lifting them. The receptacles also shall be provided with a
handle or handles on the outside thereof and shall not exceed 32 gallons in
size nor shall the receptacle and contents exceed 65 pounds in weight.
('61 Code, § 10.19) (Ord. 299, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 498, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.41 PREPARATION OF HOUSEHOLD WASTES.
   All garbage coming from household waste incurred in the preparation of food
shall be first drained and wrapped in paper before being placed in the garbage
receptacle.
('61 Code, § 10.20) (Ord. 299, passed - - )
§ 51.42 CLEANLINESS.
   It shall be the duty of every person served to keep the garbage receptacle
used in the serve of that person in a clean and sanitary condition.
('61 Code, § 10.21) (Ord. 299, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.43 SEPARATION OF SWILL FROM DRY GARBAGE BY RESTAURANTS AND THE LIKE.
   Any restaurants and stores in which meats, fruits and vegetables are sold,
cafes, hospitals, hotels and other public eating houses producing or having
swill shall place all that swill in a suitable container apart from dry garbage
so the swill may be most conveniently collected by the agents or contractees of
the city under restrictions the City Council may, from time to time, impose
upon any such restaurants and stores in which meats, fruits and vegetables are
sold, cafes, hospitals, hotels and other public eating houses.
('61 Code, § 10.21) (Ord. 299, passed - - )
§ 51.44 PLACEMENT OF NONCOMMERCIAL RECEPTACLES.
   All garbage, rubbish and swill receptacles used for other than commercial
purposes shall be placed prior to collection in a place to be designated by
resolution of the City Council.
('61 Code, § 10.24) (Ord. 299, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 361, passed - - )
§ 51.45 CLEARANCE OF PATH.
   It shall be the duty of the occupant of the premises served to keep clear
path from the street or alley to garbage, refuse or swill receptacle. For
collection purposes, an alternate means of ingress and egress to the container
may be selected if the path has been blocked for any reason. No container shall
be placed inside closed buildings or inside a gate which is not self-closing.
('61 Code, § 10.25) (Ord. 299, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 498, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.46 DEPOSIT IN PUBLIC HIGHWAY; REMOVAL.
   No person shall place any garbage receptacle in any public highway at any
place or in any manner or at any time other than as established by this
subchapter for the collection of garbage or permit that receptacle to remain
therein for more than 12 hours after it has been emptied.
('61 Code, § 10.26) (Ord. 299, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.47 RECYCLING AND DIVERSION OF DEBRIS FROM CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION.
   (A)   Findings and purpose.
      (1)   The City Council finds and determines that the city is committed to
protecting the public health, safety, welfare, and environment, and that in
order to meet these goals, it is necessary the city promote the public purposes
served by this section and adopt the following regulations pursuant to these
findings.
      (2)   The city finds that the state, through its California Integrated
Waste Management Act of 1989, Assembly Bill 939 (AB 939, the "Act"), required
that each local jurisdiction in the state divert 50% of discarded materials
(base year 1990, state methodology) from landfill by December 31, 2000, and
thereafter maintain or exceed that diversion rate.
      (3)   The city finds that every local jurisdiction, city and county in
California faces fines up to $10,000 a day for not meeting the above mandated
goal.
      (4)   The city finds that reusing and recycling construction and
demolition debris is essential to further the city's efforts to reduce waste
and comply with the goals of the Act.
      (5)   The city finds that construction and demolition debris waste
reduction and recycling have been proven to reduce the amount of material that
is landfilled, has been proven to increase site and worker safety and to be
cost effective.
      (6)   The city finds that the commitment to the reduction of waste and
compliance with state law requires the establishment of programs for recycling
and salvaging construction and demolition materials.
      (7)   The city finds that requiring demolition and construction debris to
be recycled and reused may in some respects add modestly to the cost of
demolition and construction and in other respects may make possible some cost
recovery and cost reduction.
      (8)   The city finds that, except in unusual circumstances, it is
feasible and reasonable for parties who generate debris to divert and recycle
construction and demolition debris from construction, demolition, and
renovation projects to the maximum extent feasible.
   (B)   Definitions.
      (1)   APPLICANT. Any individual, firm, limited liability company,
association, partnership, political subdivision, government agency,
municipality, industry, public or private corporation, or any other entity
whatsoever who applies to the city for the applicable permits to undertake any
construction, demolition and/or renovation project within the city.
      (2)   COMPLIANCE OFFICIAL. The City Manager or his or her designee,
including an agent acting on behalf of the city, assigned to evaluate
Construction and Demolition Debris Plans, monitor project progress, and
determine compliance or noncompliance with this section.
      (3)   CONSTRUCTION. All building, landscaping, remodeling, repair,
addition, removal or demolition involving the use or disposal of designated
recyclable and reusable materials as defined in this section.
      (4)   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS. Includes the residual and waste
building materials, packaging and rubble resulting from construction,
remodeling, repair and demolition operations on pavements (streets, curbs,
gutters, sidewalks and walkways), residential structures, commercial structures
and public infrastructure improvements (dry wells, lift stations, storm water
or sewer systems or channel linings) and other structures. CONSTRUCTION AND
DEMOLITION DEBRIS includes, but is not limited to, the following items:
         (a)   Components of the building or structure or improvement that is
the subject of the construction work including, but not limited to, lumber and
wood, gypsum wallboard, glass, metal, roofing material, tile, carpeting and
floor coverings, window coverings, plastic pipe, concrete, asphalt, heating,
ventilating, and air conditioning systems and their components, lighting
fixtures, appliances, equipment, furnishings, and plumbing fixtures;
         (b)   Tools and building materials utilized in the course of the
construction work including material generated at construction trailers, such
as blueprints, plans, and other similar wastes;
         (c)   Cardboard and other packaging materials derived from materials
installed in or applied to the building or structure or from tools and
equipment used in the course of the construction work; and
         (d)   Plant materials resulting from construction work when commingled
with dirt, rock, or inert debris.
      (5)   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS PLAN. A plan required to be
submitted by an applicant to the city for approval for the purpose of
demonstrating compliance with the requirements of this section.
      (6)   CONTRACTOR. Any person or entity holding, or required to hold, a
contractor's license of any type under the laws of the state, or who performs
(whether as CONTRACTOR, subcontractor or owner- builder) any construction,
remodeling, repair and demolition operations on pavements, residential and
commercial buildings and other structures in the city.
      (7)   COVERED PROJECT. A construction, demolition, addition, alteration,
repair and remodel project within the city requiring a building or demolition
permit or a landscaping project requiring a development permit or a grading
project requiring a grading permit. This also includes all city public works
and construction projects which are awarded pursuant to the competitive bid
procedure.
      (8)   DEMOLITION. The decimating, razing, ruining, tearing down or
wrecking of any facility, structure, pavement or building, whether in whole or
in part, whether interior or exterior.
      (9)   DIVERSION. Redirection of material that would previously be
disposed into the landfill. Appropriate DIVERSION methods include transfer of
materials to licensed recycling facilities, approved on- site re-use
techniques, and other waste minimization methods approved by the Compliance
Official.
      (10)   EXEMPT. Projects described by the criteria outlined in division
(E) that are EXEMPT from the requirements of this section.
      (11)   LICENSED RECYCLING FACILITY. Approved processing facility by city,
county, state, or federal government.
      (12)   NON-COVERED PROJECTS. Projects that are not described by the
definition of covered projects.
      (13)   RECYCLE or RECYCLING. The process of collecting, sorting,
cleansing, treating, and reconstituting materials that would otherwise become
landfilled solid waste, and returning these materials to the economic
mainstream in the form of raw material for new, reused, or reconstituted
products that meet the quality standards necessary to be used in the
marketplace. RECYCLING does not include the transfer of rock, soil, or gravel
from one location to another location within the project site.
      (14)   RENOVATION. Any change, addition, or modification to an existing
structure.
      (15)   RESIDENTIAL STANDARDS. Standards that apply to the construction of
residential development.
      (16)   REUSE. The use of a material in the same or similar form as
originally produced, which material would otherwise be disposed. REUSE does not
include the transfer of rock, soil, or gravel from one location to another
location within the project site.
      (17)   SALVAGE. The controlled removal of construction and demolition
debris from a permitted building or demolition site for the purpose of
recycling, reuse, or storage for later recycling or reuse.
      (18)   SOLID WASTE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid, semisolid,
and liquid wastes, including garbage, trash, refuse, paper, rubbish, ashes,
industrial wastes, demolition and construction wastes, abandoned vehicles and
parts thereof, discarded home and industrial appliances, dewatered, treated or
chemically fixed sewage sludge, which is not hazardous waste, manure, vegetable
or animal solid and semisolid wastes, and other discarded solid and semisolid
wastes. Notwithstanding the foregoing, SOLID WASTE does not include any of the
following:
         (a)   Hazardous waste;
         (b)   Materials or substances that are salvaged for reuse or recycling
that are not disposed;
         (c)   Radioactive waste; or
         (d)   Medical waste.
   (C)   Designated recyclable and reusable materials. Recyclable and reusable
materials include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Appliances including, but not limited to, ovens, stoves,
refrigerators, freezers, water heaters, air conditioners, evaporative coolers,
washers, dryers, lighting and mechanical equipment;
      (2)   Cardboard containers and materials;
      (3)   Drywall and plaster materials including drywall, gypsum, and
sheetrock;
      (4)   Plant materials, which includes tree trimmings, grass, leaves,
roots, and branches;
      (5)   Masonry building materials, including but not limited to, all
products generally used in construction (concrete, rock, stone, stucco, brick
and the like);
      (6)   All metals including, but not limited to, ferrous (steel, stainless
steel, steel piping, roofing, and flashing) and non-ferrous (aluminum, copper,
and brass);
      (7)   Paving materials including asphalt, brick, concrete, paver blocks
and the like;
      (8)   Roofing materials including wood shingles as well as asphalt,
stone, concrete, metal, roof tiles and slate based roofing material;
      (9)   Salvageable materials including, but not limited to, wallboard,
door and window frames, doors, windows, plumbing or electrical fixtures,
toilets, sinks, bathtubs and mechanical equipment;
      (10)   Wood waste includes any and all dimensional lumber, fencing or
construction wood that is not chemically treated, creosoted, CCA pressure
treated, contaminated or painted; and
      (11)   Any other construction and demolition debris that is non-hazardous
and for which an economically feasible market exists.
   (D)   Diversion requirements for covered projects.
      (1)   Any covered project shall be subject to the provisions of this
section, except for the exemptions noted in division (E) and the exceptions
noted in division (I).
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner, the general contractor
and all subcontractors to divert from the landfill a minimum of 50% of
recyclable, reusable and salvageable debris to the maximum extent feasible and
as required in the Construction and Demolition Debris Plan. Ongoing compliance
with this section is a condition precedent to issuance of any covered projects
permit. For purposes of this section, permit shall include required permits for
development, building, demolition, or grading. Salvaged materials may be given
or sold on the premises, or may be removed to a reuse warehouse facility for
storage and later sale.
   (E)   Diversion requirement exemptions. The Compliance Official may
determine that a covered project is exempt if one of the following criteria is
met:
      (1)   Work for which a permit is not required;
      (2)   Roofing projects that do not include tear- off of existing roof or
some portion thereof;
      (3)   Remodels, alterations, or additions with total area less than 500
square feet;
      (4)   Work for which only a plumbing, only an electrical, or only a
mechanical permit is required;
      (5)   Seismic tie-down installation; or
      (6)   Installation of pre-fabricated patio enclosures or accessories such
as signs or antennas where no structural building modifications are required to
complete the entire project.
   (F)   Construction and Demolition Debris Plan.
      (1)   Prior to starting the covered project, every applicant shall submit
a properly completed Construction and Demolition Debris Plan to the Compliance
Official, in a form as prescribed by that Official, prior to initiating the
development, building, demolition, or grading permit process.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the owner, contractor, or subcontractor
to divert 50% of waste generated by a covered project, and to remain in
compliance with the requirements of this section until termination of the
Construction and Demolition Debris Plan and completion of the project.
      (3)   Approval of the Construction and Demolition Debris Plan as complete
and accurate shall be a condition precedent to the issuance of any development,
building, grading or demolition permit for the covered project.
      (4)   Approval of the Construction and Demolition Debris Plan shall not
be required where emergency demolition is required to protect public health or
safety.
      (5)   A Construction and Demolition Debris Plan shall be approved or
denied no later than 15 business days after a completed application is made.
The Compliance Official shall only approve the Construction and Demolition
Debris Plan if he or she determines all of the following conditions have been
met:
         (a)   The Construction and Demolition Debris Plan provides all of the
information set forth in this section, or as otherwise prescribed in writing
from time to time by the Compliance Official, under terms that conform to this
section; and
         (b)   The Construction and Demolition Debris Plan indicates that the
diversion requirements of division (D) are met in full.
      (6)   If the Compliance Official determines that the Construction and
Demolition Debris Plan is incomplete or fails to conclusively demonstrate that
the diversion requirements of division (D) will be met, he or she shall either:
         (a)   Return the Construction and Demolition Debris Plan to the
applicant marked "Disapproved", including a written statement of reasons, and
will notify the building department, which shall then immediately stop
processing the development, building, grading or demolition permit application;
or
         (b)   Return the Construction and Demolition Debris Plan to the
applicant marked "Further Explanation Required," with a written statement of
the nature of explanation to be submitted.
   (G)   Reporting.
      (1)   To the extent practical, as determined by the Compliance Official,
all Construction and Demolition Debris, whether landfilled or diverted, shall
be weighed in compliance with all regulatory requirements in effect at the time
relating to accuracy and maintenance of weighing equipment. For construction
and demolition debris for which weighing is not practical due to small size or
other considerations, a volumetric measurement must be used and the volume
converted to weight based on the standardized conversion rate table approved by
the city for this purpose.
      (2)   Throughout the duration of the project, the applicant is required
to submit documentation to the Compliance Official that demonstrates compliance
with the diversion and reporting requirements of this section. The
documentation shall consist of bi-monthly updates showing waste generated
tonnage data, total tonnage, tonnage diverted, and tonnage landfilled supported
by original or certified photocopies of receipts, weight tags or tickets or
other records of volume or weight measurement from recycling companies,
deconstruction contractors, and/or disposal companies or haulers or the
landfill where disposed. Receipts and weight tags or tickets will be used to
verify whether waste generated from the covered project has been recycled,
reused, salvaged or landfilled. The applicant shall make all reasonable efforts
to ensure that all recycled, reused, salvaged or landfilled waste is measured
and recorded using the most accurate method of measurement available.
      (3)   If the applicant fails to complete this requirement, the Compliance
Official shall:
         (a)   Notify the applicant in writing that the covered project does
not comply with the terms of this article and has ten days to submit the
required report(s); and
         (b)   Declare the covered project as noncompliant and issue or cause
to be issued a stop work order for the covered project.
   (H)   On-site practices. To the maximum extent feasible, waste generated
from a covered project shall be separated on-site. For construction and/or
demolition projects, on-site separation shall include salvageable materials
(appliances, fixtures, plumbing, metals, and the like) and dimensional lumber,
wallboard, concrete and corrugated cardboard.
   (I)   Exception procedure.
      (1)   Prior to commencing demolition or construction, an applicant
wishing relief may seek an exception, partial or complete, from the
requirements of this section through the process described in this division.
This division is supplemental to division (E) insofar as it exempts the
applicant from compliance with division (D) under appropriate circumstances.
However, the exception procedure involves the exercise of discretion by the
Compliance Official for projects that would otherwise, from their nature and
size, fall within the requirements of this section.
      (2)   This exception process shall be initiated by the filing of an
exception application with the Compliance Official. The Compliance Official
shall determine the completeness of the exception application within five
business days of the filing of the application.
      (3)   Following consideration of the exception application, the
Compliance Official shall either make the required findings and take action on
the application or shall state why the findings cannot be made and deny the
application. A decision on the application shall be rendered within ten
business days following determination the application is complete.
      (4)   All of the following findings must be made prior to the approval of
an exception:
         (a)   There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or
conditions applicable to the project that do not apply generally to similar
projects;
         (b)   Granting the application will not constitute a grant of special
privilege inconsistent with limitations imposed on like projects; and
         (c)   Cost to the applicant of strict compliance with this section is
not the primary reason for granting the exception.
   (J)   Appeal.
      (1)   An applicant may appeal any of the following determinations of the
Compliance Official by filing a complete and proper appeal with the Compliance
Official pursuant to this section:
         (a)   That the applicant has failed to remain in compliance with the
diversion requirements of division (D);
         (b)   That the applicant has failed to remain in compliance with the
reporting requirements of division (G);
         (c)   That the applicant has failed to remain in compliance with the
Construction and Demolition Debris Plan as required by division (F);
         (d)   That the applicant has failed to remain in compliance with on-
site practices under division (H);
         (e)   Denial of an exemption under division (E); and
         (f)   Denial of an exception under division (I).
      (2)   All appeals filed pursuant to this section shall be in writing and
shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Name(s) of each appellant and their legal or equitable interest
in the appeal;
         (b)   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the
specific items protested, together with any material facts claimed to support
the contentions of the appellant;
         (c)   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the relief
sought and the reasons why the Compliance Official's determination should be
reversed, modified or otherwise set aside; and
         (d)   The signatures of all parties named as appellants and their
official mailing addresses.
      (3)   A complete and proper appeal as described in this section shall be
filed with the Compliance Official within ten business days from the date of
completion of service of the Compliance Official's written determination.
Notice that is personally served is deemed completed at the time of such
personal service. Notice that is served by mail is deemed completed on the date
said notice is deposited in the mail. Any appeal not timely filed shall be
rejected.
      (4)   A filing fee as established by City Council resolution or any
amendments thereto for an appeal filed pursuant to this section must be paid to
the city at or prior to the time of the filing of such appeal. Any appeal filed
without payment of the filing fee shall be deemed incomplete.
      (5)   Not later than five business days from the date the appeal is
filed, the Compliance Official or his or her designee shall determine whether
the appeal is complete. If the appeal is determined to be incomplete, the
Compliance Official or his or her designee shall immediately mail to the
appellant a notice of incomplete filing that shall provide a written
explanation of each reason why the appeal has been determined to be incomplete.
If service of the notice of incomplete filing is completed within five business
days from the date the appeal is filed, the 10-day time period within which to
file a completed appeal shall not be extended.
      (6)   Failure to timely and properly file an appeal pursuant to this
section shall constitute a waiver of all rights to an administrative appeal
hearing and adjudication of the Compliance Official's determination, which
shall be deemed final on the date that service of the notice of said
determination is deemed completed pursuant to this section.
      (7)   Timely and properly filed appeals shall be conducted before an
administrative hearing officer in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 151 of this Code.
      (8)   Enforcement of the appealed determination shall be stayed during
the pendency of a timely and properly filed appeal conducted pursuant to this
section.
   (K)   Public nuisance. A violation of this section by any person responsible
for committing, causing or maintaining such violation, shall constitute a
public nuisance which shall be subject to the provisions of
Chapter 95A, including but not limited to the imposition of any and all
administrative fines and the provisions of any other applicable regulatory
codes, statutes and ordinances heretofore or hereinafter enacted by the city,
the state or any other legal entity or agency having jurisdiction.
   (L)   Violation. A violation of this section by any person responsible for
committing, causing or maintaining such a violation shall constitute a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000, or by incarceration in
the county jail for a period not to exceed six months, or by both such a fine
and such incarceration, or alternatively as an infraction violation, within the
discretion of the City Attorney. Each such violation shall also be subject to
the provisions set forth in
Chapter 95A, including but not limited to the imposition of any and all
criminal penalties set forth therein. Each day upon which any continuing
violation of this chapter takes place or exists shall represent grounds for a
separate criminal charge.
   (M)   Civil fines. Any person convicted of an infraction shall, for each are
violation of this section, be subject to:
      (1)   A fine in an amount not to exceed $250 for a first conviction of an
offense;
      (2)   A fine in an amount not to exceed $500 for a second conviction of
the same offense within a 12-month period of the date of the first offense; and
      (3)   A fine in an amount not to exceed $750 for the third conviction of
the same offense within a 12-month period of the date of the first offense. The
fine for a fourth and subsequent convictions of the same offense within a 12-
month period of the date of the first offense shall be $1,000.
   (N)   Modification, suspension and/or revocation of validly issued permit
and/or license. A violation of this section by the holder of any city permit
and/or city license validly pursuant to this or any other chapter shall
constitute grounds for modification, suspension and/or revocation of said
permit and/or license pursuant to the provisions set forth in
Chapter 95A.
   (O)   Additional penalties.
      (1)   Nothing in this section shall preclude the city from pursuing the
remedies provided by
Chapter 95A, including but not limited to, as applicable, denial or revocation
of certificates of occupancy, issuance of a stop work order and injunctive
relief.
      (2)   In addition to the above, failure to correct any condition
indicated in a notice of violation will permit the city to initiate one or more
of the following actions where appropriate:
         (a)   A stop work order under the provisions of division (G) herein;
         (b)   Refusal to issue future permits until applicant has adequately
demonstrated compliance with the notice of violation; and
         (c)   Immediate stop to the processing of all pending development,
building, grading, or demolition permits until applicant has adequately
demonstrated compliance with the notice of violation.
(Ord. 1501, passed 6-20-07)
CHAPTER 51A: MANDATORY ORGANIC WASTE DISPOSAL REDUCTION
Section
   
51A.01   Definitions
   
51A.02   Compliance generally
   
51A.03   Requirements for single- family organic waste generators
   
51A.04   Requirements for commercial organic waste generators and commercial
businesses
   
51A.05   Waivers for generators
   
51A.06   Requirements for commercial edible food generators
   
51A.07   Requirements for food recovery organizations and services
   
51A.08   Requirements for haulers, facility operators and community composting
operations
   
51A.09   Self-hauler requirements
   
51A.10   Model water efficient landscaping ordinance requirements
   
51A.11   Procurement requirements for direct service providers and vendors
   
51A.12   Inspections and investigations by the city
   
51A.13   Enforcement
§ 51A.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words, terms, phrases, and
their derivations have the meanings given herein. Terms not defined in this
section and defined elsewhere in this Code shall have the same meanings herein
unless the context otherwise requires. When consistent with the context, words
used in the present tense include the future tense, and words in the singular
number include the plural number. In the event of a conflict between a
definition in this Code and a definition in 14 CCR Section 18982, the
definitions in Section 18982 shall control for the purposes of this chapter.
Additionally, for the purposes of this chapter, the definitions in 14 CCR
Section 18982 shall control for terms used in this chapter and not defined in
this Code. Unless otherwise specified herein, references to a statute or
regulation means the statute or regulation, as amended, supplemented,
superseded and replaced from time to time.
   BLUE CONTAINER. Has the same meaning as in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(5) and
shall be used only for the purpose of storage and collection of source
separated recyclable materials. Notwithstanding the foregoing, functional
containers purchased prior to January 1, 2022 that are used for the storage and
collection of source separated recyclable materials and that do not comply with
the color requirements of 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(5) shall be deemed to be blue
containers and are not required to be replaced until the end of the useful life
of those containers or January 1, 2036, whichever is earlier.
   CALRECYCLE. The California Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery,
which is the department designated with responsibility for developing,
implementing, and enforcing SB 1383 regulations on the city (and others).
   CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATIONS (CCR). The State of California Code of
Regulations. CCR references in this chapter are preceded with a number that
refers to the relevant title of the CCR (e.g., "14 CCR" refers to Title 14 of
the CCR).
   CITY. The City of Indio.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the city or his/her designee.
   COMMERCIAL BUSINESS OR COMMERCIAL. A firm, partnership, proprietorship,
joint-stock company, corporation, or association, whether for-profit or
nonprofit, strip mall, industrial facility, or a multi-family residential
dwelling; or, as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(6). A multi-
family residential dwelling that consists of fewer than five dwelling units is
not a commercial business for purposes of implementing this chapter.
   COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATOR. Includes a tier one or a tier two
commercial edible food generator as defined herein. For the purposes of this
definition, food recovery organizations and food recovery services are not
commercial edible food generators pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(7).
   COMMUNITY COMPOSTING. Any activity that composts green material,
agricultural material, food material, and vegetative food material, alone or in
combination, and the total amount of feedstock and compost on-site at any one
time does not exceed 100 cubic yards and 750 square feet, as specified in 14
CCR Section 17855(a)(4); or, as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)
(8).
   COMPOST. Has the same meaning as in 14 CCR Section 17896.2(a)(4).
   COMPOSTABLE PLASTICS. Plastic materials that meet the ASTM D6400 standard
for compostability; or, as otherwise described in 14 CCR Section 18984.1 (a)(1)
(A) or 18984.2(a)(1)(C).
   CONTAINER CONTAMINATION OR CONTAMINATED CONTAINER. A container, regardless
of color, that contains prohibited container contaminants; or, as otherwise
defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(55).
   COUNTY. The County of Riverside.
   C&D. Construction and demolition debris removed from a premise during the
construction or demolition of a structure.
   DESIGNEE. An entity that the city contracts with or otherwise arranges to
carry out any of the city's responsibilities of this chapter as authorized in
14 CCR Section 18981.2; or, as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)
(15). A designee may be a government entity, a hauler, a private entity, or a
combination of those entities.
   EDIBLE FOOD. Food intended for human consumption; or, as otherwise defined
in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(18). For the purposes of this chapter or as
otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(18), EDIBLE FOOD is not solid
waste if it is recovered and not discarded. Nothing in this chapter or in 14
CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12 requires or authorizes the recovery of edible food
that does not meet the food safety requirements of the State Retail Food Code.
   ENFORCEMENT ACTION. An action of the city to address non-compliance with
this chapter including, but not limited to, issuing administrative citations,
fines, penalties, or using other remedies; or, as otherwise defined in 14 CCR
Section 18982(a)(19).
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. The City Manager or the designee who is/are partially
or wholly responsible for enforcing this chapter. The enforcement official
includes the regional or county agency enforcement official.
   EXCLUDED WASTE. Hazardous substance, hazardous waste, infectious waste,
designated waste, volatile, corrosive, medical waste, infectious, regulated
radioactive waste, and toxic substances or material that facility operator(s),
which receive materials from the city and its generators, reasonably believe(s)
would, as a result of or upon acceptance, transfer, processing, or disposal, be
a violation of local, state, or federal law, regulation, or ordinance,
including: land use restrictions or conditions, waste that cannot be disposed
of in Class III landfills or accepted at the facility by permit conditions,
waste that in the city's enforcement official's or its designee's, reasonable
opinion would present a significant risk to human health or the environment,
cause a nuisance or otherwise create or expose the city, or its designee, to
potential liability; but not including de minimis volumes or concentrations of
waste of a type and amount normally found in single-family or multi-family
solid waste after implementation of programs for the safe collection,
processing, recycling, treatment, and disposal of batteries and paint in
compliance with Sections 41500 and 41802 of the State Public Resources Code.
   FOOD DISTRIBUTOR. A company that distributes food to entities including, but
not limited to, supermarkets and grocery stores; or, as otherwise defined in 14
CCR Section 18982(a)(22).
   FOOD FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in Section 113789 of the State Health
and Safety Code.
   FOOD RECOVERY. Actions to collect and distribute food for human consumption
that otherwise would be disposed; or, as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section
18982(a)(24).
   FOOD RECOVERY ORGANIZATION, unless otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982
(a)(25), means an entity that engages in the collection or receipt of edible
food from commercial edible food generators and distributes that edible food to
the public for food recovery either directly or through other entities,
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   A food bank as defined in Section 113783 of the State Health and
Safety Code;
      (2)   A nonprofit charitable organization as defined in Section 113841 of
the State Health and Safety Code; and
      (3)   A nonprofit charitable temporary food facility as defined in
Section 113842 of the State Health and Safety Code.
A FOOD RECOVERY ORGANIZATION is not a commercial edible food generator for the
purposes of this chapter and implementation of 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12
pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(7).
   FOOD RECOVERY SERVICE. A person or entity that collects and transports
edible food from a commercial edible food generator to a food recovery
organization or other entities for food recovery; or, as otherwise defined in
14 CCR Section 18982(a)(26). A food recovery service is not a commercial edible
food generator for the purposes of this chapter and implementation of 14 CCR,
Division 7, Chapter 12 pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(7).
   FOOD SCRAPS. All food such as, but not limited to, fruits, vegetables, meat,
poultry, seafood, shellfish, bones, rice, beans, pasta, bread, cheese, and
eggshells. FOOD SCRAPS excludes fats, oils, and grease when such materials are
source separated from other food scraps.
   FOOD SERVICE PROVIDER. An entity primarily engaged in providing food
services to institutional, governmental, commercial, or industrial locations of
others based on contractual arrangements with these types of organizations; or,
as otherwise defined in  14 CCR Section 18982(a)(27).
   FOOD-SOILED PAPER. Compostable paper material that has come in contact with
food or liquid, such as, but not limited to, compostable paper plates, paper
coffee cups, napkins, pizza boxes, and milk cartons.
   FOOD WASTE. Food scraps, food-soiled paper, and compostable plastics.
   GENERATOR. A person or entity that is responsible for the initial creation
of solid waste, and with respect to organic waste, means a person or entity
that is responsible for the initial creation of organic waste; or, as otherwise
defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(48).
   GRAY CONTAINER. Has the same meaning as in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(28) and
shall be used only for the purpose of storage and collection of gray container
waste. Notwithstanding the foregoing, functional containers purchased prior to
January 1, 2022 that are used for the storage and collection of gray container
waste and that do not comply with the color requirements of 14 CCR Section
18982(a)(28) shall be deemed to be gray containers and are not required to be
replaced until the end of the useful life of those containers or January 1,
2036, whichever is earlier.
   GRAY CONTAINER WASTE. Solid waste that is collected in a gray container that
is part of the city's three-container organic waste collection service that
prohibits the placement of organic waste in the gray container as specified in
14 CCR Sections 18984.1(a) and (b); or, as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section
17402(a)(6.5). Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, gray container waste
includes carpets and textiles.
   GREEN CONTAINER. Has the same meaning as in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(29) and
shall be used only for the purpose of storage and collection of source
separated green container organic waste. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
functional containers purchased prior to January 1, 2022 that are used for the
storage and collection of source separated green container organic waste and
that do not comply with the color requirements of 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(29)
shall be deemed to be green containers and are not required to be replaced
until the end of the useful life of those containers or January 1, 2036,
whichever is earlier.
   GROCERY STORE. A store primarily engaged in the retail sale of canned food;
dry goods; fresh fruits and vegetables; fresh meats, fish, and poultry; and any
area that is not separately owned within the store where the food is prepared
and served, including a bakery, deli, and meat and seafood departments; or, as
otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(30).
   HIGH DIVERSION ORGANIC WASTE PROCESSING FACILITY. A facility that is in
compliance with the reporting requirements of 14 CCR Section 18815.5(d) and
meets or exceeds an annual average mixed waste organic content recovery rate of
50% between January 1, 2022 and December 31, 2024, and 75% after January 1,
2025, as calculated pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18815.5(e) for organic waste
received from the "Mixed Waste Organic Collection Stream" as defined in 14 CCR
Section 17402(a)(11.5); or, as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)
(33).
   INSPECTION. A site visit where the city or its designee reviews records,
containers, and an entity's collection, handling, recycling, or landfill
disposal of organic waste or edible food handling to determine if the entity is
complying with requirements set forth in this chapter; or, as otherwise defined
in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(35).
   LARGE EVENT. An event, including, but not limited to, a sporting event or a
flea market, that charges an admission price, or is operated by a local agency,
and serves an average of more than 2,000 individuals per day of operation of
the event, at a location that includes, but is not limited to, a public,
nonprofit, or privately owned park, parking lot, golf course, street system, or
other open space when being used for an event; or, as otherwise defined in 14
CCR Section 18982(a)(38).
   LARGE VENUE, unless otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(39), means
a permanent venue facility that annually seats or serves an average of more
than 2,000 individuals within the grounds of the facility per day of operation
of the venue facility. For purposes of this chapter and implementation of 14
CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12, a venue facility includes, but is not limited to,
a public, nonprofit, or privately owned or operated stadium, amphitheater,
arena, hall, amusement park, conference or civic center, zoo, aquarium,
airport, racetrack, horse track, performing arts center, fairground, museum,
theater, or other public attraction facility. For purposes of this chapter and
implementation of 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12, a site under common ownership
or control that includes more than one large venue that is contiguous with
other large venues in the site, is a single large venue.
   LOCAL EDUCATION AGENCY. A school district, charter school, or county office
of education that is not subject to the control of the city's regulations
related to solid waste; or, as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)
(40).
   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DWELLING(S) OR MULTI-FAMILY. Of, from, or
pertaining to residential premises with five or more dwelling units. Multi-
family premises do not include hotels, motels, or other transient occupancy
facilities, which are considered commercial businesses.
   MWELO. Refers to the Model Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance, 23 CCR,
Division 2, Chapter 2.7.
   NON-COMPOSTABLE PAPER includes, but is not limited to, paper that is coated
in a plastic material that will not breakdown in the composting process; or, as
otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(41).
   NOTICE OF VIOLATION. A notice that a violation has occurred that includes a
compliance date to avoid an action to seek penalties; or, as otherwise defined
in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(45) or further explained in 14 CCR Section 18995.4.
   ORGANIC WASTE. Solid waste containing material originated from living
organisms and their metabolic waste products, including, but not limited to,
food, green material, landscape and pruning waste, organic textiles and
carpets, lumber, wood, paper products, printing and writing paper, manure,
biosolids, digestate, and sludges; or, as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section
18982(a)(46). Biosolids and digestate are as defined by 14 CCR Section 18982
(a).
   PAPER PRODUCTS include, but are not limited to, paper janitorial supplies,
cartons, wrapping, packaging, file folders, hanging files, corrugated boxes,
tissue, and toweling; or, as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(51).
   PRINTING AND WRITING PAPERS include, but are not limited to, copy,
xerographic, watermark, cotton fiber, offset, forms, computer printout paper,
white wove envelopes, manila envelopes, book paper, note pads, writing tablets,
newsprint, and other uncoated writing papers, posters, index cards, calendars,
brochures, reports, magazines, and publications; or, as otherwise defined in 14
CCR Section 18982(a)(54).
   PROHIBITED CONTAINER CONTAMINANTS, unless otherwise defined in 14 CCR
Section 18982(a)(55), means the following:
      (1)   Discarded materials placed in the blue container that are not
identified by the city as acceptable source separated recyclable materials for
the blue container;
      (2)   Discarded materials placed in the green container that are not
identified by the city as acceptable source separated green container organic
waste for the green container, including carpet, hazardous wood waste and non-
compostable paper;
      (3)   Discarded materials placed in the gray container that are
identified by the city as acceptable source separated recyclable materials to
be placed in the blue container or source separated green container organic
waste to be placed in the city's green container; and,
      (4)   Excluded waste placed in any container.
   RECOVERY. Any activity or process described in 14 CCR Section 18983.1(b);
or, as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(49).
   RECYCLED-CONTENT PAPER. Paper products and printing and writing papers that
consist of at least 30%, by fiber weight, postconsumer fiber; or, as otherwise
defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(61).
   REGIONAL OR COUNTY AGENCY ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. A regional agency or county
agency enforcement official, which the city may designate with responsibility
for enforcing this chapter in conjunction or consultation with the city's
enforcement official.
   REMOTE MONITORING. The use, at the discretion of the city, of the internet
of things (IoT) and/or wireless electronic devices to visualize the contents of
blue containers, green containers, and gray containers for purposes of
identifying the quantity of materials in containers (level of fill) and/or
presence of prohibited container contaminants.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment primarily engaged in the retail sale of food
and drinks for on-premises or immediate consumption; or, as otherwise defined
in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(64).
   SB 1383. Senate Bill 1383 of 2016 approved by the Governor of the State on
September 19, 2016, which added Sections 39730.5, 39730.6, 39730.7, and 39730.8
to the State Health and Safety Code, and added Chapter 13.1 (commencing with
Section 42652) to Part 3 of Division 30 of the State Public Resources Code,
establishing methane emissions reduction targets in a statewide effort to
reduce emissions of short-lived climate pollutants.
   SB 1383 REGULATIONS. The Short-Lived Climate Pollutants: Organic Waste
Reduction regulations developed by CalRecycle and adopted in 2020 that created
14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12 and amended portions of 14 CCR and 27 CCR.
   SELF-HAULER. A person or entity, who, in compliance with all applicable
requirements of this  Code, hauls solid waste, organic waste or recyclable
materials he or she has generated to another person or entity; or, as otherwise
defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(66). Self-hauler also includes a person or
entity who back-hauls waste. Back-haul means generating and transporting
organic waste to a destination owned and operated by the generator using the
generator's own employees and equipment; or, as otherwise defined in 14 CCR
Section 18982(a)(66)(A).
   SINGLE-FAMILY. Of, from, or pertaining to any residential premises with
fewer than five units.
   SOLID WASTE, unless otherwise defined in State Public Resources Code Section
40191, means all putrescible and nonputrescible solid, semisolid, and liquid
wastes, including garbage, trash, refuse, paper, rubbish, ashes, industrial
wastes, demolition and construction wastes, abandoned vehicles and parts
thereof, discarded home and industrial appliances, dewatered, treated, or
chemically fixed sewage sludge which is not hazardous waste, manure, vegetable
or animal solid and semi-solid wastes, and other discarded solid and semi-solid
wastes, with the exception that solid waste does not include any of the
following wastes:
      (1)   Hazardous waste, as defined in the State Public Resources Code
Section 40141;
      (2)   Radioactive waste regulated pursuant to the Radiation Control Law
(Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 114960) of Part 9 of Division 104 of the
State Health and Safety Code); and,
      (3)   Medical waste regulated pursuant to the Medical Waste Management
Act (Part 14 (commencing with Section 117600) of Division 104 of the State
Health and Safety Code). Untreated medical waste shall not be disposed of in a
solid waste landfill, as defined in State Public Resources Code Section
40195.1. Medical waste that has been treated and deemed to be solid waste shall
be regulated pursuant to Division 30 of the State Public Resources Code.
   SOURCE SEPARATED. Materials, including commingled recyclable materials, that
have been separated or kept separate from the solid waste stream, at the point
of generation, for the purpose of additional sorting or processing those
materials for recycling or reuse in order to return them to the economic
mainstream in the form of raw material for new, reused, or reconstituted
products, which meet the quality standards necessary to be used in the
marketplace; or,  as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 17402.5(b)(4). For the
purposes of this chapter, source separated shall include separation of
materials, at the point of generation, by the generator, property owner,
property owner's employee, property manager, or property manager's employee
into different containers for the purpose of collection such that source
separated materials are separated from gray container waste or other solid
waste for the purposes of collection and processing of those materials.
   SOURCE SEPARATED BLUE CONTAINER ORGANIC WASTE. Source separated organic
waste that can be placed in a blue container that is limited to the collection
of that organic waste and non-organic recyclables. SOURCE SEPARATED BLUE
CONTAINER ORGANIC WASTE includes paper products and printing and writing papers
unless otherwise specified by the city, but excludes source separated green
container organic waste.
   SOURCE SEPARATED GREEN CONTAINER ORGANIC WASTE. Source separated organic
waste that can be placed in a green container, including food waste, that is
limited to the collection of that organic waste; or as otherwise specified in
14 CCR 18984.1(a) and (b), but excludes source separated blue container organic
waste, carpets, non-compostable paper, and textiles.
   SOURCE SEPARATED RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Source separated non-organic
recyclables and source separated blue container organic waste.
   SOURCE SEPARATED NON-ORGANIC RECYCLABLES. Non-putrescible and non-hazardous
recyclable wastes including, but not limited to, bottles, cans, metals,
plastics and glass; or, as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(43)
that can be placed in a blue container, that is limited to the collection of
those recyclable wastes and source separated blue container organic waste.
   STATE. The State of California.
   SUPERMARKET. A full-line, self-service retail store with gross annual sales
of $2,000,000, or more, and which sells a line of dry grocery, canned goods, or
nonfood items and some perishable items; or, as otherwise defined in 14 CCR
Section 18982(a)(71).
   TIER ONE COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATOR. A commercial edible food
generator  that is one of the following; or, as otherwise defined in 14 CCR
Section 18982(a)(73):
      (1)   Supermarket;
      (2)   Grocery store with a total facility size equal to or greater than
10,000 square feet;
      (3)   Food service provider;
      (4)   Food distributor; or,
      (5)   Wholesale food vendor.
   'TIER TWO COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATOR. A commercial edible food
generator that is one of the following; or, as otherwise defined in 14 CCR
Section 18982(a)(74):
      (1)   Restaurant with 250 or more seats, or a total facility size equal
to or greater than 5,000 square feet;
      (2)   Hotel with an on-site food facility and 200 or more rooms;
      (3)   Health facility with an on-site food facility and 100 or more beds;
      (4)   Large venue;
      (5)   Large event;
      (6)   A state agency with a cafeteria with 250 or more seats or total
cafeteria facility size equal to or greater than 5,000 square feet; or
      (7)   A local education agency facility with an on-site food facility.
   WHOLESALE FOOD VENDOR. A business or establishment engaged in the merchant
wholesale distribution of food, where food (including fruits and vegetables) is
received, shipped, stored, prepared for distribution to a retailer, warehouse,
distributor, or other destination; or, as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section
189852(a)(76).
(Ord. 1778, passed 5-18-22)
§ 51A.02 COMPLIANCE GENERALLY.
   Generators, haulers and other entities that are subject to the requirements
of SB 1383 and the SB 1383 Regulations and the city's authority shall fully
comply with all applicable requirements of SB 1383, the SB 1383 Regulations,
this chapter, and the provisions of any franchise agreement between the city
and a franchised hauler in effect. In the event of a conflict between the
provisions of this chapter and other provisions of this Code, the provisions of
this chapter shall control. In the event of a conflict between the provisions
of the SB 1383 Regulations and the provisions of this chapter, the SB 1383
Regulations shall control.
(Ord. 1778, passed 5-18-22)
§ 51A.03 REQUIREMENTS FOR SINGLE-FAMILY ORGANIC WASTE GENERATORS.
   Single-family organic waste generators shall comply with the following
requirements:
   (A)   Subscribe to the city's three-container organic waste collection
service(s) for all organic waste generated as described in division (B) of this
section. The city shall have the right to review the number and size of a
generator's containers to evaluate adequacy of capacity provided for each type
of collection service for proper separation of materials and containment of
materials; and single-family generators shall adjust their service level for
their collection services as requested by the city. Generators may additionally
manage their organic waste by preventing or reducing their organic waste,
managing organic waste on site, and/or using a community composting site
pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18984.9(c). Generators may additionally meet the
self-hauler requirements of §
51A.09.
   (B)   Participate in the city's organic waste collection service by placing
designated materials in designated containers as described in this division,
and not placing prohibited container contaminants in collection containers.
Generators shall place source separated green container organic waste,
including food waste, in the green container; source separated recyclable
materials (which includes source separated non-organic recyclables and source
separated blue container waste) in the blue container; and gray container waste
in the gray container. Generators shall not place materials designated for the
gray container into the green container or blue container. Generators may
additionally meet the self-hauler requirements of §
51A.09.
(Ord. 1778, passed 5-18-22)
§ 51A.04 REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL ORGANIC WASTE GENERATORS AND COMMERCIAL
BUSINESSES.
   Commercial organic waste generators and commercial businesses shall comply
with the following requirements:
   (A)   Commercial organic waste generators, including multi-family
residential dwellings, shall subscribe to the city's three-container organic
waste collection service and comply with requirements of that service as
described below in division (B) of this section. The city shall have the right
to review the number and size of a generator's containers and frequency of
collection to evaluate adequacy of capacity provided for each type of
collection service for proper separation of materials and containment of
materials; and commercial businesses shall adjust their service level for their
collection services as requested by the city. Generators may additionally
manage their organic waste by preventing or reducing their organic waste,
managing organic waste on site, and/or using a community composting site
pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18984.9(c). Generators may additionally meet the
self-hauler requirements of §
51A.09.
   (B)   Commercial organic waste generators, including multi-family
residential dwellings, shall participate in the city's organic waste collection
service by placing designated materials in designated containers as described
in this division, and not placing prohibited container contaminants in
containers. Generators shall place source separated green container organic
waste, including food waste, in the green container; source separated
recyclable materials (which includes source separated non-organic recyclables
and source separated blue container waste) in the blue container; and gray
container waste in the gray container. Generators shall not place materials
designated for the gray container into the green container or blue container.
Generators may additionally meet the self-hauler requirements of § 51A.09.
   (C)   Commercial organic waste generators, except for multi-family
residential dwellings, shall provide containers for the collection of source
separated green container organic waste and source separated recyclable
materials in all indoor and outdoor areas where disposal containers are
provided for customers. Such containers shall be visible and easily accessible.
Such containers do not need to be provided in restrooms. If a commercial
business does not generate any of the materials that would be collected in one
type of container, then the business does not have to provide that particular
container in all areas where disposal containers are provided for customers.
Pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18984.9(b), the containers provided by the business
shall have either:
      (1)   A body or lid that conforms with the container colors provided
through the organic waste collection service provided by the city. A commercial
business is not required to replace functional containers, including containers
purchased prior to January 1, 2022, that do not comply with the requirements of
this division prior to the end of the useful life of those containers, or prior
to January 1, 2036, whichever comes first.
      (2)   Container labels that include language or graphic images, or both,
indicating the primary material accepted and the primary materials prohibited
in that container, or containers with imprinted text or graphic images that
indicate the primary materials accepted and primary materials prohibited in the
container; or as otherwise provided in 14 CCR Section 18984.8.
   (D)   Commercial organic waste generators, including multi-family
residential dwellings, shall supply and allow access to adequate number, size
and location of collection containers with sufficient labels or colors
(conforming to division (C)(1) and (C)(2) of this section) for employees,
contractors, tenants, and customers, consistent with the city's collection
service and Article 3 of Chapter 12 of Division 7 of Title 14 of the CCR.
   (E)   Commercial organic waste generators, except for multi-family
residential dwellings, shall prohibit employees from placing materials in a
container not designated for those materials per the city's blue container,
green container, and gray container collection service pursuant to 14 CCR
Section 18984.1(a)(5).
   (F)   Commercial organic waste generators, except for multi-family
residential dwellings, shall periodically inspect blue containers, green
containers, and gray containers for contamination and inform employees if
containers are contaminated and of the requirements to keep contaminants out of
those containers pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18984.9(b)(3).
   (G)   Commercial businesses, including multi-family residential dwellings,
shall annually provide information to employees, contractors, tenants, and
customers about organic waste recovery requirements and about proper sorting of
source separated green container organic waste and source separated recyclable
materials.
   (H)   Commercial businesses, including multi-family residential dwellings,
shall provide information as described in division (G) of this section before
or within 14 days of occupation of the premises to new tenants.
   (I)   Commercial businesses, including multi-family residential dwellings,
shall provide or arrange access for the city or its agent to their properties
during all inspections conducted in accordance with §
51A.12 to confirm compliance with the requirements of this section.
   (J)   If a commercial business wants to self-haul, meet the self-hauler
requirements of §
51A.09.
   (K)   Commercial organic waste generators, including multi-family
residential dwellings, if generating two cubic yards or more of total solid
waste per week (or other threshold defined by the state), shall require that
any contract or work agreement between the owner, occupant, or operator of the
commercial business and a gardening or landscaping service specify that the
organic waste generated by those services be managed in compliance with Chapter
12, Part 3, Division 30 of the Public Resources Code.
   (L)   Commercial businesses that are tier one or tier two commercial edible
food generators shall comply with food recovery requirements, pursuant to §
51A.06.
   (M)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as classifying customers as
commercial, residential, single family dwellings, or multi-family dwellings,
for purposes of implementing a franchise agreement between the city and a
franchised hauler.
(Ord. 1778, passed 5-18-22)
§ 51A.05 WAIVERS FOR GENERATORS.
   The city, at its discretion and in accordance with 14 CCR Section 18984.11,
or as otherwise authorized by CalRecycle, may grant one or more of the
following types of waivers to a generator of organic waste:
   (A)   De minimis waivers. The city may waive a commercial business'
(including multi- family residential dwellings) obligations to comply with some
or all of the organic waste requirements of §
51A.04 if the commercial business provides documentation, or the city has
evidence demonstrating, that the commercial business generates below a certain
amount of organic waste material as described below in division (A)(2) of this
section. Commercial businesses requesting a de minimis waiver shall:
      (1)   Submit an application specifying the services for which the
commercial business is requesting a waiver and provide documentation as noted
in division (A)(2) of this section.
      (2)   Provide documentation that either:
         (a)   The commercial business' total solid waste collection service is
two cubic yards or more per week and organic waste subject to collection in a
blue container or green container comprises less than 20 gallons per week per
applicable container of the business' total waste; or,
         (b)   The commercial business' total solid waste collection service is
less than two cubic yards per week and organic waste subject to collection in a
blue container or green container comprises less than ten gallons per week per
applicable container of the business' total waste.
      (3)   Notify the city if circumstances change such that the commercial
business' organic waste exceeds the threshold required for waiver, in which
case the waiver will be rescinded. In addition, if the city determines at any
time that a commercial business that has received a waiver is exceeding the
organic waste thresholds set forth in division (A)(2) of this section, the city
shall rescind the waiver.
      (4)   Provide written verification of eligibility for a de minimis waiver
every five years, if the city has approved a de minimis waiver.
   (B)   Physical space waivers. The city may waive a commercial business'
(including multi-family residential dwellings) or property owner's obligations
to comply with some or all of the recyclable materials and/or organic waste
collection service requirements of §
51A.04, as applicable, if the city has evidence from its own staff, a hauler,
licensed architect, or licensed engineer demonstrating that the premises lacks
adequate space for the collection containers required for compliance with the
organic waste collection requirements of §
51A.04, as applicable. Commercial businesses or property owners requesting a
physical space waiver shall:
      (1)   Submit an application form specifying the type of collection
services for which the commercial business is requesting a waiver and provide
documentation as noted below.
      (2)   Provide documentation that the premises lack adequate space for
blue containers and/or green containers including documentation from its
hauler, licensed architect, or licensed engineer.
      (3)   Notify the city if circumstances change such that commercial
business has adequate space for the collection containers required for
compliance with the organic waste collection requirements of §
51A.04, in which case the waiver will be rescinded. In addition, if the city
determines at any time that a commercial business that has adequate space for
the collection containers required for compliance with the organic waste
collection requirements of §
51A.04, the city shall rescind the waiver.
      (4)   Provide written verification to the city that it is still eligible
for a physical space waiver every five years, if the city has approved an
application for a physical space waiver.
   (C)   The City Manager will be responsible for review and approval of
waivers.
(Ord. 1778, passed 5-18-22)
§ 51A.06 REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATORS.
   (A)   Tier one commercial edible food generators must comply with the
requirements of this section commencing January 1, 2022, and tier two
commercial edible food generators must comply with the requirements of this
section commencing January 1, 2024, pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18991.3.
   (B)   Large venue or large event operators, not providing food services, but
allowing for food to be provided by others, shall require food facilities
operating at the large venue or large event to comply with the requirements of
this section, commencing January 1, 2024.
   (C)   Commercial edible food generators shall comply with the following
requirements:
      (1)   Arrange to recover the maximum amount of edible food that would
otherwise be disposed.
      (2)   Contract with or enter into a written agreement with food recovery
organizations or food recovery services for:
         (a)   The collection of edible food for food recovery; or,
         (b)   Acceptance of the edible food that the commercial edible food
generator self-hauls to the food recovery organization for food recovery.
      (3)   Shall not intentionally spoil edible food that is capable of being
recovered by a food recovery organization or a food recovery service.
      (4)   Allow the city's designated enforcement entity or designated third
party enforcement entity to access the premises and review records kept
pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18991.4.
      (5)   Keep records that include the following information, or as
otherwise specified in 14 CCR Section 18991.4:
         (a)   A list of each food recovery service or food recovery
organization that collects or receives its edible food pursuant to a contract
or written agreement established under 14 CCR Section 18991.3(b).
         (b)   A copy of all contracts or written agreements established under
14 CCR Section 18991.3(b).
         (c)   A record of the following information for each of those food
recovery services or food recovery organizations:
            1.   The name, address and contact information of the food recovery
service or food recovery organization.
            2.   The types of food that will be collected by or self-hauled to
the food recovery service or food recovery organization.
            3.   The established frequency that food will be collected or self-
hauled.
            4.   The quantity of food, measured in pounds recovered per month,
collected or self-hauled to a food recovery service or food recovery
organization for food recovery.
   (D)   If the enforcement official makes a request, then within 30 days of
the request, tier one commercial edible foods generators and tier two
commercial edible food generators shall provide a food recovery report to the
city that includes the following information:
      (1)   A copy of all contracts or written agreements established under 14
CCR Section 18991.3(b).
      (2)   The quantity of food, measured in annual pounds recovered,
collected or self-hauled to a food recovery service or food recovery
organization for food recovery.
      (3)   The name, address and contact information of the food recovery
service or food recovery organization.
      (4)   Any additional information required by the city or the city's
designee.
   (E)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit or conflict with
the protections provided by the State Good Samaritan Food Donation Act of 2017,
the Federal Good Samaritan Act, or share table and school food donation
guidance pursuant to Senate Bill 557 of 2017 (approved by the Governor of the
State on September 25, 2017, which added Article 13 (commencing with Section
49580) to Chapter 9 of Part 27 of Division 4 of Title 2 of the State Education
Code, and amended Section 114079 of the State Health and Safety Code, relating
to food safety, as amended, supplemented, superseded and replaced from time to
time.)
(Ord. 1778, passed 5-18-22)
§ 51A.07 REQUIREMENTS FOR FOOD RECOVERY ORGANIZATIONS AND SERVICES.
   (A)   Food recovery services collecting or receiving edible food directly
from commercial edible food generators, via a contract or written agreement
established under 14 CCR Section 18991.3(b), shall maintain the following
records, or as otherwise specified by 14 CCR Section 18991.5(a)(1):
      (1)   The name, address, and contact information for each commercial
edible food generator from which the service collects edible food.
      (2)   The quantity in pounds of edible food collected from each
commercial edible food generator per month.
      (3)   The quantity in pounds of edible food transported to each food
recovery organization per month.
      (4)   The name, address, and contact information for each food recovery
organization that the food recovery service transports edible food to for food
recovery.
   (B)   Food recovery organizations collecting or receiving edible food
directly from commercial edible food generators, via a contract or written
agreement established under 14 CCR Section 18991.3(b), shall maintain the
following records, or as otherwise specified by 14 CCR Section 18991.5(a)(2):
      (1)   The name, address, and contact information for each commercial
edible food generator from which the organization receives edible food.
      (2)   The quantity in pounds of edible food received from each commercial
edible food generator per month.
      (3)   The name, address, and contact information for each food recovery
service that the organization receives edible food from for food recovery.
   (C)   If the enforcement official makes a request, then within 30 days of
the request, food recovery organizations and food recovery services that have
their primary address physically located in the city and contract with or have
written agreements with one or more commercial edible food generators pursuant
to 14 CCR Section 18991.3(b) shall report to the city the total pounds of
edible food recovered in the previous calendar year from the tier one and tier
two commercial edible food generators they have established a contract or
written agreement with pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18991.3(b).
   (D)   Food recovery organizations and food recovery services shall inform
generators about State and Federal Good Samaritan Food Donation Act protection
in written communications, such as in their contract or agreement established
under 14 CCR Section 18991.3(b).
   (E)   Food recovery capacity planning–food recovery services and food
recovery organizations. In order to support the city's cooperation with the
county in its conduct of edible food recovery capacity planning assessments or
other studies, food recovery services and food recovery organizations operating
in the city shall provide information and consultation to the city, upon
request, regarding existing, or proposed new or expanded, food recovery
capacity that could be accessed by the city and its commercial edible food
generators. A food recovery service or food recovery organization contacted by
the city shall respond to such request for information within 60 days, unless a
shorter timeframe is otherwise specified by the city.
(Ord. 1778, passed 5-18-22)
§ 51A.08 REQUIREMENTS FOR HAULERS, FACILITY OPERATORS AND COMMUNITY COMPOSTING
OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Requirements for haulers. Haulers providing residential, commercial,
or industrial organic waste collection services to generators within the city's
boundaries shall meet the requirements and standards of 14 CCR, Division 7,
Chapter 12 and the following requirements as conditions of approval of
contract, agreement, or other authorization to collect organic waste:
      (1)   Through written notice to the city, identify the facilities to
which they will transport organic waste.
      (2)   Comply with the applicable requirements of 14 CCR, Division 7,
Chapter 12, Article 3.
      (3)   Transport organic waste to a facility, operation, activity, or
property that recovers organic waste as defined in 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter
12, Article 2.
      (4)   Obtain applicable approval of the city pursuant to 14 CCR Section
18988.1 and keep a record of the documentation of its approval by the city.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section is not applicable to a hauler that
consistent with Article 1, Chapter 9, Part 2, Division 30, commencing with
Section 41950 of the State Public Resources Code, is transporting source
separated organic waste to a community composting site or to a hauler that is
lawfully transporting C&D in a manner that complies with 14 CCR Section 18989.1
and applicable requirements of this Code.
   (C)   Requirements for facility operators and community composting
operations.
      (1)   Owners of facilities, operations, and activities that recover
organic waste, including, but not limited to, compost facilities, in-vessel
digestion facilities, and publicly-owned treatment works shall, upon the city's
request, provide information regarding available and potential new or expanded
capacity at their facilities, operations, and activities, including information
about throughput and permitted capacity necessary for planning purposes.
Entities contacted by the city shall respond within 60 days, unless a shorter
timeframe is otherwise specified by the city.
      (2)   Community composting operators, upon the city's request, shall
provide information to the city to support organic waste capacity planning,
including, but not limited to, an estimate of the amount of organic waste
anticipated to be handled at the community composting operation. Entities
contacted by the city shall respond within 60 days, unless a shorter timeframe
is otherwise specified by the city.
(Ord. 1778, passed 5-18-22)
§ 51A.09 SELF-HAULER REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to any other requirements for self-haulers as contained in this
Code:
   (A)   Self-haulers of organic waste shall comply with the requirements in 14
CCR Section 18988.3.
   (B)   Self-haulers shall source separate all recyclable materials and
organic waste (materials that the city otherwise requires organic waste
generators to separate for collection in the city's organics and recycling
collection program) generated onsite from solid waste in a manner consistent
with 14 CCR Section 18984.1, or shall haul, on an at least weekly basis,
organic waste to a high diversion organic waste processing facility as
specified in 14 CCR Section 18984.3.
   (C)   Self-haulers shall haul, on an at least weekly basis, their source
separated recyclable materials to a facility that recovers those materials; and
haul, on an at least weekly basis, their source separated organic waste to a
solid waste facility, operation, activity, or property that processes or
recovers source separated organic waste. Alternatively, self-haulers may haul,
on an at least weekly basis, organic waste to a high diversion organic waste
processing facility.
   (D)   Self-haulers that are commercial businesses (including multi-family
residential dwellings) shall keep a record of the amount of organic waste
delivered to each solid waste facility, operation, activity, or property that
processes or recovers organic waste and provide such records to the city in
accordance with division (E) of this section. The records shall include the
following information:
      (1)   Delivery receipts and weight tickets from the entity accepting the
waste.
      (2)   The amount of material in cubic yards or tons transported by the
generator to each entity.
      (3)   If the material is transported to an entity that does not have
scales on-site, or employs scales incapable of weighing the self-hauler's
vehicle in a manner that allows it to determine the weight of materials
received, the self-hauler is not required to record the weight of material but
shall keep a record of the entities that received the organic waste. Such
record shall include a receipt or similar documentation created by the
receiving entity stating the date of delivery and confirming acceptance of the
organic waste by the receiving entity.
   (E)   Self-haulers that are commercial businesses shall provide the records
required in division (D) of this section to the city on a quarterly basis in
four reports on the following schedule, commencing with the report due on July
31, 2022:
 
Period when Material Self-hauled Report Due
January 1 - March 31             April 30
April 1 - June 30                July 31
July 1 - September 30            October 31
October 1 - December 31          January 31
 
   (F)   A single-family organic waste generator that self-hauls organic waste
is not required to record or report information pursuant to division (D) or (E)
of this section.
(Ord. 1778, passed 5-18-22)
§ 51A.10 MODEL WATER EFFICIENT LANDSCAPING ORDINANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Property owners or their building or landscape designers, including anyone
requiring a building or planning permit, plan check, or landscape design review
from the city, who are constructing a new (single-family, multi-family, public,
institutional, or commercial) project with a landscape area greater than 500
square feet, or rehabilitating an existing landscape with a total landscape
area greater than 2,500 square feet, shall comply with Sections 492.6(a)(3)(B),
(C), (D), and (G) of the MWELO, including sections related to use of compost
and mulch, as amended September 15, 2015.
(Ord. 1778, passed 5-18-22)
§ 51A.11 PROCUREMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR DIRECT SERVICE PROVIDERS AND VENDORS.
   All vendors providing paper products and printing and writing papers and all
direct service providers to the city shall comply with the city's policy
regarding recovered organic waste product procurement, including recycled-
content paper procurement.
(Ord. 1778, passed 5-18-22)
§ 51A.12 INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS BY THE CITY.
   (A)   City representatives and/or its designees, are authorized to conduct
inspections and investigations, at random or otherwise, of any collection
container, collection vehicle loads, or transfer, processing, or disposal
facility for materials collected from generators, or source separated materials
to confirm compliance with this chapter by organic waste generators, commercial
businesses (including multi-family residential dwellings), property owners,
commercial edible food generators, haulers, self-haulers, food recovery
services, and food recovery organizations, subject to applicable laws. This
section does not allow the city, its designees or agents to enter the interior
of a private residential property for inspection. For the purposes of
inspecting commercial business containers for compliance with this chapter, the
city may conduct container inspections, including using remote monitoring, for
prohibited container contaminants.
   (B)   A regulated entity shall provide or arrange for access during all
inspections (with the exception of residential property interiors) and shall
cooperate with the city or designee, during such inspections and
investigations. Such inspections and investigations may include confirmation of
proper placement of materials in containers, edible food recovery activities,
records, or any other requirement of this chapter described herein. Failure to
provide or arrange for:
      (1)   Access to an entity's premises;
      (2)   Installation and operation of remote monitoring equipment; or,
      (3)   Access to records for any inspection or investigation is a
violation of this chapter and may result in penalties described herein.
   (C)   Any records obtained by the city during its inspections, remote
monitoring, and other reviews shall be subject to the requirements and
applicable disclosure exemptions of the public records act as set forth in
State Government Code.
   (D)   The city's, its designees and agents are authorized to conduct any
inspections, remote monitoring, or other investigations as reasonably necessary
to further the goals of this chapter, subject to applicable laws.
   (E)   The city shall receive written complaints from persons regarding an
entity that may be potentially non-compliant with SB 1383 regulations,
including receipt of anonymous complaints in accordance with by 14 CCR Section
18995.3.
(Ord. 1778, passed 5-18-22)
§ 51A.13 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of this chapter that occurs on or after
January 1, 2024 shall constitute grounds for issuance of a notice of violation
and assessment of a fine by the enforcement official in accordance with 14 CCR
Section 18995.4.
      (1)   Issuance of an administrative citation and assessment of a fine are
enforcement actions under this chapter. The city's procedures on imposition of
administrative fines set forth in
Chapter 12 of this Code are hereby incorporated in their entirety, as modified
from time to time, and shall govern the imposition, enforcement, collection,
and review of administrative citations issued to enforce this chapter and any
rule or regulation adopted pursuant to this chapter, except as otherwise
indicated in this section.
      (2)   A notice of violation shall require compliance within 60 days of
issuance of the notice, in accordance with 14 CCR Section 18995.4.
      (3)   Other remedies allowed by law may be used, including civil action
or prosecution as a misdemeanor or infraction. The city may pursue civil
actions in the state courts to seek recovery of unpaid administrative
citations. The city may choose to delay court action until such time as a
sufficiently large number of violations, or cumulative size of violations exist
such that court action is a reasonable use of city staff and resources.
   The provisions of division (A) of this section do not apply to violations
related to a generator placing prohibited container contaminants in containers,
which the enforcement official and/or designee shall enforce through the notice
provisions of 14 CCR Section 18984.5(b) and the contamination processing fees
pursuant to the provisions of the applicable franchise agreement between the
city and a franchised hauler.
   (B)   Enforcement pursuant to this section may be undertaken by the
enforcement official.
   (C)   Penalty amounts for types of violations. For the purposes of this
Code, the penalty levels for violations of the provisions of this chapter are
as follows:
      (1)   For a first violation, the penalty shall be $100 per violation.
      (2)   For a second violation, the penalty shall be $200 per violation.
      (3)   For a third or subsequent violation, the penalty shall be $500 per
violation.
   (D)   Compliance deadline extension considerations. The city may extend the
compliance deadlines set forth in a notice of violation if it finds that there
are extenuating circumstances beyond the control of the respondent that make
compliance within the deadlines impracticable, including the following:
      (1)   Acts of God such as earthquakes, wildfires, flooding, and other
emergencies or natural disasters;
      (2)   Delays in obtaining discretionary permits or other government
agency approvals; or,
      (3)   Deficiencies in organic waste recycling infrastructure or edible
food recovery capacity and the city is under a corrective action plan with
CalRecycle pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18996.2 due to those deficiencies.
(Ord. 1778, passed 5-18-22)
CHAPTER 52: PUBLIC UTILITIES
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Public hearing by City Council
   
52.03   Underground utility districts
   
52.04   Unlawful acts
   
52.05   Emergency or unusual areas
   
52.06   Other exceptions
   
52.07   Notice to property owners and utility companies
   
52.08   Responsibility of utility companies
   
52.09   Responsibility of property owners
   
52.10   Responsibility of city
   
52.11   Extension of time
 
   
52.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Electricity, see
Ch. 50
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The Public Utilities Commission of the state.
   POLES, OVERHEAD WIRES AND ASSOCIATED OVERHEAD STRUCTURES. Poles, towers,
supports, wires, conductors, guys, stubs, platforms, crossarms, braces,
transformers, insulators, cutouts, switches, communication circuits,
appliances, attachments and appurtenances located above ground with a district
and used or useful in supplying electric, communication or similar or
associated service.
   UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICT or DISTRICT. That area in the city within which
poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures are prohibited as such
area is described in this chapter.
   UTILITY. All persons or entities supplying electric, communication or
similar or associated service by means of electrical materials or devices.
('61 Code, § 16A.1) (Ord. 555, passed - - )
§ 52.02 PUBLIC HEARING BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council may, from time to time, call public hearings to ascertain
whether the public necessity, health, safety or welfare requires the removal of
poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures within designated
areas of the city and the underground installation of wires and facilities for
supplying electric, communication or similar or associated service. The City
Clerk shall notify all affected property owners as shown on the last equalized
assessment roll and utilities concerned by mail of the time and place of the
hearings at least ten days prior to the date thereof. Each such hearing shall
be open to the public and may be continued from time to time. At each such
hearing all persons interested shall be given an opportunity to be heard. The
decision of the Council shall be final and conclusive.
('61 Code, § 16A.1) (Ord. 555, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.03 UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICTS.
   If, after any public hearing held as required by §
52.02, the City Council finds that the public necessity, health, safety or
welfare requires removal and the underground installation within a designated
area, the Council shall, by resolution, declare the designated area an
underground utility district and order the removal and underground
installation. The resolution shall include a description of the area comprising
the district and shall fix the time within which the removal and underground
installation shall be accomplished and within which affected property owners
must be ready to receive underground service. A reasonable time shall be
allowed for the removal and underground installation, having due regard for the
availability of labor, materials and equipment necessary for the removal and
for the installation of the underground facilities as may be occasioned
thereby.
('61 Code, § 16A.3) (Ord. 555, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.04 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   When the City Council creates an underground utility district and orders the
removal of poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures therein as
provided in §
52.03, it shall be unlawful for any person or utility to erect, construct,
place, keep, maintain, continue, employ or operate poles, overhead wires and
associated overhead structures in the district after the date when the overhead
facilities are required to be removed by the resolution, except as the overhead
facilities may be required to furnish service to an owner or occupant of
property prior to the performance by the owner or occupant of the underground
work necessary for the owner or occupant to continue to receive utility service
as provided in §
52.09 and for the reasonable time required to remove the facilities after the
work has been performed and except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
('61 Code, § 16A.4) (Ord. 555, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.05 EMERGENCY OR UNUSUAL AREAS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, overhead facilities may be
installed and maintained for a period not to exceed 30 days, without authority
of the City Council in order to provide emergency service. The Council may
grant special permission on the terms as it may deem appropriate, in cases of
unusual circumstances, without discrimination as to any person or utility, to
erect, construct, install, maintain, use or operate poles, overhead wires and
associated overhead structures.
('61 Code, § 16A.5) (Ord. 555, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.06 OTHER EXCEPTIONS.
   In any resolution adopted pursuant to §
52.03 the city may authorize any or all of the following exceptions:
   (A)   Any municipal facilities or equipment installed under the supervision
and to the satisfaction of the City Engineer.
   (B)   Poles or electroliers used exclusively for street lighting.
   (C)   Overhead wires (exclusive of supporting structures) crossing any
portion of a district within which overhead wires have been prohibited, or
connecting to buildings on the perimeter of a district when those wires
originate in an area from which poles, overhead wires and associated overhead
structures are not prohibited.
   (D)   Poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures used for the
transmission of electric energy at nominal voltages in excess of 34,500 volts.
   (E)   Overhead wires attached to the exterior surface of a building by means
of a bracket or other fixture and extending from one location on the building
to another location on the same building or to an adjacent building without
crossing any public street.
   (F)   Antennae, associated equipment and supporting structures, used by a
utility for furnishing communication services.
   (G)   Equipment appurtenant to underground facilities such as surface
mounted transformers, pedestal mounted terminal boxes and meter cabinets and
concealed ducts.
   (H)   Temporary poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures
used or to be used in conjunction with construction projects.
('61 Code, § 16A.6) (Ord. 555, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.07 NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS AND UTILITY COMPANIES.
   (A)   Within ten days after the effective date of a resolution adopted
pursuant to §
52.03 the City Clerk shall notify all affected utilities and all persons owning
real property within the district created by the resolution on the adoption
thereof. The City Clerk shall further notify the affected property owners of
the necessity that, if they or any person occupying the property desire to
continue to receive electric, communication or similar or associated service,
they or the occupant shall provide all necessary facility changes on their
premises so as to receive the service from the line of the supplying utility or
utilities at a new location.
   (B)   Notification by the City Clerk shall be made by mailing a copy of the
resolution adopted pursuant to §
52.03 together with a copy of the ordinance, codified herein, to affected
property owners as such are shown on the last equalized assessment roll and to
the affected utilities.
('61 Code, § 16A.7) (Ord. 555, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.08 RESPONSIBILITY OF UTILITY COMPANIES.
   If underground construction is necessary to provide utility service within a
district created by any resolution adopted pursuant to §
52.03, the supplying utility shall furnish that portion of the conduits,
conductors and associated equipment required to be furnished by it under its
applicable city ordinances, rules, regulations and tariffs on file with the
Commission.
('61 Code, § 16A.8) (Ord. 555, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.09 RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Every person owning, operating, leasing, occupying or renting a
building or structure within a district shall construct and provide that
portion of the service connection on his or her property between the facilities
referred to in §
52.08 and the termination facilities on or within the building or structure
being served. If the above is not accomplished by any person within the time
provided for in the resolution enacted pursuant to §
52.03, the City Engineer shall give notice in writing to the person in
possession of the premises and a notice in writing to the owner thereof as
shown on the last equalized assessment roll, to provide the required
underground facilities within ten days after receipt of the notice.
   (B)   The notice to provide the required underground facilities may be given
either by personal service or by mail. In case of service by mail on either of
those persons, the notice must be deposited in the United States mail in a
sealed envelope with postage prepaid, addressed to the person in possession of
the premises at those premises and the notice must be addressed to the owner
thereof as that owner's name appears and must be addressed to the owner's last-
known address as the same appears on the last equalized assessment roll and
when no address appears to General Delivery, City of Indio, California. If
notice is given by mail, the notice shall be deemed shall be deemed to have
been received by the person to whom it has been sent within 48 hours after the
mailing thereof. If notice is given by mail to either the owner or occupant of
the premises, the City Engineer shall, within 48 hours after the mailing
thereof, cause a copy thereof, printed on a card not less than 8 × 10 inches,
to be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises.
   (C)   The notice given by the City Engineer to provide the required
underground facilities shall particularly specify what work is required to be
done and shall state that if the work is not completed within 30 days after
receipt of the notice, the City Engineer will provide the required underground
facilities, in which case the cost and expense thereof will be assessed against
the property benefitted and become a lien upon the property.
   (D)   If, upon the expiration of the 30-day period, the required underground
facilities have not been provided, the City Engineer shall forthwith proceed to
do the work; provided, if the premises are unoccupied and no electric or
communications services are being furnished thereto, the City Engineer shall,
in lieu of providing the required underground facilities, have the authority to
order the disconnection and removal of any and all overhead service wires and
associated facilities supplying utility service to the property. Upon
completion of the work by the City Engineer, the Engineer shall file a written
report with the City Council setting forth the fact that the required
underground facilities have been provided and the cost thereof, together with a
legal description of the property against which the cost is to be assessed. The
Council shall thereupon fix a time and place for hearing protests against the
assessment of the cost of the work upon the premises, which time shall not be
less than ten days thereafter.
   (E)   The City Engineer shall forthwith, upon the time for hearing the
protests having been fixed, give a notice in writing to the person in
possession of the premises and a notice in writing thereof to the owner thereof
in the manner hereinabove provided for the giving of the notice to provide the
required underground facilities of the time and place that the Council will
pass upon the report and will hear protests against the assessment. The notice
shall also set forth the amount of the proposed assessment.
   (F)   Upon the date and hour set for the hearing or protests, the Council
shall hear and consider the report of all protests, if there are any, and then
proceed to affirm, modify or reject the assessment.
   (G)   If any assessment is not paid within five days after its confirmation
by the City Council, the amount of the assessment shall become a lien upon the
property against which the assessment is made by the City Engineer and the City
Engineer is directed to turn over to the Assessor and Tax Collector a notice of
lien on each of the properties on which the assessment has not been paid and
the assessor and Tax Collector shall add the amount of the assessment to the
next regular bill for taxes levied against the premises upon which the
assessment was not paid. The assessment shall be due and payable at the same
time as the property taxes are due and payable and if not paid when due and
payable shall bear interest at the rate of 6% per year.
('61 Code, § 16A.9) (Ord. 555, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.10 RESPONSIBILITY OF CITY.
   The city shall remove, at its own expense, all city-owned equipment from all
poles required to be removed hereunder in ample time to enable the owner or
user of those poles to remove the same within the time specified in the
resolution enacted pursuant to §
52.03.
('61 Code, § 16A.10) (Ord. 555, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.11 EXTENSION OF TIME.
   In the event any act required by the chapter or by a resolution adopted
pursuant to §
52.03 cannot be performed within the time provided on account of shortage of
materials, war, restraint by public authorities, strikes, labor disturbances,
civil disobedience or any other circumstances beyond the control of the actor,
then the time within which the act will be accomplished shall be extended for a
period equivalent to the time of the limitation.
('61 Code, § 16A.11) (Ord. 555, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to violate any provision or to fail to comply
with any of the requirements of this chapter. Any person violating any
provision of this chapter or failing to comply with any of its requirements is
guilty of a misdemeanor. Each such person is guilty of a separate offense for
each day during any portion of which any violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is committed, continued or permitted by that person.
('61 Code, § 16A.12) (Ord. 555, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1080, passed - - )
CHAPTER 53: UTILITY USER FEE
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Constitutional exemptions
   
53.03   Telephone users fee
   
53.04   Electricity users fee
   
53.05   Gas users fee
   
53.06   Water users fee
   
53.07   Cable television users fee
   
53.08   Assessment; administrative remedy
   
53.09   Records
   
53.10   Refunds
   
53.11   Fund and purpose
   
53.12   Jurisdiction of Public Utilities Commission
Administration and Enforcement
   
53.20   Additional powers and duties of Fee Administrator
Collections; Delinquencies
   
53.30   Collection of fee; duty; procedures
   
53.31   Service; supplier; fraud
   
53.32   Interest and penalty
   
53.33   Penalty for failure to pay
   
53.34   Penalty for fraud
   
53.35   Actions to collect
Exemptions
   
53.45   Eligibility
   
53.46   Application; time to file
   
53.47   Application; contents
   
53.48   Application; review and certification
   
53.49   Notice to service supplier
   
53.50   Discontinuance of billing
   
53.51   Prior fees to be collected
   
53.52   Duration
   
53.53   Duty to disclose
   
53.54   Audit by Fee Administrator
 
   
53.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Cable television, see
Ch. 112
   Electricity, see
Ch. 50
   Water, see
Ch. 54
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FEE ADMINISTRATOR. The City Manager or the City Manager's designee.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   PERSON. Any domestic or foreign corporation, firm, association, syndicate,
joint stock company, partnership of any kind, joint venture, club, business or
common law trust, society or individual.
   RESIDENTIAL SERVICES. Services provided to an individual residence for
personal use by the occupants.
   SERVICE SUPPLIER. A person required to collect and remit a fee imposed by
this chapter.
   SERVICE USER. A person required to pay a fee imposed by this chapter.
   TELEPHONE CORPORATION, ELECTRICAL CORPORATION, GAS CORPORATION, WATER
CORPORATION and CABLE TELEVISION CORPORATION. These terms shall be as defined
in Cal. Pub. Util. Code §§ 234, 218, 222, 215-5, respectively, as those
sections existed on March 31, 1985.
      (1)   ELECTRICAL CORPORATION shall be construed to include any
municipality, district or  agency engaged in the selling or supplying of
electrical power to a service user.
      (2)   WATER CORPORATION shall be construed to include any municipality,
district or agency engaged in the selling or supplying of water to a service
user.
('61 Code, § 23B.1) (Ord. 939, passed - - )
§ 53.02 CONSTITUTIONAL EXEMPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as imposing a fee upon any person
when imposition of that fee upon that person would be in violation of the U.S.
or state constitutions.
('61 Code, § 23B.2) (Ord. 920, passed - - )
§ 53.03 TELEPHONE USERS FEE.
   (A)   There is imposed a fee on the amounts paid for any intrastate
telephone services by every person in the city other than a telephone
corporation using those services. The fee imposed by this section shall be 3%
of the charges made for those services and shall be paid by the person paying
for those services.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term CHARGES shall not include charges
for any type of service or equipment furnished by a service supplier subject to
the public utility regulation during any period in which the same or similar
services or equipment are also available for sale or lease from persons other
than a service supplier subject to the public utility regulation. However,
CHARGES shall include charges for long-distance service, and bundled local and
long-distance service, regardless of whether such services are based upon
elapsed transmission time, distance, or upon elapsed transmission time and
distance.
   (C)   The term TELEPHONE COMMUNICATION SERVICES refers to that service which
provides access to a telephone system and the privilege of telephone quality
communication with substantially all persons having telephone stations which
are part of the telephone system. The telephone users fee is intended to, and
does, apply to all charges billed to a telephone account having a situs in the
city, regardless of whether a particular communication service originates and/
or terminates in the city. The situs shall be the service address, if known,
otherwise, the billing address. Furthermore, TELEPHONE COMMUNICATION SERVICES
include, without limitation, long-distance service, and bundled local and long-
distance service, provided under a single plan that does not separately state
charges for local telephone service, where the charges for such services are
based on either time or distance.
   (D)   The fee imposed by this section shall be collected from the service
user by the person providing the intrastate telephone communication services or
the person receiving payment for those services. The amount of the fee
collected in one month shall be remitted to the Fee Administrator on or before
the last day of the following month.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) of this section, the
fee imposed under this section shall not be imposed upon any person for using
intrastate telephone communication services to the extent that the amounts paid
for those services are exempt from or not subject to the tax imposed under Cal.
Rev. & Tax. Code div. 2, part 20. Furthermore, the following shall be exempt
from payment of the fee imposed by this section:
      (1)   LAND MOBILE SERVICES or MARITIME MOBILE SERVICES as defined in 47
CFR 2.1 as that section existed on January 1, 1970.
      (2)   Service paid for by inserting coins in coin-operated telephones;
except that where the coin-operated telephone service is furnished for a
guaranteed amount, the amount paid under such guarantee plus any fixed monthly
or other periodic charges shall be included in the base for computing the
amount of the fee due pursuant to this section.
      (3)   Except with respect to local telephone service, payment received
from any person for services used in the collection of news for the public
press, or a news ticker service furnishing a general news service similar to
that of the public press, or radio broadcasting, or in the dissemination of
news through the public press, if the charge for such service is billed in
writing to such person.
      (4)   Payment received for services furnished to an international
organization, or to the American National Red Cross.
      (5)   Payment received for any toll telephone services which originates
within a combat zone from a member of the Armed Forces of the United States
performing service in such combat zone, provided a certificate, setting forth
such facts as the Secretary of the Treasury may be regulations prescribe, is
furnished to the person receiving such payment.
      (6)   The amount paid for any toll telephone service to the extent that
the amount so paid is for use by a common carrier, telephone or telegraph
company, or radio broadcasting station or network in the conduct of its
business as such.
      (7)   The amount paid for the installation of any instrument, wire, pole,
switchboard, apparatus, or equipment as is properly attributable to such
installation.
      (8)   The amount paid by a nonprofit hospital for services furnished to
such organization. For purposes of this subsection, the term NONPROFIT HOSPITAL
means a hospital that is exempt from state and federal income tax under § 501
(a) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (9)   Any payment received for services or facilities furnished to the
government of any state, or any political subdivision thereof, or the District
of Columbia.
      (10)   Any amount paid by a nonprofit educational organization for
services or facilities furnished to such organization. For purposes of this
subsection, the term NONPROFIT EDUCATIONAL ORGANIZATION means an educational
organization that is exempt from income tax under § 501(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code. The term also includes a school operated as an activity of an
organization that is exempt from income tax under § 501(a), if such school
normally maintains a regular faculty and curriculum and normally has a
regularly enrolled body of pupils or students in attendance at the place where
its educational activities are regularly carried on.
('61 Code, § 23B.3) (Ord. 920, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1113, passed 2-5-92; Am.
Ord. 1478, passed 9-6-06; Am. Ord. 1479, passed 9-20-06; Am. Ord. 1541, passed
9-17-08)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.04 ELECTRICITY USERS FEE.
   (A)   There is imposed a fee upon every person in the city using electrical
energy in the city. The fee imposed by this section shall be 3% of the charges
made for that energy and shall be paid by the person paying for the energy.
CHARGES, as used in this section, shall include charges made for:
      (1)   Metered energy; and,
      (2)   Minimum charges for service, including customer charges, service
charges, demand charges, standby charges and annual and monthly charges, fuel,
cost adjustments and the like.
   (B)   As used in this section, USING ELECTRICAL ENERGY shall not be
construed to mean the storage of that energy by a person in a battery owned or
possessed by him or her for use in an automobile or other machinery or device
apart from the premises upon which the energy was received; provided, the term
shall include the receiving of energy for the purpose of using it in the charge
of batteries; nor shall the term include electricity used and consumed by an
electric utility supplier in the conduct of its business as an electric public
utility; nor shall the term include the mere receiving of the energy by an
electric public utility or governmental agency at a point within the city for
resale; or the use of the energy in the production or distribution of water by
a public utility or a governmental agency.
   (C)   The fee imposed in this section shall be collected from the service
user by the person supplying the energy. The amount of the fee collected in one
month shall be remitted to the Fee Administrator on or before the last day of
the following month.
('61 Code, § 23b.4) (Ord. 920, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1113, passed 2-5-92; Am.
Ord. 1541, passed 9-17-08)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.05 GAS USERS FEE.
   (A)   There is imposed a fee upon every person in the city, other than a gas
corporation or electrical corporation, using gas in the city which is delivered
through mains or pipes. The fee imposed by this section shall be 3% of the
charges made for the gas and shall be paid by the person paying for the gas.
CHARGES, as used in this section, shall include:
      (1)   Gas which is delivered through mains or pipes;
      (2)   Minimum charges for those services, including customer charges,
service charges and an annual and monthly charges.
   (B)   There shall be excluded from the base on which the fee imposed in this
section is computed:
      (1)   Charges made for gas which is to be resold and delivered through
mains or pipes;
      (2)   Charges made for gas sold for use in the generation of electrical
energy or for the production or distribution of water by a public utility or
governmental agency;
      (3)   Charges made by a gas public utility for gas used and consumed in
the conduct of the business of gas public utilities;
      (4)   Charges made for gas used in the propulsion of a motor vehicle, as
that phrase is defined in the Vehicle Code of the state, utilizing natural gas;
and,
      (5)   Charges related to late payments and returned checks.
   (C)   The fee imposed in this section shall be collected from the service
user by the person selling the gas. the person selling the gas shall, on or
before the 20th of each calendar month, commencing on the 20th day of the
calendar month after the effective date of this part, make a return to the Fee
Administrator stating the amount billed during the preceding calendar month. At
the time the returns are filed, the person selling the gas shall remit payments
to the Fee Administrator in accordance with schedules established or approved
by the Fee Administrator. The Fee Administrator is authorized to require the
further information as he or she deems necessary to properly determine if the
fee here imposed is being levied and collected in accordance with this chapter.
Returns and remittances are due from the person selling the gas immediately
upon cessation of business for any reason.
('61 Code, § 23B.5) (Ord. 920, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1113, passed 2-5-92; Am.
Ord. 1541, passed 9-17-08)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.06 WATER USERS FEE.
   (A)   There is imposed a fee upon every person in the city using water which
is delivered through mains or pipes. The fee imposed by this section shall be
3% of the charges made for that water.
   (B)   There shall be excluded from the base on which the fee imposed in this
section is computed charges made for water which is to be resold and delivered
through mains or pipes; and charges made by a municipal water department,
public utility or a city or municipal water district for water used and
consumed by that department, utility or district.
   (C)   The fee imposed by this section shall be collected from the service
user by the person supplying the water. The amount collected in one month shall
be remitted to the Fee Administrator on or before the last day of the following
month.
('61 Code, § 23B.6) (Ord. 920, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1113, passed 2-5-92; Am.
Ord. 1541, passed 9-17-08)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.07 CABLE TELEVISION USERS FEE.
   (A)   There is imposed a fee upon every person in the city using cable
television service. The fee imposed by this section shall be 3% of the charges
made for that service and shall be paid by the person paying for the service.
For purposes of this section, CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE shall mean any
television signal delivered by cable, microwave, or other method of
telecommunication for a fee or charge.
   (B)   The fee imposed in this section shall be collected from the service
user by the person furnishing the cable television service. The amount
collected in one month shall be remitted to the Fee Administrator on or before
the last day of the following month.
('61 Code, § 23B.7) (Ord. 920, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1113, passed 2-5-92; Am.
Ord. 1541, passed 9-17-08)
Penalty, see § 53.99
Cross-reference:
   Cable television, see
Ch. 112
§ 53.08 ASSESSMENT; ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDY.
   (A)   The Fee Administrator may make an assessment for fees not remitted by
a person required to remit.
   (B)   When the Fee Administrator determines that a service user has
deliberately withheld the amount of the fee owed by the users from the amounts
remitted to a person required to collect the fee or that a service user has
refused to pay the amount of fee to that person or when the Fee Administrator
deems it in the best interest of the city, he or she may relieve the person of
the obligation to collect fees due under this chapter from certain named
service users for specified billing periods.
   (C)   The service supplier shall provide the Fee Administrator with amounts
refused along with the names, addresses and reasons of the service users
refusing to pay the fee imposed under provisions of this chapter. When the
service user has failed to pay the amount of fee for a period of two or more
billing periods the service supplier may be relieved of the obligation to
collect fees due.
   (D)   The Fee Administrator shall notify the service user that he or she has
assumed responsibility to collect the fees due for the stated period and demand
payment of those fees. The notice shall be served on the service user by
handing it to him or her personally or by deposit of the notice in the United
State mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the service user at the
address to which billing was made by the person required to collect the fees
or, should the service user have changed his or her address, to his or her last
known address. If a service user fails to remit the fees to the Fee
Administrator within 15 days from the date of the service of the notice upon
him or her, which shall be the date of mailing if service is not accomplished
in person, a penalty of 25% of the amount of the fee set forth in the notice
shall be imposed, but not less than $5. The penalty shall become part of the
fees herein required to be paid.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall relieve the service supplier of any duty
to collect and remit any fee, penalty or interest due under the provisions of
this chapter.
('61 Code, § 23B.20) (Ord. 920, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.09 RECORDS.
   It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and remit to the
city any fee imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of
three years, all records as may be necessary to determine the mount of the fee
as he or she may have been liable for the collection of and remittance to the
Fee Administrator, which records the Fee Administrator shall have the right to
inspect at all reasonable times.
('61 Code, § 23B.31) (Ord. 920, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.10 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Filing claims. When the amount of any fee, interest or penalty has
been overpaid, paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally
collected or received by the city under this chapter, that amount may be
refunded as provided in divisions (B), (C) and (D) below; provided, a claim, in
writing therefor, stating under penalty of perjury the specific ground upon
which the claim is founded is filed with the Fee Administrator within three
years after the date of payment. The claims shall be on forms furnished by the
Fee Administrator.
   (B)   Refunds to service suppliers. A service supplier may claim a refund or
take as credit against fees collected and remitted an amount overpaid, paid
more than once or erroneously or illegally collected or received when it is
established that the person from whom the fee has been collected was not a
service user.
   (C)   Refunds to service users. Any service user may obtain refund of fees
overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously or illegally collected or received
by the city by filing a claim in the manner provided in division (A) above, but
only when the service user, having paid the fee to the service supplier,
establishes to the satisfaction of the Fee Administrator that the service user
has been unable to obtain a refund from the service supplier who collected the
fees.
   (D)   Proof required. No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this
section unless the claimant establishes his or her rights thereto by written
records showing entitlement thereto.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, when a service
supplier, pursuant to an order of the California Public Utilities Commission or
a court of competent jurisdiction, makes a refund to service users of charges
for past utility service, the fees paid pursuant to this chapter on the amount
of the refunded charges also shall be refunded to the service user by the
service supplier and the service supplier shall be entitled to claim a credit
for the refunded fees against the amount of fees which is due upon the next
monthly return. In the event this chapter is repealed, amounts of any
refundable fees will be borne by the city.
('61 Code, § 23B.32) (Ord. 920, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.11 FUND AND PURPOSE.
   All the proceeds of the fees levied under this chapter shall be placed in
the city's General Fund and shall be utilized for general governmental
purposes.
('61 Code, § 23B.25) (Ord. 920, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.12 JURISDICTION OF PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION.
   Nothing contained in this chapter is intended to conflict with the
applicable rules, regulations and tariffs of any service supplier subject to
the jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission of the state. In the event of
any conflict, the provisions of those rules, regulations and tariffs shall
control.
('61 Code, § 23B.34) (Ord. 920, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 53.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.20 ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF FEE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Fee Administrator shall have the power and duty and is directed to
enforce each and all of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Fee Administrator shall have power to adopt rules and regulations
not inconsistent with the provision of this chapter for the purpose of carrying
out and enforcing the payment, collection and remittance of the taxes herein
imposed. A copy of the rules and regulations shall be on file in the Fee
Administrator's office.
   (C)   The Fee Administrator may make administrative agreements to carry the
strict requirements of this chapter so that collection of any fee imposed here
may be made in conformance with the billing procedures of a particular service
supplier so long as the agreements result in collection of the fee in
conformance with the general purpose and scope of this chapter. A copy of the
agreement shall be on file in the Fee Administrator's office.
   (D)   The Fee Administrator shall determine the eligibility of any person
who asserts a right to exemption from the fee imposed by this chapter. The Fee
Administrator shall provide the service supplier with the name of any person
who the Fee Administrator determines is exempt from the fee imposed hereby,
together with the address and account number to which service is supplied to
any such exempt person.
('61 Code, § 23B.19) (Ord. 920, passed - - )
COLLECTIONS; DELINQUENCIES
§ 53.30 COLLECTION OF FEE; DUTY; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The duty to collect and remit the fees imposed by this chapter shall
be performed as follows:
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the fee shall
be collected insofar as practicable at the same time as and along with the
charges made in accordance with regular billing practice of the service
supplier.
      (2)   The duty to collect the fee from a service user shall commence with
the beginning of the first regular billing period applicable to that person
which starts on or after the operative date of this chapter. Where a service
user is billed for more than one billing period, the duty to collect shall
arise separately for each separate billing period.
('61 Code, § 23B.8)
   (B)   Fees collected from a service user which are not remitted to the Fee
Administrator on or before the due dates provided in this chapter are
delinquent.
('61 Code, § 23B.9)
   (C)   In addition to remitting the amount of the fee, any services supplier
who fails to remit any fee imposed by this chapter within the time required and
upon five days notice to the service supplier of its failure to remit shall pay
a penalty of 10% on the amount of fee which shall be added on the last day of
each month following the date on which remittance was due until the fee and
penalties are remitted.
('61 Code, § 23B.10)
(Ord. 920, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.31 SERVICE; SUPPLIER; FRAUD.
   If the Fee Administrator determines that the nonpayment by any service
supplier of any remittance due under this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of
25% of the amount of the fee shall be added to the penalty imposed by §
53.30(C).
('61 Code, § 23B.11) (Ord. 920, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.32 INTEREST AND PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to the penalties imposed by §
53.30(C) and §
53.46, any service supplier who fails to remit any fee imposed by this chapter
shall pay interest at the rate of 1% per month, or fraction thereof, on the
amount of the fee, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent until paid.
('61 Code, § 23B.12)
   (B)   Every penalty imposed upon a service supplier and such interest as
accrues under §
53.30(C), §
53.31 and §
53.32(A) shall become a part of the fee required to be remitted.
('61 Code, § 23B.13)
(Ord. 920, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.33 PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO PAY.
   In addition to paying the amount of the fee, any service user who fails to
pay any fee imposed by this chapter, within 60 days of the date of the notice
of the amount of fee due from the service supplier, shall pay a penalty of 10%
of the amount of the fee which shall be added on the last day of each month
following the date on which payment was due until the fee and penalties are
paid.
('61 Code, § 23B.14) (Ord. 920, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.34 PENALTY FOR FRAUD.
   (A)   If the service supplier determines the nonpayment by any service user
of any fee imposed by this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of 25% of the
amount of the fee shall be added thereto in addition the penalty imposed by §
53.33.
('61 Code, § 23B.15)
   (B)   In addition to the penalties imposed by §§
53.33 and
53.34(A), any service user who fails to pay any fee imposed by this chapter
shall pay interest at the rate of 1% per month or fraction thereof, exclusive
of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent,
until paid, and a collection charge of $10 for each delinquent account.
('61 Code, § 23B.16)
   (C)   Every penalty imposed upon a service user and the interest as accrued
under the provisions of §§
53.33 and
53.34(A) and (B) shall become a part of the fee required to be paid and to be
remitted by the service supplier.
('61 Code, § 23B.17)
(Ord. 920, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.35 ACTIONS TO COLLECT.
   Any fee required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the city. Any such
fee collected from a service user which has willfully been withheld from the
Fee Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed to the city by the person
required to collect and remit. Any person owing money to the city under the
provisions of this chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of
the city for the recovery of that amount. Nothing in this section shall relieve
any service supplier of the duty to collect and remit any fee, penalty or
interest required by this chapter.
('61 Code, § 23B.18) (Ord. 920, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 53.99
EXEMPTIONS
§ 53.45 ELIGIBILITY.
   Any service user who is 62 years of age or older and is head of the
household shall be eligible for an exemption from the fees imposed by this
chapter on service supplied the service user's residential living quarters. The
provisions of this exemption shall also apply to any individual who meets the
criterion or disability, as established by the Social Security Administration's
Supplemental Security Income Program for the Aged, Blind and Disabled (Title
XLII of the Social Security Act, as amended) without regard to the age of the
disabled individual.
('61 Code, § 23B.21) (Ord. 920, passed - - )
§ 53.46 APPLICATION; TIME TO FILE.
   (A)   Applications for exemption shall be filed with the Fee Administrator
on forms as he or she may provide.
   (B)   Applications may be filed at any time.
('61 Code, § 23B.22) (Ord. 920, passed - - )
§ 53.47 APPLICATION; CONTENTS.
   Applications shall be verified by declaration under penalty of perjury and
shall contain information as may be required by the Fee Administrator.
('61 Code, § 23B.23) (Ord. 920, passed - - )
§ 53.48 APPLICATION; REVIEW AND CERTIFICATION.
   The Fee Administrator shall review each application and shall certify the
service user as exempt if the eligibility requirements of §
53.45 are met. If a service user is exempt under the eligibility requirements
of §
53.45 and the service user is receiving service from a service supplier through
a master meter, upon application and approval, the Fee Administrator shall
refund the eligible service user as provided in §
53.10. However, no exemption shall be granted with respect to any fee imposed
by this chapter which is or has been paid by a public agency or where the
service user received funds from a public agency specifically for the payment
of the fee.
('61 Code, § 23b.24) (Ord. 920, passed - - )
§ 53.49 NOTICE TO SERVICE SUPPLIER.
   If a service user is certified as exempt, the Fee Administrator shall
promptly notify the service user's service suppliers, stating the name of the
service user, the address to which exempt service is being supplied, the
account number, if any, and such other information as may be necessary for the
service supplier to remove the exempt service user from its fee billing
procedure.
('61 Code, § 23B.25) (Ord. 920, passed - - )
§ 53.50 DISCONTINUANCE OF BILLING.
   Upon receipt of the notice referred to in §
53.49, the service supplier shall, within 60 days, discontinue billing the
service user for fees imposed by this chapter, except as otherwise provided in
§
53.51.
('61 Code, § 23B.26) (Ord. 920, passed - - )
§ 53.51 PRIOR FEES TO BE COLLECTED.
   Fees billed by the service supplier to the service user from its fee billing
procedure shall be collected from the service user and the service user shall
pay these fees to the service supplier. Fees billed to and paid by the service
user between the time the application for redemption is filed and the service
supplier removes the service user from its billing procedure will not be
refunded to the service user.
('61 Code, § 23B.27) (Ord. 920, passed - - )
§ 53.52 DURATION.
   Exemptions certified by the Fee Administrator shall continue as long as the
facts supporting the qualification for exemption shall exist; provided, the
exemption shall automatically terminate with any change in the service address
or residence of the exempt individual and provided, further, that the
individual may nevertheless apply for a new exemption with each change of
address of residence.
('61 Code, § 23B.28) (Ord. 920, passed - - )
§ 53.53 DUTY TO DISCLOSE.
   (A)   Any service user who has been exempted under this chapter shall notify
the collector within ten days of any change in fact or circumstance which might
disqualify the individual from receiving the exemption. It shall be a
misdemeanor for any person to knowingly receive the benefits of the exemption
provided by this chapter when the basis for that exemption does not exist or
ceases to exist.
   (B)   Any service supplier who determines, by any means, that a new or
nonexempt service user is receiving service through a meter or connection
exempt by virtue of an exemption issued to a previous user or exempt user of
the same meter or connection shall immediately notify the Fee Administrator of
that fact and the Fee Administrator shall conduct an investigation to ascertain
whether or not the provisions of this chapter have been complied with and,
where appropriate, order the service supplier to commence collecting the fee
from the nonexempt service user.
('61 Code, § 23B.29) (Ord. 920, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.54 AUDIT BY FEE ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Fee Administrator shall have the power and right to demand evidence of
continued eligibility of a service user for exemption under the provisions of
this section.
   (A)   The evidence may include, but need not be limited to, copies of
business records, letters or statements from the Social Security Administration
and state, county, city and private pension administrators or unemployment and
welfare agencies and other evidence concerning the service user or other
members of his or her household as may tend to prove or disprove that
eligibility.
   (B)   Failure to provide that evidence as is within the control of a service
user to so provide, either directly by him or by his or her consent or the
consent of a member of his or her household when the evidence is requested of
the service user, in writing by the Fee Administrator, shall be grounds for the
immediate discontinuance of the service user's eligibility for exemption under
the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Evidence provided to the Fee Administrator, at his or her request or
voluntarily provided by the service user without the Fee Administrator's
request, may not be used against the service user as evidence of violation of
the provisions of this chapter. The evidence may only be used as grounds for
termination of the exemption herein provided.
('61 Code, § 23B.30) (Ord. 920, passed - - )
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, or any person willfully
refusing to pay any fee required by this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Each day the violation exists shall be deemed a separate offense.
('61 Code, § 23B.33) (Ord. 920, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1080, passed - - )
CHAPTER 54: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
54.001   Definitions
   
54.002   Resale
   
54.003   Liability of city for pressure conditions or interruption of service
   
54.004   Authority to shut off water supply without notice
   
54.005   Repairs by employees of Water Department; payment of Water Department
employees for services
   
54.006   Procedure for turning on water in vacant house
   
54.007   Turning water on or off at curb or meter
   
54.008   Direct supply to stationary steam boiler
   
54.009   Installation of boilers and other heaters
   
54.010   Right of entry of employees of Water Department; identification badges
   
54.011   Water pipes laid in streets to become property of Water Department
   
54.012   Water supply for construction sites
   
54.013   Use of water for testing
   
54.014   Supplier of miscellaneous services
Administration and Enforcement
   
54.025   Water Department created; supervision
   
54.026   Scope of Water Department; jurisdiction and responsibility
   
54.027   Water Superintendent; appointment
   
54.028   Water Superintendent; duties and compensation
   
54.029   City Council may provide rules and regulations by resolution
   
54.030   Water main fund
Excavations
   
54.040   Request to Water Department required
   
54.041   Notice to Water Department required
Water Conservation
   
54.050   Purpose and intent
   
54.051   Authority of City Manager
   
54.052   General prohibition; applicability
   
54.053   Determination of water shortage
   
54.054   Procedures
   
54.055   Stage I - normal water supplies (up to 10% shortage range)
   
54.056   Stage II - slightly limited water supplies (up to 20% shortage range)
   
54.057   Stage III - moderately limited water supplies (up to 30% shortage
range)
   
54.058   Stage IV - limited water supplies (up to 40% shortage range)
   
54.059   Stage V - significantly limited water supplies (up to 50% shortage
range)
   
54.060   Stage VI - severe shortage or catastrophic incident (greater than 50%
shortage range)
   
54.061   Penalties
   
54.062   Relief from compliance
   
54.063   Hearing regarding violations
   
54.064.1   Landscape and water conservation
   
54.064.2   Water efficient landscape development standards
Fire Hydrants
   
54.065   Persons authorized to use
   
54.066   Procedure for opening and closing
   
54.067   Debris about fire hydrants
   
54.068   Applications for use of water from fire hydrants; connection and
installation of meter for supply
   
54.069   Permit to carry water away
Connections
   
54.080   Application
   
54.081   Sizing of water meters and services
   
54.082   Cost of errors
   
54.083   Conditions
   
54.084   Delinquency in prior bills grounds for refusal of service
   
54.085   Supply to two or more buildings
   
54.086   Temporary connections
   
54.087   Curb cock
   
54.088   Fire service connections
   
54.089   Emergency shut-off valve
   
54.090   Relocation of connection
   
54.091   Residential fire sprinkler systems
Meters and Appurtenances
   
54.100   Metering required; bypasses forbidden
   
54.101   Title and repair
   
54.102   Duties of consumer
   
54.103   Removal of nonregistering meters; notice of removal; liability
Charges and Deposits; Generally
   
54.115   Guarantee deposits; when required
   
54.116   Interest
   
54.117   Application
   
54.118   Reserved
   
54.119   Districts
   
54.120   Day of meter reading
   
54.121   Day of bills mailed; time for payment
   
54.122   Rates for vacant property; exception
   
54.123   Two or more meters
   
54.124   Readings monthly or bimonthly
   
54.125   Checking when large consumption occurs; average bills prepared where
obstruction exists or meter fails to register
   
54.126   Places where bills to be mailed
   
54.127   Penalty for delinquency in payment of bill
   
54.128   Liability for water used without application for service;
discontinuance of service
   
54.129   Procedure for shutting off water
   
54.130   When requested by consumer
   
54.131   Disconnection of service for nonpayment
   
54.132   Water impact fee
Charges for Installation
   
54.145   Rent and the like not to be charged for placement or maintenance
   
54.146   Schedule of charges
   
54.147   When basement excavated to curb line
   
54.148   Where service installation exceeds 50 feet in length
   
54.149   Automatic fire sprinkler services
   
54.150   Increases in size of service and meter
   
54.151   Temporary services
   
54.152   Charges for existing mains
   
54.153   Deposit required; refunds
   
54.154   Extension without deposit
   
54.155   Design, location of extensions
   
54.156   Extension to unsubdivided areas
   
54.157   Charges of cost
   
54.158   Extension to areas subdivided by means of conveyances; charges,
generally
   
54.159   Provision for rental charges
   
54.160   Design and cost of extension to certain subdivided areas
   
54.161   Alternate procedure for extensions
   
54.162   Mains to be installed prior to paving of streets
Cross-Connection and Backflow Prevention
   
54.175   Purpose
   
54.176   Definitions
   
54.177   Where protection required
   
54.178   Type of protection
   
54.179   Responsibility
   
54.180   Discontinuance of service
   
54.181   Right of entry
Water Companies
   
54.190   Certificate of public convenience and necessity
   
54.191   Application fee
   
54.192   Contents of application
   
54.193   Hearing
   
54.194   Publication of notice
   
54.195   Investigation of necessity
   
54.196   Issuance
   
54.197   Cancellation upon discontinuance of business
   
54.198   Right to obtain new certificate upon transfer of ownership
   
54.199   Suspension and renovation
   
54.200   Grounds for denial of application and suspension or revocation
   
54.201   Existing companies
   
54.202   Rules and regulations
Wells
   
54.215   Purpose; authority and implementation
   
54.216   Definitions
   
54.217   Permit required
   
54.218   Conditions of permit approval
   
54.219   Conditions of permit denial
   
54.220   Expiration or extension of permit
   
54.221   Permit revocation or suspension
   
54.222   Hearings
   
54.223   License and registration of drillers and contractors
   
54.224   State standards adopted
   
54.225   Lateral or horizontal well standards
   
54.226   Required inspection of well site
   
54.227   Required inspection of wells
   
54.228   Discharge of drilling fluids
   
54.229   General location of wells
   
54.230   Well logs
   
54.231   Water well surface construction features
   
54.232   Disinfection
   
54.233   Water quality standards
   
54.234   Private well evaluation
   
54.235   Well abandonment
   
54.236   Public nuisance abatement
   
54.237   Declaration of proposed re-use
   
54.238   Administrative variance
 
   
54.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Water service within the city, see
Ch. 56
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXTENSION WATER MAIN. Any extension of the water main as defined herein and
also any extensions of the water main.
   WATER MAINS. Only new water mains, together with the necessary facilities
used in connection therewith, including pumping plants, tanks and similar
equipment, which are either in the course of construction at the date this
chapter becomes effective or are constructed thereafter, and are designed to
serve undeveloped areas of the city not yet adequately served with water.
('61 Code, § 24.88) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.002 RESALE.
   Unless specially agreed upon, the water consumer shall not resell any of the
water received by him or her from the Water Department to any other person, or
for any other purpose or on other premises than specified in his or her
application for service.
('61 Code, § 24-4) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.003 LIABILITY OF CITY FOR PRESSURE CONDITIONS OR INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   All applicants for service connections or water service shall be required to
accept the conditions of pressure and service as are provided by the
distributing system at the location of the proposed service connection, and to
hold the Water Department harmless from all damage arising from low pressure or
high pressure conditions or interruptions of service.
('61 Code, § 24.5) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.004 AUTHORITY TO SHUT OFF WATER SUPPLY WITHOUT NOTICE.
    The Water Department reserves the right to shut off the water supply from
any premises, at any time without notice, for the purpose of making repairs,
extensions or other necessary purposes. However, the Water Department shall
comply with Cal. Pub. Util. Code §§ 10010 et seq., pertaining to termination of
residential service for nonpayment of delinquent accounts.
('61 Code, § 24.6) (Ord. 257, passed - - ; Am. Ord., passed - - )
§ 54.005 REPAIRS BY EMPLOYEES OF WATER DEPARTMENT; PAYMENT OF WATER DEPARTMENT
EMPLOYEES FOR SERVICES.
   Employees of the Water Department are prohibited from making any sort of
repairs to consumer's fixtures on the property side of the meter. No money
shall be paid to any Water Department employee for any service unless he or she
shall be an authorized collector for the city.
('61 Code, § 24.7) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.006 PROCEDURE FOR TURNING ON WATER IN VACANT HOUSE.
   When, in response to a turn-on order, a Water Department employee shall find
the house or property vacant, he or she shall endeavor to ascertain if water is
running on the inside of the building. If this is found to be the case the
water will be left shut off at the meter and a notice shall be left at the
house stating why the water was not turned on.
('61 Code, § 24.14) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.007 TURNING WATER ON OR OFF AT CURB OR METER.
   Turning on or off water at the curb or inlet side of the meter by other than
authorized employees of the Water Department in any instance or for any purpose
is unlawful.
('61 Code, § 24.15) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.008 DIRECT SUPPLY TO STATIONARY STEAM BOILER.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons to draw water from any city water
supply pipe directly into any stationary steam boiler.
('61 Code, § 24.19) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.009 INSTALLATION OF BOILERS AND OTHER HEATERS.
   All boilers or other heaters supplied with the city water shall be installed
in compliance with this chapter and state safety regulations.
('61 Code, § 24.20) (Ord. 257, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1011, passed - - )
§ 54.010 RIGHT OF ENTRY OF EMPLOYEES OF WATER DEPARTMENT; IDENTIFICATION
BADGES.
   Employees of the Water Department shall be admitted during all reasonable
hours to the water consumer's premises for the purpose of inspecting, testing,
checking, changing or reading water meters installed thereon, and shall upon
request and proper identification be admitted for that purpose to any building
or structure located upon the premises. All employees of the Water Department
engaged in the work shall be furnished with identification badges or letters of
authority from an official of the Water Department.
('61 Code, § 24.21) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.011 WATER PIPES LAID IN STREETS TO BECOME PROPERTY OF WATER DEPARTMENT.
   All water pipes which have been approved by the Water Department, laid in
streets, easements. alleys or other public thoroughfares within the corporate
limits of the city shall become the property of the Water Department.
('61 Code, § 24.22) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.012 WATER SUPPLY FOR CONSTRUCTION SITES.
   When water is required for construction purposes of any type, upon making
proper application a service connection will be made with a main or at a
hydrant at the most accessible point to the construction work. When the
construction is not sufficiently accessible and water must be taken to the work
in a tank wagon or barrel, the supply shall be taken through the meter as
installed. In no case will water be furnished for any purpose except through a
meter.
('61 Code, § 24.39) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.013 USE OF WATER FOR TESTING.
   When plumbers or other persons connecting water service pipes to the
property or outlet side of the meter may use the water for testing pipes and
fixtures at an unoccupied building, they shall see that water is properly shut
off before leaving the same.
('61 Code, § 24.41) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.014 SUPPLIER OF MISCELLANEOUS SERVICES.
   The Water Department is always willing to render any reasonable service in
connection with the supply of water service to consumers upon application at
the main office of the Water Department, providing, reasonable charges may be
made for any expense involved in rendering the service.
('61 Code, § 24.42) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 54.025 WATER DEPARTMENT CREATED; SUPERVISION.
   A Water Department is hereby created in the city and the supervision of the
department shall be under the direction of the Water Superintendent.
('61 Code, § 24.1) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.026 SCOPE OF WATER DEPARTMENT; JURISDICTION AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Water Department's jurisdiction and responsibility ends at the meter,
and the Water Department will in no case be liable for damages occasioned by
water running from open or faulty fixtures or from broken or damaged pipes
beyond the Water Department's meter.
('61 Code, § 24.16) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.027 WATER SUPERINTENDENT; APPOINTMENT.
   The office of Water Superintendent is hereby created, which office shall be
filled in accordance with the provisions of §§
31.45 to
31.55 and
31.70 through 31.79.
('61 Code, § 24.2) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.028 WATER SUPERINTENDENT; DUTIES AND COMPENSATION.
   The Water Superintendent shall be the administrative officer of the Water
Department and shall discharge his or her duties and receive compensation as
shall be provided by resolution or ordinance of the city.
('61 Code, § 24.3) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.029 CITY COUNCIL MAY PROVIDE RULES AND REGULATIONS BY RESOLUTION.
   The City Council may, by resolution, provide the rules and regulations as it
may deem necessary or advisable to accomplish the intent and purposes of this
chapter.
('61 Code, § 24.24) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.030 WATER MAIN FUND.
   There is hereby created in the office of the City Treasurer, a fund to be
known as the “water main fund”, into which all money received from property
owners pursuant to the terms of §
54.162 shall be paid, and the money in this fund shall be used for no other
purpose than the construction of water mains to serve undeveloped areas of the
city, or extensions thereof.
('61 Code, § 24.88) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
Cross-reference:
   City Treasurer, see §
31.35
EXCAVATIONS
§ 54.040 REQUEST TO WATER DEPARTMENT REQUIRED.
   All persons making improvements requiring excavations in streets wherein
water mains and service connections exist, requiring such water mains and
service connections to be cut and refitted, lowered or raised shall make
written request to the water department, insuring the payment of all costs
incurred by the Water Department in making the changes necessary or required to
be made.
('61 Code, § 24.7) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.041 NOTICE TO WATER DEPARTMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   All contractors who open, grade, regrade, fill, excavate or otherwise
work a street, shall give at least three days' written notice to the Water
Department for the removal, raising, lowering or otherwise displacing of any
water mains, pipes, fittings, meters or other water system property that may
interfere with the street work.
   (B)   Contractors or other persons performing the work described in division
(A) above shall be liable for damage to city properties.
('61 Code, § 24.8) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
WATER CONSERVATION
§ 54.050 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this article is to establish voluntary and imposed water
conservation standards intended to alter behavior related to water use
efficiency and further establishes four stages of action to be implemented
during times of declared water shortage or declared water shortage emergency,
with increasing restrictions on water use in response to worsening drought or
emergency conditions and decreasing supplies. As used herein, the term ARTICLE
shall refer to and mean §§
54.050 through
54.063.
(Ord. 1662, passed 10-15-14)
§ 54.051 AUTHORITY OF THE CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   The City Manager is hereby authorized and directed to implement the
applicable provisions of this article in order to protect the public health,
safety and welfare.
   (B)   The City Manager is hereby authorized and directed to implement the
stages of action as set forth in the Urban Water Management Plan, Water
Shortage Contingency Plan, developed and adopted pursuant to Cal. Water Code §§
10620 et seq., (“Water Shortage Contingency Plan”) pursuant to the provisions
of this article. The Water Shortage Contingency Plan includes any amendments
that may be adopted from time to time.
(Ord. 1662, passed 10-15-14)
§ 54.052 GENERAL PROHIBITION; APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   No person shall use or permit the use of potable water provided by the
City of Indio through the Indio Water Authority (“city”) for residential,
commercial, industrial or any other purpose in violation of any provision of
this article or in excess of the amount permitted by the stages of action of
the Water Shortage Contingency Plan set forth in this article. The provisions
of this article shall apply to all persons, customers and property served by
the city wherever situated.
   (B)   The provisions of this article do not apply to uses of water necessary
to protect the public health and safety or for essential government services,
such as police, fire, and other similar emergency services.
   (C)   The provisions of this article do not apply to the use of reclaimed or
recycled water.
(Ord. 1662, passed 10-15-14)
§ 54.053 DETERMINATION OF WATER SHORTAGE.
   A water supply shortage exists when the City Manager determines that due to
drought or other water supply conditions, a water supply shortage or threatened
shortage exists and consumer demand reduction is necessary to make more
efficient use of water and appropriately respond to existing water conditions.
When the City Manager finds that such conditions have been satisfied, he or she
shall recommend to the City Council that a resolution to declare the
appropriate stage of action be adopted. The City Manager has discretion to
determine that certain mandatory restrictions may be appropriate for
implementation at an earlier stage and may recommend such restriction for
implementation.
(Ord. 1662, passed 10-15-14)
§ 54.054 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   In the event the City Manager determines that water supply conditions
require the implementation of Stage II, Stage III, Stage IV, Stage V, or Stage
VI of the Water Shortage Contingency Plan, or parts thereof, the following
actions shall be taken:
      (1)   The City Manager shall declare, at a noticed public hearing of the
City Council, implementation of the appropriate stage of action as set forth in
§§
54.056 through
54.060.
      (2)   The City Council shall adopt a resolution affirming the declaration
made by the City Manager.
      (3)   Within ten days after adoption of the resolution, the city shall
publish a copy of the resolution in a newspaper used for the publication of
official notices.
   (B)   None of the restrictions contained in Stage II, Stage III, Stage IV,
Stage V, or Stage VI of the Water Shortage Contingency Plan, shall be
applicable and subject to enforcement until the City Council adopts a
resolution imposing the restrictions at a duly noticed public hearing. Such
restrictions shall continue until repealed by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   The City Manager shall direct staff to provide public education
material and notices to all water users advising them of the actions taken by
the City Manager and the water use restrictions included in the water stage of
action.
   (D)   In the event that the City Manager declares, and the City Council
approves, implementation of Stage VI of the Water Shortage Contingency Plan
("Severe Shortage or Catastrophic Incident"), the City Manager may also request
specific reductions in water allocations to conserve water for the greatest
public benefit. The City Council shall declare a Water Emergency in the manner
and on the grounds provided in Cal. Water Code § 350 before the City Manager's
requested reductions may take effect.
(Ord. 1662, passed 10-15-14; Am. Ord. 1762, passed 7-21-21)
§ 54.055 STAGE I - NORMAL WATER SUPPLIES (UP TO 10% SHORTAGE RANGE).
   Stage I represents the normal operating condition where all persons are
advised to use water wisely and practice water conservation measures to avoid
wasting water. The City Manager or his or her designee has authority to declare
a Stage I state of action without further action of the City Council. The
following prohibitions and actions shall take effect in the event that the City
Manager declares Stage I stage of action:
   (A)   Applying any water to outdoor landscapes in a manner that causes
runoff such that water flows onto adjacent property, non-irrigated areas,
private and public walkways, roadways, parking lots, or structures shall be
prohibited.
   (B)   Using any water in a fountain or other decorative water feature shall
be prohibited, except where the water is part of a recirculating system.
   (C)   Applying water to driveways, sidewalks, concrete or asphalt shall be
prohibited, unless to address immediate health and safety needs. Reasonable
pressure washer or water broom use shall be permitted.
   (D)   Spray irrigation of outdoor landscapes during and within 48 hours
after rainfall of 0.10 inches shall be prohibited.
   (E)   Using a hose to wash a vehicle, windows, or solar panels, shall be
prohibited, unless an automatic shut-off nozzle or pressure washer is used.
   (F)   Broken sprinklers shall be repaired within five business days of
notification by city, and leaks shall be repaired as soon as practical.
   (G)   Draining and refilling of private swimming pools shall be discouraged,
unless necessary for health and safety or leak repair.
   (H)   Hotels shall provide guests the option of choosing not to have towels
and linens laundered daily.
   (I)   City shall discourage overseeding.
   (J)   City shall provide rebates for landscape efficiency.
   (K)   City shall offer water use surveys/audits.
   (L)   City shall provide rebates on plumbing fixtures and devices.
(Ord. 1662, passed 10-15-14; Am. Ord. 1762, passed 7-21-21)
§ 54.056 STAGE II - SLIGHTLY LIMITED WATER SUPPLIES (UP TO 20% SHORTAGE RANGE).
   The following prohibitions and actions shall take effect in the event that
the City Manager declares a Stage II stage of action:
   (A)   Outdoor water use shall be prohibited during daylight hours for spray
irrigation, except for leak checks or a city- approved conservation alternative
plan.
   (B)   City shall encourage use of non-potable water for construction, if
available.
   (C)   City shall actively discourage over-seeding.
   (D)   Restaurants shall serve water only upon request.
   (E)   Outdoor water budget shall be reduced by 10%.
   (F)   City shall expand its public information campaign.
   (G)   City shall increase water waste patrols.
   (H)   City shall reduce frequency of hydrant and dead end line flushing.
(Ord. 1662, passed 10-15-14; Am. Ord. 1681, passed 10-21-15; Am. Ord. 1762,
passed 7-21-21)
§ 54.057 STAGE III - MODERATELY LIMITED WATER SUPPLIES (UP TO 30% SHORTAGE
RANGE).
   The following prohibitions and actions shall take effect in the event that
the City Manager declares a Stage III stage of action:
   (A)   Outdoor water use shall be allowed three days a week for spray
irrigation (Monday, Wednesday, Friday).
   (B)   Drip or subterranean irrigation shall be allowed seven days per week
during non-daylight hours.
   (C)   Commercial nurseries shall use water only on alternate days during
non-daylight hours for outside operations.
   (D)   Decorative ponds, non-irrigation system golf course water hazards,
fountains, and other waterscape features shall not to be filled or replenished.
   (E)   Swimming pools or landscaping ponds shall not be filled, unless
necessary for health and safety or leak repair.
   (F)   City shall encourage counties, cities, Homeowner Associations (HOAs)
and other enforcement agencies to suspend code enforcement and fines for brown
turf areas and to otherwise comply with new state laws regarding limitations on
such enforcement.
   (G)   Commercial car washes shall use recycled water or recirculating water
systems.
   (H)   Spray irrigation of medians and parkways shall be prohibited.
   (I)   City shall strengthen customer billing messages with use comparisons.
   (J)   City shall implement water use audits targeted to key customers to
ensure compliance with directives.
   (K)   City shall expand rebate programs.
(Ord. 1662, passed 10-15-14; Am. Ord. 1673, passed 5-20-15; Am. Ord. 1762,
passed 7-21-21)
§ 54.058 STAGE IV - LIMITED WATER SUPPLIES (UP TO 40% SHORTAGE RANGE).
   The following prohibitions and actions shall take effect in the event that
the City Manager declares a Stage IV stage of action:
   (A)   Turfgrass landscapes shall not be watered, except where subterranean
or non-potable watering systems are used.
   (B)   City shall implement a moratorium on new turfgrass landscaping.
   (C)   City shall implement or modify drought rate surcharge.
   (D)   Outdoor water budget shall be reduced by up to 25%.
   (E)   City shall expand public information campaign.
(Ord. 1662, passed 10-15-14; Am. Ord. 1762, passed 7-21-21)
§ 54.059 STAGE V - SIGNIFICANTLY LIMITED WATER SUPPLIES (UP TO 50% SHORTAGE
RANGE).
   The following prohibitions and actions shall take effect in the event that
the City Manager declares a Stage V stage of action:
   (A)   Watering turfgrass shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Turfgrass at parks and school grounds shall be watered with recycled
water, if available, or not at all.
   (C)   Golf course greens and school grounds shall be watered no more than
two times per week during non-daylight hours with recycled water, or not at
all.
   (D)   Trees, desert plants and shrubs shall be watered only with drip,
subterranean or non-adjustable bubbler irrigation systems during non-daylight
hours.
   (E)   Outdoor water budget shall be reduced by up to 50%.
   (F)   City shall implement a moratorium or net zero demand on new
connections.
   (G)   New construction meters for water service shall not be issued.
   (H)   Water service through construction meters shall not be made available.
   (I)   The use of misting systems shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 1762, passed 7-21-21)
§ 54.060 STAGE VI - SEVERE SHORTAGE OR CATASTROPHIC INCIDENT (GREATER THAN 50%
SHORTAGE RANGE).
   The following prohibitions and actions shall take effect in the event that
the City Manager declares a Stage VI stage of action:
   (A)   Commercial nurseries shall discontinue all use of potable water for
watering and irrigation.
   (B)   Watering of livestock shall be permitted, as necessary.
   (C)   Outdoor watering shall be prohibited.
   (D)   Initial filling of swimming pools or landscaping ponds shall be
prohibited.
   (E)   Restaurants shall use disposable cups, plates, and utensils.
   (F)   Mandatory rationing shall be implemented.
(Ord. 1762, passed 7-21-21)
§ 54.061 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Violation of the water use restrictions of §§
54.056 through
54.060 shall be penalized as follows:
      (1)   First violation. The Indio Water Authority General Manager or his
designee (“General Manager”) shall issue a written notice of the fact of a
first violation to the person.
      (2)   Second violation. For a second violation during any one water
shortage declaration, the General Manager may impose a surcharge in the amount
equal to 25% of the person’s water bill.
      (3)   Third violation. For a third violation during any one water
shortage declaration, the General Manager may impose a surcharge in the amount
equal to 50% of the person’s water bill.
      (4)   Fourth and subsequent violation. For a fourth and each subsequent
violation during any one water shortage declaration, the General Manager may
install a flow restricting device of one (1) gallon per minute capacity for
services up to one and one-half (1-1/2) inch size, and comparatively sized
restrictors for larger services, on the service of the person at the premises
at which the violation occurred for a period of not less than forty-eight (48)
hours. The city shall charge the person the reasonable costs incurred for
installing and for restoration of normal service. Normal service shall not be
restored until all the account has been made current and all charges have been
paid. In addition, the surcharge provided in division (A)(3) of this section
shall continue to apply.
   (B)   In addition to any penalties imposed herein, a fourth or subsequent
violation during any one water shortage declaration of the water use
restrictions of §§
54.056 through
54.060 shall also constitute a misdemeanor unless, at the discretion of the
City Prosecutor, the violation is charged as an infraction.
   (C)   Notice of the violation shall be provided as follows:
      (1)   Notice of a first violation shall be given in writing by regular
mail.
      (2)   Notice of second or subsequent violations shall be given in writing
in the following manner:
         (a)   By giving the notice to the customer personally; or
         (b)   If the customer is absent from or unavailable at the premises at
which the violation occurred, by leaving a copy with some person of suitable
age and discretion at the premises and sending a copy through the regular mail
to the address at which the customer is normally billed; or
         (c)   If a person of suitable age or discretion cannot be found, by
affixing a copy in a conspicuous place at the premises at which the violation
occurred and also sending a copy through the regular mail to the address at
which the customer is normally billed.
      (3)   The notice shall contain a description of the facts of the
violation, a statement of the possible penalties for each violation, and a
statement informing the customer of the right to a hearing on the merits of
violation pursuant to §
54.063.
(Ord. 1662, passed 10-15-14; Am. Ord. 1762, passed 7-21-21)
§ 54.062 RELIEF FROM COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   A person may file an application for relief from any provision of this
article. The City Manager shall develop such procedures as necessary to resolve
such application for relief, and shall take reasonable steps to resolve the
application for relief. The decision of the City Manager shall be final. The
City Manager may delegate these duties and responsibilities under this section
as appropriate.
   (B)   The application for relief may include a request that the person be
relieved, in whole or in part, from the water use restrictions of this article.
   (C)   In determining whether to grant relief and the nature of any relief,
the City Manager shall take into consideration all relevant factors including,
but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Whether the applicable reduction in water consumption will result
in unemployment;
      (2)   Whether additional persons have been permanently added to the
household;
      (3)   Changes in vacancy factors in multi-family housing;
      (4)   Increased number of permanent employees in commercial, industrial,
and governmental offices;
      (5)   Increased production requiring increased water;
      (6)   Water uses during new construction;
      (7)   Adjustments to water use caused by emergency health or safety
hazards;
      (8)   First filling of a permit-constructed swimming pool; and
      (9)   Water use necessary for reasons related to family illness or
health.
   (D)   In order to be considered, an application for relief must be filed
with the General Manager within 20 days from the date of the mailing of the
water bill which is the subject matter of the application. No relief shall be
granted unless the person shows that he or she has achieved the maximum
practical reduction in water consumption other than in the specific areas in
which relief is being sought.
(Ord. 1662, passed 10-15-14; Am. Ord. 1762, passed 7-21-21)
§ 54.063 HEARING REGARDING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person receiving notification of violation of this article may
request a hearing by filing an appeal along with the appeal fee with the
General Manager within 15 days of mailing or other delivery of the notice of
violation. The appeal fee shall be in an amount set by City Council resolution.
   (B)   The person’s timely written request for a hearing shall automatically
stay installation of a flow-restricting device on any customer’s premises until
the Administrative Hearing Officer renders his or her decision.
   (C)   The person’s timely written request for a hearing shall not stay the
imposition of a surcharge. If it is determined that the surcharge was wrongly
charged and paid, the Indio Water Authority shall credit any amount due to the
unpaid water bill.
   (D)   The decision of the Administrative Hearing Officer shall be final.
(Ord. 1662, passed 10-15-14; Am. Ord. 1762, passed 7-21-21)
§ 54.064.1 LANDSCAPE AND WATER CONSERVATION.
   (A)   Water waste prevention. Water waste from inefficient landscape
irrigation allowing runoff, low head drainage, overspray or other conditions
where water flows onto roadways, adjacent property or non-irrigated property is
prohibited.
   (B)   Prohibition on certain covenants conditions and restrictions, all
development. It shall be unlawful for covenants, conditions and restrictions of
any development project or homeowners association to require the use of water-
intensive landscaping or prohibit low water use landscaping.
   (C)   Landscaping equipment.
      (1)   Water meters. Separate landscape water meters shall be installed
for all projects except for single family homes. All commercial, industrial and
apartment buildings must have separate meters for landscaping installed by
January 1, 2013.
         (a)   All meters are the property of the Indio Water Authority.
         (b)   Consumers, contractors, or any other person shall not tamper
with or make inoperable any permanent meter that is installed to record water
usage.
         (c)   All new construction shall have separate landscaping meters.
         (d)   Portable meters shall be installed on hydrants to record water
use for construction use, air quality dust control or any other water use
deemed acceptable by the Indio Water Authority. Meters shall be obtained from
the Indio Water Authority.
         (e)   Only Indio Water Authority meters shall be used to record water
usage in the Authority’s service area.
      (2)   Controllers. Automatic evapotranspiration, ET, controller systems
or moisture sensing devices shall be required for all irrigation systems and
must be able to accommodate all aspects of the design.
      (3)   Valves. Plants which require different amounts of water shall be
irrigated by separate valves. If one valve is used for a given area, only
plants with similar water use shall be used in that area. Anti-drain (check)
valves shall be installed in strategic points to minimize or prevent low-head
drainage.
      (4)   Sprinkler heads. Heads and emitters shall have consistent
application rates within each control valve circuit. Sprinkler heads shall be
selected for proper area coverage, application rate, operating pressure,
adjustment capability, and ease of maintenance.
      (5)   Rain sensing override devices. Rain sensing override devices shall
be required on all irrigation systems.
      (6)   Soil moisture sensing devices. It is recommended that soil moisture
sensing devices be considered where appropriate.
      (7)   Vertical stops. Sprinklers must be equipped with vertical stops
installed just below the sprinkler head which automatically shut off water to a
broken sprinkler head.
      (8)   Backflow devices and valves. No consumer, contractor or any other
person shall tamper with backflow devices or distribution valves without
consent of the Indio Water Authority. Repairs of backflow devices shall be done
by companies approved and authorized by the Indio Water Authority.
      (9)   Master values. Master values must be installed on all systems with
a flow sensor for automatic shut off of the station based on 10% over flow
rate.
   (D)   Remedies nonexclusive. Enforcement remedies provided in this chapter
are not exclusive. The city may take all, or any combination of these actions
against a person, as well as any other enforcement remedies which the city may
have available.
   (E)   Administrative remedies.
      (1)   Notice of violation. Whenever an authorized enforcement official
determines there has been a violation of this chapter, the official may serve a
notice that enumerates the violations found and order compliance by a certain
date.
      (2)   Administrative compliance order. Whenever an authorized enforcement
official determines that a violation of this chapter has occurred, the official
may require the submission of a detailed compliance schedule, including the
actions that will be taken to correct said violation(s) or prevent future
recurrences of said violation(s), to the authorized enforcement official for
approval. A compliance order shall not relieve the violator of liability for
any violation, including any continuing violation.
      (3)   Cease and desist order. Whenever an authorized enforcement official
determines that a violation of this chapter is occurring, or that past
violations are likely to recur, the authorized enforcement official may issue
an order to cease and desist and take such appropriate remedial or preventive
action as may be needed to properly address a continuing or potential
violation, including halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
      (4)   Termination of service. If the violation continues after the
issuance of a cease and desist order, irrigation service to the facility may be
turned off and remain off until corrective actions are taken to the
satisfaction of the authorized enforcement official.
      (5)   Administrative civil penalties. The city may serve an
administrative complaint on any person who has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter. Each day on which each instance of
noncompliance shall occur or continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct
violation. Procedures for application of administrative civil penalties shall
be in accordance with standard procedures adopted by the city.
   (F)   Violations deemed a public nuisance.
      (1)   In addition to the penalties hereinbefore provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter is a threat to the public health, safety and welfare, and is declared
and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated and/or restored by any
authorized enforcement official, and/or civil action to abate, enjoin or
otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance may be taken by the city.
      (2)   If any violation of this chapter constitutes a seasonal and
recurrent nuisance, the city shall conduct a hearing to consider revocation of
a permit by serving notice to the permittee a notice of intention to revoke.
The city will set forth the grounds for the hearing and designate a time and a
place for the hearing.
   (G)   Guidelines adopted, procedure for amendment and modification. The
Indio Water Authority Board and City Council shall from time to time consider
and adopt “Landscape and Water Conservation Guidelines” as Section 4 of the
City’s “Development Services Procedural Guidelines.” City and Indio Water
Authority staff shall apply these guidelines to all new development and may
amend or modify same administratively as deemed necessary and appropriate by
the City Manager/Executive Director or his or her designee. Within 90 days of
approval of any administrative amendment or modification of these guidelines,
the City Manager/Executive Director shall present a summary of same to the City
Council and the Indio Water Authority Board for review and ratification at a
public meeting.
(Ord. 1528, passed 3-5-08; Am. Ord. 1563, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1762,
passed 7-21-21)
§ 54.064.2 WATER EFFICIENT LANDSCAPE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the following landscape projects:
      (1)   New development projects with an aggregate landscape area equal to
or greater than 500 square feet requiring a building, landscape permit, plan
check or design review;
      (2)   Renovated landscape projects with an aggregate landscape area equal
to or greater than 2,500 square feet requiring a building or landscape permit,
plan check or design review; and
      (3)   Existing landscapes installed before January 1, 2010 and over one
acre in size, except that such landscapes shall be limited to complying with
only those programs that the city or Indio Water Authority may adopt from time
to time, which may include, but not be limited to, irrigation water analyses,
irrigation surveys and irrigation audits that verify landscape water use does
not exceed the maximum applied water allowance (MAWA) for existing landscapes.
The maximum applied water allowance (MAWA) for existing landscapes shall be
calculated as: MAWA = (.70) (ETo) (LA) (.62/748) unless landscape plans were
submitted and approved under a stricter water conserving ordinance.
   (B)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Registered local, state or federal historical sites;
      (2)   Ecological restoration projects that do not require a permanent
irrigation system;
      (3)   Mined-land reclamation projects that do not require a permanent
irrigation system; or
      (4)   Plant collections, as part of botanical gardens and arboretums open
to the public.
   (C)   Prior to installation, a landscape documentation package shall be
submitted to the city for review and approval for all landscape projects
subject to the provisions of this section. Any landscape documentation package
submitted to the city shall comply with the provisions of the City of Indio/
Indio Water Authority's Landscape and Irrigation System Design Criteria or,
where service is provided by another water purveyor, the relevant landscape and
irrigation system design criteria adopted by that water purveyor.
   (D)   Verification of compliance of the landscape installation with the
approved plans shall be obtained through a certification of completion issued
by the Indio Water Authority or other water purveyor in conjunction with a
certificate of use and occupancy or permit process. The certificate of
completion shall be filed with the Development Services Department.
   (E)   The city may delegate to, or enter into a contract with, another
public agency, including the Indio Water Authority, to implement, administer,
and/or enforce any of the provisions of this chapter on behalf of the city.
   (F)   The “City of Indio/Indio Water Authority Landscape and Irrigation
System Design Criteria,” attached as Appendix A to Ordinance No. 1684 and any
amendments thereto, is hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference as
if fully set forth below. The Director of Development Services or Indio Water
Authority General Manager may amend this Design Criteria from time to time in a
manner consistent with the purpose and intent of this section. One copy of the
Design Criteria shall remain on file in the Office of the City Clerk.
   (G)   The City Council may establish by resolution fees for the cost of
reviewing and monitoring landscape documentation packages and landscape
irrigation audits. The landscape documentation review fee shall be due at the
time that the landscape documentation package is initially submitted to the
city.
   (H)   A violation of this section, including any provision of the City of
Indio/Indio Water Authority Landscape and Irrigation System Design Criteria may
be subject to an administrative citation pursuant to
Chapter 12  of this code, except that the amount of fine shall be $250 per
violation.
   (I)   An applicant, property owner or designee of any applicable project may
appeal decisions rendered pursuant to this section, other than the imposition
of penalties, to the City Manager or his or her designee, in writing, within 15
days of notification of the decision. The City Manager's decision shall become
final on the fifteenth day following service of written notification of said
decision unless a timely appeal to the City Council is submitted to the City
Clerk within 15 days of notification of the City Manager's decision. The City
Council's decision shall be final upon its adoption.
   (J)   The requirements of this section apply in addition to other applicable
landscape development standards contained in Title XV of this code, including
but not limited to §
162.120. In the event of any conflict between this section and the provisions
of Title XV, the provision that contains the more stringent landscaping water
efficiency requirement(s) shall control.
(Ord. 1684, passed 1-20-16; Am. Ord. 1762, passed 7-21-21)
FIRE HYDRANTS
§ 54.065 PERSONS AUTHORIZED TO USE.
   Fire hydrants are provided for the sole purpose of extinguishing fires, and
are to be opened and used only by the Fire Department and Water Department or
other persons as are specially authorized by the Water Department, upon the
person making application at the main office of the Water Department.
('61 Code, § 24.17) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.066 PROCEDURE FOR OPENING AND CLOSING.
   To ensure safety of fire hydrants for fire protection, any person authorized
by the Water Department to open fire hydrants under §
54.065 will be required to use only an approved spanner wrench, and to replace
the caps on outlets when the same are not in use. Failure to meet this
requirement will be sufficient cause to prohibit further use of the hydrants,
and the refusal of subsequent authorization for use of the fire hydrants.
('61 Code, § 24.18) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.067 DEBRIS ABOUT FIRE HYDRANTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to place upon or about any fire hydrant, gate
valve, manhole, stopcock, meter or meter box connected with water pipes of the
system of waterworks, any material, debris or structure of any kind so as to
prevent free access to the same at all times.
('61 Code, § 24.23) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.068 APPLICATIONS FOR USE OF WATER FROM FIRE HYDRANTS; CONNECTION AND
INSTALLATION OF METER FOR SUPPLY.
   Persons wishing to take a supply of water from a fire hydrant must make
application to the Water Department for that service. The Water Department will
make the necessary connections and install a meter of required size.
('61 Code, § 24.38) (Ord. 257, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 894, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 54.999
§ 54.069 PERMIT TO CARRY WATER AWAY.
   It is unlawful for any person to carry away any water from any fire hydrant
without a written permit, furnished upon a regular application, by the Water
Department.
('61 Code, § 24.40) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
CONNECTIONS
§ 54.080 APPLICATION.
   All applications for water must be made in writing on forms provided by the
Water Department and must be signed by the applicant.
('61 Code, § 24.25) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.081 SIZING OF WATER METERS AND SERVICES.
   (A)   Water meters and services shall be sized in accordance with § 1009 of
the Uniform Plumbing Code as adopted by the city. Sizes of meters and services
not covered by this section shall be sized by the owner, or the owner's
authorized representative and approved by the Water Department.
   (B)   In no event, shall residential water meters be less than 3/4 inch.
('61 Code, § 24.25) (Ord. 546, passed - - )
§ 54.082 COST OF ERRORS.
   Should the water service connection installed pursuant to the request of an
applicant be of the wrong size or installed at a wrong location, the cost of
all changes required shall be paid by the applicant; except, however, the
provisions of this section shall not apply where there is no error in the
application.
('61 Code, § 24.26) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.083 CONDITIONS.
   Every water service connection made upon receipt of an application as
provided in §
54.081 shall be subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   The applicant shall pay the stipulated rates at the time and in the
manner provided in this chapter;
   (B)   The Water Department may change rates;
   (C)   The Water Department and the city shall not be liable for any damage
by water or otherwise resulting from defective plumbing, broken or faulty
service or water mains, or resulting from any condition of the water itself, or
any substance that may be mixed with or be in the water as delivered to any
consumer.
('61 Code, § 24.27) (Ord. 257, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1011, passed - - )
§ 54.084 DELINQUENCY IN PRIOR BILLS GROUNDS FOR REFUSAL OF SERVICE.
   When an application for water service is made by a former consumer who has
failed to pay all bills for service previously rendered, the Water Department
may refuse to furnish water to that applicant until the outstanding bills are
paid.
('61 Code, § 24.28) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.085 SUPPLY TO TWO OR MORE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Two or more buildings under one ownership and on the same lot or
parcel of land must be supplied by individual or separate water service
connections and meters, except in the case of a court or in case of buildings
located on the rear of an inside lot, where one service and meter may be
installed by the owner to cover more than one building.
   (B)   The Water Department reserves the right to limit the number of
buildings or the area of the land under one ownership to be supplied by one
service connection.
   (C)   A service connection shall not be used to supply adjoining property of
a different owner, or to supply property of the same owner across a street or
alley.
   (D)   When property provided with a service connection is subdivided, the
service connection shall be considered as belonging to the lot or parcel of
land which it directly enters.
('61 Code, § 24.29) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.086 TEMPORARY CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Generally. When water service is required by an owner of real property
on which there now exists or is planned for immediate construction a dwelling,
other structure or improvement requiring domestic water service and there is no
water main adjacent to the property, the Water Department may grant permission
to the applicant to have a service connection and meter set at the nearest
existing water main.
      (1)   The applicant must agree in writing to the following conditions, to
pay all costs of installation and maintenance of a pipeline from the service
connection and meter to his or her property and assume all responsibility,
liability for, and the payment of all costs and damages growing out of the
installation, operation or failure of such pipeline.
      (2)   The connection and pipeline shall be installed and used as a
temporary arrangement only; no water shall be conveyed through for the use of
any residence or property other than the property for which it was originally
intended; and at such time as a regular permanent water main may be installed
to serve the property under this agreement, and on written demand of the Water
Department the applicant must bear his or her proportionate share of the costs
of the main extension and at his or her expense shall install a regular
domestic water service, and shall discontinue the use of the temporary services
connections and pipeline.
('61 Code, § 24.30)
   (B)   Manner of procurement. For temporary water service over a short
period, special arrangements may be made to secure water supply as follows:
      (1)   From an installed service connection not in use.
      (2)   From an outlet at the inlet side of a meter on a service connection
that is in use, provided the applicant shall first secure the owner's
permission to make that connection and shall agree to pay the cost of making
the connection.
      (3)   From house faucets, provided the applicant shall first have
arranged with the consumer who pays for water used through the service.
('61 Code, § 24.31)
   (C)   Discontinued after six months. A temporary service connection
conforming with standard requirements may be made permanent at the end of six
months after installation, provided all charges for service installation,
together with all bills for water furnished through the service, have been paid
in full.
('61 Code, § 24.32)
   (D)   When may be made permanent. A temporary service connection conforming
with standard requirements may be made permanent at the end of six months after
installation, provided all charges for service installation, together with all
bills for water furnished through the service, have been paid in full.
('61 Code, § 24.33)
(Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.087 CURB COCK.
   Every service connection installed by the Water Department shall be equipped
with a curb cock or wheel valve on the inlet side of the meter; the valve or
curb cock being intended exclusively for the use of the Water Department in
controlling the water supply through the service connection pipe. If the curb
cock or wheel valve is damaged by the consumer's use to an extent requiring
replacement, the replacement shall be at the consumer's expense.
('61 Code, § 24.34) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.088 FIRE SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   When a fire service connection is installed the valve governing it
will be closed and sealed and remain so until a written order is received from
the owner of the premises to have the water turned on. After water is turned on
the Water Department shall not be held liable for damages of any kind that may
occur to the premises serviced by reason of the installation, maintenance, use,
fluctuation of pressure or interruption of supply.
   (B)   In no case shall any connection be made with any sprinkler or fire
service without written consent of the Water Department and should it be found
that any such unauthorized connection has been made or that water has been used
for a sprinkler or fire service for any other purpose than extinguishing a
fire, the water service shall be shut off and not turned on again until a sum
equivalent to the monthly minimum provided for in resolution fixing rates
effective at that time for a similar-sized regular installation is paid
covering the entire period during which the service has been installed. A
standard meter of the equivalent size of the service pipe shall be installed by
the Water Department at the owner's expense at rates provided in §
54.146.
   (C)   The Water Department reserves the right to install on each fire
service connection a bypass meter, that installation to be made at the expense
of the owner of the property.
('61 Code, § 24.35) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.089 EMERGENCY SHUT-OFF VALVE.
   Consumers are instructed that in laying water service pipe from the building
to the meter, it is compulsory that a fullway gate valve be placed in the line,
inside the meter box, for use in shutting off the water in case of emergency.
('61 Code, § 24.36.) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.090 RELOCATION OF CONNECTION.
   Any person desiring to change the location of a water service that has
already been installed shall make application to the Water Department and, upon
payment in advance of the cost of time and material, including excavation and
repaving, as estimated by the Water Superintendent, the Water Department will
cause the change to be made.
('61 Code, § 24.37) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.091 RESIDENTIAL FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Effective January 1, 2011 automatic residential fire sprinkler systems
shall be installed in all new one- and two-family dwelling units pursuant to
Cal. Residential Code, Title 24, Part 2.5 adopted on December 1, 2010 by
Ordinance No. 1580 and codified in the Code of Indio in Title XV, Chapter 151,
§ 151.040, with amendments noted in § 151.041. A single permanent service
connection shall provide water service for both the domestic water and the
residential fire sprinkler portions of each customer service line in the city.
   (B)   Each Indio Water Authority customer shall provide the Indio Water
Authority with accurate information related to his/her/its demands as to
domestic water and residential fire sprinkler water, including but not limited
to minimum water pressures, at the time of application for water service. The
Indio Water Authority will size the single permanent service connection for
each customer to meet that customer's demands and pressure requirements. The
service line shall be a minimum of one-inch in size.
   (C)   Each Indio Water Authority customer shall furnish and install a
straight single check valve backflow device in accordance with the Indio Water
Authority standard plans and the approved material list, said plans and
material list being public records maintained by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1593, passed 5-18-11)
METERS AND APPURTENANCES
§ 54.100 METERING REQUIRED; BYPASSES FORBIDDEN.
   (A)   All water services not otherwise provided for in this chapter shall be
metered and all city water used on any premises shall passed through a meter.
   (B)   No bypass or connection between the meter and the main shall be made,
maintained or permitted except as may be installed by the Water Department for
sprinkler or fire service. Water served to any premises, where there is or has
been any infringement upon §
54.088, will be shut off at once and will not be turned on again until full
satisfactory settlement has been made with the Water Department for that
infringement.
('61 Code, § 24.43) (Ord. 257, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 894, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 54.999
§ 54.101 TITLE AND REPAIR.
   All water meters and appliances installed by the Water Department at its
expense upon the consumer's premises shall remain, at all times, the property
of the city, shall be maintained, repaired and renewed by the Water Department
when rendered unserviceable by normal wear and tear and may be removed from the
consumer's premises at any time.
('61 Code, § 24.44) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.102 DUTIES OF CONSUMER.
   (A)   The consumer shall exercise reasonable care to prevent water meters
and appliances on his or her premises from being injured or destroyed and shall
refrain from interfering with the same.
   (B)   Where replacements, repairs or adjustments of any water meter or other
appliance are rendered necessary by any act resulting from malice or neglect of
the consumer or any member of his or her family, or of anyone employed by him
or her, the cost thereof shall be charged to and paid for by the consumer on
presentation of the bill therefor.
   (C)   Any damage which may result from hot water or steam from any boiler or
heater on the consumer's premises shall be paid for by the consumer on
presentation of a bill therefor.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move, alter, interfere with or
remove or cause the same to be done, any water meter or appliance installed by
the Water Department without first obtaining written permission from the Water
Superintendent or to make or maintain any bypass or other connection between
the meter and main water line.
('61 Code, § 24.45) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.103 REMOVAL OF NONREGISTERING METERS; NOTICE OF REMOVAL; LIABILITY.
   When a nonregistering meter is removed for failure to operate, a notice
shall be left on the premises informing the consumer that the old meter
supplying the premises has been removed for failure to operate and that a new
meter has been set in its place. This notice shall also inform the consumer
that in the event the removed meter shall be found upon examination to have
been injured and rendered ineffective because of the backing up of hot water or
steam from the consumer's water heater or boiler, the expense of the damage
caused thereby will be charged to the consumer.
('61 Code, § 24.46) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
CHARGES AND DEPOSITS; GENERALLY
§ 54.115 GUARANTEE DEPOSITS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   The Water Department shall have the right to require guarantee deposits from
any water consumer who has allowed his or her bill to become delinquent or who
does not have an acceptable credit rating or for the payment of future bills.
('61 Code, § 24.49) (Ord. 257, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 439, passed - - )
§ 54.116 INTEREST.
   No interest shall be payable at any time upon any deposit made by any
consumer, as required by §
54.116 for water service under the provisions of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 24.52) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.117 APPLICATION.
   Any guarantee deposits that may be required by §
54.115 may be applied to current billing after one year of acceptable payment
experience or to closing accounts. Any balance in excess of $5.00 of any
deposit remaining after the closing bill or application to current bill for
water service has been settled will be returned promptly; provided, nothing is
owning to the Water Department by the depositor for water delivered to any
former address.
('61 Code, § 24.53) (Ord. 257, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 439, passed - - )
§ 54.118 RESERVED.
§ 54.119 DISTRICTS.
   For convenience in the reading of meters and the preparation of water bills,
the Water Department is hereby expressly authorized and it shall be its duty to
divide the city into districts. These districts may, from time to time, be
revised or changed as necessary or desirable in order to equalize the work of
reading meters and billing.
('61 Code, § 24.55) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.120 DAY OF METER READING.
   The meters in each district established under §
54.119 shall be read on approximately the same day of every other month, except
when Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays intervene.
('61 Code, § 24.56) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.121 DAY OF BILLS MAILED; TIME FOR PAYMENT.
   Water bills based on meter readings shall be prepared and mailed to the
consumers in each district on approximately the same day of every other month,
except when Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays intervene. Fifteen days shall
be allowed from the date of mailing of the bills for the payment thereof.
('61 Code, § 24.57) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.122 RATES FOR VACANT PROPERTY; EXCEPTION.
   In case a house becomes vacant, the regular minimum rate shall be charged
and collected from the owner thereof whether water is used or not unless the
Water Department is notified in writing of the fact that the property is
unoccupied and the Water Department is requested to cut off the water service
therefrom.
('61 Code, § 24.58) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.123 TWO OR MORE METERS.
   For the purpose of making charges, all water meters supplying a consumer's
premises will be considered separately and the readings thereof will not be
combined, except that where the Water Department shall, for operating
necessity, install in place of one meter, two or more meters, then the reading
of those two or more meters will be combined for the purpose of making charges;
provided, the minimum water rates shall be applied to each such meter.
('61 Code, § 24.59) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.124 READINGS MONTHLY OR BIMONTHLY.
   Under ordinary conditions, continuous water service meters shall be read
monthly on approximately the same day of the month; provided, the Water
Department may, at its discretion, read the meter of any consumer on a
bimonthly schedule and a bill issued showing the period covered by the meter
readings, the quantity of water used and the total charge for the service
rendered.
('61 Code, § 24.60) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.125 CHECKING WHEN LARGE CONSUMPTION OCCURS; AVERAGE BILLS PREPARED WHERE
OBSTRUCTION EXISTS OR METER FAILS TO REGISTER.
   If the water meter readings indicate a large or unusual consumption has
occurred, the readings will be checked before the bill is mailed. The Water
Department's services will be available without charge in assisting in locating
the probable causes of high consumption. When it is impossible to read the
meter due to any obstructions, an average bill or a series of average bills
will be rendered. The accumulated over-read or under-read, if any, will be
adjusted at the next actual reading date. If the meter fails to register, the
charge for water will be based upon the average of the comparable period of the
preceding year, taking into consideration the volume of business, weather
conditions and any other factors that may assist in determining an equitable
charge.
('61 Code, § 24.61) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.126 PLACES WHERE BILLS TO BE MAILED.
   Unless the applicant for water service directs otherwise, all bills will be
mailed to the premises where water service is furnished.
('61 Code, § 24.62) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.127 PENALTY FOR DELINQUENCY IN PAYMENT OF BILL.
   In the event any consumer is delinquent in the payment of his or her water
bill, and that delinquency continues for a period of five days after the final
date for payment of the bill a penalty of 5% of the unpaid current balance
shall be added to that consumer's account.
('61 Code, § 24.63) (Ord. 257, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 615, passed - - ; Am. Ord.
1011, passed - - )
§ 54.128 LIABILITY FOR WATER USED WITHOUT APPLICATION FOR SERVICE;
DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   A person taking possession of premises and using water through an active
service connection without having made application to the Water Department for
water service shall be held liable for the water delivered from the date of the
last recorded meter reading. If the meter was found inoperative, the quantity
of water consumed will be estimated.
('61 Code, § 24.64) (Ord. 257, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1011, passed - - )
§ 54.129 PROCEDURE FOR SHUTTING OFF WATER.
   Upon application of the owner or occupant of a building or premises served
by water service connection to have water shut off at the supply or inlet side
of the meter, the Water Department will shut the water off and at the same time
will record the reading of the meter.
('61 Code, § 24.65) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.130 WHEN REQUESTED BY CONSUMER.
   No charge will be made by the Water Department for turning on or shutting
off the water supply when requested by the consumer incident to the closing of
an account.
('61 Code, § 24.66) (Ord. 257, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 275, passed - - )
§ 54.131 DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE FOR NONPAYMENT.
   The City Council shall adopt by resolution a written policy on discontinuing
residential service for nonpayment. The city shall comply with the written
policy in all actions to discontinue residential water service. Such policy
does not apply to nonresidential water service. Nonresidential customers/users
failing to pay a bill on time are subject to termination after a fifteen (15)
calendar day notice is served for the service address following the due date.
(‘61 Code, § 24.68) (Ord. 257, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 275, passed - - ; Am. Ord.
615, passed - - Am. Ord. 1746, passed 1-15-20; Am. Ord. 1747, passed 2-5-20)
§ 54.132 WATER IMPACT FEE.
   All new development on land that has not had prior water service shall be
subject to a water impact fee as established pursuant to the city’s impact fee
ordinance §§
33.065 et seq.)
(Ord. 1301, passed 10-17-01; Am. Ord. 1422, passed 5- 4-05; Am. Ord. 1423,
passed 5-18-05; Am. Ord. 1426, passed 6-1-05; Am. Ord. 1438, passed 6-15-05;
Am. Ord. 1463, passed 5-17-06)
CHARGES FOR INSTALLATION
§ 54.145 RENT AND THE LIKE NOT TO BE CHARGED FOR PLACEMENT OR MAINTENANCE.
   No rent or other charge shall be made by the consumer against the Water
Department nor, except as provided in this subchapter, by the Water Department
against the consumer for placing or maintaining any meter or appliance upon the
consumer's premises.
('61 Code, § 24.70) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.146 SCHEDULE OF CHARGES.
   (A)   The Water Department shall collect charges for installation of and the
perpetual maintenance of all water services, meters and appurtenances thereto
the same to remain the property of the Water Department. These charges shall be
established by the City Council by resolution. These charges, in addition to
all other repair charges for water facilities and main extensions, must be paid
before the meter and service is installed unless otherwise provided for under
agreement under other sections of the code.
('61 Code, § 24.71)
   (B)   When water service installation is required by an applicant that is
not covered by the schedule of charges set out in division (A) above, that work
will be done with charges based upon the cost of the installation as required
by an applicant as determined by the Water Department.
('61 Code, § 24.72)
(Ord. 257, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 539, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 740, passed - - ;
Am. Ord. 1011, passed - - )
§ 54.147 WHEN BASEMENT EXCAVATED TO CURB LINE.
   The schedule of charges set out in §
54.146 includes meter boxes except where the basement is excavated to the
curbline, in which case the applicant shall provide, at his or her own expense,
an adequate vault and cover to house the meter and appurtenances in accordance
with Water Department requirements.
('61 Code, § 24.73) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.148 WHERE SERVICE INSTALLATION EXCEEDS 50 FEET IN LENGTH.
   If a water meter and service installation exceeds 50 feet in length, or for
any other valid reason it cannot be installed for the amount stated in the
schedule of charges set out in §
54.146(A), due to the peculiarity of the proposed service, the Water Department
reserves the right to make the installation on the basis of the costs of the
installation as determined by the Water Department.
('61 Code, § 24.74) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.149 AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLER SERVICES.
   When water services are installed for automatic fire sprinkler service, the
applicant must install, at his or her own expense, a detector check valve of
design and at a location approved by the Water Department.
('61 Code, § 24.75) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.150 INCREASES IN SIZE OF SERVICE AND METER.
   Where a water meter and service are installed, and application is made for
an increase in size of service and meter at the same location, a schedule of
credits shall be allowed for the meter removed on the above-referenced schedule
of charges for installation. The schedule of credits shall be established by
the City Council by resolution.
('61 Code, § 24.76) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.151 TEMPORARY SERVICES.
   A temporary water service connection may be installed at the same charge as
provided for a regular service connection.
('61 Code, § 24.78) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.152 CHARGES FOR EXISTING MAINS.
   Every applicant for water service from mains installed prior to the date of
application, who had not theretofore either in person or through his or her
predecessor, in interest, paid his or her proportionate share of the cost of
the water main, with respect to the property to be served, shall before the
application will be acted upon or water is furnished pursuant thereto, pay to
the Water Department a water main connection charge for each foot of frontage
of the property to be served, in addition to all other usual and regular
charges of the Water Department, including charges for service connection and
meter installation. The charge shall be established by resolution of the City
Council.
('61 Code, § 24.79) (Ord. 257, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 743, passed - - )
§ 54.153 DEPOSIT REQUIRED; REFUNDS.
   Where water main extensions are required (intersections not included) to
reach property requiring a water supply, they may be made upon the approval of
the Superintendent of the Water Department, and the deposit by the applicant of
an amount equal to twice the water main construction charges established under
§
54.152, provided that the minimum deposit shall be based on the number of
lineal feet of frontage in the property to be served. This deposit minus the
charges established under §
54.152 for each front foot of property frontage requiring service will be
refunded to the payer or his or her assigns only if, during the ten years
following installation, water main connection charges are collected from other
consumers requiring service from this extension, and not otherwise. All
extensions thus provided shall be and remain the property of the Water
Department and any balance of the deposit remaining at the end of the above
mentioned ten-year period, shall become the property of the water department.
('61 Code, § 24.80) (Ord. 257, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 743, passed - - )
§ 54.154 EXTENSION WITHOUT DEPOSIT.
   When the City Manager recommends and the public interest or convenience
requires the extension of any water main or the replacement of any substandard
water main or mains of the Water Department, the Water Department may make
water main extensions and replacements of substandard mains without a deposit
as required by the preceding section provided the funds are available.
('61 Code, § 24.81) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.155 DESIGN, LOCATION OF EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The design, location, materials and standards of construction of any
and all extensions shall be approved by the City Manager.
   (B)   The design of an extension shall be based upon considerations of
adequate capacity to meet the present and future requirements of the area to be
benefitted, of distribution system operation and efficiency, of maintenance
requirements and of anticipated life of the extension.
   (C)   Extensions shall generally be located on the south and east sides of
dedicated city streets or in rights-of-way granted to the city for water main
location. Under no circumstances shall any structure be placed over or around
any water main or extension, unless provision is made for ready and easy access
to any and all parts or points of such main or extension.
   (D)   Materials and standards of construction shall be those which have been
adopted and are used by the Water Department for the area and class of service
to be provided.
('61 Code, § 24.82) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.156 EXTENSION TO UNSUBDIVIDED AREAS.
   (A)   When an application is made for water service which requires a water
main extension to serve property not conventionally subdivided into city lots,
the area shall be considered acreage and the extension shall be made at the
expense of the applicant as provided by §
54.158.
   (B)   The required extension shall originate at the nearest adequate
existing water main, as determined by the City Manager, and shall extend to and
full length along the property to be provided with water service.
('61 Code, § 24.83) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.157 CHARGES OF COST.
   The cost of an extension to or in an unconventionally subdivided area shall
be borne by the applicant requiring the extension, in conformity with the
following provisions:
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for water service which requires an
extension, when the application is properly filled out and provides an accurate
description of the property to be served, the City Manager shall cause the
Water Department to prepare a map showing the area to be benefitted by the
extension and to make an estimate of cost of installation of the proposed
extension.
      (1)   The applicant shall then deposit a sum of money, equal to this
estimated cost, with the city.
      (2)   Following receipt of the deposit, the City Manager shall cause the
proposed extension to be constructed. Or, upon approval of the City Manager and
subject to specifications of and inspection by the Water Department, the
proposed extension may be installed by private contract at the applicant's sole
expense with no refund provisions applicable thereto.
      (3)   Upon completion of an extension which has been provided for by a
deposit with the city, the actual cost of making the extension shall be
determined. The actual applicable cost as determined in accordance with
division (D) below shall be divided by the number of square feet in the area
benefitted by the extensions, as determined by the City Manager, and the
resulting unit cost per square foot thus determined shall be the basis for
making refunds to the applicant who made the deposit, and for determining the
water main construction charges to be made for future service connections to
the extension.
      (4)   In the event the applicant's deposit for estimated costs of
installation of an extension exceeds the actual cost of the installation, the
excess shall be refunded to the applicant and in the event the deposit is less
than the actual cost of installation the applicant shall be liable to the city
for the deficiency.
   (B)   (1)   Where subsequent connections are made to the extension and where
a portion or all of the cost of main extensions was paid by the applicant, the
water main construction charges received by the city for subsequent service
connections to the extension for a period of ten years following the date of
completion of the extension, the applicable portion of the cost shall be
refunded to the person who paid for the extension or to his or her successors
or assigns, as hereinafter provided.
      (2)   Sale of the property herein referred to and conveyance of the title
thereto shall constitute an assignment to the purchaser of the property, and
payment of the amount as becomes due to the maker thereof or the purchaser of
the property shall constitute a discharge of the obligations to the city of the
amount so paid. After the expiration of the ten-year period, any water main
construction charges subsequently received shall become the sole property of
the city.
      (3)   A water main construction charge for each and every service
connection to an extension installed under the provisions of this chapter shall
be paid before the service connection is made.
         (a)   The water main construction charge is separate from and is in
addition to the service connection charge required by any other section of this
chapter.
         (b)   The service connection charges as defined above are not
refundable.
         (c)   Water main construction charges shall be determined by
multiplying the number of square feet of ground area to be benefitted by the
service connection by the unit cost per square foot as defined above.
         (d)   Any property lying within the area to be benefitted by the
extension, as determined in division (A) above, shall pay a water main
construction charge as determined above before water service will be supplied
the property.
         (e)   Water service shall be discontinued immediately when found to be
supplied to any property within the area benefitted if the water main
construction charge for service to that property has not been paid.
   (C)   The cost of installing a water main extension less than six inches in
diameter including pumps, tanks and appurtenances, shall be borne entirely by
the applicant and there shall be no refund provisions for future service
connections to such an extension.
   (D)   (1)   The cost of making extensions six inches and eight inches in
diameter and feeder mains from the nearest adequately supplied point in the
water distribution system and including pumps, tanks and other appurtenances
shall be charged against the applicant. If the extension is provided for by
deposit with the city, the actual applicable cost referred to in division (A)
above shall be the entire cost of the six-inch or eight-inch pipe lines
including facilities such as pumps, tanks and other appurtenances.
      (2)   The applicable cost of making an extension larger than eight inches
in diameter when the larger diameter extension is recommended by the City
Manager, shall be determined as follows: The estimated cost of the water main
including pumps, tanks and appurtenances, shall be provided for by a deposit
made by the applicant and the difference in cost between an eight-inch water
main and the larger diameter actually installed shall be borne by the city.
Subsequent water main connection charges shall be based on the estimated cost
of an eight-inch main, and the refunds to the applicant who made the deposits
as hereinbefore provided, shall be upon such basis.
('61 Code, § 24.84) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.158 EXTENSION TO AREAS SUBDIVIDED BY MEANS OF CONVEYANCES; CHARGES,
GENERALLY.
   The Water Department is hereby authorized to make water main extensions for
the benefit of areas of the city which have been subdivided by means of
conveyances, and not pursuant to any regular statute of the state or ordinance
of the city, if it is in the best interest of the city to make the extensions.
   (A)   A charge for each and every service connection to an extension
installed under the provisions of this section shall be paid by the person
receiving such connection before any such connection is actually made.
   (B)   The construction charge to be paid pursuant to the terms of this
section is separate from and is in addition to the service connection charge
also required by any other section of this chapter. The amount of the
construction charge to be charged for the water main extension shall be
determined in the same manner as that provided for in §
54.158(A) and (D).
('61 Code, § 24.85) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.159 PROVISION FOR RENTAL CHARGES.
   Whenever the city shall install a permanent water main extension as
authorized in §
54.157 for the purpose of serving either improved property where water service
has already been furnished through a temporary service connection or unimproved
property where the owner thereof is willing to pay his or her proportionate
share of the extension of the water main in order to serve his or her property,
upon written demand of the Water Department, before any connection is made with
the extended main for the use of such property owner, shall either pay to the
city direct, a sum of money equal to the owner's proportionate share of the
cost of the extension of the water main or enter into a written agreement with
city wherein such owner agrees to pay the city for the use of the water main a
rental charge which shall consist of a sum of money equal to that which would
represent the owner's proportionate share of the cost of the extension of such
water main.
   (A)   The agreement shall provide that all of the rental shall be paid by
the owner to the city in equal monthly installments not to exceed 36 in number.
   (B)   The equal monthly installments shall be not less than $15 each until
the total rental is paid.
   (C)   If the owner fails during the life of the agreement to pay any
installment or rent due within 30 days after the due date, the city shall have
the right to discontinue water service to the property from the water main
until all the delinquent installments or rents are fully paid.
('61 Code, § 24.86) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.160 DESIGN AND COST OF EXTENSION TO CERTAIN SUBDIVIDED AREAS.
   All extensions of water mains into areas of the city hereafter subdivided
under the provisions of
Chapter 156 shall be installed according to the design and requirements of the
Water Department and at the cost of the subdivider; provided further, that the
installations shall be made under written agreement between the subdivider and
the city.
('61 Code, § 24.87) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.161 ALTERNATE PROCEDURE FOR EXTENSIONS.
   The following procedure for the installation of water mains and extensions
thereof is intended as an alternative procedure to any other presently
authorized by ordinance or law, and is not intended in any way to be exclusive.
   (A)   When the City Council determines that the public interest and
necessity demand the acquisition, construction and completion of a water main
to undeveloped areas of the city not yet adequately served with water, for the
purpose of providing those areas with water service, and appropriates money out
of the treasury of the city for these public improvements, no person shall be
permitted to connect his or her property to the water main nor receive water
service from the city through the water main until the property owner has paid
to the city the proportionate share of the cost of the water main with respect
to the property of the property owner to be served; and no application, either
by petition or otherwise, shall be approved by the City Council for the
installation and completion of a water main under this section unless and until
the property owners to be benefitted or a sufficient number thereof shall have
paid to the city, or agreed to pay such proportionate share of the cost of the
water main as in the opinion of the council insures the payment of the cost of
the public improvement. These payments shall be in addition to any other fee
prescribed by any ordinance of the city or by the municipal ordinance for the
installation and connection of laterals with the water main reaching to the
property of the property owners to be served.
   (B)   When the Council determines the public interest of the city will be
served by the extension of water mains into new areas not adequately served
with water, no person shall be permitted to make a connection with the
extension water main until the property owner whose property shall be served by
the extension water main shall have paid to the city his or her proportionate
share of the cost of the extension water main, together with a proportionate
share of the cost of the original water main, and no application for a
connection or service from the extension water main shall be approved unless
and until the person shall have paid to the city his or her proportionate share
of the cost of the extension water main, together with a proportionate share of
the cost of the original water main.
   (C)   From and after the effective date of this chapter no new water mains
or extensions of existing water mains designed to serve an area of the city not
yet adequately served by water shall be installed by the city under this
section until the following conditions shall have been performed and the
following requirements fulfilled:
      (1)   Whether initiated by the property owners by petition or initiated
by the Council itself by resolution, the council shall cause a map or plat to
be prepared by the City Engineer and filed with the City Clerk, which map or
plat shall show the exterior boundaries of the entire area proposed or designed
to be eventually served by the proposed public improvement, or in lieu thereof
a written description of the area to be served by the public improvement,
together with an estimate of the total cost of the initial improvement.
      (2)   The adoption of a resolution by the Council which shall prescribe a
minimum initial contribution to be paid by the property owners of the area to
be benefitted by the construction of the initial unit of the public
improvement, based upon a percentage of the total estimated cost, which in all
cases shall be sufficient in amount to satisfy the Council that the
construction cost will be paid.
      (3)   The approval by the Council by resolution of a sum to be paid by
the property owner for each connection with either a water main or any
extension thereof, which sum shall be recommended by the City Manager and shall
be determined upon an equitable basis, which shall represent the proportionate
share that the property owner should bear of the cost of new water main in
relation to its entire cost; or if the property owner's connection is to be
made with an extension of an existing water main then the sum to be paid by the
property owner shall be determined upon an equitable basis so as to provide
that the property owner shall pay a proportionate share of the cost of the
water main, together with an additional amount which represents his or her
proportionate share of the cost of the extension of the water main.
      (4)   The same method provided by division (3) hereinabove for
determining the cost to be borne by the property owner for a connection with an
extension water main shall apply in case the property owner desires to connect
with any new extension of an existing water main and previously constructed,
extensions thereof, namely, the property owner shall be required to pay his or
her proportionate share of the cost of the original water main, together with
his or her proportionate share of the cost of any or all extensions thereof.
('61 Code, § 24.88) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
§ 54.162 MAINS TO BE INSTALLED PRIOR TO PAVING OF STREETS.
   Before any street within a subdivision is paved with a permanent type of
pavement, any required water main shall be installed in that street.
('61 Code, § 24.89) (Ord. 257, passed - - )
CROSS-CONNECTION AND BACKFLOW PREVENTION
§ 54.175 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of these regulations is:
      (1)   To protect the public water supply against actual or potential
cross-connections by isolating within the premises contamination or pollution
that may occur because of some undiscovered or unauthorized cross-connection on
the premises;
      (2)   To eliminate existing connections between drinking water systems
and other sources of water that are not approved as safe and potable for human
consumption;
      (3)   To eliminate cross-connections between drinking water systems and
other sources of water or process water used for any purpose which jeopardize
the safety of the drinking water supply;
      (4)   To prevent the making of cross- connections in the future.
   (B)   These regulations are in accordance with the state Department of
Public Health Administrative Code, Title 17, entitled “Regulations Relating to
Cross- Connections.”
   (C)   It is the intent of these regulations to recognize that there are
varying degrees of hazard and to apply the principle that the degree of
protection should be commensurate with the degree of hazard.
('61 Code, § 24.90) (Ord. 604, passed - - )
§ 54.176 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR-GAP SEPARATION. A physical break between a supply pipe and receiving
vessel. The air- gap shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe,
measured vertically above the top rim of the vessel in no case less than one
inch, with no ties or connection between the device and meter.
   APPROVED. Those devices as approved by the Foundation of Cross-Connection
Control.
   APPROVED CHECK VALVE. A check valve that seats readily and completely and
has been previously approved for use in this service by the city. It must be
carefully machined to have free moving parts and assured water tightness. The
face of the closure element and valve seat must be bronze, composition, or
other noncorrodible material which will seat tightly under all prevailing
conditions of field use. Pins and bushings shall be of bronze or other
noncorrodible, nonsticking material, machined for easy, dependable operation.
The closure element (i.e., clapper) shall be internally weighted or otherwise
internally equipped to promote rapid and positive closure in all sizes where
this feature is obtainable.
   APPROVED DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly which has previously been
approved for use in this service by the city and consists of at least two
independently acting approved check valves including tightly closing shutoff
valves on each side of the check valve assembly and suitable leak detector
drains plus connections available for testing the watertightness of each check
valve, with no ties or connections between device and meter.
   APPROVED REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device
which has previously been approved for use in this service by the city and
consists of incorporating two or more check valves and an automatically
operating differential relief valve located between the two check, two shutoff
valves, and equipped with necessary appurtenances for testing, with no ties or
connections between the device and meter.
      (1)   The device shall operate to maintain the pressure in the zone
between the two check valves less than the pressure on the public water supply
side of the device.
      (2)   At cessation of normal flow, the pressure between check valves
shall be less than the supply pressure.
      (3)   In case of leakage of either check valve the differential relief
valve shall operate to maintain this reduced pressure by discharging to the
atmosphere.
      (4)   When the inlet pressure is two pounds per square inch or less, the
relief valve shall open to the atmosphere, thereby providing an air-gap in the
device.
      (5)   To be approved, these devices must be readily accessible for
maintenance and testing and installed in a location where no part of the valve
will be submerged.
   APPROVED WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply approved by or under the public
health supervision of a public health agency of the state, or its political
subdivisions. In determining what constitutes an approved water supply, the
State Department of Public Health reserves final judgment as to its safety and
potability.
   AUXILIARY SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises other
than the public water supply.
   CROSS-CONNECTIONS. Any actual or potential unprotected connection between
any part of a water system used or intended to supply water for drinking
purposes and any source or system containing water or substance that is not or
cannot be approved as safe, wholesome, and potable for human consumption.
('61 Code, § 24.91) (Ord. 604, passed - - )
§ 54.177 WHERE PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each service connection from the city water system for supplying water
to premises having an auxiliary water supply shall be protected against
backflow of water from the premises into the public water system unless the
auxiliary water system is accepted as an additional source by the water
surveyor, and is approved by the public health agency having jurisdiction.
   (B)   Each service connection from the city water system for supplying water
to premises on which any substance is handled in such a fashion as to permit
its entry into the water system, shall be protected against backflow of the
water from the premises into the public system. This shall include the handling
of process waters and waters originating from the city water supply system
which have been subject to deterioration in sanitary quality.
   (C)   Backflow prevention devices shall be installed on the service
connection to any premises that have internal cross-connections unless such
cross- connections are abated to the satisfaction of the city and approved by
the state or local health department.
('61 Code, § 24.92) (Ord. 604, passed - - )
§ 54.178 TYPE OF PROTECTION.
   The protective device required shall depend on the degree of hazard as
tabulated below:
   (A)   At the service connection to any premises where there is an auxiliary
water supply handled in a separate piping system with no known cross-
connection, the city water supply shall be protected by an approved double
check valve assembly.
   (B)   At the service connection to any premises on which a substance that
would be objectionable (but not necessarily hazardous to health), if introduced
into the public water supply, is handled so as to constitute a cross-
connection, the city water supply shall be protected by an approved double
check valve assembly.
   (C)   At the service connection to any premises on which there is an
auxiliary water supply where cross- connections are known to exist which cannot
be presently eliminated, the public water supply system shall be protected by
an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device. A double
check valve assembly may be used in lieu of such device if local experience
indicates that double check valves are reliably operated and if approved by the
water purveyor and local health agency.
   (D)   At the service connection to any premises on which any material
dangerous to health or toxic substance in toxic concentration is or may be
handled, the public water supply shall be protected by an air- gap separation.
The air-gap shall be located as close as practicable to the service cock and
all piping between the service cock and receiving tank shall be entirely
visible. If these conditions cannot reasonably be met, the public water supply
shall be protected with an approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device.
   (E)   At the service connection to any sewage treatment plant or sewage
pumping station, the city water supply shall be protected by an air-gap
separation. The air gap shall be located as close as practicable to the service
cock and all piping between the service cock and receiving tank shall be
entirely visible. If these conditions cannot be reasonably met, the public
water supply shall be protected with an approved reduced pressure principle
backflow prevention device, providing this alterative is acceptable to both the
water purveyor and local health agency. Final decision in this matter shall
rest with the State Department of Public Health.
('61 Code, § 24.93) (Ord. 604, passed - - )
§ 54.179 RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the Indio Water Authority to make
the determination if any service connection or the handling of substances
within the premises served is deemed to constitute a hazard to the city water
system and to determine the degree of hazard and establish the requirements for
protection. The Indio Water Authority shall accomplish this in conjunction with
the local health agency.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of each user of water to install and
maintain the required backflow prevention device specified by the Indio Water
Authority. Further, it shall be an additional responsibility of each user of
water to procure, install and maintain such security equipment, e.g., a
protective cage, for said backflow prevention device as may be desired by the
user of water in question. The Indio Water Authority shall have no obligation
to provide or reimburse any user of water with such security equipment. A user
of water shall be prohibited from installing any security equipment, including
but not limited to a protective cage, that does not meet approved Indio Water
Authority specifications and standards. Security equipment shall only be
approved if in accord with standards developed by the Indio Water Authority in
accord with this code and all applicable law and regulations.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the Indio Water Authority to inspect
each and test each device by qualified personnel at the expense of the
consumer.
       (1)   Inspection intervals shall be one year maximum. The required
interval may be less if determined by the Indio Water Authority that a history
of malfunctioning has been established or if the degree of hazard makes more
frequent inspections advisable.
      (2)   All devices shall be disassembled for maintenance and repair at
least every five years.
      (3)   All test results and all maintenance steps taken shall be reported
regularly on forms to be provided by the Indio Water Authority and maintained
on file at the Indio Water Authority office. Failure to file with the Indio
Water Authority the required test and maintenance reports will require the
Indio Water Authority to consider the connection unprotected and service may be
discontinued.
   (D)   Inspection fees. The Indio Water Authority will, by resolution, adopt
fees for each type and size of device required to be installed.
('61 Code, § 24.94) (Ord. 604, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1594, passed 5-18-11)
§ 54.180 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Service of water to any premises may be discontinued by the water
division after ten days' notification if unprotected cross-connections exist on
the premises, or if any defect is found in an installed backflow preventive
device, or if a backflow preventive device has been removed or bypassed, under
direction an inspector may disconnect the water supply immediately when he or
she feels that there is a major health problem present, and service will not be
restored until the conditions or defects are corrected.
   (B)   Discontinuance of service may be summary, immediate and without notice
when, in the judgment of the Water Superintendent of the Water Division, the
action is necessary to protect the purity of the water supply or the safety of
the water system, and the Water Superintendent's determination shall be final
and conclusive.
('61 Code, § 24.95) (Ord. 604, passed - - )
§ 54.181 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The city representative assigned to inspect premises relative to possible
hazards shall carry proper credentials of his or her office, upon exhibition of
which he or she shall have the right to entry, during usual business hours to
inspect any and all buildings and premises in the performance of his duty. This
right of entry shall be a condition of water service in order to provide
assurance that the continuation of service to the premises will not constitute
a menace to the health, safety and welfare of the people throughout the city's
water system.
('61 Code, § 24.96) (Ord. 604, passed - - )
WATER COMPANIES
§ 54.190 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY.
   No person shall engage in the business of operating any private water
company or any other company supplying water within the city without having
first obtained from the City Council a certificate of public convenience and
necessity.
('61 Code, § 24.98) (Ord. 631, passed - - )
§ 54.191 APPLICATION FEE.
   All persons applying for a certificate of public convenience and necessity
shall pay a nonrefundable fee of established by the fee resolution.
('61 Code, § 24.99) (Ord. 631, passed - - )
§ 54.192 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.
   All persons applying for a certificate required by this subchapter shall
file with the City Council a verified application which shall set forth:
   (1)   The name and address of the person making application;
   (2)   If, at the same time of making application, the person is actually
operating a water supply company in the city, the name of the company and the
area which it serves;
   (3)   The area for which a certificate of public convenience and necessity
is desired;
   (4)   A description of the proposed water system and proposed charges and
rates for services;
   (5)   Other information as the City Council may require.
('61 Code, § 24.100) (Ord. 631, passed - - )
§ 54.193 HEARING.
   Upon filing of the fully completed application for the certificate of public
convenience and necessity, the City Clerk shall fix the time for a public
hearing thereon before the City Council for the purpose of determining whether
the public convenience and necessity require the proposed water company. No
certificate shall be granted until the Council shall, after hearing, declare by
resolution that the public convenience and necessity require the proposed water
company.
('61 Code, § 24.101) (Ord. 631, passed - - )
§ 54.194 PUBLICATION OF NOTICE.
   Notice of the time and place of the public hearing before the City Council
shall be published once in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, and
the cost of publication shall be at the expense of the applicant.
('61 Code, § 24.102) (Ord. 631, passed - - )
§ 54.195 INVESTIGATION OF NECESSITY.
   In determining whether public convenience and necessity require the proposed
water company for which the application is made, the City Council shall
investigate and consider:
   (A)   The demand of the public for the proposed water company;
   (B)   The adequacy of the existing and proposed service;
   (C)   The financial responsibility and experience of the applicant;
   (D)   The effect which an additional water company may have upon existing
water companies and water service provided by the city;
   (E)   The quality, nature and type of service to be furnished by the
applicant.
('61 Code, § 24.103) (Ord. 631, passed - - )
§ 54.196 ISSUANCE.
   If the City Council shall, by resolution, declare that public convenience
and necessity require the additional water company, a certificate to that
effect shall be issued to the persons entitled thereto; provided, the City
Council may, in its discretion, determine the area of service, conditions and
limitations on the granting of said permit; provided, further, that no
certificate authorized hereunder shall be issued to any persons who shall not
have fully complied with all of the necessary requirements of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 24.104) (Ord. 631, passed - - )
§ 54.197 CANCELLATION UPON DISCONTINUANCE OF BUSINESS.
   If the service permitted hereunder is for any reason discontinued for a
period of 30 days, the certificate granted shall automatically be canceled and
shall be restored only in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 24.105) (Ord. 631, passed - - )
§ 54.198 RIGHT TO OBTAIN NEW CERTIFICATE UPON TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   If the owner sells or transfers title to the water company, or if more than
25% of the stock in the company is transferred at any one time, a new
certificate must be issued provided the new owners have complied with all of
the provisions of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 24.106) (Ord. 631, passed - - )
§ 54.199 SUSPENSION AND RENOVATION.
   (A)   The City Council may, at any time, revoke or suspend the certificate
granted pursuant to this subchapter:
      (1)   If the company's record is unsatisfactory;
      (2)   If the company fails to operate the water service in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter or the conditions imposed on it by the city
upon issuance of the certificate;
      (3)   If the company discontinues or suspends operation of service for a
period of 45 days without permission first had and obtained from the City
Council;
      (4)   If the company operates at a rate or adopts a rate schedule other
than that approved by the City Council.
   (B)   All certificates which shall have been surrendered or revoked by the
City Council shall be surrendered to the City Clerk, and the operation covered
by the certificates shall cease and be unlawful.
('61 Code, § 24.107) (Ord. 631, passed - - )
§ 54.200 GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OF APPLICATION AND SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Council shall act on the company's application for a
certificate of public convenience and necessity by resolution, and may deny any
such application if, in its sound discretion, it determines that:
      (1)   There is a reasonable cause rendering the proposed operation
undesirable or inadequate to this city;
      (2)   There is insufficient public need or demand for the proposed water
company;
      (3)   The proposed water company's operation is inadequate, unsafe, or
does not comply with existing standards in use throughout the city for water
service;
      (4)   That it does not provide adequate fire protection.
   (B)   The Council may, by resolution, and after five days' written notice to
the company, suspend or revoke a company's certificate for any of the grounds
for which it may deny an application and, in addition thereto, it may suspend
or revoke any company's certificate for a violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter.
('61 Code, § 24.108) (Ord. 631, passed - - )
§ 54.201 EXISTING COMPANIES.
   There is exempted from the operation of this chapter any privately owned
water company holding a certificate of public convenience and necessity from
the Public Utilities Commission and any mutual water company upon their filing
with the city documentation of the present areas served together with a map of
their area indicating the service mains, the size thereof, the location and
capacity of their wells. Upon any later modification or expansion other than
routine maintenance or repair said existing company shall comply with all
provisions of this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 24.109) (Ord. 631, passed - - )
§ 54.202 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Council may adopt further rules and regulations implementing the
provisions of this chapter by resolution at any later date.
('61 Code, § 24.110) (Ord. 631, passed - - )
§ 54.215 PURPOSE; AUTHORITY AND IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum standards for
construction, reconstruction, abandonment and destruction of all wells in order
to:
      (1)   Protect underground water resources; and,
      (2)   Provide safe water to persons within the city.
   (B)   Pursuant to the authority cited in Cal. Water Code § 13801(c), the
City of Indio City Engineering Services shall enforce the provisions of this
subchapter within its jurisdiction.
('61 Code, § 24.112) (Ord. 1041, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1103, passed 11-20-91)
§ 54.216 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED WELLS and ABANDONMENT.  These terms shall apply to a well whose
original or functional purpose and use has been discontinued for a period of
one year and which has not been declared for reuse by the legal owner with the
City Engineering Services, or a well in such a state of disrepair that it
cannot be functional for its original purpose or any other function regulated
under this subchapter. Exploration holes shall be considered ABANDONED 24 hours
after construction and testing work has been completed.
   AGRICULTURE WELL. Any water well used to supply water for irrigation or
other agricultural purposes, including so-called “stock wells.”
   ANNULAR SEAL or SANITARY SEAL. The approved material placed in the space
between the well casing and the wall of the drilled hole (the annular space).
   CATHODIC PROTECTION WELL. Any artificial excavation in excess of 50 feet
constructed by any method for the purpose of installing equipment or facilities
for the protection electrically of metallic equipment in contact with the
ground, commonly referred to as “cathodic protection.”
   COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY WELL. Any well which provides water for public water
supply systems.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the waters of the state by
waste to a degree which creates a hazard to the public health through poisoning
or through the spread of disease.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any unprotected connection between any part of a water
system used or intended to supply water for domestic purposes and any source or
system containing water or other substances that are not or cannot be approved
as safe, pure, wholesome, and potable for human consumption.
   DEPARTMENT. City of Indio Engineering Services.
   DIRECTOR. The City Engineer or the City Engineer's duly authorized
representative.
   DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM. The facilities, conduits or any other means used for
the delivery of water from the source facilities to the customer's system.
   EXPLORATION HOLE. An uncased excavation for the purpose of immediately
determining the existing geological and/or hydrological conditions at the site
either by direct observation or other means.
   INDIVIDUAL DOMESTIC WELL. Any well used to supply water for domestic needs
other than a public water supply system.
   INDUSTRIAL WELL. Any well used primarily to supply water for industrial
processes and may supply water intentionally or incidentally for domestic
purposes.
   LATERAL (HORIZONTAL) WELL. A well drilled or constructed horizontally or at
an angle with the horizon as contrasted with the common vertical well. The term
does not include horizontal drains or wells constructed to remove subsurface
water from hillside, cuts or fills.
   MONITORING WELL. An artificial excavation by any method for the purpose of
observing, monitoring, or supplying the conditions of a water-bearing aquifer,
such as fluctuations in groundwater levels, quality of groundwaters, or the
concentration of contaminants in underground waters.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, association, profit or nonprofit
organization, trust, partnership, special district or governmental agency to
the extent authorized by law.
   POLLUTION. An alteration of water by waste to a degree which unreasonably
affects the water for beneficial uses or facilities which serve such beneficial
uses. POLLUTION may include CONTAMINATION.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. A system regardless of type of ownership for the
provision of piped water to the public for domestic use, if the system has at
least five service connections or regularly serves an average of at least 25
individuals daily at least 60 days of the year. A public water system includes:
      (1)   Any collection, treatment, storage, and distribution facilities
which are used primarily in connection with the system and which are under
control of the water supplier.
      (2)   Any collection or pretreatment storage facilities which are used
primarily in connection with the system but are not under control of the water
supplier.
   RECONSTRUCTION. Certain work done to an existing well in order to restore
its production, replace defective casing, seal off certain strata or surface
water, or similar work, not to include the cleaning out of sediments, surging,
or maintenance to the pump or appurtenances where the integrity of the annular
seal or water-bearing strata are not violated.
   SOURCE FACILITIES. Wells, stream diversion works, infiltration galleries,
springs, reservoirs, tanks, and all other facilities used in the production
treatment, disinfection, storage, or delivery of water to the distribution
system.
   WATER WELL. Any artificial excavation constructed by any method for the
purpose of extracting water from, or injecting water into the ground. This
definition shall not include:
      (1)   Oil and gas wells, or geothermal wells constructed under the
jurisdiction of the State Department of Conservation, except those wells
converted to use as water wells; or
      (2)   Wells used for the purpose of:
         (a)   Dewatering excavation during construction; or
         (b)   Stabilizing hillsides or earth embankments.
('61 Code, § 24.113) (Ord. 1041, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1103, passed 11-20-91)
§ 54.217 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or entity, as principal agent, or employee, shall dig,
drill, bore, drive, reconstruct or destroy:
      (1)   A well that is to be, or has been, used to produce or inject water;
      (2)   A cathodic protection well; or,
      (3)   A monitoring well, without first filing a written application to do
so with the City Engineering Services, and receiving and retaining a valid
permit as provided herein.
   (B)   No person or entity shall engage in any activity subject to the
jurisdiction of this subchapter without first paying all applicable fees to the
City Engineering Services for each activity in the amounts set forth in city's
fee schedule resolution.
   (C)   Any person who shall commence any work for which a permit is required
by the City Engineering Services without having obtained a permit therefor,
shall, if subsequently granted a permit, pay double the permit fee for such
work; provided, however, that this provision shall not apply to emergency work
when it shall be established in writing to the satisfaction of the City
Engineer that the work was urgently necessary and that it was not practical to
obtain a permit before commencement of the work.
      (1)   In all cases in which emergency work is necessary, a permit shall
be applied for within three working days after commencement of the work.
      (2)   The applicant for a permit for any such emergency work shall, in
any case, demonstrate that all work performed is in compliance with the
technical standards of §
54.029.
   (D)   An application for a permit to construct a water well, monitoring
well, or cathodic protection well, shall be submitted to the City Engineer on a
form and in a manner prescribed by the City Engineer, and shall include the
following information:
      (1)   A plot plan showing the proposed well location with respect to the
following items within a radius of 500 feet from the well:
         (a)   Property lines, including ownership;
         (b)   Sewage or waste disposal systems (including reserved waste
disposal expansion areas), or works for carrying or containing sewage or waste;
         (c)   All intermittent or perennial, natural, or artificial bodies of
water or watercourses;
         (d)   The approximate drainage pattern of the property;
         (e)   Other wells, including abandoned wells;
         (f)   Access road(s) to the well site;
         (g)   Structures.
      (2)   The location of the property with a vicinity map including the
legal description of the property (assessor's parcel map/tract map number);
      (3)   The name and state license number of the general contractor (when
applicable) and the C-57 license number of the person responsible for
constructing the well;
      (4)   The proposed well depth, including casing size and zones of
perforations and strata to be sealed off, if that data can be reasonably
projected;
      (5)   The proposed use of the well;
      (6)   The location of underground storage tank(s) within 500 feet of the
proposed well;
      (7)   Location and classification by visual inspection of any solid,
liquid or hazardous waste disposal sites to include municipal and individual
package sewage treatment plants within 2,000 feet of the proposed well;
      (8)   Where proposed work is reconstruction or destruction of a water
well, monitoring well, or cathodic protection well, provide the following
information, if available:
         (a)   Method of reconstruction or destruction of well;
         (b)   Total depth;
         (c)   Depth and type of casing used;
         (d)   Depth of perforation;
         (e)   Well log;
         (f)   Any other pertinent information.
      (9)   Other information as may be deemed necessary for the City
Engineering Services to determine if the underground waters will be adequately
protected.
   (E)   As a condition of a construction or reconstruction permit, any
abandoned wells on the property shall be destroyed in accordance with standards
provided in this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 24.114) (Ord. 1041, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1103, passed 11-20-91)
§ 54.218 CONDITIONS OF PERMIT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Permits shall be issued after compliance with the standards provided
and incorporated by reference in this subchapter.
   (B)   Plans shall be submitted to the City Engineering Services to be
reasonably necessary to accomplish the purpose of this subchapter.
   (C)   Completion bonds, contractor's bonds, cash deposits, or other adequate
security may be required to insure all projects are performed completely and
properly to protect the public's health and safety and the integrity of
underground water resources.
('61 Code, § 24.115) (Ord. 1041, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1103, passed 11-20-91)
§ 54.219 CONDITIONS OF PERMIT DENIAL.
   Where the City Engineering Services determines that the standards of this
subchapter have not been met, it shall deny the application.
('61 Code, § 24.116) (Ord. 1041, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1103, passed 11-20-91)
§ 54.220 EXPIRATION OR EXTENSION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Each permit issued pursuant to this subchapter shall expire and become
null and void if the work authorized thereby has not been completed within six
months following the issuance of the permit.
   (B)   Any permit issued pursuant to this subchapter may be extended at the
option of the City Engineering Services. Each individual extension granted by
the City Engineering Services shall be for not longer than 120 days. In no
event shall the City Engineering Services grant an extension which would make
the total term of the permit exceed one year. Application for extension shall
be made on a form provided by the City Engineering Services. The application
shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount set forth in the city's fee
schedule resolution.
   (C)   Upon expiration of any permit issued pursuant to this subchapter, no
further work may be done in connection with construction, repair,
reconstruction or abandonment of a well unless and until a new permit for that
purpose is secured in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 24.117) (Ord. 1041, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1103, passed 11-20-91)
§ 54.221 PERMIT REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   A permit issued hereunder may be revoked or suspended by the City
Engineer as provided in this subchapter if he or she determines that a
violation of this subchapter exists, that written notice has been directed to
the permittee specifying the violation, and that the permittee has failed or
neglected to make the necessary adjustments within 15 days after receiving
notice.
   (B)   A permit may be revoked or suspended by the City Engineer if he or she
determines at a hearing held for such purpose that the person to whom any
permit was issued pursuant to this subchapter has obtained the same by fraud or
misrepresentation.
('61 Code, § 24.118) (Ord. 1041, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1103, passed 11-20-91)
§ 54.222 HEARINGS.
   (A)   Any person whose application for a permit has been denied or whose
permit has been suspended or revoked may request a hearing.
      (1)   The person shall file with the City Engineer a written petition
requesting the hearing and setting forth a brief statement of the grounds for
the request.
      (2)   The Hearing Officer shall be the City Engineer or the City
Engineer's designee. At the time and place set for the hearing, the Hearing
Officer shall give the petitioner and other interested persons adequate
opportunity to present any facts pertinent to the matter at hand.
      (3)   The Hearing Officer may, when he or she deems it necessary,
continue any hearing by setting a new time and place and by giving notice to
the petitioner of the action.
   (B)   At the close of the hearing, or within 30 working days thereafter, the
Hearing Officer shall order disposition of the application or permit as he or
she has determined to be proper, and shall, by postage prepaid, registered
mail, notify the petitioner of the determination.
('61 Code, § 24.119) (Ord. 1041, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1103, passed 11-20-91)
§ 54.223 LICENSE AND REGISTRATION OF DRILLERS AND CONTRACTORS.
   No persons shall engage in any activity listed in §
54.217 unless he or she is in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter
and possesses a valid C- 57 license in accordance with the California
Contractor's State License Law (Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code, div. 3, ch. 9) or
possesses a license appropriate to the activity to be engaged in. The person
shall register annually with the City Engineer and pay the registration fee
specified in the city's fee schedule resolution, prior to commencing any
activity regulated by this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 24.120) (Ord. 1041, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1103, passed 11-20-91)
§ 54.224 STATE STANDARDS ADOPTED.
   Standards for the construction, reconstruction, abandonment or destruction
of wells shall be the standards recommended in the bulletins of the California
Department of Water Resources as follows: Bulletin No. 74-81 Chapter II Water
Wells, and Bulletin No. 74-90 (Supplement to Bulletin 7481) as these bulletins
may be amended by the state from time to time. The content of those bulletins
is hereby incorporated by reference with the following additions or
modifications:
   Bulletin No. 74-90 Monitoring Well:
   (A)   Exploration holes for determining immediate geological or hydrological
information relating to onsite sewage disposal systems, liquefaction studies,
hazardous materials investigations, or geotechnical investigations for
construction purposes, such as foundation studies, are exempt from the
monitoring well destruction standards of Part 111, Bulletin 74-90, provided
that a zone of low permeability overlying sediments with water bearing
capabilities has not been penetrated. For the above-listed cases, the
excavation or boring shall be backfilled with native soils immediately after
the investigatory work has been completed. Where a zone of low permeability has
been penetrated, the hole shall be abandoned as specified in Bulletin 74-90,
Part 111. When the excavation or boring is to be left open and unattended (such
as at the end of a work shift), the person in charge of the construction shall
take all necessary precautions to ensure the excavation has not created a
public health or safety hazard.
('61 Code, § 24.121) (Ord. 1041, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1103, passed 11-20-91)
§ 54.225 LATERAL OR HORIZONTAL WELL STANDARDS.
   The location and design of lateral wells shall be in accordance with the
standards recommended in the state Department of Health Services publication,
“Requirements for Use of Lateral Wells in Domestic Water Systems” as such
publication may be amended by the state from time to time. The content of that
publication is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
('61 Code, § 24.121) (Ord. 1041, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1103, passed 11-20-91)
§ 54.226 REQUIRED INSPECTION OF WELL SITE.
   A site inspection by the City Engineering Services is required prior to
issuance of a permit for a well that is to be part of a public water system or
other wells that possess a high potential for contamination as determined by
the Director. In the event the well is to serve a system under the direct
jurisdiction of the State Department of Health Services, that agency may
perform the site inspection and notify the Director of its approval or
disapproval.
('61 Code, § 21,123) (Ord. 1041, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1103, passed 11-20-91)
§ 54.227 REQUIRED INSPECTION OF WELLS.
   (A)   A well inspection shall be requested of the Fire Department at least
two working days in advance of the following activities:
      (1)   For individual domestic wells, agricultural wells, cathodic
protection wells, and monitoring wells:
         (a)   The filling of the annular space or conductor casing;
         (b)   Immediately after the installation of all surface equipment and
(for individual domestic wells) after the well has been disinfected and purged;
      (2)   For community wells: All community water wells shall be inspected
at the frequencies stated in division (A)(1) above for individual domestic
water wells. In addition, a site inspection prior to issuance of a permit is
required in accordance with §
54.226;
      (3)   For all wells, any other operation or condition for which a special
inspection is stipulated on the well permit;
      (4)   For well destruction (all wells):
         (a)   During the actual sealing of the well;
         (b)   Immediately after all well destruction work has been completed.
   (B)   Upon failure to notify the Fire Department of the filling of the
annular space, approved geophysical tests including sonic log and gamma ray log
shall be conducted at the owner's expense, to substantiate that an annular seal
has been properly installed.
   (C)   If the enforcement agency fails to appear at the well site at the time
designated for sealing, the well may be sealed without the presence of the
enforcement agency. However, the driller shall seal the well in accordance with
the standards of this subchapter and the permit in the absence of any
inspection.
('61 Code, § 24.124) (Ord. 1041, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1103, passed 11-20-91)
§ 54.228 DISCHARGE OF DRILLING FLUIDS.
   (A)   Drilling fluids and other drilling materials used in connection with
cathodic protection, monitoring or water well construction, shall not be
allowed to discharge onto streets or into waterways, and shall not be allowed
to discharge to the adjacent property unless a written agreement with the owner
(s) of the adjacent property is obtained; provided, the fluids and materials
shall be cleaned up and removed within 30 days after completion of the well
drilling and there shall be no violation of waste discharge regulations.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to prohibit the surface discharge of
contaminated groundwater provided such discharge is carried out in compliance
with a lawful order of a regional water quality board.
('61 Code, § 24.125) (Ord. 1041, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1103, passed 11-20-91)
§ 54.229 GENERAL LOCATION OF WELLS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person or entity to drill, dig, excavate or
bore any water well at any location where sources of pollution or contamination
are known to exist or have existed, or otherwise substantial risk exists that
water from that location may become contaminated or polluted even though the
well may be properly constructed and maintained. Exceptions to the above
include the following:
      (1)   Extraction wells used for the purpose of extracting and treating
water from a contaminated aquifer;
      (2)   Wells from which water is to be treated to meet all State
Department of Health standards and requirements;
      (3)   Wells from which water will be blended with other water sources
resulting in water that meets all State Department of Health standards and
requirements.
   (B)   Every well shall be located an adequate distance from all potential
sources of contamination and pollution as follows:
 
Source                                                                                 Minimum Distance
                                                                                      (in feet)
      (1)   Sewer                                                            50
      (2)   Watertight septic tank                                           100
      (3)   Subsurface sewage leach line or leach field                      100
      (4)   Cesspool or seepage pit                                          150
      (5)   Animal or fowl enclosures                                        200
      (6)   Any surface sewage disposal system discharging 2,000 gallons per 200 or
more
 
   (C)   Minimum distances from other sources of pollution or contamination
shall be as determined by the City Engineering Services upon investigation and
analysis of the probable risks involved. Where particularly adverse or special
hazards are involved as determined by the City Engineering Services, the
foregoing distances may be increased or specially approved means of protection,
particularly in the construction of the well, may be required as determined by
the City Engineering Services.
('61 Code, §24.126) (Ord. 1041, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1103, passed 11-20-91)
§ 54.230 WELL LOGS.
   (A)   Any person who has drilled, dug, excavated or bored a well subject to
this subchapter shall, within 30 days after completion of the drilling,
digging, excavation, or boring of the well, furnish the City Engineering
Services with a complete log of the well on a standard form provided by the
State Department of Water Resources.
      (1)   This log shall include depths of formations, character, size
distribution, i.e., clay, sand, gravel, rocks and boulders, and color for all
lithological units penetrated, the type of casing, pump test results when
applicable, and any other data required by the department.
      (2)   The City Engineering Services may require inspection of the well
log during any phase of the well's construction and, where necessary to achieve
the purposes of this subchapter, may require modification of the work as
originally phoned.
   (B)   Well logs furnished pursuant to this subchapter shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available to
governmental agencies for use in making studies; provided, any report shall be
made available to any person who obtains written authorization from the owner
of the well.
('61 Code, § 24.127) (Ord. 1041, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1103, passed 11-20-91)
§ 54.231 WATER WELL SURFACE CONSTRUCTION FEATURES.
   (A)   Check valve. A check valve shall be provided on the pump discharge
line adjacent to the pump for all water wells.
   (B)   Sample spigot. An untreated sample spigot shall be provided on the
pump discharge line of any water well used as a public water supply adjacent to
the pump and on the distribution side of the check valve.
   (C)   Water well disinfection pipe. All community water supply wells and
individual domestic wells shall be provided with a pipe or other effective
means through which chlorine or other approved disinfecting agents may be
introduced directly into the wells. The pipe shall be extended at least four
inches above the finished grade and shall have a threaded or equivalently
secured cap on it.
   (D)   Water well flow meter. A flow meter or other suitable measuring device
shall be located at each source facility and shall accurately register the
quantity of water delivered to the distribution system from all community water
supply wells serving a public water supply system.
   (E)   Air-relief vent. An air-relief vent, when required, shall terminate
downward, be screened and otherwise be protected from the entrance of
contaminants.
   (F)   Backflow prevention assembly. Agricultural wells equipped with
chemical feeder devices for fertilizers, pesticides or other nonpotable water
treatment shall be furnished with an approved backflow prevention assembly or a
sufficient air gap to insure that a cross-connection with the well does not
exist.
('61 Code, § 24.128) (Ord. 1041, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1103, passed 11-20-91)
§ 54.232 DISINFECTION.
   Every new, repaired or reconstructed community water supply well or
individual domestic well, after completion of construction, repair or
reconstruction, and before being placed in service, shall be thoroughly cleaned
of all foreign substances. The well gravel used in packed wells, pipes, pump,
pump column, and all well-water contact equipment surfaces, shall be
disinfected by a City Engineering Services-approved method. The disinfectant
shall remain in the well and upon all relevant surfaces for at least 24 hours.
Disinfection procedures shall be repeated until microbiologically safe water is
produced, as set forth in the California Code of Regulations, Title 22,
“Domestic Water Quality Monitoring.”
('61 Code, § 24.129) (Ord. 1041, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1103, passed 11-20-91)
§ 54.233 WATER QUALITY STANDARDS.
   (A)   Water from all new, repaired and reconstructed community water supply
wells shall be tested for and meet the standards for microbiological, general
mineral, general physical, chemical and radiological quality in accordance with
the California Code of Regulations, Title 22, “Domestic Water Quality and
Monitoring.”
   (B)   In addition to the microbiological standards required in §
54.232, all individual domestic water wells shall be tested for and meet the
nitrate, fluoride and total dissolved solids (TDS) standards in accordance with
the California Code of Regulations, Title 22, “Domestic Water Quality and
Monitoring.”
   (C)   At the discretion of the City Engineer, for the purpose of protecting
the health and safety of the public, any new, repaired or reconstructed
individual domestic water well, or community well, shall be tested for and meet
any or all additionally specified Water Quality Standards in accordance with
the California Code of Regulations, Title 2, “Domestic Water Quality and
Monitoring.” Exceptions would be community well water to be either treated or
blended with other water sources to meet State Department of Health Services
standards and requirements. The treatment or blending must be approved by the
State Department of Health Services.
('61 Code, § 24.130) (Ord. 1041, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1103, passed 11-20-91)
§ 54.234 PRIVATE WELL EVALUATION.
   (A)   Individual domestic water wells for which the owner requests a City
Engineering Services evaluation of water quality, shall be tested for water
quality standards for individual domestic water wells as provided for in §
54.232. The City Engineering Services shall perform a well-site inspection and
conduct the microbiological sampling portion of the evaluation. Any additional
testing, including any pump test to determine the yield quantity of the well,
shall be performed by state-certified individuals at the expense of others.
   (B)   The City Engineering Services shall collect an evaluation service fee
in accordance with the city's fee schedule resolution.
('61 Code, § 24.131) (Ord. 1041, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1103, passed 11-20-91)
§ 54.235 WELL ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   If, after 30 days of abandonment, the owner has not declared to the
City Engineering Services a proposed reuse of the well per §
54.238 and the well has been found by the City Engineering Services to be a
hazard, whereby its continued existence is likely to cause damage to
groundwater or a threat to public health and safety, the City Engineering
Services shall direct the owner to destroy the well in accordance with §
54.224.
   (B)   Upon removal of the pump, the casing shall be provided with a threaded
or equivalently secured watertight cap. The well shall be maintained so that it
will not be a hazard to public health and safety until the time as it is
properly destroyed.
('61 Code, § 24.132) (Ord. 1041, passed - - ; Am. Ord, 1103, passed 11-20-91)
§ 54.236 PUBLIC NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   Where an abandoned well has been identified and the owner fails to comply
with the City Engineering Services order to destroy the well, the well may be
declared a public nuisance pursuant to Cal. Gov't Code § 50231, and thereafter
abated pursuant to Cal. Gov't Code tit. 5, div. 1, art. 9. Where abatement is
undertaken at the expense of the city, that cost shall constitute a special
assessment against the parcel and shall be added to the next regular tax bill
as enumerated under Cal. Gov't Code §§ 50244 et seq.
('61 Code, § 24.133) (Ord. 1041, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1103, passed 11-20-91)
§ 54.237 DECLARATION OF PROPOSED RE-USE.
   Where a well is unused or its disuse is anticipated, the owner may apply to
the City Engineering Services, in writing, stating an intention to use the well
again for its original or other approved purpose. The City Engineering Services
shall review such a declaration and may grant an exemption from certain of the
provisions of §
54.235, provided no undue hazard to public health or safety is created by the
continued existence of the well. Thereafter, an amended declaration shall be
filed annually with the City Engineering Services. The original or subsequent
exemption may be terminated for cause by the City Engineering Services at any
time.
('61 Code, § 24.134) (Ord. 1041, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1103, passed 11-20-91)
§ 54.238 ADMINISTRATIVE VARIANCE.
   Subject to approval by the State Department of Health Services, the City
Engineer may grant an administrative variance of the provisions of this
subchapter where documentary evidence establishes that a modification of the
standards as provided herein will not endanger the general public health and
safety and strict compliance would be unreasonable in view of all the
circumstances.
('61 Code, § 24.135) (Ord. 1041, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1103, passed 11-20-91)
§ 54.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter for which no other
penalty is set forth is guilty of a misdemeanor. In addition, the city may
bring an action in the Superior Court of the state of California for the county
of Riverside to obtain injunctive relief prohibiting any violation of this
chapter.
('61 Code, § 24.111) (Ord. 631, passed - - )
   (B)   Any person found taking water from a fire hydrant in violation of §
54.068 shall be subject to a fine of $50 for the first offense in one calendar
year, $100 for the second offense in the same calendar year and $300 for the
third and each additional offense in the same calendar year.
('61 Code, § 24.38)
   (C)   Any person found taking water from a city main or service line is in
violation of §
54.100 and shall be subject to a fine of $25 for the first offense in a
calendar year and $50 for each additional offense in the same calendar year.
('61 Code, § 24.43)
(Ord. 257, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 894, passed - - )
   (D)   (1)   The City Engineer, or the City Engineers designee, may, at any
time, and all reasonable times, enter any and all places, property, enclosures
and structures for the purpose of conducting examinations and investigations to
determine whether all provisions of §§
54.215 through
54.238 are being complied with.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or association of
persons to violate any provisions of §§
54.215 through
54.238 or to violate any provisions of any permit granted pursuant to those
sections. Any person, firm, corporation or association of persons violating any
provision of those sections shall be deemed guilty of an infraction or
misdemeanor as herein specified. The person, firm, corporation or association
of persons shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day
or portion thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of those
sections or the provisions of any permit granted pursuant to those sections is
committed, continued or permitted. Any person, firm, corporation or association
of persons so convicted shall be:
         (a)   Guilty of an infraction offense and punished by a fine not
exceeding $100 for a first violation;
         (b)   Guilty of an infraction offense and punished by a fine not
exceeding $200 for a second violation at the same site. The third and any
additional violations on the same site shall constitute a misdemeanor offense
and shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $1,000 or six months in jail or
both. Notwithstanding the above, a first offense may be charged and prosecuted
as a misdemeanor. Payment of any penalty herein shall not relieve a person,
firm or corporation or association of persons from the responsibility for
correcting the violation.
      (3)   Anything done, maintained or suffered in violation of any of the
provisions of those sections is a public nuisance and may be enjoined or
summarily abated in the manner provided by law. Every public officer or body
lawfully empowered to do so shall abate the nuisance immediately.
('61 Code, § 24.136) (Ord. 1041, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1103, passed 11-20-91)
CHAPTER 55: STORM WATER MANAGEMENT AND DISCHARGE CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
55.01   Title
   
55.02   Purpose and intent
   
55.03   Definitions
   
55.04   Responsibility for administration
   
55.05   Construction and application
   
55.06   Severability
Discharge Regulations and Requirements
   
55.20   Discharge of pollutants
   
55.21   Discharge in violation of permit
   
55.22   Illicit connections
   
55.23   Reduction of pollutants in storm water
   
55.24   Outdoor storage areas; commercial and industrial facilities
   
55.25   Construction sites
   
55.26   New development and redevelopment
   
55.27   Compliance with general permits
   
55.28   Compliance with BMP's
Inspection and Enforcement
   
55.40   Authority to inspect
   
55.41   Concealment
   
55.42   Violations deemed a public nuisance
   
55.43   Judicial review
   
55.44   Civil actions
   
55.45   Administrative enforcement powers
   
55.46   Authority to arrest or issue citations
   
55.47   Nonexclusivity of remedies
   
55.48   Appeal
   
55.49   Disclaimer of liability
 
   
55.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 55.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the City of Indio Storm Water Management and
Discharge Control Ordinance and may be so cited.
(Ord. 1213, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-5-10)
§ 55.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is ensure the future health, safety, and
general welfare of Indio citizens by:
      (1)   Regulating non-storm water discharges to the municipal storm drain;
      (2)   Controlling the discharge to municipal storm drains from spills,
dumping or disposal of materials other than storm water; and
      (3)   Reducing pollutants in storm water discharged to the maximum extent
practicable.
   (B)   The intent of this chapter is to protect and enhance the water quality
of city watercourses, water bodies, ground water and wetlands in a manner
pursuant to and consistent with the Federal Clean Water Act and the Porter-
Cologne Water Quality Control Act.
(Ord. 1213, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-5-10)
§ 55.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms as used in this chapter shall have the following meanings:
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, maintenance procedures,
educational programs, and other management practices to prevent or reduce the
discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to waters of the United States.
BMPs also include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices
to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, and
drainage from raw materials storage. The California Storm Water Best Management
Practice Handbooks for Municipal, Industrial/Commercial and Construction
Activity provide a detailed discussion of BMPs which may be consulted in
interpreting this chapter.
   CITY. The City of Indio.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS OR DESIGNEE. The Director of Public Works of the
city and/or any individual or body authorized by the Director of Public Works
to enforce this chapter.
   ILLICIT CONNECTION. Any physical connection to a storm drain system which
has not been permitted by the City of Indio, the Riverside County Flood Control
and Water Conservation District, or other appropriate public agency.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is not
composed entirely of storm water runoff except discharges made pursuant to a
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit (other than the
NPDES permit for discharge from the municipal separate storm sewer) or as
otherwise authorized by the Colorado River Basin Regional Water Quality Control
Board, State Water Resources Control Board, and/or United States Environmental
Protection Agency or City of Indio.
   MUNICIPAL NPDES PERMIT. An area-wide NPDES permit issued to a government
agency or agencies for the discharge of storm water from a storm water system.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT (NPDES PERMIT). A
storm water discharge permit used by the Colorado River Basin Regional Water
Quality control board or the State Water Resources Control Board (State
agencies) in compliance with the Federal Clean Water Act.
   NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not entirely composed of storm water.
   PERSON. Any natural person, firm, association, club, organization,
corporation, partnership, business trust, company or other entity which is
recognized by law as the subject of rights or duties.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes the deterioration of water quality such
that it impairs subsequent and/or competing uses of the water. POLLUTANTS may
include but are not limited to paints, oil and other automotive fluids, soil,
rubbish, trash, garbage, debris, refuse, waste, fecal coliform, fecal
streptococcus, enterococcus, heavy metals, hazardous waste, chemicals, fresh
concrete, yard waste from commercial landscaping operations, animal waste,
materials that result from the process of constructing a building or structure,
nauseous or offensive matter of any kind.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land, land or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved.
   STORM DRAIN SYSTEM. Any facility by which storm water may be conveyed to
waters of the United States. The STORM DRAIN SYSTEM includes but is not limited
to any road with drainage systems, streets, curbs, gutters, catch basins,
natural and artificial channels, ditches, aqueducts, storm drains, inlets,
conduit or other drainage structure.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A site specific plan
outlining Best Management Practices to protect the site from run-off during
construction.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF. Surface runoff and drainage associated with rain storm
events and snow melt.
   WATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN (WQMP). A project specific post construction
Best Management Practice (BMP’s) for the site. It must address the management
of Urban Runoff quantity and quality to help protect receiving waters.
(Ord. 1213, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-5-10)
§ 55.04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   This chapter shall be administered for the city by the Director of Public
Works for the City of Indio.
(Ord. 1213, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-5-10)
§ 55.05 CONSTRUCTION AND APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall be construed to assure consistency with the requirements
of the Federal Clean Water Act and acts amendatory thereof or supplementary
thereto, applicable implementing regulations, and any existing or future
municipal NPDES Permits and any amendments, revisions or reissuance.
(Ord. 1213, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-5-10)
§ 55.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this subchapter or the
application thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be
held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or
application of this subchapter which can be given without the invalid provision
or application, and to this end, the provisions of this subchapter are declared
to be severable.
(Ord. 1213, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-5-10)
DISCHARGE REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 55.20 DISCHARGE OF POLLUTANTS.
   (A)   The discharge of pollutants to the storm drain system is a violation
of this chapter except as specified below. All discharges other than storm
water discharges must be in compliance with a National Pollution Discharge
Elimination System Permit issued for that particular discharge or discharges
and/or in compliance with city municipal codes should city code be more
stringent.
   (B)   Discharges from the following activities are not in violation when
properly managed: Water line flushing and other discharges from potable water
sources, diverted stream flows, rising ground waters, uncontaminated ground
water infiltration (as defined in 40 CFR 35.2005(2)) to separate storm sewers,
infiltration to separate storm drains, uncontaminated pumped ground water,
foundation and footing drains, water from crawl space pumps, air conditioning
condensation, springs, individual residential car washing, flows from riparian
habitats and wetlands, or discharge flows from fire fighting activities.
(Ord. 1213, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-5-10)
Penalty, see § 55.99
§ 55.21 DISCHARGE IN VIOLATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Any discharge that would result in or contribute to a violation of a
Municipal National Pollution Discharge Elimination Permit(s) as amended or
revised, either separately or when combined with other discharges is
prohibited.
   (B)   The person or persons causing or responsible for the discharge shall
be liable for such discharge and shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the
city in any administrative or judicial enforcement action relating to such
discharge.
(Ord. 1213, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-5-10)
Penalty, see § 55.99
§ 55.22 ILLICIT CONNECTIONS.
   It is a violation of this chapter to establish, use, maintain, or continue
illicit drainage connections to the city storm drain system, or to commence or
continue any illicit discharges to the city drain system. This prohibition
against illicit connections is expressly retroactive and applies to connections
made in the past, regardless of whether permissible under the law or practices
applicable or prevailing at the time of the connection.
(Ord. 1213, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-5-10)
Penalty, see § 55.99
§ 55.23 REDUCTION OF POLLUTANTS IN STORM WATER.
   It is a violation of this chapter to throw, deposit, leave, maintain, keep,
or permit to be thrown, deposited, placed, left or maintained, any refuse,
rubbish, garbage, abandoned vehicle or other discarded or abandoned objects,
articles, and accumulations, in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, storm
drain, inlet, catch basin, conduit or other drainage structures, business
place, or upon any public or private plot of land in the city. The only
exception being where such pollutant is being temporarily placed in an
appropriate container with a spill containment system for later collection and
removal. It is a violation of this chapter to cause or permit any dumpster,
solid waste bin, or similar container to leak such that any pollutant is
discharged into any street, alley, sidewalk, storm drain, inlet, catch basin,
conduit or other drainage structures, business place, or upon any public or
private plot of land in the city.
(Ord. 1213, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-5-10)
Penalty, see § 55.99
§ 55.24 OUTDOOR STORAGE AREAS; COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES.
   No person shall store objects in unsealed containers, including but not
limited to motor vehicle or machine parts which may contain grease, oil or
other hazardous substances, which may leak pollutants in areas susceptible to
storm water runoff. To prevent the discharge of hazardous substances from the
property, the city may require the installation of a spill containment system
or any other steps necessary to control such discharge. Spill containment
systems may consist of a system of dikes, walls, barriers, berms, or other
devices a required. No person shall operate a spill containment system such
that it allows incompatible liquids to mix and thereby create a hazardous
condition.
(Ord. 1213, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-5-10)
Penalty, see § 55.99
§ 55.25 CONSTRUCTION SITES.
   Any person performing construction work in the city shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter and other applicable county and city ordinance for
erosion and sediment control and any subsequent revisions.
   (A)   All persons engaged in construction activity within the city shall
operate in compliance with all state and federal laws regulating or pertinent
to storm water management and runoff including operating with all required
permits. The Director of Public Works or designee may require that such permits
be displayed at the work sites as a condition of continuing to perform the
construction.
   (B)   No person shall commence or continue any construction activity in the
city that causes the disturbance of one acre by clearing, grading, excavating,
or reconstructing existing facilities involving removal and replacement without
demonstrating to the Director of Public Works that such person has obtained a
National Pollution Discharge Elimination System General Permit for Storm Water
Discharges Associated with Construction Activity (Construction Storm Water
Permit) from the State Water Resources Control Board. For purposes of the
Construction Storm Water Permit, construction activity requiring a permit does
not include:
      (1)   Routine maintenance to maintain original line and grade, hydraulic
capacity, or original purpose of the facility; or
      (2)   Emergency construction activities required to protect the public
health and safety.
   (C)   Properties of one acre or greater in size shall be designed to retain
the 100-year 24-hour duration storm on site. Refer to Chapter 162, Grading for
more information.
   (D)   Any person engaged in a construction activity requiring a Construction
Storm Water Permit shall retain at the construction site the following
documents:
      (1)   A copy of the Notice of Intent to comply with the requirements of
the General Permit for Storm Water Discharges Associated with Construction
Activity;
      (2)   A waste discharge identification number issued by the State Water
Resources Control Board; and
      (3)   A duly issued Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan and Monitoring
Program Plan for the construction activity requiring the construction permit.
   (E)   Any person engaged in construction activity requiring a Construction
Storm Water Permit shall provide any of the documents described in division (D)
of this section to the city upon request of the Director of Public Works or
designee.
   (F)   Prior to the issuance of any building or grading permit for the
construction of new development or redevelopment, a Water Quality Management
Plan (WQMP) and Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) must be submitted
and approved. The Director of Public Works or designee shall evaluate the
proposed project to determine its potential to generate illicit discharges into
the municipal storm drain system. Based upon this evaluation, the city may
require that conditions be placed upon the issuance of the building or grading
permit to minimize the risk of discharge of pollutants into the storm drain
system. The imposition of conditions under this section shall be based on the
standards set forth in the most recent edition of the California Storm Water
Best Management Practice Handbooks (Municipal, Industrial/Commercial, and
Construction volumes) and additional standards as determined by the city.
   (G)   Subject to all of the provisions of this chapter, the following
additional requirements shall apply to persons conducting construction in the
city for which a certificate of occupancy is required as well as the owners of
such property. The requirements set forth below shall apply at the time of
demolition of an existing structure or commencement of construction and until
receipt of a certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   Runoff containing sediment, construction waste and other pollutants
from construction sites and construction vehicles and equipment parking areas
which is likely to enter the storm drain system shall be reduced to the maximum
extent practicable.
      (2)   Where determined necessary by the Director of Public Works or
designee, a temporary sediment barrier shall be installed.
      (3)   Between October 1 and April 1 of each year, the owner of property
or any person performing improvements on such property shall use a plastic or
other covering, along with additional runoff control devices if necessary to
intercept and safely convey the runoff on unprotected areas to control run-off
of pollutants. Provisions and Best Management Practices of the site specific
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) must be in place and the document
on site for inspection.
      (4)   Excavated soil shall be located on the site in a manner that
minimizes the amount of soil transported into the public right of way onto
adjoining properties. Soil stockpiles shall be covered with plastic or other
covering until the soil is either used or removed.
      (5)   Washing industrial or construction equipment or vehicles is not
allowed on city rights of way or private roadways adjacent to a construction
site. No person shall allow water from vehicles or equipment on a construction
site to run-off into the city's storm drain system.
      (6)   Drainage controls shall be utilized as needed to prevent illicit
discharge, depending on the extent of proposed grading and topography of the
site, including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   Detention ponds, sediment ponds, or infiltration pits;
         (b)   Dikes, filter berms or ditches; or
         (c)   Downdrains, chutes or flumes.
   (H)   The city may, as a condition of granting a building or grading permit,
set forth reasonable limits on the clearing of vegetation from construction
sites, including but not limited to, regulating the length of time during which
soil may be left bare.
(Ord. 1213, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-5-10)
Penalty, see § 55.99
§ 55.26 NEW DEVELOPMENT AND REDEVELOPMENT.
   To minimize the discharge and transport of pollutants, the city may require,
in its discretion, a new development or redevelopment project to control the
volume and rate of storm water runoff from the project so as to prevent any
deterioration of water quality which would impair the subsequent or competing
uses of the water. The Director of Public Works or designee may establish
standards and guidelines implementing BMPs designed to control the rate and
volume of storm water runoff from new developments and redevelopments as may be
appropriate to minimize the discharge and transport of pollutants. Acceptable
methods and standards for controlling storm water runoff volumes, rates, and
pollutant load may include but are not limited to the following:
   (A)   Increase permeable areas. Avoid placing structures or fixtures with
impervious surfaces in highly porous soil areas; incorporate landscaping and
open space into the project design; use porous materials for or near driveways
and walkways; incorporate detention ponds and infiltration pits into the
project's design; avoid placing pavement and other impervious surfaces in low
lying areas.
   (B)   Direct runoff to permeable areas. Direct storm water runoff away from
impermeable areas to swales, berms, green strip filters, gravel beds, and
french drains. Install rain-gutters and orient them toward permeable areas.
Modify the grade of the property to divert flow to permeable areas and minimize
the amount of storm water runoff leaving the property. When designing curbs,
berms, or other structures, avoid designs which isolate permeable or landscaped
areas.
   (C)   Maximize storm water storage for reuse. Use retention structures,
subsurface areas, cisterns, or other structures to store storm water runoff for
reuse or slow release.
(Ord. 1213, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-5-10)
Penalty, see § 55.99
§ 55.27 COMPLIANCE WITH GENERAL PERMITS.
   Any industrial discharger, discharger associated with construction activity,
or other discharger subject to any NPDES permit issued by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency, the State Water Resources Control Board, or
the Colorado River Basin Regional Water Quality Control Board, shall comply
with all requirements of such permit. This chapter shall specifically comply
with the following permits: the Industrial Storm Water General Permit, the
Construction Activity Storm Water General Permit, and the Dewatering General
permit. Proof of compliance with said NPDES General Permits may be required in
a form acceptable to the Director prior to issuance of any city grading,
building, or occupancy permits.
(Ord. 1213, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-5-10)
Penalty, see § 55.99
§ 55.28 COMPLIANCE WITH BMP'S.
   Where BMP guidelines or requirements have been adopted by any federal, State
of California, regional, and/or city agency, for any activity, operation, or
facility which may cause or contribute to storm water pollution or
contamination, illicit discharges, and/or discharge of non-storm water to the
storm water system, every person undertaking such activity or operation, or
owning or operating such facility shall comply with such guidelines or
requirements as may be identified by the Director of Public Works.
(Ord. 1213, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1270, passed 5-5-10)
Penalty, see § 55.99
INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 55.40 AUTHORITY TO INSPECT.
   (A)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Director of Public Works or
designee has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building or
upon any premises any condition which constitutes a violation of the provisions
of this chapter, such official may enter such building or premises at all
reasonable times to inspect the same or perform any duty imposed upon the
officer by this chapter; provided that if such building or premises be
occupied, he or she shall first present proper credentials and request entry;
and if such building or premises be unoccupied, he or she shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control
of the building or premises and request entry.
   (B)   Any such request for entry shall state that the property owner or
occupant has the right to refuse entry and that in the event such entry is
refused, inspection may be made only upon issuance of a search warrant by a
duly authorized magistrate. In the event the owner and/or occupant refuses
entry after such request has been made, the official is hereby empowered to
seek assistance from any court of competent jurisdiction in obtaining such
entry.
   (C)   Routine or area inspections shall be based upon such reasonable
selection processes as may be deemed necessary to carry out the objectives of
this chapter, including but not limited to random sampling and/or sampling in
areas with evidence of storm water contamination, illicit discharges, discharge
of non-storm water to the storm water system, or similar factors.
   (D)   Authority to sample and establish sampling devices. With the consent
of the owner or occupant or pursuant to a search warrant, the Director of
Public Works or designee may establish on any property such devices as are
necessary to conduct sampling or metering operations. During all inspections as
provided herein, the officer may take any samples deemed necessary to aid in
the pursuit of the inquiry or in the recordation of the activities on-site.
   (E)   Notification of spills. All persons in charge of a facility or
responsible for emergency response for a facility are personally responsible to
train facility personnel and maintain notification procedures to assure that
immediate notification is provided to the city of any suspected, confirmed or
unconfirmed release of material, pollutants or waste creating a risk of
discharge in to the city storm drain system. As soon as any person in charge of
a facility or responsible for emergency response for a facility has such
knowledge, such person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery
and containment and clean up of such release and shall notify the city of the
occurrence by telephoning the Director of Public Works and confirming the
notification by correspondence to the Director of Public Works.
   (F)   Requirement to test or monitor. The Director of Public Works or
designee may require that any person engaged in any activity and/or owning or
operating any facility which may cause or contribute to storm water pollution
or contamination, illicit discharges, and/or discharge of non-storm water to
the storm water system, undertake such reasonable monitoring activities and/or
analyses and furnish such reports as the officer may specify. Reasonable shall
mean that the analyses and reports shall bear a reasonable relationship to the
need for the monitoring, analyses and reports and the benefits to be obtained.
The recipient of such request shall undertake and provide the monitoring,
analyses and/or reports requested at his or her sole cost and expense. In the
event the owner or operator of a facility subject to a monitoring and/or
analyses order fails to conduct required monitoring and/or analyses and furnish
the required reports in the form required, the Director of Public Works or
designee may cause such monitoring and/or analyses and the cost, therefore,
including the reasonable additional administrative costs incurred by the city
shall be borne by the owner of the property and the cost thereof shall be
invoiced to the owner of the property. If the invoice is not paid within 60
days of the issuance thereof, the costs shall be a lien upon and against the
property and continue in existence until the same shall be paid. If the lien is
not satisfied by the owner of the property within three months after the
completion by the Director of Public Worksor designee of the required
monitoring and/or analyses and reports, the property may be sold in
satisfaction thereof in a like manner as other real property is sold under
execution.
(Ord. 1213, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-5-10)
§ 55.41 CONCEALMENT.
   Causing, permitting, aiding, abetting or concealing a violation of any
provision of this chapter shall constitute a violation of such provision.
(Ord. 1213, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-5-10)
Penalty, see § 55.99
§ 55.42 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   In addition to the penalties provided in §
55.99, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter is a threat to the public health, safety and
welfare, and may be declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated
and/or restored by the city pursuant to a civil action to abate, enjoin or
otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance prosecuted by the City
Attorney's office. The cost of such abatement and restoration shall be borne by
the owner of the property and such cost shall be invoiced to the owner. If the
invoice is not paid within 60 days of issuance, a lien may be placed on the
property for such amount. If the lien is not satisfied by the owner of the
property within three months after the completion by the Director of Public
Works or designee of the required monitoring and/or analyses and reports, the
property may be sold in satisfaction thereof in a like manner as other real
property is sold under execution.
   (B)   If any violation of this chapter constitutes a seasonal and recurrent
nuisance, the Director of Public Works shall so declare. Thereafter such
seasonal and recurrent nuisance shall be abated every year without the
necessity of any further hearing.
   (C)   In any administrative or civil proceeding under this chapter in which
the city prevails, the city shall be awarded all costs of investigation,
administrative overhead, out-of-pocket expenses, costs of administrative
hearings, costs of suit and reasonable attorney's fees.
(Ord. 1213, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-5-10)
Penalty, see § 55.99
§ 55.43 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   The provisions of Section 1094.6 of the California Code of Civil Procedure
are applicable to judicial review of city decisions pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 1213, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-5-10)
§ 55.44 CIVIL ACTIONS.
   In addition to any other remedies provided in this section, this section may
also be enforced by civil action brought by the city in which the city may seek
any appropriate remedy as the court may grant, including, but not limited to:
   (A)   A temporary and/or permanent injunction.
   (B)   Assessment of the violator for the costs of any investigation,
inspection, or monitoring survey which led to the establishment of the
violation and for the reasonable costs of preparing and bringing legal action
under this subdivision.
   (C)   Costs incurred in removing, correcting, or terminating the adverse
effects resulting from the violation.
   (D)   Compensatory damages for loss or destruction to water quality,
wildlife, fish and aquatic life. Assessments under this subsection shall be
paid to the city to be used exclusively for costs associated with monitoring
and establishing storm water discharge pollution control systems and/or
implementing or enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1213, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-5-10)
§ 55.45 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   In addition to the other enforcement powers and remedies established by this
chapter, the Director of Public Works or designee has the authority to utilize
the following administrative remedies.
   (A)   Cease and desist orders. When the Director of Public Works or designee
finds that a discharge has taken place or is likely to take place in violation
of this chapter, the Director of Public Works or designee may issue an order to
cease and desist such discharge, or practice, or operation likely to cause such
discharge and direct that those persons not complying shall: comply with the
requirement, comply with a time schedule for compliance, and/or take
appropriate remedial or preventive action to prevent the violation from
recurring.
   (B)   Notice to clean. Whenever the Director of Public Works or designee
finds any oil, earth, dirt, grass, weeds, dead trees, tin cans, rubbish,
refuse, waste or any other material of any kind, in or upon the sidewalk
abutting or adjoining any parcel of land, or upon any parcel of land or
grounds, which may result in an increase in pollutants entering a city storm
sewer system or natural watercourse, or a non-storm water discharge to a city
storm sewer system or natural watercourse, he or she may give notice to remove
such oil, earth, dirt, grass, weeds, dead trees, tin cans, rubbish, refuse,
waste or other material, in any manner that he or she may reasonably provide.
The recipient of such notice shall undertake the activities as described in the
notice.
   (C)   In the event the owner or operator of a facility fails to conduct the
activities as described in the notice, the Director of Public Works or designee
may cause such required activities as described in the notice, and the cost
thereof shall be invoiced to the owner of the property. If the invoice is not
paid within 60 days, a lien shall be placed upon and against the property. If
the lien is not satisfied by the owner of the property within three months
after the completion by the Director of Public Works or designee of the
required monitoring and/or analyses and reports, the property may be sold in
satisfaction thereof in a like manner as other real property is sold under
execution.
(Ord. 1213, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-5-10)
§ 55.46 AUTHORITY TO ARREST OR ISSUE CITATIONS.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works or designee shall have and are hereby
vested with the authority to arrest or cite any person who violates any section
of this chapter in the manner provided by the California Penal Code for the
arrest or release on citation of misdemeanor or infractions as prescribed by
Chapter 5, 5c, and 5d of Title 3, Part 2 of the Penal Code (or as the same may
be hereinafter amended).
   (B)   The Director of Public Works or designee may issue a citation and
notice to appear in the manner prescribed by Chapter 5c of Title 3, Part 2 of
the Penal Code, including Section 853.6 (or as the same may hereafter be
amended). It is the intent of the City Council that the immunities prescribed
in Section 836.5 of the Penal Code be applicable to public officers of
employees or employees acting in the course and scope of employment pursuant to
this chapter.
(Ord. 1213, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-5-10)
§ 55.47 NONEXCLUSIVITY OF REMEDIES.
   Remedies under this chapter are in addition to and do not supersede or limit
any and all other remedies, civil or criminal. The remedies provided for herein
shall be cumulative and not exclusive.
(Ord. 1213, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-5-10)
§ 55.48 APPEAL.
   Any person, firm, corporation or organization required to perform
monitoring, analyses, reporting and/or corrective activities by Director of
Public Works or designee, who is aggrieved by the decision of the Director of
Public Works or designee, may appeal such decision to the City Council within
ten days following the effective date of the decision by writing to the City
Clerk. Upon receipt of such request, the City Council shall request a report
and recommendation from the Director of Public Works and shall set the matter
for hearing at the earliest practical date. At said hearing, the Director may
hear additional evidence, and may reject, affirm or modify the Director of
Public Work’s decision. Such decision shall be final.
(Ord. 1213, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-5-10)
§ 55.49 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific, engineering and other
relevant technical considerations. The standards set forth herein are minimum
standards and this chapter does not imply that compliance will ensure that
there will be no unauthorized discharge of pollutants into the waters of the
United States. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city,
any officer or employee thereof for any damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 1213, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-5-10)
§ 55.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this
chapter. Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of an infraction or misdemeanor as hereinafter specified. Such person
shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion
thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is
committed, continued, or permitted.
   (B)   Any person so convicted shall be: guilty of an infraction offense and
punished by a fine not exceeding $100 for a first violation; guilty of an
infraction offense and published by a fine not exceeding $200 for a second
violation. The third and any additional violations shall constitute a
misdemeanor offense and shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $1,000 or
six months in jail, or both. Notwithstanding the above, a first offense may be
charged and prosecuted as a misdemeanor. Payment of any penalty herein shall
not relieve a person from the responsibility for correcting the violation.
(Ord. 1213, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1570, passed 5-5-10)
CHAPTER 56: WATER SERVICE WITHIN THE CITY AND THE CITY’S SPHERE OF INFLUENCE
Section
   
56.01   Legislative purpose
   
56.02   Definitions
   
56.03   Water service area; expansion of water system
   
56.04   Applications for water service
   
56.05   Extensions for water mains
   
56.06   Water systems in subdivisions and other developments; dedications
   
56.07   Connections to other water sources prohibited
   
56.08   Violations; penalties
Cross-reference:
   Water regulations generally, see
Ch. 54
§ 56.01 LEGISLATIVE PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the comprehensive management
of the potable water resources of the city and for the beneficial management of
the city's water resources, to minimize potential for rendering the city's
water system inoperative, reduced in value or useless, and to promote the
public health, benefit and welfare. To that end, it is expressly declared to be
city policy to require all persons owning or occupying property within the city
or the city's sphere of influence to apply for and receive water service from
the city's water system.
(Ord. 1291, passed 2-7-01)
§ 56.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, unless otherwise apparent from the
context, certain words and phrases used in this chapter are defined as follows:
   APPLICANT. Any person who obtains, or pursuant to this chapter is required
to obtain, water service from the water system.
   CEQA. The California Environmental Quality Act, Cal. Public Resources Code §
21000 et seq., as amended from time to time.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, public or private corporation, trust
(including a business or real estate investment trust), limited liability
company, limited liability partnership, unincorporated association, joint
venture, the United  States of America, the State of California, any county,
municipality, and all governmental agencies and departments, and every officer,
agent and employee thereof during the course of employment, or any other legal
entity.
   PREMISES and PROPERTY.  All unimproved real property and all improved real
property, buildings and appurtenances occupied by a consumer, regardless of
whether as an owner, lessee or tenant, as a dwelling or as a business,
commercial or industrial enterprise.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The pipeline extending from the water main, whether
located in a public thoroughfare or private right-of-way, to the property line
of the applicant’s property, together with the valves, meter and fittings
necessary to connect to the applicant's private pipeline.
   SPHERE OF INFLUENCE. The area shown on the city's Water Master Plan and in
the city's General Plan 2020, now on file with the City Clerk and as amended
from time to time.
   WATER SYSTEM. All of the assets, properties and business of the city of
every kind, whether tangible, intangible, real, personal, or mixed, wherever
located used in connection with the city's water system and delivery of water.
(Ord. 1291, passed 2-7-01)
§ 56.03 WATER SERVICE AREA; EXPANSION OF WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   City water service area. The areas in which the city provides water
service are the city and the city's sphere of influence. The City Council may,
from time to time by resolution, and in accordance with applicable law, adjust
the areas in which the city provides water service.
   (B)   City's reserved rights. The City Council reserves the right and power
to, and, from time to time may, adopt by resolution rules and regulations for
the extension of the water system.
(Ord. 1291, passed 2-7-01)
§ 56.04 APPLICATIONS FOR WATER SERVICE.
   An applicant shall make a written application to the city for water service
to the applicant’s property. Such application shall be on such form(s) provided
by, and shall contain such information as may be required by, the city. Except
as provided for in §
56.05 of this chapter, upon receipt of a completed application and subject to
such reasonable conditions as the city may impose, a service connection shall
be made at the nearest water main after all applicable charges have been paid.
(Ord. 1291, passed 2-7-01)
§ 56.05 EXTENSIONS OF WATER MAINS.
   (A)   Unless the City Council for good cause determines otherwise, any
applicant for water service in any part of the city water service area in which
no city water main exists, upon making such application, shall deposit with the
city an extension fee in such amount as the city shall determine from time to
time. Such deposit shall be a non-refundable fee intended to cover preliminary
costs applicable to the proposed extension main, including, without limitation,
engineering and design fees and costs, and costs of compliance with CEQA. As
more particularly described below, such non-refundable fee shall apply as a
credit if the extension main is constructed. The burden of proving good cause
under this section shall be on the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt by the city of an acceptable bid for the construction of
the extension main, the city shall credit the deposit paid pursuant to this
section against the total cost of the extension main, which cost shall include,
without limitation, engineering and design fees and costs, costs of compliance
with CEQA, inspections and the amount paid to one (or more) contractor(s). If
the deposit exceeds the actual cost of the construction of the main, such
excess shall be refunded, without interest, to the applicant who paid the
deposit. If the deposit is less than the actual cost of the construction of the
main, the applicant shall pay the city upon demand the difference between the
actual cost of construction and the amount of the deposit, and any building or
other permits the city issues the applicant concerning the proposed project
shall be conditioned on the payment of any such difference. Unless the city
otherwise agrees, the city shall construct or cause to be constructed the water
main necessary for the proposed project.
   (C)   Unless the City Council for good cause determines otherwise, if other
applicants request water service in the area served or to be served by an
extension main before, during or after its construction has been completed,
such applicants shall pay a fee or charge computed by the city in one of the
following methods:
      (1)   Property located between existing main and terminus of extension
main. If an applicant’s property is located between the original point of
diversion from the existing main and the terminus of an extension main
constructed or to be constructed pursuant to divisions (A) and (B), the
applicant’s fee shall be equal to a pro rata share of the cost of constructing
the extension main, which pro rata share shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   The front footage between the original point of diversion from
the city's existing water main and the outermost boundary of such applicant’s
property shall be divided by the total footage of the extension main under
public or railroad rights-of-way;
         (b)   The above quotient, in turn, shall be divided by the total
number of applicants obtaining water service from the extension main between
the original point of diversion from the existing main and the outermost
boundary of such applicant’s property; and
         (c)   The quotient id division (b) above shall be multiplied by the
total cost of constructing the extension main.
      (2)   Property located beyond terminus of extension main. If an
applicant’s property is located beyond the terminus of an extension main, and
such applicant’s service will require additional extension of the extension
main, such applicant shall pay a fee equal to the sum of:
          (a)   The cost of constructing such additional extension as
determined pursuant to divisions (A) and (B); and
         (b)   Such applicant’s pro rata contribution to the cost of
constructing the extension main constructed or contributed to by prior
applicants, which pro rata share shall be calculated by dividing such cost of
construction by the total number of applicants obtaining water service from
such extension main after the city has accepted the additional extension as
part of the water system.
      (3)   Burden of proof. The burden of proving good cause to avoid paying a
fee calculated under either divisions (A) or (C) above shall be on the
applicant.
   (D)   Any applicant that has paid fees pursuant to this section shall be
entitled to reimbursement from the city as follows. The amount of the
reimbursement shall be the difference between the amount of such applicant’s
fees actually paid and such applicant’s pro rata share of the cost of
constructing the extension main from the original point of diversion from the
existing main to the outermost boundary of such applicant’s property, which pro
rata share shall be determined pursuant to division (C); provided, however, the
applicant shall not be entitled to reimbursement for more than such applicant
paid in fees to the city; and provided further, no applicant shall be entitled
to reimbursement more than 10 years after the date the city accepted the
extension main as part of the water system.
   (E)   If after the city’s acceptance of an extension main or of an
additional extension the city is required to extend the water main to correct
water system problems arising from or related to such extension, and if the
cost of such correcting extension exceeds any amount which an applicant would
otherwise be entitled to receive as reimbursement pursuant to division (D), the
city shall not be required to pay such reimbursement to such applicant.
(Ord. 1291, passed 2-7-01)
§ 56.06 WATER SYSTEMS IN SUBDIVISIONS AND OTHER DEVELOPMENTS; DEDICATIONS.
   (A)   Installation of approved water infrastructure. For any development,
subdivision or lot split of an applicant’s property approved by the city, such
applicant shall construct, at his or her own expense and cost, a potable water
system, which shall consist of water mains, laterals, meters, fire hydrants,
valves, pumps, and storage facilities, the standards, design  and construction
of which shall be as approved by the city. After such applicant's potable water
system has been completed and attached to the water system and accepted by the
city, the ownership of such potable water system shall be dedicated to the city
and become a part of the water system.
   (B)   Use of service connections when property is subdivided. When property
provided with a service connection is split or subdivided, the service
connection shall be considered as belonging to that part of the lot or parcel
of land which it directly enters.
(Ord. 1291, passed 2-7-01)
§ 56.07 CONNECTIONS TO OTHER WATER SOURCES PROHIBITED.
   No person owning or occupying property within the city or the city's sphere
of influence shall allow a connection to be made or exist between any such
property and any source of water supply or any water system other than the
water system, unless otherwise required by law or unless the city otherwise
consents in writing.
(Ord. 1291, passed 2-7-01)
§ 56.08 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be punishable
pursuant to the provisions of §
10.99  of this code.
(Ord. 1291, passed 2-7-01)
CHAPTER 57: SANITARY SEWER COLLECTION AND TREATMENT
Section
Definitions and Rules of Construction
   
57.01   Construction
   
57.02   Prohibited acts, including causing, permitting or suffering
   
57.03   Service of notices
   
57.04   Proof of notice
   
57.05   Acts by deputy
   
57.06   Definitions
Connection Charges
   
57.10   Standard charge
   
57.11   Laterals and wyes
   
57.12   Benefit adjustments
   
57.13   Existing charges
   
57.14   Property in assessment districts
   
57.15   Mitigation of development impacts
Sewer Service Charges
   
57.20   Sewer service charge established, credit
   
57.21   Additions to existing structures
   
57.22   Use changes
   
57.23   Larger sewer lines
   
57.24   Sewer service charge rates
   
57.25   Collection of sewer service charges within city
   
57.26   Collection of sewer service charges outside city
   
57.27   Inspection charges
   
57.28   Additional inspection charges for off hours
   
57.29   Additional connection charges
   
57.30   Variances, credits
Sewers
   
57.40   Connections to sewer lines, permit required
   
57.41   Connection through adjoining property
   
57.42   Residential sewer in undedicated street
   
57.43   Septic tank or cesspool discharges prohibited
   
57.44   Discharge of objectionable materials—regulations
   
57.45   Discharge of corrosive harmful wastes
   
57.46   Rain and surface water prohibited
   
57.47   Automobile washing areas regulated
   
57.48   Opening manhole prohibited
   
57.49   Discharge into sewer manholes regulated
   
57.50   Cleaning manholes
   
57.51   Maintenance of residential connections to property line
   
57.52   Commercial waste disposal—permit required
   
57.53   Commercial waste disposal—permit application
   
57.54   Commercial waste disposal—limitations
   
57.55   Commercial waste disposal—acts prohibited
   
57.56   Commercial waste disposal—permit term
   
57.57   Commercial waste disposal—permit transfer
   
57.58   Commercial waste disposal—compliance tests and inspections
   
57.59   Sewer closing procedure
   
57.60   Connection approvals
Enforcement
   
57.70   Public nuisances—injunctive relief
   
57.71   Maintenance inspections
   
57.72   Sewage overflow—authorized action by Director
   
57.73   Disconnection authorized
   
57.74   Cost recovery for violations
   
57.75   Notice of violation
   
57.76   Continued violation—activity cessation
   
57.77   Permit suspension
   
57.78   Permit—revocation
   
57.79   Permit—revocation proceeding
Payment and Enforcement of Fees
   
57.90   Bill payment
   
57.91   Billing requests
   
57.92   Returned checks
   
57.93   Aged overdue payment
   
57.94   Service termination authority
   
57.95   Notice—hearing
   
57.96   Reconnection—reimbursement
   
57.97   Habitation during disconnection declared a public nuisance
DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
§ 57.01 CONSTRUCTION.
   Unless the provisions or the context otherwise require, these general
provisions, rules of construction and definitions shall govern the construction
of this chapter. The provisions of this chapter and all proceedings under it
are to be construed with a view to effect its objects and to promote justice.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.02 PROHIBITED ACTS, INCLUDING CAUSING, PERMITTING OR SUFFERING.
   Whenever in this chapter any act or omission is made unlawful, it shall
include causing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering or concealing such act
or omission.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.03 SERVICE OF NOTICES.
   Whenever a notice is required to be given under this chapter, unless
different provisions herein are otherwise specifically made, such notice may be
given either by personal delivery thereof to the person to be notified or by
deposit in the United States mail in a sealed envelope, postage prepaid,
addressed to such person to be notified, at his or her last known business or
residence address as the same appears in the public records of the county or
other records pertaining to the matter to which such notice is directed.
Service by mail shall be deemed to have been completed at the time of deposit
in the post office.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.04 PROOF OF NOTICE.
   Proof of giving any notice may be made by the certificate of any officer or
employee of the city, or by affidavit or declaration under penalty of perjury
as provided by the Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 2015.5 of any person over the age of
18 years, which shows service in conformity with this code, or other provisions
of law applicable to the subject matter concerned.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.05 ACTS BY DEPUTY.
   Whenever a power is granted to or is duly imposed upon a public officer, or
employee, the power may be exercised or the duty may be performed by a deputy
of such officer, or employee, or by a person otherwise duly authorized,
pursuant to law or ordinance or regulation or by an officer of the county or
city, or by a deputy or employee of such officer when by contract with the city
such officer is obligated and has agreed to perform certain duties on behalf of
the city, unless this chapter expressly provides otherwise.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.06 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHANGE IN OPERATIONS. Any modification in the operational procedures of a
commercial kitchen which has the potential to significantly increase the amount
of grease generated by food preparation, including, without limitation, any
substantial increase in the net public area, any substantial increase in the
hours of operation, any significant increase in the size of the kitchen or the
number of food service or food preparation employees, or any significant change
in the size or type of food preparation equipment.
   COMMERCIAL KITCHEN. Any business operating in the city as a full service or
take-out restaurant, catering kitchen, employee cafeteria, or any other
facility engaged in preparing and heat-processing food for consumption by the
public or employees and which uses any equipment that produces grease vapors,
steam fumes, smoke or odors that are required to be removed by a Type I or Type
II hood. Establishments engaged only in assembling or serving food that is
prepared entirely off site, and  whose kitchen equipment consists only of
beverage warmers and microwaves are not considered commercial kitchens.
   COMMERCIAL PREMISES. Includes any building or site in any zone within the
city, other than residential premises, from which any business, service, non-
profit, governmental, institutional, commercial or industrial activity is
conducted including, without limitation, motels, hotels, recreational vehicle
parks, restaurants, professional offices, clubhouses, places of entertainment,
manufacturing plants, and private schools.
   COUNTY. County of Riverside.
   DIVISION. The Sanitary Division of the Public Works Department of the city.
   ENGAGE IN. Includes carry on, keep, conduct, maintain, or cause to be kept
or maintained.
   DIRECTOR. The Public Works Director of the city, or his or her designee.
   GREASE. Any oil, fat, or oily, fatty substance such as vegetable or animal
fat that runs or may turn viscous or solidifies with a change in temperature or
other conditions.
   LAW. Denotes applicable federal law, the constitution and statutes of the
State of California, the ordinances of the City of Indio, California, and any
and all rules and regulations which may be promulgated hereunder.
   NUISANCE. Is anything which is injurious to health, or is indecent or
offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as
to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, or other
condition specified in Cal. Civ. Code § 3479.
   OCCUPANT. As used in reference to a building or land shall include any
person who occupies the whole or part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
   OPERATE. Includes carry on, keep, conduct, maintain, or cause to be kept or
maintained.
   PARCEL. Is a parcel as designated by the County Assessor.
   PERSON. Includes any person, firm, association, organization, partnership,
business trust, company or corporation, and any municipal, political or
governmental corporation, district, body or agency, other than the city.
   PUBLIC SEWER. The main sewer or trunk sewer, constructed in a street,
highway, alley, place or right-of-way dedicated to public use.
   REMODELING. Any physical change to a building that requires a building
permit.
   RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. Are single-family dwellings and multiple-unit
dwellings.
   SEWAGE. The water borne wastes from dwellings, kitchens, restaurants,
institutions, stables, dairies, business buildings and other similar
structures, but excluding any stormwater, rainwater, surface water, ground
water, roof or yard drainage.
   STATE. The State of California.
   STREET. Includes all streets, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts,
places, squares, sidewalks, parkways, curbs, or other public ways in the city
which have been or may hereafter be dedicated and open to public use and
accepted by the city, or such other public property as designated in any law of
this state.
   TENANT. As used in reference to a building or land, shall include any person
who occupies the whole or part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
CONNECTION CHARGES
§ 57.10 STANDARD CHARGE.
   Property owners who wish to connect to the public sewer shall pay charges in
the amount specified by the City Council in the fee resolution.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.11 LATERALS AND WYES.
   In addition to all other charges set forth herein, each applicant shall pay
the cost of any laterals and wyes installed by the city for use by the
applicant's property. The charges paid shall be the actual cost paid for the
laterals or wyes by the city.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.12 BENEFIT ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   In addition to the charges provided for in this code, any person
desiring to have property connected to the public sewer shall be charged such
additional amount as the City Council finds equitable, fair and just in cases
where:
      (1)   The property proposed to be connected would receive a direct
benefit from lines or facilities which are being or have been installed by the
city or others in the immediate area of the property proposed to be connected
whether by virtue of a special assessment district or otherwise; or
      (2)   In any area within the city where the lines are being or have been
installed by a person having a reimbursement program or agreement with the city
and where the property of the person desiring to connect would receive a
benefit by using the lines of said person who has a reimbursement program or
agreement with the city.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not take effect in any instance
unless and until the City Council shall, after considering the situation, make
a finding that facts exist which bring said situation within the provisions of
this section.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.13 EXISTING CHARGES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall affect the obligation of any person to the
city for charges which are due or unpaid to the city upon the effective date of
the ordinance adopting this chapter or thereafter resulting from the adoption
of subsequent ordinances. All of said obligations shall remain in full force
and effect and shall be due to the city in accordance with the provisions of
said prior regulations.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.14 PROPERTY IN ASSESSMENT DISTRICTS.
   The city hereby incorporates the provisions of §§ 5464 and 5474, as amended
from time to time, of the Cal. Health & Safety Code pertaining to connection of
property to the public sewer for owners participating in special assessment
districts.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.15 MITIGATION OF DEVELOPMENT IMPACTS.
   In addition to the fees set forth in this chapter, when a new sewer line or
relief sewer line has to be constructed in any drainage basin because of new
development or redevelopment or impending new development or redevelopment, the
City Council may spread the cost of such construction over such new
developments or redevelopments. New developments or redevelopments may be
permitted to connect to existing sewer lines having limited capacity provided
such new developments or redevelopments contribute their pro rata share as
determined by the city, or the estimated costs of a new line or relief line
which would be built at a later time.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
§ 57.20 SEWER SERVICE CHARGE ESTABLISHED, CREDIT.
   Each lot, piece, parcel, dwelling, building or structure within the city,
for which application is made for a permit to connect to the existing public
sewer of the city shall be required to pay a sewer service charge as set forth
herein.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.21 ADDITIONS TO EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   Where additional residential or commercial units are added to existing
buildings or structures already connected to the public sewer of the city and
such additional units will be making use of said sewers, then in such event
there shall be paid a sewer service charge.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.22 USE CHANGES.
   Where existing buildings and structures are now or hereafter connected to
the public sewer of the city and the use of such buildings and/or structures is
changed to a use having a higher charge under this chapter, then in such event
there shall be paid a sewer service charge as set forth by the City Council in
the fee resolution conforming to such new use. Said charge shall be the
difference between what the prior use charge would be under this chapter and
what the new use charge is under this chapter.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.23 LARGER SEWER LINES.
   Such sewer service charge shall be one charge for the connection and use of
the sewage facilities of the city. Such charge shall be over and above all
other fees or charges made by the city for inspection of all sewer lines larger
than four inches inside diameter.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.24 SEWER SERVICE CHARGE RATES.
   The charges and rates therefor shall be established by the City Council in
the fee resolution.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.25 COLLECTION OF SEWER SERVICE CHARGES WITHIN CITY.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Cal. Health & Safety Code § 5471, as may be
amended from time to time, the City Council hereby elects to have the sewer
service charge for parcels within the corporate boundaries of the city
collected with the charges of the Indio Water Authority, and that these charges
may be collected on the same bills as the water charges, or on separate bills,
as may be determined by the city.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.26 COLLECTION OF SEWER SERVICE CHARGES OUTSIDE CITY.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Cal. Health & Safety Code § 5471, as may be
amended from time to time, the City Council hereby elects to have the sewer
service charges for those areas outside of the corporate boundaries of the city
collected on the tax roll in the same manner, by the same persons, and at the
same time as, together with and not separately from, the general taxes of the
city.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.27 INSPECTION CHARGES.
   In addition to the sewer service charges herein, the additional amounts as
the City Council may establish in the fee resolution shall be charged and
received by the city for inspection of all sewer lines.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.28 ADDITIONAL INSPECTION CHARGES FOR OFF HOURS.
   In addition to the charges under §
57.27 above, there shall be paid a sum in an amount established by the fee
resolution, for the time spent for inspection, including travel, for any
inspection requested on a holiday, or at a time other than between 8:00 a.m.
and 5:00 p.m. on regular working days.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.29 ADDITIONAL CONNECTION CHARGES.
   The City Council may establish in the fee resolution such additional charges
and fees as the Council may determine are reasonable and appropriate for
connection to city facilities and for services the owner of the property may
receive or request from the city.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.30 VARIANCES, CREDITS.
   (A)   Variances. The Director may, upon good cause being shown, grant
variances from any of the provisions of this chapter and may reduce or
eliminate any of the charges and/or fees referred to herein upon the finding
that unusual circumstances exist which would result in undue hardship or
unfairness to the person or where the Director finds that it would be in the
best interests of the city to waive any part or all of such charges and/or
fees.
   (B)   Connection credits. The Director, in order to encourage the use of the
public sewer instead of septic tanks and in order to facilitate connections to
city facilities as fairly as possible for all users, may allow a credit towards
the sewer service charge up to the amount of such fee in those instances where
the future user is faced with abnormal or excessive additional costs either in
construction of the local collector line or for payment of reimbursement for
such lines.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
SEWERS
§ 57.40 CONNECTIONS TO SEWER LINES, PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No connection to any of the public sewer shall be made unless a permit shall
first have been issued by the city for connection. No connection pursuant to
any such permit shall be made at any other place than that designated therein.
Where additional fixtures in excess of the original fixture units are added to
existing buildings or structures or reconnected to the public sewer and such
additional fixtures will be making a use of said sewer lines, then in such
event said additional fixtures shall not make use of said public sewer unless a
permit shall first have been issued by the city for such additional fixtures.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 57.41 CONNECTION THROUGH ADJOINING PROPERTY.
   (A)   No connection from any building or other structure shall be made to
any public sewer, if such connection or any portion thereof is in, under,
across or upon any lot other than the lot on which said building or structure
is located.
   (B)   If a lot requiring a sewer connection is so situated that access to
the public sewer is not possible except across some other lot, a sewer
connection may be placed in a recorded easement which includes the right-of-way
and maintains such connection and is appurtenant to the lot to be served by
such sewer connection.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 57.42 RESIDENTIAL SEWER IN UNDEDICATED STREET.
   No person shall connect any sewer which has been or may hereafter be,
constructed in any street, highway, alley, right-of-way or other public place
prior to the dedication and acceptance of such street, highway, alley, right-
of-way or other public place by the city or county on behalf of the public,
unless such sewer first mentioned shall have been laid under the supervision
and/or to the satisfaction of the Director and in accordance with all city or
county regulations applicable thereto.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 57.43 SEPTIC TANK OR CESSPOOL DISCHARGES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall connect or discharge into the public sewer any sewage,
affluent or other matter from any septic tank or cesspool or to any building
thereto.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 57.44 DISCHARGE OF OBJECTIONABLE MATERIALS—REGULATIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is unlawful to place,
deposit or discharge, either directly or indirectly, into any public sewer or
into any sewer connection or on or upon any street, alley or public place or
upon any private property or any other place in such a manner that the same
will be permitted to run into any such public sewer, any of the following
substances:
   (A)   Any oil, petroleum, gasoline, naphtha, liquid asphaltum or petroleum
product, or any fatty matter, benzene, fuel, or other flammable or explosive
liquid, solid or gas;
   (B)   Dead animals, fish, fruit or vegetable matter in any form;
   (C)   Any commercial waste other than domestic sewage that will not readily
disintegrate in the sewage treatment plant or that will cause or tend to cause
obstructions in the sewer system or the sewage treatment plant or interfere
with or tend to interfere with the efficient and successful operation of the
system or the plant, or cause a potential hazard or objectionable odor;
   (D)   Any chemicals or wastes destructive to masonry or portland cement
concrete;
   (E)   Grease, except in quantities commonly contained in domestic sewage, or
commercial waste which may contain more than 200 parts per million, by weight,
of fat, oil or grease;
   (F)   Any effluent of a temperature exceeding 140ºF, or that would cause the
temperature of wastewater entering the headworks of any wastewater treatment
plant to exceed 104ºF;
   (G)   Any radioactive waste, which exceeds the limits specified in Title 17,
Chapter 5, Subchapter 4, Group 3, Article 5, § 30287 of the California Code of
Regulations;
   (H)   Any commercial waste, including but not limited to mineral salts,
molds or wastes resulting from their manufacture and other products which will
tend to sterilize activated sludge, trickling filter slimes, or slime growth on
artificial or natural slow sand and filters;
   (I)   Any solids or viscous substances of such size or in such quantity that
may cause obstruction to the flow in the sewer or to be detrimental to proper
wastewater treatment plant operation;
   (J)   Any wastes with odors of such strength that the discharge of the
wastes to any wastewater treatment plant results in, as determined by the city,
an odor violation of the treatment plant's waste discharge requirements, where
without the discharge no odor violation would have been anticipated;
   (K)   Any waste containing substances that may precipitate, solidify or
become viscous at temperatures between 50ºF and 100ºF;
   (L)   Any waste capable of passing through the waste water treatment works
and producing discoloration of treatment plant effluent;
   (M)   Any water added for purposes of diluting wastes which would otherwise
exceed applicable maximum concentration limitations;
   (N)   Any waste which may create a fire or explosion hazard in the
wastewater collection or treatment system;
   (O)   Any waste prohibited by federal standards from being discharged to the
sewer system;
   (P)   Any ashes, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers,
tar, plastic, wood, paunch manure, rags, earth or stone dust or any other solid
or viscous substance capable of causing obstruction of the flow in sewers or
other interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
   (Q)   Any commercial waste containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant;
   (R)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance;
   (S)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 85ºF unless
properly treated for scale inhibition.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 57.45 DISCHARGE OF CORROSIVE HARMFUL WASTES.
   Before any person may discharge alkalies, acids or other corrosive or
harmful wastes into the public sewer, he or she shall reduce the biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD) and control the pH to the extent which the city finds
adequate, taking all circumstances into consideration. In all cases the
wastewater discharge shall have a pH within the range of 6.0 to 9.5.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.46 RAIN AND SURFACE WATER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall connect any roof drain, yard drain or other conduit used for
carrying off rain or surface water, to any public sewer or sewer leading
thereto. No person shall cause or permit any indirect connection to the public
sewer or house sewer leading thereto by means of which rain or surface waters
are permitted to enter the public sewer.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 57.47 AUTOMOBILE WASHING AREAS REGULATED.
   No person engaged in washing motor vehicles or other equipment exclusive or
incidental to any other business shall permit any water or effluent from such
operations to flow into any public sewer unless the washing area is equipped
with an approved sand and grease control device. Such washing areas shall be
roofed over and shall be so constructed as to prevent any water from flowing
over any street or public property, and to prevent any storm or surface water
from entering any public sewer.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 57.48 OPENING MANHOLE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall open or enter, or cause to be opened or entered, any manhole
in any public sewer to dispose of solid waste or other deleterious substances,
or storm or surface waters, or for any other like purpose.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 57.49 DISCHARGE INTO SEWER MANHOLES REGULATED.
   The discharge of wastes into sewer manholes without the written permission
of the city is prohibited.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 57.50 CLEANING MANHOLES.
   When wastewater is discharged into a specified manhole under permission from
the city, it shall be discharged through a pipe or hose in such a manner that
none of the effluent is left adhering to the sides or shelf of the manhole, and
if any such effluent is inadvertently allowed to adhere to the sides or shelf
of the manhole, the manhole shall be thoroughly cleaned with clean water.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.51 MAINTENANCE OF RESIDENTIAL CONNECTIONS TO PROPERTY LINE.
   All residential connections and appurtenances thereto now existing or
hereafter constructed, shall be maintained by the owner of the property to the
property line served in a safe and sanitary condition and all devices or
safeguards which are required by this chapter for the operation thereof shall
be maintained in good working order.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.52 COMMERCIAL WASTE DISPOSAL—PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall discharge or deposit any commercial waste into or upon any
area in the city, or into any underground or surface waters in the city where
such commercial waste is or may be deposited upon or may be carried through or
over any area of the city except in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter, and unless the person shall have first secured, in the manner
hereinafter provided, a permit so to do from the city.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 57.53 COMMERCIAL WASTE DISPOSAL—PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Applications for permits required hereunder shall be filed with the Director
upon printed forms to be prescribed and supplied by him or her. The Director
may require any additional information, including plans and specifications
which he or she may deem necessary for the proper disposition of the
application.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.54 COMMERCIAL WASTE DISPOSAL—LIMITATIONS.
   The Director may incorporate in any permit issued pursuant to this chapter,
such limitations or conditions as may be reasonably necessary to effectuate the
purpose of this chapter and may from time to time, review the limitations or
conditions which have been incorporated in any permit theretofor issued, giving
consideration to changed conditions, and may, whenever in his or her judgment
it is advisable or required in order to maintain the waters of the city free
from pollution, alter, revise, modify, delete or add further limitations or
conditions applicable to any permit theretofore issued. No such alteration,
revision, modification, deletion or addition of limitations or conditions shall
be effective, however, until notice in writing thereof shall have been served
upon the permittee in the manner provided by §
57.03.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.55 COMMERCIAL WASTE DISPOSAL—ACTS PROHIBITED.
   A permit issued under this chapter does not authorize any act or acts
forbidden by any law, rule, regulation or order of any public agency or
department and such fact shall be so stated on the face of all permits issued.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.56 COMMERCIAL WASTE DISPOSAL—PERMIT TERM.
   A permit for the disposal of commercial waste shall be valid until suspended
or revoked in the manner hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.57 COMMERCIAL WASTE DISPOSAL—PERMIT TRANSFER.
   The Director may transfer a permit to the successor in interest of a
permittee upon the filing by the successor in interest of a written application
therefor, together with such evidence of transfer of title or interest as the
Director may require; provided, however, a permit shall not be transferable
from one location to another. The Director shall immediately notify by first
class mail, the person that requested a transfer of a permit of the action
taken.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.58 COMMERCIAL WASTE DISPOSAL—COMPLIANCE TESTS AND INSPECTIONS.
   For the purpose of securing compliance with this chapter, the Director shall
make periodic tests of samples of commercial waste obtained from the place or
places of discharge or deposit, and such other tests deemed necessary for
proper administration hereof. For purpose of making such tests or inspections,
the Director or his or her duly authorized deputies or agents shall be
permitted at all reasonable hours to enter any premises or place where
commercial waste is being or is proposed to be discharged or deposited, or
where there may be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.59 SEWER CLOSING PROCEDURE.
   Whenever the use of a sewer is discontinued by reason of connection to
another sewer or by reason of moving, wrecking or burning of a building, or for
any other reason, such sewer shall be sealed at the property line or easement
line or at the public sewer. Whenever the Director shall find that a sewer has
not been sealed as required herein, he or she shall serve notice and post the
property to that effect. Unless the sewer has been sealed as required within
ten days after the posting of such notice, the Director is authorized to have
such sewer sealed, and the costs thereof shall be reimbursed to the city by the
property owner within 30 days after the city shall render an invoice for the
same.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.60 CONNECTION APPROVALS.
   The Director may suspend, condition, or deny any or all applications for
connections or permits for additional fixtures where the Director determines
that such action is necessary to remain within the aggregate operation capacity
of the public sewer system available to the affected property for which the
connection or permit is sought or to meet the discharge standards of the public
sewer system imposed by the California Regional Water Quality Control Board.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 57.70 PUBLIC NUISANCES—INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   In addition to the penalties provided in the code, any condition caused or
permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is
declared to be a public nuisance and the City Attorney or authorized legal
representative may with approval of the City Council commence an action for
abatement thereof in the manner provided by law. A civil action may be filed,
whether or not criminal proceedings have been commenced for the same conduct.
Every day such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate
offense.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.71 MAINTENANCE INSPECTIONS.
   The Division may inspect as often as it deems necessary, every sewage
pumping plant, sewage treatment plant, industrial liquid waste pretreatment
plant, residential sewer, grease control device, dilution basin, neutralization
basin, backwater trap or valve, or other similar appurtenances to ascertain
whether such facilities are maintained and operated in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. All persons shall permit the city or its
representatives, to have access to all such facilities at all reasonable times.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.72 SEWAGE OVERFLOW—AUTHORIZED ACTION BY DIRECTOR.
   Whenever it comes to the attention of the Director that sewage is
overflowing from any plumbing fixture which is located below the elevation of
the rim of the nearest upstream main sewer manhole due to the backing up of
sewage in the public sewer, or due to pressure in the public sewer, or due to
any cause whatsoever, except a temporary stoppage in any such plumbing fixture,
the Director may order and require the plumbing fixture to be plugged up, or
capped, or may require that a back-water trap or backwater sewer valve be
installed to prevent such overflow.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.73 DISCONNECTION AUTHORIZED.
   The Director may disconnect from the public sewer any commercial or
residential connection which is constructed or connected without a permit or
which is used contrary to the provisions of this chapter. The Director shall
make every reasonable effort to notify the owner or occupant of the premises
affected by any proposed disconnection and may grant a reasonable time for
elimination of the violation.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.74 COST RECOVERY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever any permittee or any other person causes obstruction, damage, or
destruction of a public sewer, street, or public improvement, or is responsible
in whole or in part for any spill or discharge of effluent in a manner that is
not permitted under this chapter, such permittee or person shall reimburse the
city, and any other affected public agency for all costs, including reasonable
administrative and overhead costs incurred for flushing, repairing,
reconnection, or cleaning of such sewer, street, or public improvement within
30 days after the Indio, city, or affected public agency shall render an
invoice for the same.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.75 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   In addition to the enforcement authority provided in the code and in this
chapter, whenever the Director finds that any person is acting in violation of
any provision of this chapter or of any permit issued hereunder, he or she may
serve upon the person causing or suffering such violation to be committed,
including the permittee, if a permit has been issued, a notice of violation.
The notice shall state the act or acts constituting the violation and shall
direct notice as the Director may deem reasonable.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.76 CONTINUED VIOLATION—ACTIVITY CESSATION.
   Whenever the Director finds that the continued violation of any provision of
this chapter or of the conditions of any permit issued hereunder is so
aggravated that the prevention of pollution of underground or surface waters
requires the immediate cessation of the activities causing the violation, he or
she may so direct in a notice of violation. A person who has been so notified
shall immediately cease all such activities and shall not resume them until the
Director determines that all of the violations charged in the notice have been
corrected.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 57.77 PERMIT SUSPENSION.
   (A)   In addition to the enforcement authority herein, the Director may
suspend a permit by giving notice thereof to the permittee:
      (1)   When a permittee fails to rectify a violation within the time
specified in a notice thereof; or
      (2)   When a violation is so aggravated as to require cessation of
activities as provided in the preceding section.
   (B)   A permit suspended by the Director shall be reinstated by the Director
when all of the violations charged in a notice thereof have been corrected.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.78 PERMIT—REVOCATION.
   In addition to the enforcement authority herein, the Council may, after
notice and hearing as hereinafter provided, revoke a permit on any one or more
of the following grounds:
   (A)   Fraud or deceit in obtaining a permit;
   (B)   Failure of a permittee to correct a violation within the time
prescribed in a notice of violation;
   (C)   Willful violation of any provisions of this code or a condition or
limitation of a permit, or any lawful order of the Director.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.79 PERMIT—REVOCATION PROCEEDING.
   Proceedings for the revocation of a permit may be initiated:
   (A)   By the Director by serving upon the permittee a copy of, and filing
with the City Clerk, a written recommendation of revocation setting forth the
grounds therefor and requesting a hearing thereon before the City Council;
   (B)   By the City Council on its own motion or upon complaint of a third
person, by serving or causing to be served upon the permittee and the Director
a notice of intention to revoke, setting forth the grounds therefor and
designating a time and place for hearing thereon.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
PAYMENT AND ENFORCEMENT OF FEES
§ 57.90 BILL PAYMENT.
   The amounts billed to the property owner shall be paid by the due date
stated in the bill. For amounts unpaid by the due date, the city shall send
bills bearing notification to the property owner concerned that if the bills
are not paid within 15 days, they shall become delinquent and, pursuant to
Division 5, Part 3, Chapter 6, Article 4 of the Cal. Health and Safety Code (§§
5470 et seq.), a basic penalty equal to 10% of the charge shall be immediately
imposed, and an additional penalty in the amount of ½% of the charge per month
shall be imposed for each month that payment is delinquent thereafter. Charges
which remain delinquent for a period of 60 days shall become and constitute a
lien against the property against which the charge is imposed, which lien shall
become effective upon recordation with the County Recorder and when so recorded
shall have the force, effect and priority of a judgment lien.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.91 BILLING REQUESTS.
   The city shall, upon request by the owner of a single family residence, send
statements for charges to his or her tenant or occupant thereof. It shall
remain the responsibility of the property owner to ensure payment of the
charges, as they are a charge against the property itself.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.92 RETURNED CHECKS.
   A returned check charge in the amount specified by the City Council in the
fee resolution may be imposed for all checks made payable to the city which are
returned from the bank for any reason whatsoever. This fee shall be payable
each time a check is returned. Further, all provisions for collection of
delinquent accounts as set forth in this chapter shall be applicable to the
returned check charge.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.93 AGED OVERDUE PAYMENT.
   For any bills unpaid within two weeks after the end of the fiscal year, the
city shall notify the property owner concerned that the Council shall review
and approve as a charge against the property the delinquent amount, and the
amount of the penalty and interest. The delinquent bill shall be filed with the
County Auditor and, upon recordation by the County Recorder, shall constitute a
lien against the property. The assessment shall be collected at the same time
and in the same manner as are county property taxes and shall be subject to the
same penalties and to the same procedure for foreclosure and sale as provided
for ordinary county taxes.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.94 SERVICE TERMINATION AUTHORITY.
   As a method of enforcing the provisions of this code or any other
resolution, ordinance, rule or regulation pertaining to the collection or
disposal of sewage or where any charges or fees are due, the Council upon a 3/
5 vote may authorize the termination of sewer service to any property.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.95 NOTICE—HEARING.
   Prior to termination of service, the City Council shall notify in writing
the owner, tenant, occupant or person in charge of such property that service
is intended to be so terminated and conduct a hearing thereon. Such notice
shall be mailed to the owner at the address shown on the records of the
assessor of the county or is known to the City Council and a copy shall be
delivered to the tenant, occupant, or person in charge thereof, or posted
conspicuously on the property. The notice shall state the date of proposed
termination of service and the reason therefor and the date the City Council
shall hold a hearing upon such intended termination. Such hearing shall not be
held less than ten days subsequent to the giving of notice as herein provided.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.96 RECONNECTION—REIMBURSEMENT.
   Where service has been disconnected as provided herein the City Council may
require the person or persons making application for re-establishment of
service to pay all expenses incurred by the city in causing such disconnection
and re-connection before permission is granted re-establishing service to such
property.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
§ 57.97 HABITATION DURING DISCONNECTION DECLARED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   During any period of disconnection, the habitation of such disconnected
premises by human beings shall constitute a public nuisance, whereupon the city
shall cause proceedings to be brought for the abatement of the occupancy of
said premises by human beings during the period of such disconnection. In such
event and as a condition of re-connection there shall be paid to the city a
reasonable attorney's fee and costs of suit arising in said action.
(Ord. 1525, passed 2-6-08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC
      Chapter
         
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
71.   PARKING; STOPPING; STANDING
         
72.   GOLF CART TRANSPORTATION PLAN
         
73.00   PROHIBITION OF SPECTATORS AT ILLEGAL MOTOR VEHICLE SPEED CONTESTS AND
EXHIBITIONS OF SPEED
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.001   Short title
   
70.002   Application
   
70.003   Definitions
   
70.004   Traffic accident studies
   
70.005   Traffic accident reports
   
70.006   Reserved
   
70.007   Certain nonmotorized traffic to obey traffic regulations
   
70.008   Use of coasters, roller skates and like devices
   
70.009   Compliance by public employees
   
70.010   Certain vehicles exempt
   
70.011   Written report of damage to certain property
   
70.012   Objects obstructing visibility of intersections
   
70.013   Private roads open for public use
   
70.014   Driving on parkways and equestrian trails or bridges
   
70.015   Restricted access roadways
   
70.016   Freeways
   
70.017   Train crossings
   
70.018   Advertising vehicles
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.030   Police administration
   
70.031   Duties of traffic officers
   
70.032   City Traffic Engineer
   
70.033   Traffic advisory committee
   
70.034   Authority of Police Department and Fire Department officials
   
70.035   Authority to place turning markers
   
70.036   Authority to place restricted turns signs
   
70.037   Authority to prohibit right turns against traffic stop signal
   
70.038   Authority to place signs for one-way streets and alleys
   
70.039   Authority to restrict direction of movement on streets during certain
periods
   
70.040   Authority for stop signs and yield signs
   
70.041   Authority for temporary street closures
Traffic Control Devices and Markings
   
70.050   Authority to install
   
70.051   Standards and specifications
   
70.052   When required
   
70.053   Presumption of legality
   
70.054   Traffic signals
   
70.055   Lane markings
   
70.056   Roadway markings
   
70.057   Detours and construction areas
   
70.058   Crosswalks and safety zones
   
70.059   Painting of curbs
   
70.060   Warrants
   
70.061   Authority to remove, relocate or discontinue
   
70.062   Hours of operation
   
70.063   New pavement and markings
Speed
   
70.075   State speed laws applicable
   
70.076   Authority to regulate
   
70.077   Regulation by traffic signals
Processions
   
70.090   Driving through funeral processions
   
70.091   Drivers in a procession
Vehicle Size and Weight
   
70.100   Certain vehicles prohibited in the Central Business District
   
70.100.1   Advertising vehicles
   
70.100.2   Truck routes
   
70.100.3   Commercial vehicles prohibited from using certain streets
   
70.101   Permits for excess size and weight
Traffic on State Highways
   
70.110   Prior approval of Department of Public Works
   
70.111   Provisions inoperative upon withdrawal of approval by written notice
Transportation of Hazardous Materials
   
70.120   Regulation of vehicles
   
70.121   Use of certain streets
Interstate Trucks
   
70.130   Definitions
   
70.131   Purpose
   
70.132   Application
   
70.133   Fees and costs; trailblazer signs
   
70.134   Retrofitting
   
70.135   Revocation of route
   
70.136   Appeal process
Off-Road Use of Vehicles
   
70.145   Prohibited
   
70.146   Exempt locations
   
70.147   Exempt vehicles
   
70.148   Government property
Pedestrians
   
70.160   Crossing at right angles
   
70.161   Standing in roadways
 
   
70.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Ch. 90
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This title shall be known and may be cited as the “Indio Traffic Ordinance.”
('61 Code, § 13.1) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.002 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this title relating to the operation of vehicles refers
exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon highways except where a different
place is specifically referred to in a given section.
('61 Code, § 13.2) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.003 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   When any words and phrases used herein are not defined herein but are
defined in the Vehicle Code [of the state] regulating the operation of
vehicles, any such definition therein shall be deemed to apply to the words and
phrases used herein, except when the context otherwise requires.
   (B)   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two or three wheels, each of which is 20 inches or more in
diameter.
   CENTRAL TRAFFIC DISTRICT. All streets and portions of streets within the
area described as follows:
   Beginning at the intersection of the northerly right-of-way line of Highway
86 - East Valley Parkway with the northerly prolongation of the centerline of
the first alley west of and parallel with Oasis Street; thence southerly along
the centerline of the alley extended to the south right-of-way line of Highway
111; thence easterly along the south right-of-way line of Highway 111 extended
to its intersection with the north right-of-way line of Highway 86 - East
Valley Parkway; thence northwesterly along the right-of-way line of Highway 111
- East Valley Parkway to the point of beginning.
   HOLIDAYS. The following days are holidays. New Year's Day, Martin Luther
King Day, President's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus
Day, Veteran's Day, Thanksgiving Day and day after, Christmas Eve Day,
Christmas Day, and New Year's Eve Day. If any one of these HOLIDAYS should fall
on a Sunday, the following Monday also is a holiday and if it should fall on a
Saturday, the preceding Friday is also a holiday.
   LOADING ZONE. A space reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during the
loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   MUNICIPAL PARKING LOT. A lot or parcel of land owned, purchased or leased by
the city or in which the city has a possessory right of interest and  which is
designated as a municipal parking lot for the off-street parking of vehicles.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARDS. When certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean Standard Time or Daylight Saving Time as may be in current use in the
city.
   PARKWAY. That portion of a street other than a roadway, sidewalk or median.
   PASSENGER LOADING ZONE. A place reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles
during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the Police Department of the city or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations.
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle whether occupied or not
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
receiving or discharging passengers.
   STOP. When required, the term means a complete cessation of movement.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES WARRANTS. A set of warrants setting out the criteria
for the evaluation of the needs for traffic control devices based upon standard
traffic engineering principals.
   TRAFFIC SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically or mechanically
operated by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and permitted to
proceed.
('61 Code, § 13.3) (Ord. 653, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 684, passed - - )
Editor's note: “Vehicle Code,” as used in this title, is the California State
Vehicle Code.
§ 70.004 TRAFFIC ACCIDENT STUDIES.
   When accidents at any particular location become numerous, the traffic
officers shall cooperate with the City Traffic Engineer in conducting studies
of those accidents and determining remedial measures.
('61 Code, § 13.6) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.005 TRAFFIC ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   The Police Department shall maintain a suitable system of filing traffic
accident reports. These reports shall be available for the use and information
of any member of the Police Department and other city officers and employees
interested in effecting the administration of traffic laws and the improvement
of traffic conditions.
('61 Code, § 13.7) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.006 RESERVED.
§ 70.007 CERTAIN NONMOTORIZED TRAFFIC TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Every person propelling any pushcart upon a roadway shall be granted
all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the
driver of a vehicle by this title and by the rules of the road portion of the
Vehicle Code, except those provisions of the title which, by their very nature,
can have no application.
   (B)   Every person riding an animal or driving any animal-drawn vehicle upon
a roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this title except those
provisions of this title which, by their very nature, can have no application.
('61 Code, § 13.13) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.008 USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND LIKE DEVICES.
   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coasters,
scooter or any toy vehicle or similar device shall go upon any roadway and/or
any sidewalk in the central traffic district.
('61 Code, § 13.14) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.009 COMPLIANCE BY PUBLIC EMPLOYEES.
   The provisions of this title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned
by or used in the service of the United States government, the state, any
county or city and it is unlawful for any said driver to violate any of the
provisions of this title except as otherwise permitted in this title or by the
Vehicle Code.
('61 Code, § 13.15) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.010 CERTAIN VEHICLES EXEMPT.
   (A)   The provisions of this title regulating the operation, parking and
standing of vehicles shall not apply to any vehicle of the Police Department or
Fire Department, any public ambulance or any public utility vehicle or any
private ambulance, which public utility vehicle or private ambulance has
qualified as an authorized emergency vehicle, when any vehicle mentioned in
this section is operated in the manner specified in the Vehicle Code in
response to an emergency call.
   (B)   The foregoing exemptions shall not protect the driver of any such
vehicle from the consequences of his or her willful disregard of the safety of
others.
   (C)   The provisions of
Chapter 71 regulating the parking or standing of vehicles shall not apply to
any vehicle of a city department or public utility while necessarily in use for
construction or repair work or any vehicle owned by the United States while in
use for the collection, transportation or delivery of United States mail.
('61 Code, § 13.16) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.011 WRITTEN REPORT OF DAMAGE TO CERTAIN PROPERTY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle or the person in charge of any animal involved
in any accident resulting in damage to any property publicly owned or owned by
a public utility, including, but not limited to any fire hydrant, ornamental
lighting post, telephone pole, electric light or power pole or resulting in
damage to any ornamental shade tree, traffic control device or other property
of a like nature located in or along any street, shall, immediately following
the incident, make a written report of the accident to the Police Department.
   (B)   Every report required by division (A) above shall state the time when
and the place where the accident took place, the name and address of the person
owning and of the person driving or in charge of the vehicle and shall briefly
describe the property damage in the accident.
   (C)   A driver involved in an accident shall not be subject to the
requirements or penalties of this section if and during the time the driver is
physically incapable of making a report but in that event the driver shall make
a report as required in division (A) above within 24 hours after regaining the
ability to make the report.
('61 Code, § 13.17) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.012 OBJECTS OBSTRUCTING VISIBILITY OF INTERSECTIONS.
   When the City Traffic Engineer finds any hedge, shrubbery or tree growing in
a parkway obstructs the view of any intersection, or any traffic upon the
streets approaching the intersection, he or she shall cause the hedge,
shrubbery or tree to be immediately removed or reduced in height.
('61 Code, § 13.18) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.013 PRIVATE ROADS OPEN FOR PUBLIC USE.
   (A)   When any resolution of this city designates privately owned and
maintained streets within the city as generally being held open for use by the
public for purposes of vehicular travel and which so connect with highways that
the public cannot determine that the roads are not highways, the provisions of
this title and the Vehicle Code shall apply to any such privately owned and
maintained road, except as provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, no ordinance or
resolution enacted thereunder shall apply to any road described therein on
which the owner has caused to be erected a notice of the size, shape and color
as to be readily legible during daylight hours from a distance of 100 feet to
the effect that the road is privately owned and maintained and that it is not
subject to public traffic regulations or control.
   (C)   No ordinance or resolution shall be enacted under division (A) above
without a public hearing thereon and ten days' prior written notice to the
owner of the privately owned and maintained road involved.
('61 Code, § 13.19) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.014 DRIVING ON PARKWAYS AND EQUESTRIAN TRAILS OR BRIDGES.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not drive within any parkway except at a
permanent or temporary driveway or on, along or over any equestrian trail or
bridge established as such by resolution of the City Council.
('61 Code, § 13.45) (Ord. 653, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1076, passed - - )
§ 70.015 RESTRICTED ACCESS ROADWAYS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any limited access roadway
except at the entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
('61 Code, § 13.47) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.016 FREEWAYS.
   No person shall drive or operate any bicycle, motor-driven cycle or any
vehicle which is not drawn by a motor vehicle upon any street established as a
freeway, as defined by state law, nor shall any pedestrian walk across or along
any such street so designated and described except in space set aside for the
use of pedestrians, provided official signs are in place giving notice of the
restrictions.
('61 Code, § 13.48) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.017 TRAIN CROSSINGS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to cause or permit any railway train,
railway locomotive, railway cars or like vehicles on rails to operate or be
operated in such a manner as to prevent the use of any public street, highway
or street crossing for the purpose of travel along, across or upon the public
street, highway or street crossing for a time longer than ten minutes, except
that this provision shall not apply to any railway locomotive, railway train or
railway cars in continuous motion other than those engaged in switching or
while blocking or obstructing a crossing because of an accident which requires
the operator of the train, car or like vehicle on rails to stop at or near the
scene of the accident.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to cause or permit any railway train,
railway locomotive, railway cars or like vehicles on rails to operate or to be
operated or parked in the control zone of an automatic gate crossing device so
as to cause the gate to be closed for a period of more than ten minutes.
('61 Code, § 13.50) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.018 ADVERTISING VEHICLES.
   No person shall operate or drive any vehicle used for advertising purposes
or any advertising vehicle while using any sound amplifying or loudspeaking
device upon any street or alley at any time within the city except upon
permission granted by the City Council.
('61 Code, § 13.103) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.030 POLICE ADMINISTRATION.
   Traffic administration and control is hereby established in the Police
Department and the Chief of that department shall have the right to assign
police officers as he or she shall deem necessary to administer and control
traffic in accordance with the provisions of this title.
('61 Code, § 13.4) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.031 DUTIES OF TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   It shall be the duty of the police officers assigned by the Chief of the
Police Department to administer and control traffic with aid that may be
rendered by other members of the Police Department, to enforce the street
traffic regulations of the city and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to
street traffic in the city, to make arrests for traffic violations, to
investigate traffic accidents and to cooperate with all other officers and
employees of the city in the administration of traffic laws and in developing
ways and means to improve traffic conditions and to carry out those duties
specifically imposed upon them by this title.
('61 Code, § 13.5) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.032 CITY TRAFFIC ENGINEER.
   (A)   The office of City Traffic Engineer is established. The Director of
Public Works of the city shall serve as City Traffic Engineer in addition to
his or her other functions and shall exercise the powers and duties with
respect to traffic as provided in this title.
   (B)   It shall be the general duty of the City Traffic Engineer to determine
the installation and proper timing and maintenance of traffic control devices,
to conduct engineering analyses of traffic accidents and to devise remedial
measures, to conduct engineering investigations of traffic conditions, to plan
the operation of traffic on the streets and highways of the city and to
cooperate with other city officials in the development of ways and means to
improve traffic conditions, to determine when standing and parking are
prohibited or restricted and to erect appropriate signs or place appropriate
markings to indicate what parking is permitted and to carry out the additional
powers and duties imposed by ordinances of the city.
   (C)   The city Traffic Engineer shall have the power to modify, amend or
repeal any action he has previously taken when the circumstances make the
change necessary to promote the efficient regulation of traffic or parking on
city streets.
('61 Code, § 13.8) (Ord. 653, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1194, passed 5-1-96)
§ 70.033 TRAFFIC ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   There is established a Traffic Advisory Committee to serve without
compensation consisting of representatives of the Public Works Department,
Police Department and Planning Department and shall function under the general
direction of the City Manager. The Committee shall select a chairperson from
its members and shall have the responsibility for conducting its own business.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Traffic Advisory Committee to coordinate
the activities and responsibilities of various departments as related to
traffic control, physical design, street maintenance and other areas in order
to establish acceptable traffic service; to make recommendations to the
legislative body of the city and to the City Traffic Engineer, the Police Chief
and other officials, ways and means for improving traffic conditions and the
administration and enforcement of traffic regulations; to study traffic
problems and to supervise the preparation and publication of traffic reports.
('61 Code, § 13.9) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.034 AUTHORITY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department of
officers as are assigned by the Police Chief to enforce all street traffic laws
of the city and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in
the city.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department or officers as assigned by the
Police Chief are authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or other
signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided, in the event of a fire or
other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers of
the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions may require,
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire or when,
in the course of their duties, they are protecting the personnel or equipment
of the Fire Department, may assist the police in directing traffic or may
direct traffic if no police personnel are present or available.
('61 Code, § 13.11) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.035 AUTHORITY TO PLACE TURNING MARKERS
   The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to place markers, buttons or signs
within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled by
vehicles turning at the intersections and the City Traffic Engineer is
authorized to allocate and indicate more than one lane of traffic from which
drivers of vehicles may make right or left turns and the course to be traveled
as so indicated may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law or
ordinance.
('61 Code, § 13.35) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.036 AUTHORITY TO PLACE RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS.
   The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to determine those intersections at
which drivers of vehicles hall not make a right, left or U turn and shall place
proper signs at those intersections. The making of turns may be prohibited
between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event
the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when
the turns are permitted.
('61 Code, § 13.36) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.037 AUTHORITY TO PROHIBIT RIGHT TURNS AGAINST TRAFFIC STOP SIGNAL.
   The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to determine those intersections
within any business or residence district at which drivers of vehicles shall
not make a right turn against a red or stop signal and shall erect proper signs
giving notice of the prohibition. No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of any such sign.
('61 Code, § 13.37) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.038 AUTHORITY TO PLACE SIGNS FOR ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   When any resolution of the city designates any one-way street or alley, the
City Traffic Engineer shall place and maintain signs giving notice thereof and
no such regulations shall be effective unless the signs are in place. Signs
indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every
intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
('61 Code, § 13.38) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.039 AUTHORITY TO RESTRICT DIRECTION OF MOVEMENT ON STREETS DURING CERTAIN
PERIODS.
   When any resolution of the city designates streets, parts of streets or
specific lanes thereon upon which vehicular traffic shall proceed in one
direction during one period and the opposite direction during another period of
the day, the City Traffic Engineer shall place and maintain appropriate
markings, signs, barriers or other devices to give notice thereof. The City
Traffic Engineer may erect signs temporarily designating lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center line of the
roadway.
('61 Code, § 13.39) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.040 AUTHORITY FOR STOP SIGNS AND YIELD SIGNS.
   When any resolution of the city designates through streets or designated
intersections or other roadway junctions at which vehicular traffic on one or
more of the roadways should yield or stop and yield before entering the
intersection or junction, the City Traffic Engineer shall erect and maintain
stop signs, yield signs or other official traffic control devices to give
notice thereof.
('61 Code, § 13.40) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.041 AUTHORITY FOR TEMPORARY STREET CLOSURES.
   (A)   The City Traffic Engineer is authorized, upon any person's application
or to advance a city purpose, to exercise his or her discretion and order the
temporary closure of a city street or a portion thereof, to the extent that
said closure is necessary for the safety and protection of residents and the
general public who will be using the temporarily closed street or portion
thereof during a celebration, parade, special event, or other city event,
including but not limited to city construction. The City Traffic Engineer shall
limit the duration of any temporary street closure to the maximum extent
reasonably practicable and shall affect or order an applicant's compliance with
the following requirements and conditions as to each temporary street closure.
      (1)   The city shall provide or ensure that 48 hours notice of the fact
and duration of any temporary street closure to all property owners or
residents located on each segment of city street subject to temporary closure.
      (2)   Signs shall be posted 48 hours prior to each temporary closure
providing notice of closure to the public. The signs shall comply with Caltrans
standards in regard to size of the sign, fonts, and color.
      (3)   The temporary street closure and all related traffic controls shall
conform to applicable requirements of the State of California Work Area Traffic
Control Handbook (WATCH); further, city staff shall provide or procure a
Traffic Control Plan plainly indicating direction of travel to the satisfaction
of the City Traffic Engineer.
      (4)   Emergency access shall be maintained at all times.
      (5)   An applicant shall provide 24 hours written notice to the city's
Fire and Police Departments prior to the actual commencement of the temporary
street closure, and shall provide a second written notice to said departments
no more than two hours after all signs and devices reflecting the temporary
closure have been removed.
      (6)   An insurance certificate shall be provided to the satisfaction of
the City Risk Manager.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the City Traffic Engineer's authority hereunder, the
City Council may require, on a case-by-case basis, that any particular
temporary street closure be subject to City Council consideration and approval,
and additional or reduced requirements and conditions.
(Ord. 1523, passed 1-16-08)
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES AND MARKINGS
§ 70.050 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL.
   (A)   The City Traffic Engineer shall place and maintain or cause to be
placed and maintained official traffic control devices when and as required
under this title and other traffic ordinances of the city to make effective the
provisions of this title and those ordinances.
   (B)   When the Vehicle Code requires, for the effectiveness of any
provisions thereof, that traffic control devices by installed to give notice to
the public of the application of the law, the City Traffic Engineer is hereby
authorized to install or cause to be installed the necessary devices subject to
any limitations or restrictions set forth in the law applicable thereto.
   (C)   The City Traffic Engineer may also place and maintain or cause to be
placed and maintained additional traffic control devices as he or she may deem
necessary to regulate traffic or to guide or warn traffic but he or she shall
make the determination only upon the basis of traffic engineering principals
and traffic investigations and in accordance with the standards, limitations
and rules as may be set forth in this title or other traffic ordinances of the
city or as may be determined by ordinance or resolution of the legislative body
of the city.
('61 Code, § 13.20) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.051 STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   All traffic control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the
standards and specifications adopted by the traffic advisory committee
consistent with state practices. All signs and signals required or for a
particular purpose shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and
location throughout the city. All traffic control devices so erected and not
inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this title shall be official
traffic control devices.
('61 Code, § 13.21) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.052 WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   No provision of this title for which official traffic control devices
are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and
place of the alleged violation, an official device is not in proper position
and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
   (B)   When a particular section does not state that official traffic control
devices are required, the section shall be effective even though no devices are
erected or in place.
('61 Code, § 13.22) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.053 PRESUMPTION OF LEGALITY.
   (A)   When official traffic control devices are placed in position
approximately conforming to the requirements of this title, those devices shall
be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
   (B)   Any official traffic control device placed pursuant to the provisions
of this title rand purporting to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining
to those devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of this
title, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
('61 Code, § 13.23) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.054 TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   When any resolution of the city designates those locations to be controlled
by traffic signals, the City Traffic Engineer is directed to install and
maintain official traffic signals at those intersections and other places where
traffic conditions are such as to require that the flow of traffic be
alternately interrupted and released in order to prevent or relieve traffic
congestion or to protect life or property from exceptional hazard.
('61 Code, § 13.24) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.055 LANE MARKINGS.
   The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to mark center lines and lane lines
upon the surface of the roadway to indicate the course to be traveled by
vehicles and may place signs temporarily designating lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction, regardless of the center line of the
highway.
('61 Code, § 13.25) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.056 ROADWAY MARKINGS.
   The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to place and maintain distinctive
roadway markings as described in the Vehicle Code on those streets or parts of
streets where the volume of traffic or the vertical or other curvature of the
roadway renders it hazardous to drive on the left side of the marking or signs
and markings. The marking or signs and markings shall have the same effect as
similar markings placed by the State Department of Public Works pursuant to
provisions of the Vehicle Code.
('61 Code, § 13.26) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.057 DETOURS AND CONSTRUCTION AREAS.
   (A)   No street shall be closed or partially obstructed or detours
established without approval of the City Traffic Engineer.
   (B)   Barriers and signs shall be erected as directed by the City Traffic
Engineer and shall be of a type approved by the City Traffic Engineer.
   (C)   In case of emergency a public utility or department of the city shall
be exempt from the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any
barricades or devices erected:
      (1)   Pursuant to the provisions of any ordinance of the city;
      (2)   By any public utility;
      (3)   By any department of the city; or,
      (4)   By any other person pursuant to law or contract with the city.
   (E)   No unauthorized person shall move or alter the position of any such
barrier or device.
('61 Code, § 13.27) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.058 CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES.
   The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized:
   (A)   To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where, in his or her
opinion, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway and at
such other places as he or she may deem necessary.
   (B)   To establish safety zones of the kind and character and at the places
as he or she may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
('61 Code, § 13.28) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.059 PAINTING OF CURBS.
   No person, unless authorized by the City Traffic Engineer, shall paint any
street or curb surface, including painting of house numbers.
('61 Code, § 13.29) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.060 WARRANTS.
   The City Council shall adopt a set of standard traffic control devices
warrants to be used as a basis to evaluate the need for traffic control devices
to be placed and/or installed in or upon the city streets.
('61 Code, § 13.29-1) (Ord. 684, passed - - )
§ 70.061 AUTHORITY TO REMOVE, RELOCATE OR DISCONTINUE.
   The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to remove, relocate or discontinue
the operation of any traffic control device not specifically required by state
law or this title when he or she shall determine in any particular case that
the conditions which warranted or required the installation no longer exist or
obtain.
('61 Code, § 13.30) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.062 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The City Traffic Engineer shall determine the hours and days during which
any traffic control device shall be in operation or effect, except in those
cases where the hours or days are specified in this title.
('61 Code, § 13.31) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.063 NEW PAVEMENT AND MARKINGS.
   No person shall ride or drive any animal or any vehicle over or across any
newly made pavement or freshly painted marking in any street when a barrier or
sign is in place warning persons not to drive over or across the pavement or
marking or when a sign is in place stating the street or any portion thereof is
closed.
('61 Code, § 13.46) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
SPEED
§ 70.075 STATE SPEED LAWS APPLICABLE.
   The state traffic laws regulating the speed of vehicles shall be applicable
upon all streets within the city, except as this chapter, as authorized by
state law, hereby declares and determines upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that certain speed regulations shall be applicable upon
specified streets or in certain areas, in which event it shall be unlawful for
any person to drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of any speed so declared in
this chapter when signs are in place giving notice thereof.
('61 Code, § 13.32) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.076 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE.
   (A)   Upon the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation, the City
Council, by resolution, may decrease maximum speed limits at intersections and
outside urban districts and increase limits within urban districts.
   (B)   Upon the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation, the City
Council, by resolution, may determine the maximum speed limits on arterial
streets.
   (C)   Speed limits established pursuant to this section shall be applicable
at all or such times as shall be indicated by official traffic control devices.
('61 Code, § 13.33) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.077 REGULATION BY TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to regulate the timing of traffic
signals so as to permit the movement of traffic in an orderly and safe manner
at speeds slightly at variance from the speeds otherwise applicable within the
district or at intersections and shall erect appropriate signs giving notice
thereof.
('61 Code, § 13.35) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
PROCESSIONS
§ 70.090 DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral
procession while they are in motion. This provision shall not apply at
intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic control signals or police
officers.
('61 Code, § 13.42) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.091 DRIVERS IN A PROCESSION.
   Each driver in a funeral shall drive as near to the right edge of the
roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as practical
and safe.
('61 Code, § 13.43) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
VEHICLE SIZE AND WEIGHT
§ 70.100 CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED IN THE CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   No person shall operate any of the following vehicles in the Central
Business District between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of any day:
      (1)   Any freight vehicle more than eight and one half feet in width with
load or any freight vehicle so loaded that any part of its load extends more
than 20 feet to the front or rear of the vehicle;
      (2)   Any vehicle carrying building material that has not been loaded or
is not to be unloaded at some point within the Central Business District;
   (B)   The City Engineer or designee may by written permit authorize the
operation of any such vehicle for the purpose of making necessary emergency
deliveries to or from points within the Central Business District.
(Ord. 1235, passed 11-18-98)
§ 70.100.1 ADVERTISING VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive any vehicle used for advertising and
equipped with a sound amplifying or loud speaking device upon any street or
alley at any time within the Central Business District.
   (B)   The City Engineer or designee may by written permit authorize the
operation of any such vehicle.
(Ord. 1235, passed 11-18-98)
§ 70.100.2 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   Whenever any resolution of the City Council designates and describes
any street or portion thereof as a street the use of which is permitted by any
vehicle exceeding a maximum gross weight limit of three tons, the City Engineer
or designee is authorized to designate such street or streets by appropriate
signs as truck routes for the movement of vehicles exceeding a maximum gross
weight limit of three tons.
   (B)   When any such truck route or routes are established and designate.d by
appropriate signs, the operator of any vehicle exceeding a maximum gross weight
limit of three tons shall drive on such route or routes and no other route,
except that nothing in this section shall prohibit the operator of any vehicle
exceeding a maximum gross weight of three tons coming from a truck route having
ingress and egress by direct route to and from restricted streets when
necessary for the purpose of making pickups or deliveries of goods, wares and
merchandise from or to any building or structure located on such restricted
streets, or for the purpose of delivering materials to be used in the actual
and bona fide repair, alteration, remodeling or construction of any building,
if a building permit has previously been obtained.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to passenger buses
under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities Commission or to any vehicle
owned by a public utility while used in the construction, installation, repair,
operation or maintenance of any public utility.
   (D)   The City Council may by resolution declare certain streets and/or
parts of streets to be truck routes for the movement of vehicles exceeding a
maximum gross weight of three tons.
(Ord. 1235, passed 11-18-98)
§ 70.100.3 COMMERCIAL VEHICLES PROHIBITED FROM USING CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   Whenever any resolution of the City Council designates and describes
any streets or portion thereof as a street, the use of which is prohibited by
any commercial vehicle, the City Engineer or designee shall erect and maintain
appropriate signs on these streets affected by such resolution.
   (B)   The City Council may by resolution prohibit certain streets and/or
parts of streets to be used by any commercial vehicle. The provisions of the
section shall not apply to passenger buses under the jurisdiction of Public
Utilities Commission.
(Ord. 1235, passed 11-18-98)
§ 70.101 PERMITS FOR EXCESS SIZE AND WEIGHT.
   (A)   The City Traffic Engineer is authorized, upon application in writing
and good cause being shown therefor, to issue a special permit in writing
authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or combination of
vehicles of a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum in this
chapter or the provisions of the Vehicle Code upon any highway under the
jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   The application for any such permit shall specifically describe the
vehicle and load to be operated or moved and the particular highways for which
the permit to operate is requested, and whether the permit is requested for a
single trip or for continuous operation.
   (C)   The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to issue or withhold the
permit at his or her discretion or, if the permit is issued, to limit the
number of trips or to establish seasonal or other time limitations within which
the vehicles described may be operated on the highways indicated or otherwise
to limit or prescribe conditions of operation of the vehicle when necessary to
assure against undue damage to the road foundations, surfaces or structures and
may require the undertaking or other security as maybe deemed necessary to
compensate for any injury to any roadway or road structure.
   (D)   Every permit shall be carried on the vehicle or combination of
vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection by any police
officer or authorized agent of any authority granting the permit and no person
shall violate any of the terms or conditions of the special permit.
('61 Code, § 13.102) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
TRAFFIC ON STATE HIGHWAYS
§ 70.110 PRIOR APPROVAL OF DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   When the provisions of this title or any resolution or ordinance of the city
delegates authority to a city officer or authorizes action by the City Council
to regulate traffic upon a state highway in any way which, by state law,
requires the prior approval of the appropriate state officials of the state, no
such officer shall exercise the authority nor shall the action by the City
Council be effective with respect to any state highway without the prior
approval in writing of the Department of Public Works when and to the extent
required by the Vehicle Code.
('61 Code, § 13.104) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
§ 70.111 PROVISIONS INOPERATIVE UPON WITHDRAWAL OF APPROVAL BY WRITTEN NOTICE.
   Any provision of this title or of any resolution or ordinance of the city
which regulates traffic or delegates the regulation of traffic upon state
highways in any way for which the approval of the appropriate state officials
of the state is required by state law shall cease to be operative six months
after receipt by the City Council of written notice of withdrawal of the
approval by the Department of Public Works.
('61 Code, § 13.105) (Ord. 653, passed - - )
TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
§ 70.120 REGULATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   A vehicle transporting a “hazardous material or substance” as
identified in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations must be attended at
all times by its driver or a qualified representative of the motor carrier that
operates it and shall not be parked on any highway, highway shoulder, street,
alley, public way or public place or within five feet of the traveled portion
thereof, within a residential zone or within 1,000 feet of any school or within
300 feet of any bridge or tunnel, except for brief periods when mechanical or
equipment failure or disablement or malfunction of the vehicle or the
necessities of operation require the vehicle to be parked and make it
impractical to park the vehicle in any other place.
   (B)   Repair, maintenance, refuse, utility, termite and pesticide vehicles,
fuel delivery vehicles and vehicles delivering life support and health
commodities while servicing residential areas or schools are exempt from
provisions of division (A) above. Additionally, the exempt vehicles need not be
attended while the drivers are performing duties that are normally and
necessarily performed by the operator of the vehicle or the provider of the
service.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section:
      (1)   A motor vehicle is attended when the person in charge of the
vehicle is on the vehicle, awake and not in a sleeper berth or is within 100
feet of the vehicle and has it within his or her unobstructed field of view.
      (2)   A qualified representative of a motor carrier is a person who:
         (a)   Has been designated by the carrier to attend the vehicle;
         (b)   Is aware of the nature of the hazardous material or substance
contained in the vehicle he or she attends;
         (c)   Has been instructed on the procedures he or she must follow in
emergencies concerning hazardous materials or substances;
         (d)   Is authorized to move the vehicle and has the means and ability
to do so.
   (D)   The rules of this section do not relieve a driver from any obligation
imposed by federal, state or local laws relating to the transportation of
hazardous materials or explosives, motor carrier safety regulations or the
placement of warning signs or devices when a motor vehicle is stopped on a
public street or highway.
('61 Code, § 13.106) (Ord. 876, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 70.999
§ 70.121 USE OF CERTAIN STREETS.
   Any vehicles transporting hazardous materials, the same as have been
identified in §
70.120, shall be restricted to the utilization of Interstate 10 in their
passage through the city limits.
('61 Code, § 13.107) (Ord. 876, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1076, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 70.999
INTERSTATE TRUCKS
§ 70.130 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases shall have the meanings set forth and if any
word or phrase used in this subchapter is not defined in this section, it shall
have the meanings set forth in the California Vehicle Code, provided, if any
such word or phrase is not defined in the Code, it shall have the meaning
attributed to it in ordinary usage.
   CALTRANS. The California Department of Transportation or its successor
agency.
   INTERSTATE TRUCK. A truck tractor and semitrailer or truck tractor,
semitrailer and trailer with unlimited length as regulated by the Vehicle Code.
   TERMINAL. Any facility at which freight is consolidated to be shipped or
where full load consignments may be loaded and off-loaded or at which the
vehicles are regularly maintained, stored or manufactured.
   TRANSPORTATION ENGINEER. The Transportation Engineer of the city or his or
her authorized representative.
('61 Code, § 13.110) (Ord. 909, passed - - )
§ 70.131 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish procedures for terminal
designation and truck routes designated to terminals for interstate trucks
operating on a federally designated highway system and to promote the general
health, safety and welfare of the public.
('61 Code, § 13.111) (Ord. 909, passed - - )
§ 70.132 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any interested person requiring terminal access for interstate trucks
from the federally designated highway system shall submit an application, on a
form as provided by the city, together with the information as may be required
by the Transportation Engineer and appropriate fees to the city.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the application, the Transportation Engineer will
cause an investigation to be made to ascertain whether or not the proposed
terminal facility meets the requirements for an interstate truck terminal. Upon
his or her approval of that designation, he or she will then determine the
capability of the route requested and alternate routes, whether requested or
not. Determination of route capability will include, without limitation, a
review of adequate turning radius and lane widths of ramps, intersections and
highways and general traffic conditions such as sight distance, speed and
traffic volumes. No access off a federally designated highway system will be
approved without the approval of Caltrans.
   (C)   Should the requested route pass through the city to a terminal located
in another jurisdiction, the applicant shall comply with that jurisdiction's
application process. Coordination of the approval of the route through the city
will be the responsibility of the entity which controls the terminal's land
use. Costs for trailblazer signs shall be as provided in §
70.133.
('61 Code, § 13.112) (Ord. 909, passed - - )
§ 70.133 FEES AND COSTS; TRAILBLAZER SIGNS.
   (A)   The applicant shall pay a nonrefundable application fee, as
established by the city by resolution, sufficient to pay the cost of the review
of the terminal designation and the review of the route and alternate route.
   (B)   Upon the approval of the terminal designation and route by the city
and by Caltrans, the applicant shall deposit with the city sufficient funds as
estimated by the Transportation Engineer to pay for the purpose and
installation of terminal trailblazer signs. Trailblazer signs will be required
at every decision point in the city en route to the terminal. Upon completion
of the installation of the signs, the actual cost shall be computed and any
difference between the actual and estimated cost shall be billed or refunded to
the applicant, whichever the case may be. No terminal or route may be used
until the signs as may be required are in place. Costs for trailblazer signs
may be proportioned in accordance with the procedures in §
70.134(C).
('61 Code, § 13.113) (Ord. 909, passed - - )
§ 70.134 RETROFITTING.
   (A)   If all feasible routes to a requested terminal are found
unsatisfactory by the Transportation Engineer, the applicant may request
retrofitting the deficiencies. All costs of engineering, construction and
inspection will be the responsibility by the applicant. Except when the
retrofitting of deficiencies is within the jurisdiction of Caltrans, the actual
construction will be done by the city or by a contractor acceptable to it.
   (B)   When the work is to be done by the city, the applicant shall deposit
with the city an estimated cost of retrofitting. Adjustments between the
estimated and actual cost shall be made after completion of the work and any
difference between the actual and the estimated cost shall be billed or
refunded to the applicant, as the case may be. When the work is done by the
applicant, the applicant may file with the Transportation Engineer, on a form
satisfactory to the Transportation Engineer, a statement detailing the actual
cost of the retrofitting.
   (C)   If, at any time within five years from the date of completion of the
retrofitting by the applicant, should any applicant seek terminal approval
which would use the route upon which the retrofitting was accomplished, any
such applicants' fee may include that applicant's proportionate share of the
retrofitting, as determined by the Transportation Engineer, which fee shall be
disbursed by the city to the applicant who paid for the retrofitting as well as
to any applicant who contributed to the cost of retrofitting under this
division. Nothing herein shall require the payment of a proportionate fee if
the applicant doing the work failed to file the report with the Transportation
Engineer required by division (B) above.
('61 Code, § 13.114) (Ord. 909, passed - - )
§ 70.135 REVOCATION OF ROUTE.
   The Transportation Engineer may revoke any approved terminal or route if the
terminal or route becomes a traffic hazard for vehicular traffic. A safety
hazard includes the inability of interstate trucks to negotiate the route of if
the vehicles cause unsafe driving conditions for other vehicular traffic or
pedestrians.
('61 Code, § 13.115) (Ord. 909, passed - - )
§ 70.136 APPEAL PROCESS.
   (A)    If the Transportation Engineer denies terminal designation, route
feasibility or revokes a previously approved terminal or route, the applicant/
terminal owner, within ten days following the date of receipt of the decision
of the Transportation Engineer may appeal the decision to the City Council in
writing. An appeal shall be made on a form prescribed by the Department of
Public Works and shall be filed with the City Clerk. The appeal shall state
specifically wherein there was an error or abuse of discretion by the
Transportation Engineer or wherein its decision is not supported by the
evidence in the record. Within five days of the filing of an appeal, the
Transportation Engineer shall transmit to the City Clerk the terminal
application, the sketches of the revoked route and all other data filed
therewith, the report of the Transportation Engineer and his or her decision on
the application.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall make copies of the date provided by the
Transportation Engineer available to the applicant and to the appellant (if the
applicant is not the appellant) for inspection and may give notice to any other
interested party who requested notice of the time when the appeal will be
considered by the City Council.
   (C)   If CALTRANS and not the Transportation Engineer denies or revokes
terminal access from federally designated highways, no appeal may be made to
the City Council but must be made to CALTRANS as may be permitted by CALTRANS.
('61 Code, § 13.116) (Ord. 909, passed - - )
OFF-ROAD USE OF VEHICLES
§ 70.145 PROHIBITED.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on land belonging to or occupied by
another without having in his or her immediate possession and, upon request of
a peace officer, displaying written permission from the owner of the land his
or her agent or the person in lawful possession thereof. This section shall not
apply to a person having lawful business with the owner.
('61 Code, § 13.118) (Ord. 956, passed - - )
§ 70.146 EXEMPT LOCATIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply on public or private lands expressly set
apart for the use of motor vehicles by or with permission of the owner of the
lands pursuant to any zoning permit or other permit or licensing procedure
authorized by law. This subchapter shall not apply upon any public highway,
public street, public road or public alley.
('61 Code, § 13.119) (Ord. 956, passed - - )
§ 70.147 EXEMPT VEHICLES.
   This subchapter shall not apply to the use of farm vehicles for agricultural
purposes, vehicles being used for grading or construction purposes, vehicles
being used for governmental purposes or golf carts being used on golf courses.
('61 Code, § 13.120) (Ord. 956, passed - - )
§ 70.148 GOVERNMENT PROPERTY.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to interfere with the right of
any government agency to regulate, prohibit or permit the use of motor vehicles
on property owned by it or under its control and under its jurisdiction, nor to
permit or authorize any trespass or nuisance.
('61 Code, § 13.121) (Ord. 956, passed - - )
PEDESTRIANS
§ 70.160 CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route
at right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb
except in a marked crosswalk.
   (B)   A pedestrian shall not be stopped for a violation of division (A)
unless a reasonably careful person would realize there is an immediate danger
of a collision with a moving vehicle or other device moving exclusively by
human power.
   (C)   The provisions of division (B) do not relieve a pedestrian from the
duty of using due care for their safety and do not relieve a driver of a
vehicle from the duty of exercising due care for the safety of any pedestrian
within the roadway.
('61 Code, § 13.51) (Ord. 653, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1094, passed - - ; Am.
Ord. 1788, passed 11-16-22)
§ 70.161 STANDING IN ROADWAYS.
   (A)   No person shall stand in any roadway other than in a safety zone or in
a crosswalk of the action interferes with the lawful movement of traffic.
   (B)   No person shall stand in any roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride.
   (C)   No person shall stand in any roadway for the purpose of soliciting
employment, business or contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
   (D)   No person shall stand on or in proximity to a roadway for the purpose
of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or guarding
of any vehicle while parked or about to be parked on a roadway.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to any public officer or employee or
employee of a public utility when necessarily upon a street in the line of
duty.
('61 Code, § 13.52) (Ord. 653, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1094, passed - - )
§ 70.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
70.120 and
70.121 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and each such person shall be
deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof
during which any violation of any of the provisions of those sections is
committed, continued or permitted.
('61 Code, § 13.108) (Ord. 1080, passed - - )
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Purpose
   
71.02   Definitions
   
71.03   Application
   
71.04   Designation of authority for signs and curb painting
   
71.05   Removal or immobilization of vehicles
   
71.06   Use of street for storage of vehicles for 72 or more consecutive hours
   
71.07   Marking of vehicles
   
71.08   Prohibited parking, storage and repair
   
71.09   Parking in alleys
   
71.10   Commercial vehicle parking
   
71.11   Parking in parks and other public facilities
   
71.12   On-street stopping, standing, or parking prohibited by Public Works
Director
   
71.13   On-street stopping, standing, or parking prohibited during certain
hours
   
71.14   Temporary no parking
   
71.15   Stopping, standing or parking on left side of divided highway
   
71.16   Curb markings indicating parking regulations
   
71.17   Bus zones to be established
   
71.18   Police vehicle zones
   
71.19   Unauthorized painting of curbs
   
71.20   Disabled accessible parking required
   
71.21   Disabled parking without a placard
   
71.22   Blocking areas surrounding disabled parking
Parking Violation Enforcement Procedures
   
71.50   Penalties, fines, fees and related charges for parking, traffic and
related violations
   
71.51   Administrative adjudication procedure
   
71.52   Administrative review
   
71.53   Administrative hearing
   
71.54   Judicial review
   
71.55   Copies of citations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 PURPOSE.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-09)
§ 71.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions pertain to terms utilized in this chapter, in
order to provide clarity and consistency.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any vehicle which reasonably appears to have been left
derelict by its driver or owner on either public or private property.
   ALLEY. Any highway having a roadway not exceeding 25 feet in width which is
primarily used for access to the rear or side entrances of abutting property.
   APPROVED PARKING SURFACE. Any concrete, cement, asphalt, brick or surface
specifically designed for vehicular travel or parking, or otherwise approved by
the City Community Development Department. An approved parking surface must be
contiguous from the street or driveway to the end of the approved parking
surface.
   BUS. Any vehicle, as defined in Section 233 of the California Vehicle.
   CODE. The Code of Indio.
   COMMERCIAL TRAILER. Any auxiliary dolly, pole or pipe dolly, semitrailer,
tow dolly, trailer coach or trailer bus.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE.  Any vehicle as defined in Section 260 of the California
Vehicle Code, including, but not limited to, a motor truck, truck tractor, bus,
water tender vehicle or any other commercial types of vehicles. COMMERCIAL
VEHICLES do not include passenger vehicles, house cars, pickup trucks, or
vanpool vehicles.
   COURT. The Indio Branch of the Riverside Superior Court.
   DRIVEWAY. Concrete, asphalt, or other approved parking surface used for the
parking of vehicles located between a street and the end of the approved
parking surface.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. Any employee or agent duly authorized by the Chief of
Police to enforce traffic or parking laws included in the California Vehicle
Code and Code of Indio.
   GOLF CART. A motor vehicle having not less than three wheels in contact with
the ground, having an unladen weight less than 1,300 pounds, which is designed
to be and is operated at not more than 15 miles per hour and designed to carry
golf equipment and not more than two persons including the driver.
   HIGHWAY. A way or place of whatever nature publicly maintained and open to
the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.  HIGHWAY includes
street. "Public property" does not include HIGHWAY.
   HOA.  Homeowners Association is a common interest development or holding for
the purpose of maintaining commonly owned real estate and improvements.
   HOUSE CAR. A motor vehicle originally designed, or permanently altered, and
equipped for human habitation, or to which a camper has been permanently
attached. A motor vehicle to which a camper has been temporarily attached is
not a house car for purposes of this chapter. A HOUSE CAR shall not be deemed
to be a motor truck.
   INOPERATIVE VEHICLE.  Any vehicle, which (1) has one or more flat tires, (2)
will not start or cannot be driven due to mechanical problems, (3) cannot be
operated safely or legally on the street, or (4) is prohibited from being
operated on a public street or highway pursuant to Sections 4000, 5202, 24002
or 40001 of the California Vehicle Code, concerning license plates,
registration, equipment, safety or related matters.
   MOTOR TRUCK. A motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
   MOTORCYCLE. Any motor vehicle, as defined in Section 400 of the California
Vehicle Code.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, with
the sole exception of a temporary stop with the purpose loading or unloading
merchandise or passengers.
   PARKING LOT. Any dedicated paved surface primarily used for the parking of
vehicles and trailers usually associated with commercial, industrial or multi-
family residential establishments.
   PASSENGER VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, other than a motor truck, truck
tractor, or a bus, as defined in this chapter, and used or maintained for the
transportation of persons. The term PASSENGER VEHICLE shall include a house
car.
   PICKUP TRUCK. A motor truck with a manufactures gross vehicle weight rating
of less than 11,500 pounds, an unladen weight of less than 8,001 pounds, and
which is equipped with an open box-type bed not exceeding nine feet in length.
PICKUP TRUCK does not include a motor vehicle otherwise meeting the above
definition that is equipped with a bed mounted storage compartment unit
commonly called a "utility body."
   PRIVATE ROAD. A portion of road in private ownership, including driveways
and HOA roads, used for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express
or implied permission from the owner but not by other members of the public.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   RUNNER. A continuous pathway, constructed of concrete, cement, asphalt or
brick and situated where a vehicle's tires travel, between a street and an
approved parking surface.
   SEMITRAILER.  A vehicle designed for carrying persons or property, used in
conjunction with a motor vehicle, and so constructed that some part of its
weight and that if its load rests upon, or is carried by, another vehicle.
   STOP OR STOPPING. Any cessation of vehicular movement, whether the vehicle
in question is occupied or not.
   STORAGE. The keeping, leaving, displaying, or maintaining of goods including
but not limited to motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts and equipment.
   STREET. A way or place of whatever nature publicly maintained and open to
the use of the public for the purposes of vehicular travel. STREET includes
highway.
   TRAILER. A vehicle designed for carrying persons or property on its own
structure and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no
part of its weight rests upon any other vehicle.
   TRUCK TRACTOR. A motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing other
vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load, other than a part of the
weight of the vehicle and the load so drawn. As used in this section, "load"
does not include items carried on the truck tractor in conjunction with the
operation of the vehicle if the load carrying space for these items does not
exceed 34 square feet.
   VACANT LOT. Any parcel of land, developed or otherwise, which does not
contain a building, approved parking lot or approved parking surface.
   VEHICLE. A device by which any person or property may be propelled, moved,
or drawn upon a highway, except for a device moved exclusively by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. For the purpose of this
chapter, VEHICLE includes, but is not limited to, any bus, camper, golf cart,
house car, motorcycle, motor truck, passenger vehicle, pickup truck, trailers
and truck tractors.
   VEHICLE CODE. The California Vehicle Code.
   VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION NUMBER (VIN). The motor number, serial number, or
other distinguishing number, letter, mark, character, or datum, or any
combination thereof, required or employed by the manufacturer or the department
for the purpose of uniquely identifying a motor vehicle or motor vehicle part
or for the purpose of registration.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 71.03 APPLICATION .
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter prohibiting the stopping, standing,
parking and storage of vehicles shall apply at all times or at those times
herein specified, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of an
enforcement official or official traffic control device.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter imposing a time limit on standing or
parking shall not relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions of the Vehicle Code, this Code or other ordinances of
the city prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing, parking and storage of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter also apply to private roads within HOAs
whereby the city and the HOA have entered into an agreement ratified by City
Council, as provided by Sections 21107.7, 21107.8 and 21107.9 of the California
Vehicle Code, whereby the city is authorized to patrol and enforce this chapter
on such private roads for the benefit of motor traffic, and at the request of
the HOA residents.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 71.04 DESIGNATION OF AUTHORITY FOR SIGNS AND CURB PAINTING.
   (A)   The City Council or the City Public Works Director or his or her
designee is hereby authorized to identify and maintain appropriate signs or
paint upon the curb surface on public property, highways, streets and roadways
in order to designate all stopping, standing and parking areas as described in
this chapter.
   (B)   The City Council or the City Public Works Director, or his or her
designee, shall sign or mark any place where, based on traffic engineering
principals and investigations, he or she deems necessary to facilitate the safe
movement of traffic.
   (C)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in such areas where city
signs or markings provide notice of parking restrictions and or limitations in
accord with this section, including but not limited to restrictions regulating
stopping, standing or parking within a certain time or date.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 71.05 REMOVAL OR IMMOBILIZATION OF VEHICLES.
   Any enforcement official may remove or immobilize or cause to be removed or
immobilized, pursuant to Section 22651 of the California Vehicle Code and Code
of Indio
Chapter 90:
   (A)   Any vehicle that has been parked or left standing on a street for 72
or more consecutive hours.
   (B)   Any vehicle which is parked or left standing upon a street when such
parking or standing is prohibited by resolution of the city and signs are
posted giving notice of such removal.
   (C)   Any vehicle which is parked or left standing upon any street where the
use of such street or portion thereof is necessary for the cleaning, repair or
construction of the street or for the installation or underground utilities or
where the use of the street or any portion thereof is authorized for a purpose
other than the normal flow of traffic or where the use of the street or any
portion thereof is necessary for the movement of equipment, articles, or
structures of unusual size and parking of such vehicles would prohibit or
interfere with such use or movement; provided, that signs giving notice that
such vehicles may be removed are erected or placed at least 24 hours prior to
their removal.
   (D)   Any vehicle under any circumstances described in Section 22651 of the
California Vehicle Code.
   (E)   Any vehicle abated under the provisions of
Chapter 90 of this Code.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 71.06 USE OF STREET FOR STORAGE OF VEHICLES FOR 72 OR MORE CONSECUTIVE HOURS.
   (A)   No person who owns, or has possession or control of any vehicle shall
park or leave standing, any vehicle or house car on any street or alley for
more than 72 consecutive hours.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, a vehicle shall be considered parked
or left standing for more than 72 hours if it has not been moved to a location
more than 1,000 feet away from the location at which it was originally parked.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 71.07 MARKING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The owner, operator or person in control of any vehicle exercising the
privilege of parking said vehicle on any street, alley or portion thereof where
regulations are in effect restricting the length of time vehicles may be parked
does so on the condition that an enforcement official may place chalk or other
removable marks on said vehicle for the purpose of enforcing such parking
restrictions.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to erase, rub out, or otherwise remove
any chalk or other removable marks, so placed on a vehicle, unless the vehicle
has complied with said time restrictions.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 71.08 PROHIBITED PARKING, STORAGE AND REPAIR.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, or necessitated by an
emergency determined to exist by an enforcement official, no operator,
registered or legal owner, may stop, stand or leave any vehicle in any of the
following places or conditions:
   (A)   Upon any street or roadway for the principal purpose of maintaining,
lubricating or repairing said vehicle, except as necessitated by an emergency.
   (B)   In or upon any area which is not a driveway, parking lot or approved
parking surface.
   (C)   Upon any vacant lot.
   (D)   Unattended, in front of a mail receptacle.
   (E)   Inoperative vehicle, or any portion thereof, visible to a party other
than the operator, registered or legal owner of the inoperative vehicle in
question, from a street, public property, or private property.
   (F)   Upon any private street, driveway, parking lot, approved parking
surface or in public view, which is prohibited from being operated on a public
street or highway pursuant to the provisions of Sections 4000, 5200, 5202,
5204, 24004 or 40001 of the California Vehicle Code.
   (G)    On any street, driveway, parking lot, approved parking surface,
visible to a party other than the operator, registered or legal owner of the
vehicle, with its VIN plate covered or in a condition where said vehicle's
ownership and registration status cannot be confirmed.
   (H)    No person shall park a pickup truck or trailer on any street,
driveway, parking lot, or approved parking surface, visible to a party other
than the operator, registered or legal owner of the vehicle whose bed contains
trash, debris, rubbish, yard waste or other waste matter, overnight or for a
period of more than 12 consecutive hours.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 71.09 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, park or otherwise leave unattended at any
time, any vehicle in any alley for purposes other than loading or unloading of
persons and or materials.
   (B)   At no time shall a vehicle stop, stand or park in any alley, in a
manner or position, as to leave less than 15 feet of clear roadway free for the
movement of vehicular traffic.
   (C)   At no time shall any person stop, stand or park within an alley in
such a manner or position that blocks the ingress and egress to any abutting
property.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 71.10 COMMERCIAL VEHICLE PARKING.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, no operator, registered
or legal owner of any commercial vehicle or commercial trailer shall stop,
stand or park in any of the following places:
      (1)   On any street, alley or portion thereof, in or adjacent to an area
that is zoned residential to include uses per the Unified Development Code.
      (2)   On any private property, driveway, parking lot, or approved parking
surface in or adjacent to an area that is zoned residential to include uses per
the Unified Development Code.
      (3)   On any street, alley, parking lot or portion thereof, in any area
not zoned residential to include uses per the Unified Development Code, where
signs are posted giving notice that such activity is prohibited or restricted.
      (4)   On any vacant lot.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any commercial vehicle or commercial
trailer used under the following circumstances:
      (1)   Completely enclosed within a building, not visible to any person or
party other than the operator, or the registered or legal owner.
      (2)   Making pickup or deliveries of goods and merchandise.
      (3)   Involved in the construction, repair or maintenance of any
building, structure or grading project, for which a valid permit has been
obtained pursuant to Section 22507.5 of the California Vehicle Code, including
but not limited to the permit requirements per
Chapter 162.
      (4)   Involved in the installation, repair or maintenance of landscaping.
      (5)   Involved in the installation, repair or maintenance of utilities.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 71.11 PARKING IN PARKS AND OTHER PUBLIC FACILITIES.
   When city signs provide notice of parking restrictions and/or limitations,
no person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle on any parking lot or street
next to any public park or facility during the days and hours indicated on such
signs or for a period longer than specified on such signs.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 71.12 ON-STREET STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED BY PUBLIC WORKS
DIRECTOR.
   The City Public Works Director or his or her designee shall sign or mark as
deemed necessary in regard to time or location the following places, when so
signed or marked, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any of the
following locations:
   (A)   Upon any street when the width of the roadway does not exceed 20 feet,
or upon one side of the street as indicated by such signs or markings, when the
width of the roadway does not exceed 30 feet.
   (B)   Upon that side of any street adjacent to any school property when such
parking would, in the City Public Works Director's opinion, interfere with
traffic or create a hazardous condition.
   (C)   At any place where it is necessary for the city to use the public
street for construction, maintenance, repair, cleaning, tree spraying or any
other city public service or safety use.
   (D)   At any place where the City Public Works Director, based upon traffic
engineering principles and investigations, determines that signs and marking
are necessary to facilitate the movement of traffic or eliminate a traffic
hazard.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 71.13 ON-STREET STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN
HOURS.
   No person shall stop, stand or park on the days indicated on such signs,
between the hours specified on such signs or upon any of the streets described
in resolutions duly adopted by the City Council, when authorized signs are in
place providing notice of such.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 71.14 TEMPORARY NO PARKING.
   (A)   The City Public Works Director, Chief of Police, or his or her
designee, is authorized to erect or place temporary "No Parking" signs on
streets or portions thereof:
      (1)   Where the use of such street is undergoing repairs, or subject to
the construction or the installation of underground utilities of public
improvements.
      (2)   Where such street is being used for the movement of equipment,
articles or structures of unusual size.
      (3)   Where such street is used for or in conjunction with an approved
special activity or event.
   (B)   When temporary "No Parking" signs have been erected and 24 hours have
elapsed, no person shall stop, stand or park in the no parking zone, except as
otherwise provided by this chapter or necessitated by an emergency determined
to exist by an enforcement official.
   (C)   When temporary "No Parking" signs have been erected and 24 hours have
elapsed, the City has an option of removing the vehicle pursuant to section
22651(n) of the California Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 1651, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 71.15 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING ON LEFT SIDE OF DIVIDED HIGHWAY.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the left-hand side
of a highway where traffic is restricted to one-way on that portion of the
roadway, unless signs are in place permitting such stopping, standing or
parking, except as otherwise provided by this chapter or necessitated by an
emergency determined to exist by an enforcement official.
   (B)   The City Public Works Director may determine when stopping, standing
or parking shall be permitted upon the left-hand side of any one-way roadway of
a highway and shall erect signs giving notice thereof.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 71.16 CURB MARKINGS INDICATING PARKING REGULATIONS.
   The City Public Works Director may place, and when required by this chapter
shall place, on public property and streets, the following colored curb
markings to indicate parking or standing regulations. Such curb markings shall
have the following meanings:
   (A)   Red . No stopping, standing or parking at any time, except as
permitted by the Vehicle Code; and except that a bus may stop in a red zone
marked or signed as a bus zone.
   (B)   Yellow. No stopping, standing or parking during the days and hours
indicated on city signs or markings of any purpose other than the loading and
unloading of passengers or materials; provided that the loading or unloading of
passengers or materials shall not extend beyond the time necessary and in no
event exceed the time limits as follows:
      (1)   Commercial vehicles stopping, standing or parking in any yellow
zone for the purpose of loading and unloading of materials shall be limited to
30 minutes and during such time no person shall leave any such commercial
vehicle unattended for more than ten minutes unless there is visual evidence of
loading or unloading occurring;
      (2)   Noncommercial vehicles stopping, standing or parking in any yellow
zone shall be limited to five minutes and during such time no person shall
leave any such vehicle unattended.
   (C)   White. No stopping, standing or parking for any purpose other than
loading or unloading of passengers which shall not exceed five minutes and such
restrictions shall apply:
      (1)   At all times when such a zone is in front of a theatre or building,
other than a hotel, except when such theatre or building is closed;
      (2)   At those times indicated by city signs.
      (3)   Except that, in a zone located in front of a hotel, the five minute
limitation does not apply as each hotel may determine the time limitation for
loading and unloading at their respective curbside.
   (D)   Green. No standing or parking for longer than 15 minutes or such
shorter period as may be designated during the days and hours specified on city
signs or markings.
   (E)   Blue. Area designated for the parking of vehicles with special license
plates or other official designation issued to physically handicapped persons.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 71.17 BUS ZONES TO BE ESTABLISHED.
   The City Public Works Director is authorized to establish bus zones opposite
curb space for the loading and unloading of buses or common carriers of
passengers and to determine the location and size thereof. When signs are
posted indicating the space adjacent to the curb is for the parking of buses
only, no other types of vehicles may park, stop or stand in that zone.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 71.18 POLICE VEHICLE ZONES.
   The City Public Works Director is authorized to establish police vehicle
zones adjacent to police facilities. When signs are posted indicating the space
adjacent to the curb is for the parking of police vehicles only, no other types
of vehicles may stop, stand or park in that zone.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 71.19 UNAUTHORIZED PAINTING OF CURBS.
   It is unlawful for any person other than the City Public Works Director or
his or her designee to place or maintain any paint or other material upon any
curb in the city in a manner which is or purports to be, an imitation of or
resembling official indication of parking regulations. This section shall not
apply to HOA's, private roads, or private driveways.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 71.20 DISABLED ACCESSIBLE PARKING REQUIRED.
   Each parking lot or parking structure where parking is provided for the
public as clients, guests and employees shall contain disabled accessible
parking which shall be clearly marked at all times as described and mandated by
Chapter 71 of the State Uniform Building Code.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 71.21 DISABLED PARKING WITHOUT A PLACARD.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to park or leave standing any vehicle in
a stall or space designated for disabled persons and disabled veterans pursuant
to Sections 22511.7 and 22511.8 of the California Vehicle Code, unless the
vehicle displays either a special identification license plate issued pursuant
to Section 5007 of the California Vehicle Code or a distinguishing placard
issued pursuant to Section 22511.55 or 22511.59 of the California Vehicle Code.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, block, or otherwise bar
access to those parking stalls or spaces designated for disabled persons or
disabled veterans except as provided in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) of this section apply to all off-street
facilities owned or operated by the city, and to any privately owned and
maintained off-street parking facilities, per Americans with Disabilities Act
Title III and Section 22507.8 of the California Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 71.22 BLOCKING AREA SURROUNDING DISABLED PARKING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to park or leave standing any vehicle,
including a vehicle displaying a special identification license plate issued
pursuant to Section 5007 of the California Vehicle Code or distinguishing
placard issued pursuant to Sections 22511.55 or 22511.59 of the California
Vehicle Code, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On the lines marking the boundaries of a parking stall or space
designated for disabled persons or disabled veterans.
      (2)   In any area of the pavement adjacent to a parking stall or space
designated for disabled persons or disabled veterans that is marked by
crosshatched lines and is designated, pursuant to any local ordinance, for the
loading and unloading of vehicles parked in the stall or space.
      (3)   Division (A) of this section applies to all off-street parking
facilities owned or operated by the city and to any privately owned and
maintained off-street parking facilities.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-2009)
PARKING VIOLATION ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
§ 71.50 PENALTIES, FINES, FEES AND RELATED CHARGES FOR PARKING, TRAFFIC AND
RELATED VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Intent.  It is the intention of the Indio City Council to exercise its
full authority specified in Section 40203.5(a) of the California Vehicle Code,
by providing a schedule of parking penalties for parking violations and late
payment penalties.
   (B)   Procedure for establishment.  Subject to any limitations imposed by
state law, the City Council shall, from time to time, by resolution, establish,
and modify as necessary, penalties, fines, fees and related charges for
parking, traffic and related violations, and any other charge relating to civil
procedures for citation resolution, and booting and impounding of vehicles, as
required by the Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 71.51 ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Purpose.  The Indio City Council has duly adopted the procedures of
this subchapter on parking violation enforcement proceedings under the
authority of, and for the purpose of implementing the requirements of Chapter
1244, Statutes of 1992 ("AB 408"), and Chapter 734, Statues of 1995 ("AB
1228"). The purpose of the procedures specified herein is to provide a fair and
thorough process for review of citations issued for parking or standing
violations within the city.
   (B)   Application of time limitations.  Within this chapter there are
various time limitations established for certain requests, including but not
limited to:
      (1)   Requests for administrative review;
      (2)   Requests for administrative hearings; and
      (3)   Requests for copies of documents.
      For purposes of this subchapter on parking violation enforcement
procedures, the specified time limitations are jurisdictional. Untimely
requests will be rejected. Waivers will not be issued.
   (C)   Summary of procedures. This subchapter on parking violation
enforcement procedures provides two stages of review for persons or entities
wishing to contest citations:
      (1)    Administrative review; and
      (2)    Administrative hearing.
   (D)   Definitions. The following definitions pertain to terms utilized in
this subchapter, regarding Parking Violation Enforcement Procedures, i.e.,
sections
71.50, et seq., in order to provide clarity and consistency:
      (1)   ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING. A hearing process with respect to a
citation, conducted in accord with the procedures of this subchapter on parking
violation enforcement procedures, initiated by a timely written request of a
contestant dissatisfied with the results of the administrative review.
      (2)   ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW. The initial citation review process,
initiated by a contestant's timely request, and conducted by the Reviewing
Official.
      (3)   APPEAL. The action taken by a contestant to request an
administrative hearing.
      (4)   CITATION. Includes, but is not limited to notice of a stopping,
standing, or parking violation, and notice of a delinquent violation.
      (5)   CONTESTANT. Any person or entity who is the registered owner,
driver, rentee, bailee or lessee who is liable for parking penalties in
accordance with the provisions of Sections 40200, et seq. of the California
Vehicle Code, and who contests or disputes liability for the parking penalties.
      (6)   DMV. The state Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (7)   HEARING OFFICIAL. An independent and impartial hearing officer
meeting the qualifications specified in Section 40215(c)(4) of the California
Vehicle Code, appointed by or contracted with the city or its agent to conduct
administrative hearings.
      (8)   ISSUING AGENCY. The city department, or its agent, including but
not limited to the California Highway Patrol, which issues the parking
citation.
      (9)   PARKING PENALTY. Includes the applicable civil penalty for the
violation specified on the citation, the late payment penalty, and the
Department of Motor Vehicle (DMV) lien fee, if applicable.
      (10)   PARKING VIOLATION. Any violation of any regulation governing the
stopping, standing or parking of a vehicle under the Vehicle Code, under any
federal or state statute or regulation, or under the Code of Indio.
      (11)   REVIEWING OFFICIAL. An enforcement official authorized by the
Chief of Police to conduct administrative reviews.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 71.52 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   (A)   Initiating administrative review.
      (1)   Timeliness. A request for administrative review must be made within
21 days from the issuance of the notice of parking violation, or within 21 days
from the mailing of the notice of delinquent parking violation.
      (2)   Manner of making request. The request for administrative review may
be made by written request, and must include the following:
         (a)   A written statement of reasons explaining why the contestant
believes the citation was issued in error;
         (b)   Copies of any documents supporting contestant's claim;
         (c)   Original citation or reminder notice;
         (d)   Contestant's full name; and
         (e)   Contestant's mailing address.
   (B)   Written statement of reason.  A contestant shall provide to the Indio
Police Department a written statement of the reasons for contesting the parking
violation. If the statement of reasons is not timely provided by the
contestant, within the time period specified in division (A)(1) of this
section, the request for administrative review will be rejected, and the
contestant shall have no further rights to administrative review, or to an
administrative hearing.
   (C)   Administrative review. Upon the Reviewing Official's receipt of a
timely request for administrative review and the required statement of reasons,
the Reviewing Official will commence a review of the citation and the
circumstances surrounding its issuance. The review shall consist of a
determination of whether the citation contains all of the items required by
Section 40202(a) of the California Vehicle Code and shall focus on the reasons
for the request as specified by the contestant.
      (1)   Cancellation of citation.  If, based on the results of the review,
the Reviewing Official is satisfied that the citation was not issued in
accordance with Section 40202(a) of the California Vehicle Code, or, based on
the contestant's statement of reasons, that the violation did not occur or the
registered owner was not responsible for the violation, the Reviewing Official
shall cancel the citation and shall specify in writing the reasons for
canceling the citation.
      (2)   Determination of validity.  If, based on the results of the
investigation, the Reviewing Official is satisfied that the citation was issued
in accordance with Section 40202(a) of the California Vehicle Code, and that
the reasons specified by the contestant do not exist, or do not affect the
validity of the citation, the Reviewing Official shall specify those findings
in writing, and include the grounds for the findings.
   (D)   Notification to contestant. The results of the administrative review
by the Reviewing Official will be mailed to the contestant, by first class
mail. Service of the notice of result shall be complete upon placement of the
notice of result in the United States mail, postage paid.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 71.53 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.
   (A)   Initiating appeal.
      (1)   Timeliness.  A contestant dissatisfied with the results of the
administrative review may appeal. Any such appeal must be made within 21 days
of mailing the results of the review.
      (2)   Requirements for appeals. The contestant's appeal shall be
initiated by means of a written request, filed by the contestant with the Indio
Police Department within the time specified in division (A)(1) of this section.
Any appeal shall comply with the following requirements:
         (a)   The contestant shall deposit with the City of Indio, to the
address shown on the notice issued by the Reviewing Official per §
71.52(D), the full amount of the parking penalty.
         (b)   The contestant's appeal request shall indicate the contestant's
preference for a hearing by mail or in person.
         (c)   The contestant shall specify in writing the reasons for
contesting the citation.
         (d)   The contestant shall provide a copy of the citation or the
notice issued by the Reviewing Official per §
71.52(D).
         (e)   If different than the record address contained in the parking
citation or Indio Police Department's records, the contestant shall provide the
address of the contestant for purposes of mailing notices of hearing and other
documents in connection with the appeal.
         (f)   In the event that the contestant fails to satisfy any one or
more of the above requirements within the time specified in division (A)(1) of
the section, the appeal shall be rejected as untimely filed.
      (3)   Exceptions to parking penalty deposit requirement.
         (a)   Indigence. Pursuant to Section 40215(b) of the California
Vehicle Code, the Indio Police Department or its agent shall provide a written
procedure to allow a person to request an administrative hearing without
payment of the parking penalty upon satisfactory proof of an inability to pay
the amount due. Notice of this procedure shall be provided to all persons
requesting an administrative hearing.
   (B)   Notice of hearing.  Within 21 days from the filing with the Indio
Police Department of a contestant's timely appeal, the Indio Police Department
or its agent shall send a notice of hearing to the contestant via first class
mail. The notice shall specify the date and time of the hearing, and the place
where the hearing will take occur. An administrative hearing shall be held
within 90 calendar days following the receipt of a request for an
administrative hearing, excluding time tolled pursuant to Section 40200 et seq.
of the California Vehicle Code or this chapter.
   (C)   Continuances.
      (1)   Request made prior to date of hearing. A contestant may, in
writing, until 24 hours before the scheduled administrative hearing time,
request that the Indio Police Department reschedule the administrative hearing.
The Indio Police Department shall grant one continuance not to exceed 21
calendar days in accord with Section 40215(b) of the California Vehicle Code.
   (D)   Administrative hearing procedures.
      (1)   Procedural matters.
         (a)   Appearances. The officer issuing the citation shall not be
required to appear at the hearing. The contestant shall appear at the hearing,
unless a hearing by mail has been designated by the contestant in the appeal
request form. If the contestant does not appear at the hearing, the appeal
shall be decided by the Hearing Official based on the citation, the record of
the administrative review, and any other relevant material in the record,
taking into account the reasons specified by the contestant on the appeal
request form. Appearances by minors shall be governed by the provisions of
Section 40215(c)(2) of the California Vehicle Code.
         (b)   Hearing Officials. The hearing shall be conducted by an
independent and impartial Hearing Official meeting the qualifications specified
in Section 40215(c)(4) of the California Vehicle Code, who shall have been
appointed by, or contracted with, the city to act in that capacity, pursuant to
the procedures specified in Section 40215(c)(4) of the California Vehicle Code.
         (c)   Hearing record. The Hearing Official shall write pertinent
information into the record during the in-person hearing. The hearing record
and any supporting documentation will remain with the case file at the city. If
the contestant appeals the Hearing Official's decision to the Court, the entire
case file will be forwarded to the Court. The hearing records for those cases
not appealed to the Court will be retained by the city for one year.
         (d)   Representation. The contestant may, in his or her discretion, be
represented by an attorney in the appeal process, at the administrative
hearing. Any such representation shall be at the sole and exclusive cost of the
contestant. No contestant shall be entitled to representation at the expense of
the city, or any other public agency, irrespective of indigence status.
      (2)   Conduct of the administrative hearing.
         (a)   Hearing Official duties.  At the time of the administrative
hearing, the Hearing Official shall:
            1.   Make a pre-hearing statement, briefly explaining the nature of
the civil proceedings, the manner of conducting the hearing and the limits on
the introduction of evidence, the process of rendering a decision, the effects
of the decision in terms of collection remedies available to the Indio Police
Department, the right of the contestant to appeal to the Court for a de novo
hearing, and any other matters in the Hearing Official's discretion;
            2.   Read the citation into the record;
            3.   Administer an oath to the contestant and any prospective
witnesses;
            4.   Record the name and address of the contestant; and
            5.   Write the registered owner's name and address; and the
contestant's relationship to the registered owner, if applicable.
         (b)   Proof requirements; validity of citation.
            1.   Burden of proof. The issuing agency bears the burden of proof,
by a preponderance of the evidence, that the citation meets statutory
requirements for validity.
            2.   Prima facie case. Where the citation, or copy thereof,
contains all of the items specified in Section 40202(a) of the California
Vehicle Code, the issuing agency shall not be required to produce any evidence
other than the notice of the parking violation or copy thereof and information
received from the Department of Motor Vehicles identifying the registered owner
of the vehicle. The documentation in proper form shall be prima facie evidence
of the violation.
            3.   Rebuttal. The contestant may introduce relevant evidence
relating to the validity of the citation.
         (c)   Proof requirements; contestant defenses.
            1.   Burden of proof; defenses. The contestant bears the burden of
proof, by the preponderance of the evidence, that although the citation is
facially valid, a viable defense exists which would preclude the contestant's
liability for the parking penalty, or that a viable defense exists which would
limit the contestant's liability for late payment penalties.
            2.   Defense; late payment penalties. Nonreceipt of the notice of
violation itself, if based on sufficient evidence, may constitute a defense to
the late payment penalties based on nonpayment of the notice of violation,
however, is not a defense to late response to the notice of delinquent parking
violation. The defense of nonreceipt of the notice of violation is not
available to the registered vehicle owner, where the person operating the
vehicle at the time of the citation was not the registered vehicle owner. Clear
proof of timely payment of the citation is a defense to late payment penalties.
            3.   Defense; merits of citation. Defenses relating to the merits
of the citation must be established by the contestant by sufficient evidence.
Such defenses may include, but are not limited to:
               a.   Signage matters (missing, obscured or defaced signs);
               b.   Impossibility of knowledge of the applicable parking
restrictions (where the contestant demonstrates that it was impossible for him
or her to become aware of the applicable parking restrictions);
               c.   Malfunctioning parking meters;
               d.   Recent loss of parking permit or placard;
               e.   Mechanical breakdown of the vehicle (where the vehicle was
not illegally parked prior to the breakdown, the violation in fact results from
the breakdown and reasonable steps were taken to remove the vehicle prior to
the occurrence of the violation).
            4.   Personal reasons, inconveniences, lack of funds,
forgetfulness, failure to observe signs, lack of available parking elsewhere,
lack of knowledge of the applicable restrictions, and similar or related
matters are not under any circumstances a defense to liability for the parking
penalties. Failure to list a defense in the statement of reasons contained in
the contestant's appeal request precludes the contestant from utilizing that
defense at the time of the appeal hearing.
         (d)   Evidence.
            1.   Rules of evidence. The rules of evidence for Civil Court
procedures shall not apply in administrative hearings conducted pursuant to the
procedure. Evidence relevant to the issues raised by the contestant's statement
of reasons, and to the validity of the citation itself under Section 40202 of
the California Vehicle Code, will be received. Weight and reliability of the
evidence provided will be determined by of the hearing officer.
            2.   Form of evidence.  Other than the citation and the DMV
information, the Hearing Official shall receive into the record the Reviewing
Official's record from the administrative review, together with relevant
testimony, documentation and other material which is submitted by either party.
Weight and reliability determinations, shall be made by the Hearing Official.
The Hearing Official may, but is not required to, admit evidence in the form of
declarations of witnesses, submitted by the contestant. Such declarations shall
not be admitted unless presented in the form required for declarations under
California Section 2015.5 of the California Code of Civil Procedure, and shall
contain the statements required by Sections 2015.5(a) and 2015.5(b) of the
California Code of Civil Procedure.
         (e)   Witnesses.
            1.   The contestant may present witness testimony as evidence at
the discretion of the Hearing Official. The Hearing Official, after conducting
the initial procedures of the hearing, may exclude witnesses until their turn
to testify. The Hearing Official may limit the number of witnesses to prevent
repetitive testimony in the interest of efficiency
            2.    Cross-examination by Hearing Official. The Hearing Official
may conduct such cross-examination of the contestant or any witness presented
at his or her discretion.
      (3)   Determination of appeal.
         (a)   Basis for determination.  The Hearing Official shall make a
written decision on liability for the parking penalties based on the testimony
and other evidence in the record.
         (b)   Disposition. The Hearing Official shall enter the disposition
and the total amount of parking penalties on the hearing record. The decision,
including the rational thereof, shall be placed in written form.
         (c)   Delivery of decision to contestant. Although the Hearing
Official's decision may be personally delivered to the contestant following the
completion of the hearing, the written decision shall be sent to the
contestant, to the address listed on the contestant's appeal form, via first
class mail.
         (d)   Deferred payment. Following a determination by the Hearing
Official that a person has committed the violation, the Hearing Official may in
his or her discretion, may allow for deferred payment of the parking penalty,
if the person provides evidence satisfactory to the Hearing Official, of an
inability to pay the parking penalty in full.
         (e)   Finality. The Hearing Official's decision shall be the final
decision of the Indio Police Department. The decision shall set forth the time
limits for the contestant to file for judicial review in the Court, and a
notice that if no such review is sought within the applicable time limitations,
the decision shall be final for all purposes.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 71.54 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Within 30 days after the mailing or personal delivery of the final decision
described in §
71.53(D)(3)(e), the contestant may seek review by filing an appeal with the
Court. Such review will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
Section 40230 of the California Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-2009)
§ 71.55 COPIES OF CITATIONS.
   Upon request by mail or in person, the Indio Police Department will provide
a copy of a citation to any person who has received a notice of delinquent
parking violation, or to his or her agent. The copy will be provided within 15
days of the request, upon payment of the fee established by the Indio Police
Department. The copy can be produced by any reasonable means available to the
Indio Police Department, including printed representation of computer
information.
(Ord. 1561, passed 6-17-2009)
CHAPTER 72: GOLF CART TRANSPORTATION PLAN
Section
   
72.01   Purpose and designation of chapter
   
72.02   Definitions
   
72.03   Design criteria
   
72.04   Safety criteria
   
72.05   Permits
   
72.06   Crossings for golf clubs
   
72.07   Golf Cart Transportation Program
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 PURPOSE AND DESIGNATION OF CHAPTER.
   Cal. Streets & Highway Code Chapter 6 authorizes the city to establish and
adopt a golf cart transportation plan. The city establishes a golf cart
transportation program, in conformance this authority that will provide a safe
and convenient means of golf cart access to golf courses and neighboring uses
within the city. This chapter will establish definitions, routes and crossings,
equipment standards and requirements, golf cart operator requirements and
safety criteria, permit requirements and procedures, and enforcement standards.
This chapter shall be referenced as the city's "Golf Cart Transportation Plan."
For the purposes of this chapter, words and phrases shall have the meanings
listed in §
72.02.
(Ord. 1583, passed 12-15-10)
§ 72.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Indio.
   GOLF CART.  A motor vehicle having not less than three wheels in contact
with the ground that is designed to be and is operated at not more than 25
miles per hour  and carries golf equipment, food/beverages for golfers, and one
or more people, including a driver, and can be utilized on a golf course for
play, service to golfers or maintenance.
   GOLF CART CIRCULATION PLAN. The plan presented by city staff concurrent with
this chapter's approval or such plan as may supersede same by determination of
the Planning Commission. The golf cart circulation plan shall be a public
record maintained by the City Clerk.
   GOLF CART FACILITY. All travel ways, as designated by and located in the
city within public right-of-way, that provide for golf cart travel. There shall
be three categories of golf cart facilities:
      (1)   Class I golf cart paths provide an area separate from the roadway
used by automobile traffic for shared one-way or two-way use by golf carts,
bicycles and pedestrians.
      (2)   Class II golf cart lanes provide a striped lane for one-way golf
cart and bicycle travel on a street or highway.
      (3)   Class III golf cart routes provide for shared use with automobile
and bicycle traffic. Class III facilities are established by placing golf cart
route signs along roadways with speed limits of 25 miles per hour or less in
order to link them to Class I or Class II facilities.
   GOLF CART OPERATOR. Any person that operates a golf cart within public
right-of-way per this chapter.
   GOLF CLUB. A public or private golf course owned by an institutional golf
cart operator and located in its entirety on private or city-owned property
with the sole exception of city street crossings identified in §
72.06.
   INSTITUTIONAL GOLF CART. A golf cart owned by an institutional golf cart
operator and operated exclusively within a golf club.
   INSTITUTIONAL GOLF CART OPERATOR.  Any entity, e.g., a company, corporation,
homeowners' association, management association, etc., that owns and allows
usage of golf carts at a golf club by persons who are playing golf, and are:
      (1)   Members of the entity in question, or
      (2)   Residents or guests of residents of a community related to the
entity in question, or
      (3)   Otherwise affiliated with, paying fees to, or in receipt of consent
from the entity in question to do so.
(Ord. 1583, passed 12-15-10)
§ 72.03 DESIGN CRITERIA.
   With the limited exception of institutional golf carts and golf carts using
a crossing for golf clubs per §
72.06, all golf carts traveling on or over any golf cart facility must comply
the following design criteria:
   (A)   Red reflectors;
   (B)   Parking brake;
   (C)   Horn;
   (D)   Headlights, brake lights, and rear lights;
   (E)   Front and rear turn signal indicator lights;
   (F)   Seat belts;
   (G)   Covered passenger compartment;
   (H)   Backup buzzer;
   (I)   Golf cart locking device;
   (J)   Mirror combination (left and right side mirrors, left and rear
mirrors, or multi-directional cross bar mirror) and unobstructed view to the
rear.
(Ord. 1583, passed 12-15-10) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 SAFETY CRITERIA.
   All golf carts operating on or over any golf cart facility, must comply with
the following safety criteria:
   (A)   A golf cart operator must be possess a valid California driver's
license, a driver's license issued by another state, or other proof of legal
authority to operate a motor vehicle in California;
   (B)   A golf cart operator must have insurance that complies with the
financial responsibility requirements established pursuant to Cal. Vehicle Code
Chapter 1, Division 7, §§ 16000 et seq.;
   (C)   Each golf cart must be maintained in a safe condition;
   (D)   In the case of an institutional golf cart, the party responsible to
fulfill this duty to maintain the golf cart in question is the institutional
golf cart operator, not an individual golf cart operator;
   (E)   Operation of a golf cart that does not meet the design criteria
specified in §
72.03 is prohibited between one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before
sunrise at designated crossings;
   (F)   Golf cart operators must yield the right-of-way to automobiles,
pedestrians and bicyclists;
   (G)   Golf cart operators may only travel on a designated golf cart
facility, a golf club crossing conforming to §
72.06, or a public street with a speed limit of 25 miles per hour or less; and
   (H)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each golf cart operated
in the city shall comply with the design criteria required by §
72.03 and be properly permitted as required by §
72.05.
(Ord. 1583, passed 12-15-10) Penalty see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PERMITS.
   With the limited exceptions of institutional golf carts and golf carts using
a crossing for golf clubs per §
72.06, said golf carts requiring no permit, the following permit rules are
established:
   (A)   No golf cart shall be driven within the city without a current golf
cart permit decal visibly displayed on the right rear fender of the golf cart.
   (B)   The golf cart permit shall be valid for two years from the date of
issuance.
   (C)   A golf cart permit fee shall be established and may be modified by
City Council resolution.
   (D)   Golf cart permit fees shall be payable by any golf cart operator who
proposes to drive a golf cart within the city.
(Ord. 1583, passed 12-15-10) Penalty see §
72.99
§ 72.06 CROSSINGS FOR GOLF CLUBS
   The golf cart circulation plan shall identify city streets that may be
crossed by institutional golf carts being used to play golf at a golf club.
Each such crossing for a golf club shall incorporate design criteria as
required by the Public Works Director.
(Ord. 1583, passed 12-15-10)
§ 72.07 GOLF CART TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM.
   The city is adopting this chapter concurrent with its approval of a non-
codified Golf Cart Transportation Program. The Program approved may be amended
from time to time by the Planning Commission of the City of Indio. The current
Golf Cart Transportation Program shall be maintained as a public record by the
City Clerk.
(Ord. 1583, passed 12-15-10)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person operating or driving a golf cart in the city in violation of this
chapter is guilty of an infraction punishable by a fine not exceeding $100.
Within the discretion of the City Prosecutor, a second violation of this
chapter occurring on a date subsequent to any initial violation shall be
punishable as an infraction with a fine not exceeding $250. Within the
discretion of the City Prosecutor, a third violation of this chapter occurring
on a date subsequent to any second violation shall be punishable as either an
infraction with a fine not exceeding $500 or as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1583, passed 12-15-10)
CHAPTER 73.00: PROHIBITION OF SPECTATORS AT ILLEGAL MOTOR VEHICLE SPEED
CONTESTS AND EXHIBITIONS OF SPEED
Section
   
73.01   Purpose and intent
   
73.02   Definitions
   
73.03   Violations
   
73.04   Relevant circumstances to prove a violation
   
73.05   Admissibility of prior acts
   
73.06   Enforcement
§ 73.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The declared purpose of this chapter is to provide rules and regulations
regarding the use of public property, for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare of residents of the City and users of public property, and
to ensure public property is maintained in a manner consistent with the
broadest use by residents of the City.
   This chapter is not intended to preempt state law governing the regulation
of speed contests or exhibitions of speed but rather compliment such laws by
prohibiting spectators at illegal motor vehicle speed contests, exhibitions of
speed and sideshows.
(Ord. 1794, passed 7-19-23)
§ 73.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   (A)   CITY shall mean the City of Indio.
   (B)   PERSON shall mean and include any natural person, corporation,
company, firm, association, organization, co-partnership, joint venture, trust,
business trust, syndicate, estate, receiver, society, club, fraternal
organization, any group or combination acting as a unit, and any officer,
agent, employee, or servant of any of the foregoing.
   (C)   ILLEGAL MOTOR VEHICLE SPEED CONTEST(S) or ILLEGAL EXHIBITION OF SPEED
(S) shall mean any speed contest or exhibition of speed referred to in Vehicle
Code Section 23109 and reckless driving as referred to in Vehicle Code Section
23103, subdivisions (a) and (b).
   (D)   MOTOR VEHICLE shall mean a vehicle as defined in Vehicle Code Section
670.
   (E)   SIDESHOW shall mean a gathering, procession, or assemblage of vehicles
where vehicles are used to exhibit stunts and maneuvers in the presence of
spectators.
   (F)   SPECTATOR shall mean any individual who is present at an illegal motor
vehicle speed contest, exhibition of speed, sideshow, or at a location where
preparations are being made for such activities, for the purpose of viewing,
observing, watching, or witnessing the event as it progresses. The term
SPECTATOR includes any individual at the location of the event without regard
to whether the individual arrived at the event by driving a vehicle, riding as
a passenger in a vehicle, walking, or arriving by some other means.
   (G)   PREPARATIONS shall mean those preparations for the illegal motor
vehicle speed contest, exhibition of speed, or sideshow, including, but not
limited to, situations in which:
      (1)   A group of vehicles or individuals has arrived at a location for
the purpose of participating in, or being spectators at the event; or
      (2)   A group of individuals has lined one or both sides of a public
street or highway for the purpose of participating in or being a spectator at
the events; or
      (3)   A group of individuals has gathered on private property open to the
general public without the consent of the owner, operator, or agent thereof for
the purpose of participating in or being a spectator at the event; or
      (4)   One or more individuals has impeded the free public use of a public
street or highway by actions, words, or physical barriers for the purpose of
conducting the event; or
      (5)   Two or more vehicles have lined up with motors running for an
illegal motor vehicle speed contest or exhibition of speed; or
      (6)   One or more drivers is revving his or her engine or spinning his or
her tires in preparation for the event; or
      (7)   An individual is stationed at or near one or more motor vehicles
serving as a race starter.
   (H)   SCENE refers to the location of the street race, exhibition of speed,
sideshow or the location of the preparations for the street race, exhibition of
speed or sideshow.
(Ord. 1794, passed 7-19-23)
§ 73.03 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Be knowingly present as a spectator at an illegal motor vehicle
speed contest, exhibition of speed, or sideshow; or
      (2)   Be knowingly present as a spectator where preparations are being
made for an illegal motor vehicle speed contest, exhibition of speed, or
sideshow.
   (B)   An individual is present at an illegal motor vehicle speed contest,
exhibition of speed, or sideshow if that individual is on a public street or
highway, public property, or on private property without the consent of the
owner, operator, or agent thereof, and is within two hundred feet of the
location of the event or within two hundred feet of the location where
preparations are being made for the event.
   (C)   Exemption. Nothing in this section prohibits law enforcement officers,
medical professionals, emergency medical services employees, first responders,
firefighters, or their agents from being present at illegal motor vehicle speed
contests, exhibitions of speed, or sideshows in the course of their official
duties.
(Ord. 1794, passed 7-19-23) Penalty, see §
73.06
§ 73.04 RELEVANT CIRCUMSTANCES TO PROVE A VIOLATION.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, to prove a violation of §
73.03, admissible evidence may include, but is not limited to, any of the
following:
      (1)   The time of day;
      (2)   The nature and description of the scene;
      (3)   The number of people at the scene;
      (4)   The location of the individual charged in relation to any
individual or group present at the scene;
      (5)   The number and description of motor vehicles at the scene;
      (6)   The activities in which the motor vehicles are engaged; or
      (7)   Whether the person charged drove, walked, or was transported to the
scene; or
      (8)   How long the person charged was present at the scene of the event;
or
      (9)   Whether the person charged has previously participated in an
illegal motor vehicle speed contest, exhibition of speed, or sideshow; or
      (10)   Whether the person charged has previously aided and abetted an
illegal motor vehicle speed contest, exhibition of speed, or sideshow; or
      (11)   Whether the person charged has previously attended an illegal
motor vehicle speed contest, exhibition of speed, or sideshow; or
      (12)   Whether the person charged previously was present at a location
where preparations were being made for an illegal motor vehicle speed contest,
exhibition of speed, or sideshow or where an illegal motor vehicle speed
contest, exhibition of speed, or sideshow was in progress.
(Ord. 1794, passed 7-19-23)
§ 73.05 ADMISSIBILITY OF PRIOR ACTS.
   (A)   The list of circumstances set forth in §
73.04 is not exclusive. Evidence of prior acts may be admissible to show the
propensity of the person charged to be present at or attend an illegal motor
vehicle speed contest or exhibition of speed, if the prior act or acts occurred
within three years of the presently charged offense. These prior acts may
always be admissible to show knowledge on the part of the person charged that a
speed contest or exhibition of speed was taking place at the time of the
presently charged offense. Prior acts are not limited to those that occurred
within the City of Indio.
(Ord. 1794, passed 7-19-23)
§ 73.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who violates this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor
subject to a maximum of six months in jail and a fine of $1,000, unless at the
discretion of the City Attorney, the violation is reduced to an infraction. The
City may seek compliance with this chapter by any remedy allowed under this
code and any other remedy allowed by law. The amount of the administrative fine
is $1,000 for each violation.
(Ord. 1794, passed 7-19-23)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
         
91.   AMBULANCE SERVICE
         
92.   ANIMALS
         
93.   FIRE CODE
         
94.   LIBRARY
         
95.   CONSOLIDATED APPEALS BOARD
         
95A.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
         
95B.   DANGEROUS BUILDING ABATEMENT
         
95C.   NOISE CONTROL
         
95D.   REGISTRATION AND MAINTENANCE OF ABANDONED PROPERTIES
         
95E.   SHOPPING CART CONTAINMENT, RETRIEVAL AND ABATEMENT
         
96.   CITY PARKS AND FACILITIES
         
97.   STREETS; PARKWAYS; PUBLIC PLACES
         
98.   CITY TREES
         
99.   MOBILE HOME FAIR PRACTICES
         
100.   SKATE PARK
         
101.   FIREWORKS
         
102.   SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE OF NUISANCE VEHICLES
         
103.   REUSABLE BAGS
         
104.   RESERVED
         
105.   DRONE REGULATIONS
         
106.   HEALTH REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Findings
   
90.03   Definitions
   
90.04   Applicability
   
90.05   Administration and Enforcement Authority
   
90.06   Vehicle removal
   
90.07   Notice to abate
   
90.08   Vehicle Abatement Hearing Officer
   
90.09   Hearing on vehicle abatement
   
90.10   Hearing notice
   
90.11   Testimony
   
90.12   Action after hearing; Abatement Order
   
90.13   Appeal
   
90.14   Disposal of vehicle
   
90.15   Notice to Department of Motor Vehicles
   
90.16   Abatement costs; recovery
§ 90.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide special procedures for the
abatement of public nuisances of abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, and
inoperative vehicles and parts thereof that are consistent with applicable
provisions of the California Vehicle Code and to facilitate the city's
participation in a county-wide abatement program for such vehicular nuisances.
This chapter is not intended as the exclusive regulation of abandoned, wrecked,
dismantled or inoperative vehicles within the City of Indio. Rather, it shall
supplement and be in addition to the other regulatory codes, statutes, and
ordinances heretofore or hereafter enacted by the city, the state or any other
legal entity or agency having jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 90.02 FINDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to and in accordance with the determination made and the
authority granted by the Cal. Veh. Code §§ 22660, 22669, 22651, 22655, and
22662 to remove abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicles or parts
thereof as public nuisances, the City Council makes the following findings and
declarations.
   (B)   The accumulation and storage of abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or
inoperative vehicles and parts thereof on private or public property not
including highways is found to create a condition tending to reduce the value
of private property, to promote blight and deterioration, to invite plundering,
to create fire hazards, to constitute an attractive nuisance creating a hazard
to the health and safety of minors, to create a harborage for rodents and
insects and to be injurious to the health, safety and general welfare.
Therefore, the presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative
vehicle and parts thereof, on private or public property not including
highways, except as expressly hereinafter permitted, is declared to constitute
a public nuisance which may be abated as such in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 90.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any vehicle which reasonably appears to have been left
derelict by its driver on either public or private property.
   ABATE. To remove the source of the nuisance either by correcting specific
problems or by removal from public view.
   APPEAL. The legal right commonly known as “due process” whereby the legal
owner of the vehicle of the property can come forward to show cause to stop or
alter the abatement activity.
   CONTRACT TOW. A towing service company “on contract” with the city to tow
away abated vehicles.
   DISMANTLED. Any vehicle which has been disassembled in part or in whole.
   INOPERATIVE. Any vehicle, which for obvious reasons (i.e., flat tire or
tires, missing engine, dropped driveline, etc.), cannot be operated on a public
street per the requirements of the California Vehicle Code; or, any vehicle
which appears to have not been operated for a prolonged period of time as
evidenced by heavy dirt on vehicle, cobwebs underneath, etc.
   PARTS. Any components of a vehicle or vehicles which are not attached to
their usual and typical position on the vehicle and which are in public view.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any property in the city limits which is not owned or
controlled by a governmental agency.
   VEHICLE. Any conveyance capable of being driven, pushed, towed, or otherwise
propelled, and which may or may not be motorized, and which could be operated
on a public road.
   WARNING NOTICE. A courtesy notice placed on vehicles suspect of or subject
to vehicle abatement criteria in the hope of obtaining voluntary abatement
without having to initiate a formal vehicle abatement action.
   WRECKED. Any vehicle which appears to have sustained obvious and apparent
damage due, typically, to an automobile accident that either makes the vehicle
inoperative or very unsightly.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 90.04 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle, or parts thereof, that is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or other
public or private property; or
   (B)   A vehicle, or parts thereof, that is stored or parked in a lawful
manner on private property in connection with the business of a licensed
dismantler, licensed vehicle dealer, a junk dealer, or when such storage or
parking is necessary to the operation of a lawfully conducted business or
commercial enterprise.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall authorize the maintenance of a public or
private nuisance as defined under provisions of law other than Cal. Veh. Code,
Division 11, Chapter 10 §§ 22650 et seq. and this chapter.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 90.05 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   Except as otherwise designated by the City Manager or provided herein, the
provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by the City
Manager or his or her designee. In the enforcement of this chapter, the City
Manager or his or her designee may enter upon private or public property, in a
manner consistent with the United States and California Constitutions, to
examine a vehicle or parts thereof, or obtain information as to the identity of
a vehicle, and to remove or cause the removal of a vehicle or parts thereof
declared to be a nuisance pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 90.06 VEHICLE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Upon discovering the existence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or
inoperative vehicle, or parts thereof, on private property or public property
within the city, the City Manager or his or her designee shall have the
authority to cause the abatement thereof in accordance with the procedure
prescribed in this chapter.
   (B)   When the City Council has contracted with or granted a franchise to
any contract tow, such person or persons shall be authorized to enter upon
private property or public property, in a manner consistent with the United
States and California Constitutions, to cause the abatement of a vehicle or
parts thereof declared to be a nuisance pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 90.07 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   (A)   A ten day Notice to Abate the vehicle, or parts thereof, as a public
nuisance, shall be served as provided in
Chapter 95A on the real property owner as shown on the last equalized
assessment roll and to the last registered and legal owner of record of the
vehicle, unless the vehicle is in such condition that the identification
numbers are not available to determine ownership, and unless the real property
owner and the owner of the vehicle have signed releases authorizing removal and
waiving further interest in the vehicle or part thereof.
   (B)   The Notice to Abate is not required for removal of the vehicle or part
thereof which is inoperable due to the absence of an engine, transmission, or
wheels and incapable of being towed, is valued at less than $200 by a person
specified in Cal. Veh. Code § 22855 and is determined by the city to be a
public nuisance presenting an immediate threat to public health or safety;
provided, that the property owner has signed a release authorizing removal and
waiving further interest in the vehicle or part thereof.
   (C)   The ten day Notice to Abate the vehicle and, if applicable, parts
thereof shall contain a statement of the hearing rights of the real property
owner on which the vehicle and, if applicable, parts thereof are located and of
the owner of the vehicle. The statement shall include a notice to the property
owner that he or she may appear in person at a hearing or may submit a sworn
written statement denying responsibility for the presence of the vehicle, or
parts thereof, on the property, with his or her reasons for such denial, in
lieu of appearing.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 90.08 VEHICLE ABATEMENT HEARING OFFICER.
   The position of Vehicle Abatement Hearing Officer is hereby established. The
City Manager or his or her designee shall act as the Hearing Officer.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 90.09 HEARING ON VEHICLE ABATEMENT.
   Upon request by the owner of the vehicle and/or parts thereof, if
applicable, or request by the real property owner, received by the City Manager
or his or her designee within ten days after the mailing of the Notice to
Abate, a public hearing shall be held by the Vehicle Abatement Hearing Officer
on the question of abatement of the vehicle and, if applicable, parts thereof
as an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle, and the assessment
of abatement costs against the real property on which it, the vehicle and, if
applicable, parts are located.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 90.10 HEARING NOTICE.
   If the real property owner submits a sworn written statement denying
responsibility for the presence of the vehicle on his or her land within the
ten day period provided by the Notice to Abate, the statement shall be
construed as a request for a hearing which does not require his or her
presence. Notice of the hearing shall be mailed by certified mail at least ten
days before the hearing to the real property owner and to the owner of the
vehicle, unless the vehicle is in such condition that identification numbers
are not available to determine ownership. If such a request for hearing is not
received within the ten days after mailing of the Notice to Abate, then the
City Manager or his or her designee, shall have the authority to abate the
vehicle and, if applicable, parts thereof as a public nuisance without holding
a public hearing.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 90.11 TESTIMONY.
   All hearings under this chapter shall be held before the Vehicle Abatement
Hearing Officer who shall hear all facts and testimony he or she deems
pertinent. The facts and testimony may include testimony on the condition of
the vehicle or parts thereof and the circumstances concerning its location on
the said private property or public property. The Vehicle Abatement Hearing
Officer shall not be limited by the technical rules of evidence. The real
property owner may appear in person at the hearing or present a sworn written
statement in time for consideration at the hearing, and deny responsibility for
the presence of the vehicle on the property with his or her reasons for such
denial.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 90.12 ACTION AFTER HEARING; ABATEMENT ORDER.
   (A)   The Vehicle Abatement Hearing Officer may impose such conditions and
take such other action as he or she deems appropriate under the circumstances
to carry out the purpose of this chapter. He or she may delay the time for
removal upon the conclusion of the public hearing. The Vehicle Abatement
Hearing Officer may find that a vehicle, or parts thereof, has been abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled or is inoperative on private or public property and issue
an Order to Abate requiring that the vehicle and, if applicable parts thereof,
be removed from the property as a public nuisance and disposed of as
hereinafter provided and determine the abatement costs to be charged against
the real property owner. The Order to Abate requiring removal shall include a
description of the vehicle or parts thereof and the correct identification
number and license number of the vehicle, if available at the site.
   (B)   If it is determined at the hearing that the vehicle was placed on the
property without the consent of the real property owner and that he or she has
not subsequently acquiesced in its presence, the Vehicle Abatement Hearing
Officer shall not assess the costs of administration or removal of the vehicle
against the real property upon which the vehicle is located or otherwise
attempt to collect such costs from such real property owner.
   (C)   If the real property owner submits a sworn written statement denying
responsibility for the presence of the vehicle on his or her property but does
not appear or if an interested party makes a written presentation to the
Vehicle Abatement Hearing Officer but does not appear, then he or she shall be
notified of the decision by the Hearing Officer as outlined in
Chapter 95A.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 90.13 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any interested party may appeal the decision of the Vehicle Abatement
Hearing Officer by filing a written Notice of Appeal with the Vehicle Abatement
Hearing Officer within five days after service of notice of his or her
decision.
   (B)   The appeal shall be heard by the City Council which may affirm, amend
or reverse the order to take other action deemed appropriate.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall give written notice by certified mail of the
date, time, and place of the hearing to the appellant and other affected
parties.
   (D)   In conducting the hearing the Council shall follow established rules
of procedure for the conduct of hearing appeals.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 90.14 DISPOSAL OF VEHICLE.
   Five days after the expiration of any applicable period to request a hearing
or appeal regarding a Notice to Abate, or 15 days after a final action by the
City Council authorizing abatement of a vehicle and, if applicable, parts
thereof, the subject vehicle or parts thereof may be disposed of by removal to
a scrap yard or automobile dismantlers yard. After a vehicle has been so
removed, it shall not thereafter be reconstructed or made operable unless it is
a vehicle which qualifies for either horseless carriage license plates or
historical vehicle license plates, pursuant to Section 5004 of the Vehicle
Code, in which case the vehicle may be reconstructed or made operable.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 90.15 NOTICE TO DEPARTMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Within five days after the date of removal of the vehicle or parts thereof,
notice shall be given by the City Manager or his or her designee to the
Department of Motor Vehicles identifying the vehicle or parts thereof removed.
At the same time there shall be transmitted to the Department of Motor Vehicles
any evidence of registration available, including registration certificates,
certificates of title and license plates.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 90.16 ABATEMENT COSTS; RECOVERY.
   The city shall be entitled to recover its abatement costs with respect to a
vehicle and, if applicable, parts thereof determined to be a public nuisance
under this chapter, to the same extent and in the same manner as abatement
costs are recovered for nuisances governed by
Chapter 95A. All such procedures are incorporated herein as if fully set forth
and shall govern the recovery of abatement costs incurred pursuant to the
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
CHAPTER 91: AMBULANCE SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
91.10   City Manager to establish rules regulating ambulance drivers;
distribution of copies
Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity
   
91.20   Required to operate ambulances
   
91.21   Application
   
91.22   Public hearing
   
91.23   Conditions to be considered by City Council
   
91.24   Issuance
   
91.25   Ambulance service in operation prior to effective date of chapter;
certificate; application
   
91.26   License fee; expiration of license; certificate to be visibly displayed
   
91.27   New certificate to be issued for replacement ambulances
   
91.28   Cancellation of certificate
   
91.29   Transferability
   
91.30   Denial of application
   
91.31   Revocation of suspension
   
91.32   Right of appeal
   
91.33   Inspection of vehicles for which a certificate has been insured
Rates and Charges
   
91.45   Schedule of rates for ambulance service
Ambulance Drivers
   
91.55   Driver's permit; form and contents
   
91.56   Conditions for issuance of driver permit
   
91.57   Applicable; permit fee; expiration
   
91.58   Revocation; suspension
   
91.59   Operator of ambulance to be qualified to administer first aid
   
91.60   Insurance
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMBULANCE. Any vehicle designed, equipped and used to carry or transport
sick or injured persons.
   AMBULANCE DRIVER. Any person employed to drive or actually engaged in the
driving of an ambulance.
   AMBULANCE OPERATOR. Any person engaged in the business of carrying or
transporting sick or injured persons by means of an ambulance.
('61 Code, §2A.1) (Ord. 360, passed - - )
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 91.10 CITY MANAGER TO ESTABLISH RULES REGULATING AMBULANCE DRIVERS;
DISTRIBUTION OF COPIES.
   The City Manager may promulgate a set of rules and regulations describing
the duties and procedures to be observed and complied with by an ambulance
driver or owner of a certificate of public convenience and necessity hereunder,
which rules and regulations and any amendments thereof shall be subject to
approval by the City Council. Such rules and regulations and amendments, when
approved by the City Council by resolution and filed with the City Clerk, shall
constitute enforceable provisions of this chapter and violations thereof shall
be subject to the penalty provided by this chapter. Copies of such rules and
regulations and any amendments thereof, shall be delivered to each owner of
such certificate of public convenience and necessity at the time such
certificate is granted.
('61 Code, § 2A.2) (Ord. 360, passed - - )
CERTIFICATE OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY
§ 91.20 REQUIRED TO OPERATE AMBULANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of operating
an ambulance within the city or from a point within the city to a point outside
the city without first having obtained a permit to operate an ambulance
authorized by the City Council upon application duly made in the manner herein
provided and compliance by applicant with the requirements of this chapter;
provided, that the City Council may deny such permit if it should determine
that public convenience and necessity do not require the issuance thereof.
('61 Code, § 2A.3) (Ord. 360, passed - - )
§ 91.21 APPLICATION.
   All persons applying for a certificate as required by the preceding section,
shall file with the City Clerk a verified application which shall set forth the
following:
   (A)   The name, address, residence and citizenship status of person applying
for such certificate of convenience and necessity.
   (B)   The location, description, capacity and hourly availability of
ambulance or ambulance services owned or operated by operator.
   (C)   The make, model and distinguishing color scheme and design, including
any monogram or insignia to be used on each ambulance.
   (D)   Such vehicle or vehicles intended to be used for ambulance service
have been inspected by the City Manager and meet the requirements of §
91.33.
   (E)   That the license fee provided by §
91.26(B) has been deposited with the City Clerk.
   (F)   The experience of the applicant in the transportation and care of sick
or injured persons.
   (G)   The names, addresses and experience in first aid of each driver or
helper employed, or to immediately be employed, in the operation of such
ambulance service, and the driving experience of such driver or helper.
   (H)   Description of central location or housing facilities where each
ambulance is to be located, which housing facilities shall be subject to
approval of the City Manager.
   (I)   That the applicant carries public liability insurance in a minimum
amount of $1,000,000 combined single limit and agrees that such policy shall
carry an endorsement protecting the city against any claims or demands as a
result of persons injured or killed or property damaged as a result of the
operation of the ambulance or ambulances operated by the applicant, a copy of
such policy or policies to be deposited with the City Clerk together with an
endorsement thereon, requiring the carrier to notify the city ten days in
advance of an intended cancellation or any material change in such coverage.
   (J)   Acknowledge receipt of and agree to comply with the rules and
regulations governing ambulances as provided by §
91.10.
('61 Code, § 2A.4) (Ord. 360, passed - -; Am. Ord. 472, passed - - )
§ 91.22 PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Upon filing of the fully completed application for the certificate of
public convenience and necessity, the City Clerk shall fix the time for a
public hearing thereon before the City Council for the purpose of determining
whether the public convenience and necessity require the proposed ambulance
service.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the public hearing before the city
council shall be published once in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city, such publication to be completed at least five days prior to the date of
hearing, and the cost of publication shall be at the expense of the applicant.
('61 Code, § 2A.5) (Ord. 360, passed - - )
§ 91.23 CONDITIONS TO BE CONSIDERED BY CITY COUNCIL.
   In determining whether public convenience and necessity require the
ambulance service for which the application is made, the City Council shall
investigate and consider:
   (A)   The demand of the public for additional ambulance or ambulance
services.
   (B)   The adequacy of the existing service, if any.
   (C)   The financial responsibility and experience of the applicant.
   (D)   The number, make and type of equipment and the color scheme to be
used.
   (E)   The effect which additional ambulance service may have on traffic
congestion and parking and whether it will result in a greater hazard to the
public.
('61 Code, § 2A.6) (Ord. 360, passed - - )
§ 91.24 ISSUANCE.
   If the City Council shall, by resolution, declare that public convenience
and necessity require the granting of such certificate, a certificate of
convenience and necessity shall be issued to the applicant entitled thereto;
provided, the City Council may in its discretion determine the character and
number of certificates to be granted, and further provided, that no
certificates authorized hereunder shall be issued to any person who shall not
have fully complied with all the necessary requirements of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 2A.6) (Ord. 360, passed - - )
§ 91.25 AMBULANCE SERVICE IN OPERATION PRIOR TO EFFECTIVE DATE OF CHAPTER
CERTIFICATE; APPLICATION.
   Every person operating an ambulance or ambulance service prior to the
effective date of this chapter shall be presumed to have established prima
facie evidence of public convenience and necessity for the operation of his
ambulance business and the number of ambulances actually in operation, and the
City Council, upon written application received by it not later than 15 days
after the effective date of this chapter shall grant a certificate to such
owner for such ambulance or ambulances actually in operation.
('61 Code, § 2A.7) (Ord. 360, passed - - )
§ 91.26 LICENSE; FEE; EXPIRATION OF LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE VISIBLY
DISPLAYED.
   (A)   Upon the filing of an application for a certificate of public
convenience and necessity as provided in §
91.20, the applicant shall deposit with the City Clerk the amount of the
license fee provided to be paid in §
91.26(B), which fee shall be held by the City Clerk until the City Council has
authorized the granting of the certificate provided for in this chapter.
   (B)   The annual license fee, as established by resolution of the City
Council, shall be in lieu of any other business license. The license shall
expire on June 30 of each year, and no part shall be refundable in event of
cessation of business for any cause.
   (C)   When the City Council has authorized the issuance of a certificate of
public convenience and necessity, the City Clerk shall issue to the applicant
both a permit and license certificate showing payment of the business license
fee provided in division (B) of this section. The permit shall be in such form
and of such material as the City Manager provides. The permit or certificate of
public convenience and necessity shall be affixed to and prominently displayed
on the rear of each vehicle as designated by the rules and regulations provided
in §
91.10.
('61 Code, § 2A.9) (Ord. 360, passed - -; Am. Ord. 665, passed - - )
§ 91.27 NEW CERTIFICATE TO BE ISSUED FOR REPLACEMENT AMBULANCES.
   If an owner sells or transfers title to a vehicle for which a certificate
has been issued, or in event an ambulance for which a certificate has been
issued has been destroyed, he is entitled, as a matter of right, upon written
application to the City Council made within 15 days after such sale, transfer
or destruction, to have a new certificate issued, but for no greater number
than sold, transferred or destroyed; and provided, that such owner has complied
with all the provisions of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 2A.10) (Ord. 360, passed - - )
§ 91.28 CANCELLATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   If the service permitted under any certificate of convenience and necessity
is for any reason discontinued by the holder for a period of 30 days, the
certificate granted shall be automatically canceled and shall be restored only
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 2A.11) (Ord. 360, passed - - )
§ 91.29 TRANSFERABILITY.
   In no event shall a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
under the provisions of this chapter be transferable. Upon any sale or transfer
of a majority interest in a business, the applicant shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 2A.11.A) (Ord. 701, passed - - )
§ 91.30 DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   The City Council shall act on an application for a certificate of
public convenience and necessity by resolution and may deny any such
application if, in its sound discretion, it determines that:
      (1)   There is a reasonable cause rendering the proposed operation
undesirable or inadequate to the city.
      (2)   There is insufficient public need or demand for the proposed
operation.
      (3)   The vehicles proposed to be operated under such certificate are
inadequate or unsafe.
      (4)   The applicant has been convicted of a felony or the violation of a
narcotic law or of any penal law involving moral turpitude or of any ordinance
relating to frame or use of streets in the city.
      (5)   The proposed color scheme or characteristic insignia will tend to
confuse the identification of the vehicles proposed to be operated with those
of another owner operating an ambulance service in the city.
   (B)   The council may, by resolution, and after five days' written notice to
an owner, suspend or revoke an owner's certificate of necessity for any of the
grounds for which it may deny an application, and in addition thereto, it may
suspend or revoke any owner's certificate of necessity for a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, or for a failure to pay any judgment for
damages arising from the operation of the vehicles, or any of them, for which
the certificate of necessity was issued.
('61 Code, § 2A.12) (Ord. 360, passed - - )
§ 91.31 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The City Manager may at any time revoke or suspend the certificate
granted pursuant to this subchapter:
      (1)   If the owner fails to operate such ambulance or ambulance service
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   If the owner discontinues or suspends operation of vehicles for a
period of 30 days without permission first had and obtained.
   (B)   All certificates which shall have been suspended or revoked by the
City Council, shall be surrendered to the City Clerk, and the operation of all
vehicles covered by such certificate shall cease and be unlawful.
('61 Code, § 2A.13) (Ord. 360, passed - - )
§ 91.32 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   An applicant for a certificate of necessity authorized under this article
who has been denied such certificate, or whose certificate has been suspended
or revoked, pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, shall have the right
of appeal from such action to the City Council. Such appeal shall be in writing
and shall be filed within ten days after the denial, revocation, or suspension
with the City Clerk. Such appeal need not be in formal language, but shall
state concisely the name of the appellant, the matter complained of, the name
of the officer, employee, or department complained of, and the date of the
denial, revocation, or suspension. The Clerk shall transmit such appeal to the
Council at its next regular meeting, at which time the Council shall set a date
for hearing and cause the Clerk to give notice of the time and place of such
hearing to the appellant, who may appear in person or by counsel. The Council
shall determine such appeal within 30 days after such hearing.
('61 Code, § 2A.14) (Ord. 360, passed - - )
§ 91.33 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES FOR WHICH A CERTIFICATE HAS BEEN INSURED.
   (A)   All vehicles for which a certificate of public convenience and
necessity has been issued shall be inspected by the City Manager or by such
person or agency as may be designated by the City Manager at least once
annually provided that the City Manager may require inspection more often if
deemed necessary or upon complaint of any citizen.
   (B)   Upon the failure of any vehicle to pass inspection, the City Manager
shall suspend the right to use such vehicle for ambulance purposes until such
time as the same is brought up to standard.
('61 Code, § 2A.16) (Ord. 360, passed - - )
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 91.45 SCHEDULE OF RATES FOR AMBULANCE SERVICE.
   The City Council may establish and keep on file with the City Clerk, a
maximum rate schedule which may be charged by the owner of a certificate of
public convenience and necessity hereunder within the city. Such rates may be
established by resolution and may be changed from time to time. Copies of such
rate schedules shall be posted in a conspicuous place in each ambulance and
shall also be posted in the premises where such ambulances are stationed.
('61 Code, § 2A.15) (Ord. 360, passed - - )
AMBULANCE DRIVERS
§ 91.55 DRIVER'S PERMIT; FORM AND CONTENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, operate or use any vehicle as
an ambulance for pay or hire unless such person is the holder of a valid
driver's permit issued to him in accordance with this chapter. No such permit
shall be issued to any driver unless such applicant holds a valid chauffeur's
license issued by the state. Such permit shall be issued by the City Clerk and
in the form of a wallet card with photograph of the permittee and thumb print
affixed, which must be carried by the driver at all times while operating an
ambulance.
('61 Code, § 2A.17) (Ord. 360, passed - - )
§ 91.56 CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF DRIVER'S PERMIT.
   No ambulance driver's permit shall be issued to any person unless such
person shall:
   (A)   Be age 21 years ar over;
   (B)   Be of sound physique, good eyesight and not subject to epilepsy,
vertigo, heart trouble, color blindness or other infirmity of body or mind,
which might render him unfit for the safe operation of an ambulance;
   (C)   Be able to speak, read and write the English language;
   (D)   Not have been convicted of an offense involving moral turpitude, nor
within a period of one year prior to application, have been convicted of the
offense of reckless driving and/or driving while under the influence of
intoxicating liquor, as these offenses are defined by the Vehicle Code of the
state;
   (E)   Not be addicted to the use of intoxicating liquor or narcotics;
   (F)   Submit to fingerprinting by the Police Department and furnish full-
face and profile photographs, two inches square, which shall be affixed to the
application.
('61 Code, § 2A.18) (Ord. 360, passed - - )
§ 91.57 APPLICATION; PERMIT FEE; EXPIRATION.
   Application for driver's permit under the provisions of §
91.55, shall be made to the Police Department and no permit shall be granted
until payment of permit fee established by resolution of the City Council, has
been paid to the City Clerk. The driver's permit shall expire on June 30 of
each year. Provided that holders of a current and valid taxi driver's license,
who have met the requirements of an ambulance driver, shall not be required to
pay an additional fee for an ambulance driver's permit.
('61 Code, § 2A.19) (Ord. 360, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 665, passed - - )
§ 91.58 REVOCATION; SUSPENSION.
   Any driver's permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall
be revoked or suspended by the City Manager either temporarily or permanently
upon proof that the holder has been convicted of an offense involving driving a
vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or while under the
influence of a narcotic, or for reckless driving, as the same is defined by the
Vehicle Code of the state, or while actually operating such ambulance while
under influence of intoxicating liquor or a narcotic drug, or any other offense
defined as a felony by the Penal Code or the Vehicle Code of the state.
('61 Code, § 2A.20) (Ord. 360, passed - - )
§ 91.59 OPERATOR OF AMBULANCE TO BE QUALIFIED TO ADMINISTER FIRST AID.
   No holder of a certificate of public convenience and necessity as provided
herein, shall permit the operation of any ambulance in emergency service unless
either the operator thereof or an attendant on duty therein possess a current
advanced American Red Cross first aid certificate and is trained in the use of
all resuscitation equipment installed in the ambulance.
('61 Code, § 2A.21) (Ord. 360, passed - - )
§ 91.60 INSURANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or operator to drive or to operate
an ambulance or cause the same to be driven or operated in the city and no
license for the operation thereof shall be granted unless there is on file with
the City Clerk and in full force and effect at all times while such ambulance
is being operated, a policy of insurance approved by the City Attorney, with a
solvent and responsible company authorized to do business in the state insuring
the owner of such ambulance (giving the manufacturer number and state license
number) against loss by reason of injury or damage that may result to persons
or property from the negligent or defective construction of such ambulance, or
for any other cause.
('61 Code, § 2A.22)
   (B)   The policy of insurance required by the preceding section shall
guarantee the payment to any and all persons suffering injury or damage to
person or property of any final judgment rendered against such owner or driver,
within the limits mentioned in this section irrespective of the financial
condition or any acts or omissions of such owner or driver, and shall ensure
for the benefit of such persons. Such policy shall be in the amount of
$1,000,000 combined single limit.
('61 Code, § 2A.23) (Ord. 984, passed - - )
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
   
92.01   Adoption of County of Riverside Code of Ordinances by reference
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Penalties for violating animal control ordinance
   
92.04   Animal control ordinance amended– deletions
   
92.05   Animal control ordinance amended– deletions
   
92.06   Animal control ordinance amended– amendments
   
92.07   Animal control ordinance amended– amendments
   
92.08   Animal control ordinance amended– additions
   
92.09   Animal control ordinance amended– additions
   
92.10   Prohibition of the sale of dogs and cats
§ 92.01 ADOPTION OF COUNTY OF RIVERSIDE CODE OF ORDINANCES BY REFERENCE.
   Title 6, Animals, of the Riverside County Code of Ordinances, as amended and
in effect on June 19, 2013, is adopted by reference as the “Animal Control
Ordinance” of the City of Indio subject to certain amendments and deletions as
hereinafter provided.
   A copy of Title 6, Animals, of the Riverside County Code of Ordinance, in
effect on June 19, 2013 has been deposited in the Office of the City Clerk and
shall at all times be maintained by the City Clerk for use and examination by
the public.
(Ord. 1631, passed 6-19-13)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
92.01, the following words and phrases used in the Animal Control Ordinance are
defined as follows:
   (A)   COUNTY OF RIVERSIDE shall mean the City of Indio, except where the
County of Riverside is the correct notation due to circumstances.
   (B)   DEPARTMENT shall mean the County of Riverside Department of Animal
Services.
   (C)   PLANNING DIRECTOR shall mean the Development Services Director of the
City of Indio.
   (D)   UNINCORPORATED AREA OF THE COUNTY OF RIVERSIDE shall mean and include
the area of the City of Indio in its true geographical location.
(Ord. 1631, passed 6-19-13)
§ 92.03 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATING ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE.
   (A)   In addition to the remedies and penalties contained in this Ordinance,
any person violating any provision of a county animal control ordinances shall
be guilty of an infraction, unless otherwise stated in such county animal
control ordinances, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by (1) a fine
not exceeding fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first violation; (2) a fine not
exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the second violation within one
year; (3) a fine not exceeding two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each
additional violation within one year. Each day a violation is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Persons receiving a citation for any infraction resulting from a
violation of this chapter, may choose to clear the citation within ten (10)
days, thereby avoiding a visit to court and a potentially higher court fine, by
demonstrating their compliance to the animal services director through their
written, signed agreement and paying an administrative fee of sixty dollars
($60.00) to the department.
   (C)   Persons who violate a home quarantine, fail to produce an animal for
quarantine upon demand, or in any other way interfere with rabies
investigation, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, pursuant to Section 121710 of
the California Health and Safety Code and Section 9701 of the California Food
and Agriculture Code, which is punishable by imprisonment in the county jail
for a period not to exceed one year, or by a fine of not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00), nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per day of
violation, or both fine and imprisonment.
   (D)   Persons receiving a citation for violation of a home quarantine, may
choose to clear the citation and avoid arrest and appearance in court by
demonstrating to the animal services director, in writing, their intent to
comply with the order and paying an administrative fee of fifty dollars
($50.00) to the department.
   (E)   All violations of any provision of this Chapter are subject to
enforcement through the use of administrative citations in accordance with
Section 6.08.220 of the Riverside County Code of Ordinances.
   (F)   An administrative citation may be issued for failure to comply with an
administrative abatement order of an administrative hearing officer in
accordance with Section 6.20.150 of the Riverside County Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 1631, passed 6-19-13)
§ 92.04 ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE AMENDED–DELETIONS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
92.01, the following provisions are hereby deleted from the Animal Control
Ordinance: 6.04.030, 6.08.060, Chapter 6.05, Chapter 6.06, paragraph “U” of
Section 6.08.110, 6.08.160.
(Ord. 1631, passed 6-19-13)
§ 92.05 ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE AMENDED–DELETIONS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
92.01, the following definitions set forth in Section 6.08.010 are hereby
deleted from the Animal Control Ordinance: Class III kennel and Class IV
kennel.
(Ord. 1631, passed 6-19-13)
§ 92.06 ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE AMENDED–AMENDMENTS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
92.01, the following provisions of the Animal Control Ordinance are hereby
amended to read as follows:
   6.08.010   Cattery. Any building, structure, enclosure or premises
whereupon, or within which five or more cats, four months of age or older, are
kept or maintained.
   6.0.8.010   Class I Kennel. Any building, structure, enclosure or premises
whereupon, or within which, five to ten dogs, four months of age or older, are
kept or maintained.
   6.08.010   Class II Kennel. Any building, structure, enclosure or premises
whereupon or within which, eleven or more dogs, four months of age or older,
are kept or maintained.
(Ord. 1631, passed 6-19-13)
§ 92.07 ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE AMENDED–AMENDMENTS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
92.01, the following provisions of the Animal Control Ordinance are hereby
amended to read as follows:
   6.08.050 - Mandatory licensing of kennels and catteries.
      A.   Any person maintaining five or more dogs shall obtain the
appropriate kennel license. No person shall operate or maintain a class I
kennel, class II kennel or cattery without first obtaining an appropriate
license from the department. Such license shall be valid for a period of either
one or two years from the date of issuance. Said license shall be renewed
within thirty (30) days after the date of expiration. Where a kennel license
has been issued and is in effect, the dogs contained in such kennel shall be
exempt from the requirements of individual license tags as provided in Section
6.08.020 of this Ordinance. The class I kennel, class II kennel, cattery
license fees, and late fees, shall be those adopted by the Department. If an
application for a license or renewal of a license is made more than thirty (30)
days after the date such license is required or such previous license has
expired, a late fee of fifty (50) percent of the applicable fee shall be added.
      B.   Application for a kennel or cattery license shall be filed with the
director on a form prescribed by him or her not later than ten (10) days after
obtaining written verification from the City of Indio planning department that
the operation of the kennel or cattery is in compliance with the applicable
provisions of Indio Municipal Code. The application form, when completed, shall
contain such information as may reasonably be required by the director for the
purposes of enforcement of this chapter, including but not limited to the
current home telephone number of the caretaker of the subject kennel or cattery
and another current telephone number for emergency use or messages when such
caretaker is absent from the subject kennel or cattery. Where a kennel or
cattery is sought to be operated upon leased or rented premises, a letter of
consent from the owner of the premises to the effect that the kennel or cattery
may be maintained and operated on such premises shall be submitted to the
director at the time the application for the kennel or cattery license is
submitted.
      C.   After receipt of a kennel or cattery license application, the
director shall make an inspection of the premises of the kennel or cattery for
which a license is requested. No kennel or cattery license shall be issued nor
shall any such license be renewed, unless and until the kennel or cattery, in
the opinion of the director, satisfies the applicable laws and regulations of
the state of California, the applicable ordinances of the county and the
applicable conditions set forth in the standards for kennels and catteries
adopted by resolution of the board of supervisors. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this chapter, the Director or the Riverside County planning
director may, in their respective discretion, limit the numbers of dogs or cats
over the age of four months which are kept or maintained in any kennel or
cattery, and such limitation may be imposed at such time as an application for
an initial kennel or cattery license is considered or at such time as an
application for renewal of a kennel or cattery license is considered.
      D.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the Director is
authorized to enter upon and inspect the premises of any kennel or cattery
located in the county for the purpose of determining whether such kennel or
cattery is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the standards
for kennels and catteries referred to in subsection C of this section. As a
condition of the issuance of a kennel or cattery license, each owner and
operator of a kennel or cattery shall agree to allow such entry and inspection
and such agreement shall be made a part of the license application. Such
inspections shall be made during reasonable hours at times when the owner or
operator of the kennel or cattery is present on the kennel or cattery premises,
and with such frequency as the director shall deem appropriate, and such
inspections may, at the discretion of the director, be made without prior
notice to the owner or operator of the subject kennel or cattery. Willful
refusal on the part of a kennel or cattery owner or operator to allow such
inspection shall be grounds for summary denial of an application for a kennel
or cattery license or for summary suspension or revocation of a kennel or
cattery license.
      E.   A nonprofit corporation formed pursuant to the provisions of the
Cal. Corp. Code §§ 10400 et seq., for the prevention of cruelty to animals,
shall not be required to pay a fee for the licenses required by this Chapter;
provided, however, that all other provisions of Section 6.08.050 and provisions
regarding the vaccination against rabies shall be applicable to any such
nonprofit corporation.
(Ord. 1631, passed 6-19-13)
§ 92.08 ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE AMENDED–ADDITIONS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
92.01, the following provision is hereby added to the Animal Control Ordinance
to read as follows:
   Wild Animals; Dangerous Reptiles. It shall be unlawful for any person to
possess any wild animal or dangerous reptile within the incorporated area
unless such area is owned for such use and permission has been granted by the
City Council, or such person possesses the animals described herein pursuant to
current licenses or permits issued by the State Fish and Game Department, and
in accordance with Cal. Admin. Code tit. 14, §§40, 670 through 670.7 and 671
through 671.7, with the exception that it shall be unlawful for any person to
possess and confine rattlesnakes within the incorporated area of the city.
(Ord. 1631, passed 6-19-13)
§ 92.09 ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE AMENDED–ADDITIONS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
92.01, the following provision is hereby added as a new Section 6.12.150 to
Chapter 6.12 of the Animal Control Ordinance to read as follows:
   6.12.150 - Violation—Penalty.
   Every owner, driver or keeper of any animal who permits the animal to be in
any building, enclosure, lane, street, square or lot within the City of Indio,
without proper care or attention shall be guilty of an infraction or
misdemeanor as hereinafter specified. Such individual shall be deemed guilty of
a separate offense of each and every day or portion thereof during which any
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is committed, continued or
permitted. Any individual convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be:
(1) guilty of an infraction offense and punished by a fine not exceeding one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first violation; (2) guilty of an infraction
offense and punished by a fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) for
a second violation. The third and any additional violations shall constitute a
misdemeanor offense and shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or six months in jail, or both. Notwithstanding
the above, a first offense may be charged and prosecuted as a misdemeanor.
Payment of any penalty herein shall not relieve an individual from the
responsibility for correcting the violation.
(Ord. 1631, passed 6-19-13)
§ 92.10 PROHIBITION OF THE SALE OF DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to promote animal welfare and
encourage best practices in the purchasing of dogs and cats offered for retail
sale in the City of Indio.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
      ANIMAL SHELTER. A municipal or related public animal shelter or duly
incorporated nonprofit organization devoted to the rescue, care, and adoption
of stray, abandoned or surrendered animals, and which does not breed animals.
      CAT. An animal of the Felidae family of the order Carnivora.
      CERTIFICATE OF SOURCE. A document declaring the source of the dog or cat
transferred by the pet store. The certificate of source shall include the name,
address, and phone number of the source of the dog or cat.
      DOG. An animal of the Canidae family of the order Carnivora.
      NONPROFIT ANIMAL RESCUE ORGANIZATION. Any nonprofit corporation that is
exempt from taxation under Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(3), whose
mission and practice is, in whole or in significant part, the rescue, care, and
adoption of stray, abandoned or surrendered animals, and which does not breed
animals.
      PET STORE. A retail establishment open to the public and engaging in the
business of offering for sale and/or selling animals at retail.
   (C)   Prohibition of the sale of dogs and cats.
      (1)   No pet store shall display, sell, deliver, offer for sale, barter,
auction, give away, or otherwise transfer or dispose of dogs or cats in the
City of Indio unless exempt under division (E) of this section .
      (2)   All pet stores engaged in the adoption of dogs or cats pursuant to
division (D)(4) of this section, shall post in a conspicuous place on each dog
or cat kennel, cage, or enclosure, a certificate of source for each animal
ensuring the animal was obtained in full compliance with this section. The
certificate of source shall be made available upon request to animal control
officers, law enforcement, code enforcement officials, or any other entity
charged with enforcing the provisions of this section.
   (D)   Exemptions. The following shall not be considered a pet store and
shall be exempt from the provisions of this section:
      (1)   A person or establishment that sells, delivers, offers for sale,
barters, auctions, gives away, or otherwise transfers or disposes of only
animals that were bred and reared on the premises of the person or
establishment, provided that the person or establishment has not engaged in
prohibited backyard breeding pursuant to the Unified Development Code.
      (2)   A publicly operated animal control facility or animal shelter;
      (3)   A private, charitable, nonprofit animal rescue organization or
nonprofit animal humane society; and
      (4)   A publicly operated animal control agency, nonprofit animal humane
society, or nonprofit animal rescue organization that operates out of or in
connection with a pet store.
   (E)   Adoption of rescue and shelter animals.  Nothing in this section shall
prevent the owner, operator, or employees of a pet store from providing space
and appropriate care for animals owned by an animal shelter or publicly
operated animal control facility, nonprofit animal humane society, or nonprofit
animal rescue organization and maintaining those animals at the pet store for
the purpose of public adoption.
(Ord. 1692, passed 4-20-16; Am. Ord. 1719, passed 9-6-17)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE CODE
Section
   
93.01   Adoption
   
93.02   Enforcement
   
93.03   Definitions
   
93.04   Establishment of geographic limits in which the storage of Class I and
Class II liquids in aboveground tanks outside of buildings are prohibited
   
93.05   Establishment of geographic limits in which the storage of liquefied
petroleum gas is prohibited
   
93.06   Establishment of geographic limits in which the storage of explosives
and blasting agents are prohibited
   
93.07   Amendments and additions to the Fire Code
   
93.08   Fire apparatus
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 ADOPTION.
   Except as hereinafter provided, all of the provisions and Appendices B, BB,
C, CC, and H of the 2022 California Fire Code, based on the 2021 International
Fire Code, published by the International Code Council, inclusive of all of the
inclusions and exclusions set forth in each chapter's matrix, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as though fully set forth herein
and shall constitute the Fire Code of the City of Indio. ("Fire Code"). In
addition, the following provisions that were excluded in the 2022 California
Fire Code are hereby adopted: Chapter 1, Division II of the California Fire
Code is hereby adopted, except that Section 103.2 and 111.3 are not adopted;
Chapters 3, 25, and Sections 403.11, 503, and 510.2, and Sections 1103.2 and
5707 are adopted. Such provisions shall be part of the Fire Code. Said Fire
Code is for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing the safeguarding
of life and property from fire and explosion, hazards arising from the storage,
handling and use of hazardous substances, materials, devices, and from
conditions hazardous to life and property in the occupancy of buildings and
premises as
herein provided and for providing for the issuance of permits. A copy of the
Fire Code shall be maintained in the office of the City Clerk and shall be made
available for public inspection.
(Ord. 1743, passed 11-6-19; Am. Ord. 1785, passed 10-19-22)
§ 93.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Fire Code shall be enforced by the Fire Chief.
(Ord. 1743, passed 11-6-19; Am. Ord. 1785, passed 10-19-22)
§ 93.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION OR ALTERED. Any change, addition, or modification in construction
or occupancy or structural repair or change in primary function to an existing
structure made by, on behalf of, or for the use of a public accommodation, or
commercial facility or part thereof. Alterations include, but are not limited
to: remodeling, renovation, rehabilitation, reconstruction, historic
restoration, fire damage restoration, changes or rearrangement of the
structural parts or elements, and changes or rearrangement in the plan
configuration of walls and full height partitions.
    CORPORATE COUNSEL.  The City Attorney for the City of Indio.
   JURISDICTION. The City of Indio.
(Ord. 1743, passed 11-6-19; Am. Ord. 1785, passed 10-19-22)
§ 93.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF GEOGRAPHIC LIMITS IN WHICH THE STORAGE OF CLASS I AND
CLASS II LIQUIDS IN ABOVE-GROUND TANKS OUTSIDE OF BUILDINGS ARE PROHIBITED.
   The location referred to in Section 5704.2.9.6.1 of the California Fire Code
in which storage of Class I and Class II liquids in above-ground tanks outside
of buildings are prohibited are hereby as follows: RL, RM, RH, NC, CC, RM-MHDE-
1, DET-3, SN-4, SN-8, CN-14, CN-20, MUN, MT.
(Ord. 1743, passed 11-6-19; Am. Ord. 1785, passed 10-19-22)
§ 93.05 ESTABLISHMENT OF GEOGRAPHIC LIMITS IN WHICH THE STORAGE OF LIQUEFIED
PETROLEUM GAS IS PROHIBITED.
   The location referred to in Section 6104.2 of the California Fire Code in
which the storage of liquefied petroleum gas is prohibited are hereby as
follows: RL, RM, RH, NC, CC, P, CO, RM-MH, EE.
(Ord. 1743, passed 11-6-19; Am. Ord. 1785, passed 10-19-22)
§ 93.06 ESTABLISHMENT OF GEOGRAPHIC LIMITS IN WHICH THE STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES
AND BLASTING AGENTS ARE PROHIBITED.
   The location referred to in Chapter 56 of the California Fire Code in which
the storage of explosives and blasting agents are prohibited are hereby as
follows: RL, RM, RH, NC, CC, P, CO, RM-MH, EE, RC.
(Ord. 1743, passed 11-6-19; Am. Ord. 1785, passed 10-19-22)
§ 93.07 AMENDMENTS AND ADDITIONS TO THE FIRE CODE.
   (A)   Chapter 1 SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION.   
      (1)   Section 101.4 of the California Fire Code is deleted in its
entirety and replaced with the following:
      Section 101.4 Severability
      (1)   If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence,
clause or phrase of this ordinance or its application to any person or
circumstance, is for any reason held to be
      invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the validity or enforceability
of the remaining sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences,
clauses or phrases of this ordinance, or its application to any other person or
circumstance. The City Council declares that it would have adopted each
section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase hereof,
irrespective of the fact that anyone or more sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases hereof be declared
invalid or unenforceable.
      (2)   Section 102.5 of the California Fire Code is amended as follows:
      Section 102.5 Application of Residential Code.
      Where structures are designed and constructed in accordance with the
California Residential Code, the provisions of this code shall apply as
follows:
      1)   Construction and design provisions of this code pertaining to the
exterior of the structure shall apply including, but not limited to, premises
identification, fire apparatus access and water supplies. Where interior or
exterior systems or devices are installed, construction permits required by
Section 105.6 of this code shall apply.
      2)   Administrative, operational and maintenance provisions of this code
shall apply.
      3)   Automatic fire sprinkler system requirements of this code shall
apply to detached accessory buildings 3,600 square feet or greater in
accordance with Section 903.2. The provisions contained in Section 903.2.18 of
the California Fire Code or Section R309.6 of the California Residential Code
may be used for the design of the automatic fire sprinkler system for detached
private garages.
      (3)   Section 103.2 is deleted in its entirety.
      (4)   Section 104.1.1 is hereby added to the Fire Code is to read as
follows:
      Section 104.1.1 Authority of the fire chief and fire department.
      The Fire Chief is authorized to administer, interpret, and enforce the
Indio Fire Code. Under the Fire Chiefs direction, the Riverside County Fire
Department is authorized to enforce all ordinances of the City of Indio
pertaining to:
      1)   The prevention of fires.
      2)   The suppression or extinguishment of dangerous or hazardous fires.
      3)   The storage, use, and handling of hazardous materials.
      4)   The installation and maintenance of automatic, manual, and other
private fire alarm systems and fire extinguishing equipment.
      5)   The maintenance and regulation of fire escapes.
      6)   The maintenance of fire protection and the elimination of fire
hazards on land and in buildings, structures, and other property, including
those under construction.
      7)   The maintenance of means of egress.
      8)   The investigation of the cause, origin, and circumstance of fire and
unauthorized releases of hazardous materials.
      (5)   Section 104.3.2 is hereby added to the Fire Code to read as
follows:
      Section 104.3.2 Fire department personnel and peace officers.
      1)   The Fire Chief and his or her designees are authorized and directed
to enforce all applicable State fire laws and the provisions of this code and
shall perform such related duties as may be fixed by the City Council, and for
such purposes, he or she shall have the power of a peace officer.
      2)   The following persons are hereby authorized to interpret and enforce
the provisions of the Indio Fire Code and to make arrests and issue citations
as authorized by law.
         1.   The Unit Chief and Peace Officers and public officers of the
California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (CALFIRE).
         2.   The Fire Chief, Peace Officers, and Public Officers of the
Riverside County Fire Department.
         3.   The Police Chief and any Police Officer of any city served by
Riverside County Fire Department.
         4.   The Fire Code Official and members of the Fire Prevention Bureau
that serves the City of Indio.
         5.   Officers of the California Highway Patrol.
         6.   The law enforcement officers of the Federal Bureau of Land
Management.
      (6)   Section 104.7 and 104.7.1 is deleted in its entirety and replaced
with the following:
      Section 104.7 Liability.
      (1)   Any liability against the City of Indio or Riverside County or
State of California or any officer or employee for damages resulting from the
discharge of their duties shall be as provided by law.
      (7)   Section 105.4.7 is hereby added to the Fire Code to read as
follows:
      Section 106.5 Commencement of work.
      The construction or installation of any fire protection system shall not
be permitted without approved plans. Beginning work prior to approval of plans
will result in a triple (300%) permit fee and/or inspection being charged
unless prior approval has been granted by the fire code official.
      (8)   Section 107.2 is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the
following:
      Section 107.2 Schedule of permit fee.
      A fee shall be charged for services and each permit issued. The fee
schedule shall be established by the City Council of the City of Indio.
      (9)   Section 107.7 is hereby added to the Fire Code to read as follows:
      Section 107.7 Cost recovery.
      Fire suppression, investigation and rescue or emergency medical costs
which are recoverable shall be recoverable in accordance with California Health
and Safety Code Sections 13009 and 13009.1.
      Any person who negligently or intentionally, or in violation of law,
causes an emergency response, including but not limited to, a traffic accident
or spill of toxic or flammable fluids or chemicals, is liable for the costs of
securing such emergency, including those costs set out in Government Code
Section 53150, et seq. Any expense incurred by the fire department for securing
such an emergency shall constitute a debt of such person and shall be
collectable by the City of Indio, in the same manner as in the case of an
obligation under contract, expressed or implied.
      (10)   Sections 111.1, 111.2, 111.3 and 111.4 are deleted in their
entirety and replaced with the following:
      Section 111.1 Board of appeals established.
      The Board of Appeals shall be established as set forth in Title III;
Administration, Chapter 32.95 of the City of Indio Municipal Code, Indio
Consolidated Appeals Board.
      (11)   Section 112.4 is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the
following:
      Section 112.4 Penalties.
      Penalties shall be identified as set forth in Section 93.99 of this
Ordinance.
   (B)   Chapter 2 DEFINITIONS.
      (1)   Section 202, definition of "Fire Chief" in the California Fire Code
is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
      Section 202 General definitions.
      FIRE CHIEF OR CHIEF. The person designated as the Fire Chief of the
County of Riverside or his or her authorized designee.
   (C)   Chapter 3 General Requirements.
      (1)   Section 308.1.6.3 is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the
following:
      Section 308.1.6.3 Sky Lanterns or similar devices.
      A person shall not release or cause to be released a sky lantern or
similar device.
   (D)   Chapter 5 FIRE SERVICE FEATURES.
      (1)   Section 503.2.1 is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the
following:   
      Section 503.2.1 Dimensions.
      Fire apparatus access roads shall have an unobstructed width of not less
than 24 feet, exclusive of shoulders, except for approved security gates in
accordance with Section 503.6, and an unobstructed vertical clearance of not
less than 13 feet 6 inches. For additional requirements or alternatives see
Riverside County Fire Department Standards and Policies, as may be amended from
time to time.
      (2)   Section 503.2.2 is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the
following:
      Section 503.2.2 Authority.
      The fire code official shall be the only authority authorized to
designate fire apparatus access roads and fire lanes and to modify the minimum
fire lane access widths for fire or rescue operations.
      (3)   Section 503.6.1 is hereby added to the Fire Code to read as
follows:
      Section 503.6.1 Automatic opener.
      New motorized gates shall be provided with means to be automatically
opened remotely by emergency vehicles in accordance with Riverside County Fire
Department standards and Policies, as may be amended from time to time.
      Exception: Gates serving individual one and two-family dwelling parcels.
      (4)   Section 503.7 is hereby added to the Fire Code to read as follows:
      Section 503.7 Loading areas and passenger drop-off areas.
      On private properties, where fire apparatus access roads are utilized for
loading or unloading or utilized for passenger drop-off or pick-up, an
additional eight (8) feet of width shall be added to the minimum required width
for the fire apparatus access road.
      (5)   Section 507.5.7 is hereby added to the Fire Code to read as
follows:
      Section 507.5.7 Fire hydrant size and outlets.
      As determined by the fire code official, fire hydrant sizes and outlets
shall be based on the following:
      a.   Hydrant Standard - one (1) four (4) inch outlet and two (2) two and
one half (2 ½) inch outlet.
      b.   Hydrant Enhanced - two (2) four (4) inch outlet and one (1) two and
one half (2 ½) inch outlet.
      (6)   Section 507.5.8 is hereby added to the Fire Code to read as
follows:
      Section 507.5.8 Fire hydrant street marker.
      Fire hydrant locations shall be visually indicated in accordance with
Riverside County Fire Department Technical Policy 06-11 , as may be amended
from time to time. Any hydrant marker damaged or removed
      during street construction or repair shall be immediately replaced by the
contractor, developer or person responsible for removal or damage.
      (7)   Section 508.1 is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the
following:
      Section 508.1 General.
      Where required by other sections of this code and in all buildings
classified as high-rise buildings by the California Building Code, in all
buildings greater than 300,000 square feet (27 870 m2), and in Group 12
occupancies having occupied floors located more than 75 feet above the lowest
level of fire department vehicle access a fire command center for fire
department operations shall be provided and shall comply with Sections 508.1.1
through 508.1.7.
      (8)   Section 508.1.1 is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the
following:
      Section 508.1.1 Location and access.
      The fire command center shall be located adjacent to the main lobby and
shall be accessible from fire department vehicular access or as approved by the
fire code official. The fire command center shall have direct access from the
building exterior at the lowest level of fire department access.
      (9)   Section 508.1.3 of the California Fire Code is amended to add the
following:
      508.1.3 Size. The fire command center shall be not less than 0.015
percent of the total building area of the facility served or 200 square feet
(19 m2) in area, whichever is greater, with a minimum dimension of 0.7 times
the square root of the room area or 10 feet (3048 mm), whichever is greater.
      Where a fire command center is solely required because a building is
greater than 300,000 square feet (27 870 m2), the fire command center shall
have a minimum size of 96 square feet (9 m2) with a minimum dimension of 8 feet
(2438 mm) where approved by the fire code official.
      (10)   Section 509.2.1 is hereby added to the Fire Code to read as
follows:
      Section 509.2.1 Minimum clearances.
      A 3-foot clear space shall be maintained around the circumference of
exterior fire protection system control valves, or any other exterior fire
protection system component that may require immediate access, except as
otherwise required or approved.
   (E)   Chapter 6 BUILDING SERVICES AND SYSTEMS.
      (1)   Section 608.11.1.2 is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the
following:
      Section 608.11.1.2 Manual operation.
      When required by the fire code official, automatic crossover valves shall
be capable of manual operation. The manual valves shall be located in an
approved location immediately outside of the machinery room, in a secure metal
box or equivalent and marked as Emergency Controls.
   (F)   Chapter 9 FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS.
      (1)   Section 903.2 of the Fire Code is deleted in its entirety and
replaced with the following:
      Section 903.2 Where required.
      1)   In all new buildings and structures which are 3,600 square feet or
greater an approved automatic sprinkler system shall be provided regardless of
occupancy classification. Where the California Fire Code requires more
restrictive requirements in Sections 903.2.1-903.2.21, the more restrictive
requirement shall take precedence.
      2)   In an existing building hereafter remodeled or altered where the
required fire flow exceeds or is changed to exceed 2,500 GPM, an automatic fire
sprinkler system shall be installed in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
         1.   To determine the required fire flow for the purposes of when an
automatic fire sprinkler system is required in an existing building, the fire
code official shall be guided by California Fire Code, Appendix B, and the
Insurance Services Office method, 2014 Edition.
         2.   Each portion of a building separated by one or more fire walls
may be considered a separate fire flow calculation area, provided the fire wall
are of masonry construction (4-hour fire rating), contain no openings and are
constructed in accordance with the California Building Code.
         3.   One- and two-family dwellings shall have an automatic fire
sprinkler system regardless of square footage in accordance with the California
Residential Code. Fire sprinkler systems shall be installed in mobile homes,
manufactured homes, and multifamily manufactured homes with two dwelling units
in accordance with Title 25 of the California Code of Regulations.
      3)   Exception: Unless required elsewhere in this code or the California
Building Code, automatic fire sprinkler systems shall not be required for the
following:
         1.   Detached Group U occupancies used for agricultural purposes
constructed in accordance with the California Building Code.
         2.   Detached non-combustible equestrian arena shade canopies that are
open on all sides and used for riding only - no commercial, assembly or storage
uses.
         3.   Detached fabric or non-combustible shade structures that are open
on all sides and used to shade playground equipment, temporary storage of
vehicles and dining areas with no cooking.
         4.   Where determined by the Fire Chief that no major life safety
hazard exists, and the fuel load does not pose a significant threat to
firefighter safety or to other structures or property, automatic fire
sprinklers may be exempted.
      (2)   Paragraph 2 of Section 903.2.3 is hereby amended by deleting the
exception listed therein.
      (3)   Section 903.2.11.3 is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced
with the following:
      Section 903.2.11.3 Buildings 55 feet or more in height.
      An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed throughout buildings
that have one or more stories with an occupant load of 30 or more located 55
feet (16 764 mm) or more above the lowest level of fire department vehicle
access, measured to the finished floor.
         Exceptions:
         1.   Open parking structures.
      (4)    Section 903.3.5.3 is hereby added to the Fire Code to read as
follows:
      Section 903.3.5.3 Hydraulically calculated systems.
      The design of hydraulically calculated fire sprinkler systems shall not
exceed 90% of the water supply capacity.
   (G)   Chapter 32 HIGH-PILED COMBUSTIBLE STORAGE.
   (1)   Section 3204.2.1 is hereby added to the Fire Code to read as follows:
      Section 3204.2.1 Minimum requirements for client leased or occupant owned
warehouses.
      Designs of an automatic sprinkler system for client leased or occupant
owned buildings containing high pile storage shall be based on the requirements
of NFPA 13. The responsible fire protection engineer shall perform a survey of
the building to determine commodity classification, storage configuration,
building height and other information related to the development of an
appropriate sprinkler system design. The fire protection engineer shall also
make reasonable efforts to meet with the building owner or operator to
understand seasonal or customer related fluctuations to the stored commodities,
storage height, and configuration. The sprinkler design shall be based on the
most demanding requirements determined through the on-site survey and
      discussions with the building owner or operator. The technical report
shall describe the basis for determining the commodity and sprinkler design
selection, how the commodities will be isolated or separated, and include
referenced design document(s), including NFPA 13 or the current applicable
factory mutual data sheets. If a specific fire test is used as the basis of
design, a copy of the fire test report shall be provided at the time of plan
review.
   (H)   Chapter 56 EXPLOSIVES AND FIREWORKS.
      (1)   Section 5608.2 is hereby added to the Fire Code to read as follows:
      Section 5608.2 Fireworks.
      Safe and Sane Fireworks shall be permitted as set forth in
Chapter 101, Fireworks, of Title IX, General Regulations, of the City of Indio
Municipal Code.
   (I)   APPENDIX B.
      (1)   Table B105.2 is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the
following:
Table B105.2 Required Fire-Flow For Buildings Other Than One-And-Two Family
Dwellings, Group R-3 And R-4 Buildings And Townhouses
 
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM MINIMUM FIRE-FLOW (gallons FLOW DURATION (hours)
(Design Standard)          per minute)
No automatic sprinkler     Value in Table B105.1(2)   Duration in Table B105.1
system                                                (2)
Section 903.3.1.1 of the   50% of the value in Table  Duration in Table B105.1
California Fire Code       B105.1(2)a                 (2) at the reduced flow
                                                      rate
Section 903.3.1.2 of the   50% of the value in Table  Duration in Table B105.1
California Fire Code       B105.1(2)a                 (2) at the reduced flow
                                                      rate
For SI: 1 gallon per minute = 3.785 L/m.
a.   The reduced fire-flow shall be not less than 1,500 gallons per minute.
 
   (J)   APPENDIX C.
      (1)   Section 103.1 is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the
following:
      Section 103.1 Hydrant spacing.
      Fire apparatus access roads and public streets providing required access
to buildings in accordance with Section 503 of the International Fire Code
shall be provided with one or more fire hydrants, as determined by Section
C102.1. Where more than one fire hydrant is required, the distance between
required fire hydrants shall be in accordance with Sections C103.2 and C103.3.
Fire hydrants shall also be provided at street intersections.
(Ord. 1743, passed 11-6-19; Am. Ord. 1785, passed 10-19-22; Am. Ord. 1787,
passed 11-2-22)
§ 93.08 FIRE APPARATUS.
   (A)   In all locations where access for fire apparatus for fire suppression
or rescue purposes is unduly difficult or subject to obstruction, the Fire
Chief may designate fire lanes and cause them to be posted as such.
   (B)   No person shall obstruct such fire lanes in any manner that would
deter or hinder the Fire Department from gaining immediate access and use of
such designated fire lanes.
(Ord. 1743, passed 11-6-19; Am. Ord. 1785, passed 10-19-22)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or
association of persons to violate any provision of this chapter, or to violate
the provisions of any permit granted pursuant to this chapter. Any person,
firm, corporation, or association of persons violating any provision of this
chapter, or the provisions of any permit granted pursuant to this chapter,
shall be deemed guilty of an infraction or misdemeanor as herein after
specified. Such person or entity shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense
for each day or portion thereof during which any violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter or the provisions of any permit granted pursuant to
this chapter, is committed, continued, or permitted. In addition, any violation
of any of the code adopted herein is a nuisance that may be abated as such
pursuant to the provisions of this Municipal Code.
      (2)   Any person, firm, corporation, or association of persons so
convicted shall be: (1) guilty of an infraction offense and punished by a fine
not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a first violation; (2) guilty
of an infraction offense and punishable by a fine now exceeding three hundred
dollars ($300.00) for a second violation on the same site. The third and any
additional violations on the same site shall constitute a misdemeanor offense
and shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or six months in jail, or both. Notwithstanding the above, a first
offense may be charged and prosecuted as a misdemeanor. Payment of any penalty
herein shall not relieve a person or entity from the responsibility for
correcting the violation.
   (B)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Ord. 1743, passed 11-6-19; Am. Ord. 1785, passed 10-19-22)
CHAPTER 94: LIBRARY
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Definition
   
94.02   Establishment
   
94.03   Title to all Library property to vest in city
   
94.04   Use to be free to all residents of city and nonresident taxpayers;
penalties for violation of Library rules and regulations
   
94.05   Annual tax levy for maintenance
   
94.06   Funds to be paid into Library Fund; procedure for payments
Board of Library Trustees
   
94.15   Duty to manage Library; composition; terms of office; compensation;
appointment; vacancies
   
94.16   Meetings; powers and authority
   
94.17   Annual report
§ 94.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LIBRARY. The Library provided for by this chapter, and any branch or
branches thereof which may in the future be established, when the context
reasonably so implies.
('61 Code, § 11.1) (Ord. 79, passed - - )
§ 94.02 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Public Library is hereby established in accordance with the provisions of
Cal. Educ. Code §§ 18900 and 18901, which shall be known as the Public Library.
('61 Code, § 11.2) (Ord. 79, §§1, 2, passed - - )
§ 94.03 TITLE TO ALL LIBRARY PROPERTY TO VEST IN CITY.
   The title to all property acquired for the purpose of the Public Library,
when not inconsistent of the terms of its acquisition, or otherwise designated,
shall vest in the city, and in the name of the city may be sued for and
defended by action at law, or otherwise.
('61 Code, § 11.3) (Ord. 79, passed - - )
§ 94.04 USE TO BE FREE TO ALL RESIDENTS OF CITY AND NONRESIDENT TAXPAYERS;
PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF LIBRARY RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Public Library so established under this chapter shall be free to all
the residents and nonresident taxpayers of the city subject always to such
rules, regulations and bylaws as may be made by the Board of Library Trustees;
provided, that for violations of the same a person may be fined or excluded
from the privilege of the Library.
('61 Code, § 11.4) (Ord. 79, passed - - )
§ 94.05 ANNUAL TAX LEVY FOR MAINTENANCE.
   The City Council shall, in making annual tax levies for the city and as part
thereof, if the maintenance of the Library has not been otherwise provided
therefor, levy a tax for the purpose of maintaining such Library and purchasing
property necessary therefor, which tax shall be in addition to other taxes the
levy of which is permitted in the city.
('61 Code, § 11.5) (Ord. 79, passed - - )
§ 94.06 FUNDS TO BE PAID INTO LIBRARY FUND; PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENTS.
   All revenue derived from the tax provided for in §
94.05, together with all money acquired by gift, devise, bequest, or otherwise,
for the purpose of such Public Library shall be apportioned to and paid into a
fund to be designated Library Fund, which fund is hereby established and shall
be applied to the purposes by this chapter and authorized by Cal. Educ. Code §§
18900 and 18964. Payments from the fund shall be made in the manner provided
for the payment of other demands against the city; provided, that demands upon
the Library Fund shall be presented to the Board of Library Trustees for
allowance and shall be made upon warrants issued after due audit by and the
order from the Library Trustees, which warrants shall be signed by the
President and Secretary of the Board of Library Trustees, and the warrants
shall thereupon be paid by the Treasurer.
('61 Code, § 11.6) (Ord. 79, § 7, passed - - )
BOARD OF LIBRARY TRUSTEES
§ 94.15 DUTY TO MANAGE LIBRARY; COMPOSITION; TERMS OF OFFICE; COMPENSATION;
APPOINTMENT; VACANCIES.
   The Public Library shall be managed by a library board which shall be
designated as the Board of Library Trustees. The Board shall consist of five
members to be appointed by the Mayor by and with the consent of the City
Council of such city. Such Trustees shall severally hold office for three
years, serving without compensation; provided, that the members of the first
Board appointed shall so classify themselves by lot that one of their number
shall go out of office at the end of the current fiscal year, two at the end of
one year thereafter, and the other two at the end of two years thereafter. Men
and women shall be equally eligible to such appointment and vacancies shall be
filled by appointment for the unexpired term in the same manner.
('61 Code, § 11.7) (Ord. 79, passed - - )
§ 94.16 MEETINGS; POWERS AND AUTHORITY.
   The Board of Library Trustees shall hold meetings and shall have such powers
and authorities and be subject to such restrictions and regulations as are
provided by Cal. Educ. Code §§ 18910 and 18927.
('61 Code, § 11.8) (Ord. 79, passed - - )
§ 94.17 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Board of Library Trustees shall, on or before July 31 in each year, make
a report to the City Council giving the condition of the Library on June 30
preceding, together with a statement of their proceedings for the year then
ending, and forward a copy thereof to the State Library.
('61 Code, § 11.9) (Ord. 79, passed - - )
CHAPTER 95: CONSOLIDATED APPEALS BOARD
Section
   
95.01   Enforcement Hearing Officer
§ 95.01 ENFORCEMENT HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   The functions and duties of the former Indio Consolidated Appeals
Board, as specified in
Chapter 95 are transferred to the Enforcement Hearing Officer established by
Chapter 12 of this code. Where the code makes reference to the Indio
Consolidated Appeals Board, such references shall be deemed to refer to the
Enforcement Hearing Officer and where such reference grants or infers functions
and duties for the former Indio Consolidated Appeals Board, those functions and
duties shall be deemed transferred to the Enforcement Hearing Officer.
   (B)   Appeals to the Enforcement Hearing Officer shall be based upon a claim
that the intent or provisions of Code of Indio
Chapters 93,
95A, 958,
95D, or
151 has been incorrectly interpreted or applied. The Enforcement Hearing
Officer shall have no authority to waive requirements of any of these chapters.
(Ord. 1809, passed 2-21-24)
CHAPTER 95A: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
95A.101   Purpose
   
95A.102   General enforcement authority
   
95A.103   Definitions
   
95A.104   Declaration of a public nuisance
   
95A.105   Emergency abatement
   
95A.106   Notification to property owner
   
95A.107   Voluntary abatement of nuisances
   
95A.108   Failure to voluntarily abate a declared nuisance
   
95A.109   Authority to enter upon property
   
95A.110   Service of notices and orders for the abatement of a public nuisance
   
95A.111   Abatement of public nuisance hearing by the Hearing officer
   
95A.112   Abatement of public nuisance hearing procedures
   
95A.113   Order on the abatement of a public nuisance
   
95A.114   Alternative process
   
95A.115   Service of the order to abate a public nuisance
   
95A.116   Voluntary abatement after order to abate a public nuisance
   
95A.117   Abatement by the city
   
95A.118   Recording the notice of intent to demolish
   
95A.119   Record of expenses and order for costs of abatement
   
95A.120   Grievance with abatement order - appeal to the Indio Consolidated
Appeals Board
   
95A.121   Grievance with cost order - appeals to the Indio Consolidated Appeals
Board
   
95A.122   Assessment of costs
   
95A.123   Violations
   
95A.124   Alternative remedies
Fugitive Dust Control
   
95A.131   Purpose
   
95A.132   Control requirements
   
95A.133   Disturbed vacant lands/weed abatement activities
   
95A.134   Unpaved roads; unpaved parking lots; public or private paved roads
   
95A.135   Administrative requirements; exemptions; compliance
Cross-reference:
   Consolidated Appeals Board, see §
95.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95A.101 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intention of the City Council, in adopting the provisions
codified in this chapter, to set forth guidelines for determining what
conditions constitute a public nuisance; to establish a method for giving
notice of the conditions and an opportunity to correct; and finally in the
event the public nuisance is not abated or corrected, to provide a procedure
for a hearing and determination of the facts and manner in which the conditions
shall be corrected or removed.
   (B)   In order to further the stated goals of the city and to protect its
citizens and their property from conditions which are offensive or annoying to
the senses, detrimental to property values and community appearance, or
hazardous or injurious to the health, safety, or welfare of the general public,
the City Council has determined that this chapter pertaining to nuisance
abatement is necessary to effectively abate or prevent the development of such
conditions in the city.
   (C)   The remedies provided for in this chapter are supplemental and
complementary to all of the provisions of this code, state law, and any law
cognizable at common law or in equity; and nothing herein shall be read,
interpreted, or construed in any manner to limit any existing right or power of
the city to abate any and all public nuisances.
(Ord. 1529, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95A.102 GENERAL ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   Enforcement officials have the authority and powers necessary to gain
compliance with the provisions of the Municipal Code, land use plans, and
applicable state and/or uniform codes. These powers include, but are not
limited to, the power to issue notices of violation, field citations, or
notices and orders to abate nuisances, inspect public and private property, and
use whatever judicial and administrative remedies are available under the
Municipal Code or applicable state codes.
(Ord. 1529, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95A.103 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. Buildings, structures, property or other items found to be
unoccupied, unattended or left in a place or condition in which it is
reasonably apparent or obvious that the owner has no intention of returning to
occupy or claim it.
   ABATE. To remove the source of the public nuisance either by correcting
specific problems or by removal from public or private property.
   ABATEMENT COSTS. Also referred to as COSTS OF ABATEMENT and ADMINISTRATIVE
COSTS. They include all costs and expenses incurred by the city in abating a
public nuisance. Such costs include, but are not limited to, the following: the
actual expenses and costs to the city in the preparation of notices,
specification and contracts; inspection of the work; recording fees; any
attorney's fees expended in the abatement of the nuisance, through civil action
or otherwise; all costs and expenses for which the city may be liable under
state law arising from or related to the nuisance abatement action; and all
costs or expenses to which the city may be entitled pursuant to Cal. Health and
Safety Code § 520 and other statutory entitlements. Costs may be recovered by
the prevailing party in actions or proceedings in which the city elects, at the
initiation of that individual action or proceeding, to seek recovery of its own
attorney’s fees. Abatement costs shall begin to accrue at the time the city
first receives a complaint regarding a problem on the property.
   ABATEMENT HEARING. The administrative hearing before the Hearing Officer
after issuance of a notice to abate by an Enforcement Official.
   APPLICABLE STATE CODE. Any law of the State of California which protects the
health, safety or welfare of the citizens of the city.
   BOARDED BUILDING. A building whose doors or windows have been covered with
plywood or other material for the purpose of preventing entry into the building
by persons or animals.
   BUILDING. A man made structure used for or intended for the occupancy of
humans.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Building Official of the city.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the city.
   DECAYED. Vegetation which has become deteriorated, lost its strength, health
or has declined in quality.
   DETERIORATED. Any building, structure, fence, automobile, or other item
which is in a state of disrepair, partial ruin or decay.
   DILAPIDATED. Any building, structure, fence, automobile, and the like in a
state of disrepair or reduced into partial ruin or decay.
   DISEASED. Any abnormal condition that interferes with vital physiological
processes, caused by unfavorable or environmental conditions.
   DISMANTLING. Stripping, disassembling or taking apart any building,
structure, automobile, furniture or equipment.
   ENCROACHES. Advancement beyond property boundaries.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. The City Manager, the Building Official, the Chief of
Police and any employee or agent of the city so designated by them and charged
with enforcing the Municipal Code of the city, or applicable state code.
   EXCAVATION. A natural cavity, pouch or recess; the action or process of
excavating formed by cutting, digging or scooping.
   FACADES. The decorated face or front of a building or structure.
   FIELD. A wide open space of land.
   FIRE HAZARD. Any situation in which there is a greater than normal risk of
harm to people or property due to fire.
   FIRE MARSHAL. The Fire Marshal of the city.
   HEARING OFFICER. The official designated by the City Manager charged with
presiding over the abatement hearing and responsible for issuing orders to
abate public nuisances and costs.
   HARBOR. To provide a place, home or habitat for rodents, vermin or farm
animals.
   HAZARDOUS. A situation which poses a level of threat to life, health,
property or environment.
   HAZARDOUS LIQUID. A liquid deemed to cause a hazard, exposing one to unsafe,
dangerous conditions by skin or airborne exposure.
   HAZARDOUS TREE. Trees in which the branches, trunk or other portion has
grown into a position which has, or may have the potential to become hazardous
to people, pedestrians or other property.
   HOLIDAY LIGHTS AND DECORATIONS. Lights or decorations used to denote a
holiday or used in association with a holiday.
   HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION. An organization, elected or not, which governs
regulations and expenditures of a particular community.
   ILLEGAL ACTIVITY. Engaging in activities that are prohibited by law or
statute, contrary to, or forbidden by official rules, regulations, accepted
rules or this code.
   INDIO CONSOLIDATED APPEALS BOARD. The three member board provided for in §
95.01.
   INTERESTED PARTY. The owner, legal occupant, or holder of a recorded
interest of a property subject to a notice or order to abate.
   LAND. The part of the earth that is not covered by water.
   LOT. A parcel of land having fixed boundaries.
   MERCHANDISE. Commodities offered for sale.
   NAUSEATING. Causing nausea, disgust, revulsion or loathing.
   NEGLECTED. To disregard, pay inadequate attention to, fail to care for, or
to fail to attend to any building, structure, equipment, vehicles, vegetation,
and the like.
   NONAPPROVED MATERIAL. A material utilized, but which is not approved by the
city.
   NOTICE TO ABATE. Notice provided by the city that a nuisance exists on a
property and instructions to abate. Such notice is issued by an Enforcement
Official upon determining the existence of a nuisance.
   ORDER. The order to abate a public nuisance issued pursuant to §
95A.113 of this chapter.
   ORDER TO ABATE. The order of the city to abate a nuisance.
   OVERGROWN. Vegetation that has grown abnormally or excessively large.
   OWNER. The owner of record of property.
   PARKWAY. That portion of the street right-of-way which is available for
landscaping, and not for curb, gutter or pavement.
   PATCH PAINTED. Any building or structure that is painted in a fashion that
gives the reasonable appearance of being incomplete or mismatched.
   POLICE CHIEF. The Chief of the Police Department.
   PREMISES. Any real property or improvements thereon.
   PROPERTY. Also known as real property, land, lots, parcels or real estate,
is the land or any permanent feature or structure above or below the surface.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any place or location on which the public has a right
to travel, including, but not limited to, a street, road, sidewalk or footpath.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any nuisance designated in §
95A.104 of this chapter.
   PUBLIC VIEW. Anything which can be seen by a person from the public right-
of-way, or from public property, or on areas of private property open to access
by the public or by consent of the person in possession of the property or by
consent of an agent of that person.
   RECIPIENT. Any person, not necessarily the owner of the premises, who
receives a notice or order to abate pursuant to this chapter.
   REFUSE. Unused or discarded matter/material having no substantial market
value, including, but not limited to, rubbish, refuse, debris, sludge, rubble,
asphalt, concrete, plaster, tile, rocks, bricks, soil, building materials,
wood, crates, cartons, paper, containers, cans, bottles or barrels containing
refuse or other matter, and plant or tree trimmings.
   STRUCTURES. Building or structures not designed for human occupancy.
   TARPAULIN. A piece of cloth or other material used for protecting or
covering exposed objects or areas.
   TERRAIN. An area of land or the particular features of it.
   TOPPED. Trees that have been cut leaving only the tree trunk or stump, or
any other severe type of pruning which usually produces less desirable results
than a more moderate pruning with respect to the tree's natural form and which
is generally hazardous to the overall health and stability of the tree.
   VEHICLE. For the purpose of this section, VEHICLE is defined in Indio
Municipal Code,
Chapter 71.
   VERMIN. Any one of various common types of small insects or animals which
cause harm and annoyance.
(Ord. 1529, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95A.104 DECLARATION OF A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   It is unlawful and is hereby declared to be a public nuisance for any
person, business, homeowners' association, corporation or entity owning,
leasing, occupying, or having charge or possession of any land, parcel,
building, structure or premises, in any location within the city, to maintain
such premises in such a manner that any of the following conditions are found
to exist, or cause or may cause a hazard to health, safety or general welfare:
   (A)   Any violation of a federal, state, or local law or ordinance, land use
plan, rule, regulation, and/or any code adopted by reference in this code, or
any nuisance known in equity.
   (B)   Any property not maintained or used in a condition consistent with the
approved plans or conditions.
   (C)   Any land, terrain or configuration which interferes with the
established drainage pattern over a property or from adjoining properties that
may result in erosion and/or surface drainage problems that could be
detrimental to the public health, safety, usability, or appearance to
neighboring properties.
   (D)   Any building or structure left, not secured, not occupied, abandoned,
partially or completely damaged or destroyed, or which is in a state of partial
construction for an unreasonable period of time.
   (E)   Any building or structure erected, altered, expanded, maintained or
used, contrary to the provisions of this code or any condition or requirement
imposed upon the building or structure.
   (F)   Any building or structure not adequately maintained or which is
deteriorated in any of the following ways:
      (1)   Peeling, discolored or patch painted with colors that do not match
on the exterior of the structure;
      (2)   Missing, broken or boarded up windows;
      (3)   Roof or ceiling in disrepair;
      (4)   Damaged porch, balcony or stairways;
      (5)   Missing or damaged handrails or related safety equipment;
      (6)   Broken or missing window screens, if required;
      (7)   Broken or missing locks and latches on windows and doors;
      (8)   Facades, exterior stucco or decorative planters or any other
portion of the exterior of a structure which is damaged or not adequately
maintained.
   (G)   Bees and other stinging insects, either intentionally or not, in a
place or condition that has, or may have the potential to bite, sting or harm
humans or animals, unless otherwise permitted by the city.
   (H)   Any building or structure that is overcrowded with persons such that
it unreasonably interferes with a neighboring resident's right to access, use,
or enjoyment of his or her property, or such that it impairs the general
welfare of a neighboring resident, or provides inadequate sanitation for the
number of occupants.
   (I)   Failure to secure and prevent public access to abandoned or vacant
buildings, structures or portions thereof.
   (J)   Any fence, wall or gate in any of the following conditions:
      (1)   Installed without the proper permits;
      (2)   Installed or maintained contrary with the conditions set forth in
the approved plans or permits;
      (3)   Damaged, broken, dilapidated, unsightly or not adequately
maintained;
      (4)   Patch painted with colors that do not match;
      (5)   Patched or covered by plywood, metal, plastic, tarpaulin or other
non approved materials;
      (6)   Constructed of metal or plywood garage doors;
      (7)   Broken or non-working emergency access gates or equipment.
   (K)   Landscaping, vegetation, trees, vacant land, and parkways or any
portion thereof, in public view, in any of the following conditions:
      (1)   Lack of turf, planted material, decorative rock, bark, planted
ground cover or coverings;
      (2)   Lawn or grass in excess of six inches in height or which is dead,
decayed, diseased, or not adequately maintained, except that lawn or grass may
not exceed 12 inches in height on parkways;
      (3)   Overgrown to a point which does, or has a potential to, harbor
rats, vermin, excessive amounts of insects or other potential disease carriers;
      (4)   Obstructs vision of motorists or pedestrians or official traffic
control devices;
      (5)   Encroaches onto, over, or upon any public right-of-way, including,
but not limited to streets, alleys or sidewalks;
      (6)   Flowerbeds, planters, gardens and other decorative growing areas
which contain overgrown, dead, decayed, diseased, or inadequately maintained
flowers, bushes, hedges, ground coverings or vegetation;
      (7)   Flowerbeds, planters, gardens and other decorative growing areas
which have become overrun with grass or weeds;
      (8)   Trees, bushes, hedges, and other vegetation which has become
overgrown to a point where it substantially encroaches onto neighboring
properties causing a substantial interference with the neighboring resident's
right to access, use or enjoyment of their property, or otherwise causes a
hazard to health, safety or general welfare;
      (9)   Vacant land, fields or lots on which the vegetation is overgrown,
or which contains or is likely to contain rats, vermin, trash, or illegal
activity;
      (10)   Vacant land, fields or lots which is maintained in a condition
which is a fire hazard, unsightly, or likely to invite mischievous or illegal
activity;
      (11)   Trees which are dead, overgrown, not adequately maintained, or
which have been declared hazardous or have been topped leaving only the tree
trunk or tree stump, or have been declared to be hazardous by a certified
arborist.
   (L)   Offensive or nauseating odor or smell created by garbage, recycling or
garbage containers, dead animals or other odor causing substances or materials.
   (M)   Any of the following conditions on any property or portion thereof
visible from public view:
      (1)   Lumber, trash, garbage, debris, refuse;
      (2)   Hazardous swimming pools, spas, ponds, bodies of water or
excavations;
      (3)   Abandoned, broken or neglected equipment and machinery;
      (4)   Furniture, appliances, play equipment or other household fixtures,
except for lawn furniture;
      (5)   Clotheslines, clothes or similar materials hanging or placed in
front yards, side yards, porches, balconies or fencing, or otherwise in public
view;
      (6)   Any type of item or material stored on a rooftop;
      (7)   Accumulation of litter, trash, boxes, or other items in front of
doorways, on sidewalks, public walkways and other common areas used by the
public;
      (8)   Accumulation of litter, trash, boxes or other items in parking
lots, planters and other landscaped areas;
      (9)   Display, sale or use of merchandise, equipment, machinery or other
items in, on, or blocking streets, sidewalks, walkways, parking lots, parking
stalls or other common areas;
      (10)   Temporary service bins, dumpsters, or storage containers stored on
a public street or on private property, except when associated with a permitted
construction or remodeling project, stored in an approved trash enclosure, or
completely stored out of public view;
      (11)   Garbage cans, trash cans, recycling containers and bins, bags and
other trash collection devices in place beyond 24 hours before or after the
scheduled trash day;
      (12)   Commercial garbage or recycling bins stored outside the dumpster
enclosure;
      (13)   Accumulation of grease, oil or other hazardous liquids or
materials on paved and unpaved surfaces, driveways, sidewalks, walkways or any
other location;
      (14)   Tarpaulins or any unapproved screening materials used for any
purpose other than in an emergency weather condition, or when attached to
temporary construction fencing surrounding an approved and permitted
construction project or public safety hazard;
      (15)   Portable devices or equipment, including but not limited to play
equipment, located or stored on any street, sidewalk or public right-of-way;
      (16)   Holiday lights or decorations, excluding permitted flags,
installed or displayed in front or side yards, or on a structure, except 30
days before and after December 25, and 14 days before or after the Fourth of
July, Halloween, Easter and Thanksgiving;
      (17)   Storage of construction equipment, machinery or building materials
other than during operations conducted under a valid building, grading or
demolition permit;
      (18)   Cement mixers, construction trailers or other equipment parked
more than four hours at a location other than the site of the construction
project;
      (19)   Animal, fowl or bird feces kept in a visible location or in a
condition that is or may become hazardous or nauseating;
      (20)   Foundations, retaining walls, planters, pools and other structures
left on a property after a building or structure has been demolished or
destroyed unless expressly authorized under this code or demolition permit.
   (N)   Any of the following conditions on parking lots, or vehicular or
pedestrian access areas:
      (1)   Striping installed or maintained contrary to the conditions set
forth in the approved plans or permit;
      (2)   Potholes, major cracks or other conditions which reflect inadequate
or poor maintenance;
      (3)   Vehicular parking stall markings have become deteriorated or are
nonexistent;
      (4)   Pedestrian walkway markings, if required, which are deteriorated or
not clearly visible;
      (5)   Lack of the required number of handicap parking stalls or handicap
walkways;
      (6)   Lack of the required handicap stall signage;
      (7)   Required curb markings or signs installed improperly;
      (8)   Required curb markings or signs not maintained in a clean, visible
condition, or otherwise improperly maintained.
   (O)   Growth on palm trees, including but not limited to, dead or decayed
palm fronds, noncommercial fruit, or flowers/pollen hanging from palm trees,
except that dead California Fan Palm (Washingtonia filifera) fronds may remain
in place and for the purpose of forming a skirt.
   (P)   Repairing, dismantling, or painting of any vehicle or motorized
equipment visible from public view unless:
      (1)   The repairing or dismantling is conducted in an enclosed garage
where the vehicle or equipment is registered to and owned by a person
permanently residing on the property;
      (2)   The repairing or dismantling can be started and completed in less
than 24 hours;
      (3)   The painting is done in an approved paint booth or in accordance
with the allowed uses in the Fire Code. At no time can the painting be
conducted in a residential district.
   (Q)   Repairing or dismantling of any vehicle or motorized equipment on
vacant lots, residential, commercial or industrial parking lots, including
those associated with auto repair or auto parts stores, or on any street or
alley.
   (R)   Any swimming pool, spa, pond, fountain or other body of water which is
unfiltered, polluted or not otherwise adequately maintained, or which creates a
hazard to public safety, health or general welfare.
   (S)   Any outdoor burning of any trash, material, building, structure,
matter of thing, unless authorized by the Fire Marshal or his of her authorized
representative by the issuance of a permit; except wood, charcoal, or those
materials normally associated with and used inside of a barbeque, fire pit,
wood burning stove or other similar device specifically made and designed for
the burning of such materials.
   (T)   Any property with dirty water, sewage or any other substance,
including but not limited to, urine or other bodily matter, discolored water,
contents of septic tanks, cesspools or privy vaults, which flows onto public or
private property.
   (U)   Any property, building or structure, wall, fence, pavement, or walkway
which is painted in an unreasonably offensive or garish manner, or in bright,
fluorescent, or luminescent colors, which is out of harmony or conformity with
the standards of adjacent properties.
   (V)    Maintenance of property in conditions that are detrimental to the
public health, safety or general welfare or that constitutes a public nuisance
as defined in Cal. Civ. Code §§ 3479 and 3480, including, but not limited to,
anything dangerous to human life or detrimental to human health, or that lacks
adequate ventilation, sanitation or plumbing facilities, or that constitutes a
fire hazard.
(Ord. 1529, passed 3-5-08; Am. Ord. 1701, passed 10-19-16)
§ 95A.105 EMERGENCY ABATEMENT.
   (A)   When a public nuisance constitutes an immediate hazard or threat of
harm and the situation calls for abatement sooner than the abatement procedures
in this chapter otherwise allow, the Code Enforcement Officer may take or cause
emergency abatement of such nuisance with such notice to parties concerned, or
without notice, as the particular circumstance reasonably allows.
   (B)   Whenever the Police Chief, Building Official, or Fire Marshal, finds
conditions on a property constitute an immediate hazard or threat to the public
health, safety, or welfare of persons or property, and the situation calls for
abatement sooner than the abatement procedures in this chapter permit, the
Police Chief, Building Official, or Fire Marshal may order and cause the
summary abatement of those conditions constituting the threat without the prior
notice or hearing described in §§
95A.108 and
95A.111. After the summary abatement, notice and a reasonable opportunity to be
heard will be afforded. Expenses and costs of abatement can be appealed to the
Indio Consolidated Appeals Board pursuant to §
95A.121.
(Ord. 1529, passed 3-5-08; Am. Ord. 1589, passed 3-16-11)
§ 95A.106 NOTIFICATION TO PROPERTY OWNER.
   Whenever an Enforcement Official declares a nuisance as defined by §
95A.104, he or she shall notify the property owner and any interested party in
writing of the existence of the alleged nuisance and direct that it be abated.
This notification, hereafter known as a notice to abate, shall detail the
violations and include the date, time, and place of a nuisance abatement
hearing. This nuisance abate hearing shall be held by no more than 20 days from
the issuance of the notice to abate. At the hearing, a Hearing Officer will
determine if a public nuisance exists. The format of the notice shall be
available to the public upon request of the City Clerk. Other information, such
as the owner's responsibility for administrative and incidental costs and
expenses incurred in abating the nuisance, may be included in the notice to
abate. This section shall not apply to §
95A.105 concerning emergency abatement.
(Ord. 1529, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95A.107 VOLUNTARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   The owner of any building, structure, or property alleged to be a nuisance
under the provisions of this chapter may abate the nuisance at any time within
the abatement period provided in §
95A.106. The owner shall advise the Enforcement Official of the abatement. Once
advised, the Enforcement Official shall inspect the premises to ensure that the
nuisance has been abated.
(Ord. 1529, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95A.108 FAILURE TO VOLUNTARILY ABATE A DECLARED NUISANCE.
   (A)   If an alleged nuisance is not properly abated within the period
established under the provisions of §
95A.106, the property owner, if not notified of the hearing date initially,
shall be served with a notice to abate, in accordance with §
95A.106 of this chapter. In addition, the Enforcement Official may institute
any and all other remedies as provided by federal, state or local law.
   (B)   In addition to the remedies set forth above, and pursuant to the
authority of Cal. Gov’t Code § 38773.5, once the city has determined that a
public nuisance or other code violation exists, the City Council and the city
are authorized to record an appropriate notice of violation against the subject
property setting forth the nature of the violation or public nuisance. The
property owner shall be notified in writing ten days in advance of such
recordation of the city's intent to record the notice of violation. The notice
of intent shall provide that the city intends to record a notice of violation
and that the property owner may respond to the notice or otherwise abate the
violation before the notice is recorded. Copies of the recorded notice shall be
mailed to the affected property owner at the address shown on the last
assessment roll, at the time the notice is recorded. The city may seek recovery
of the cost of such recording from the property owner.
(Ord. 1529, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95A.109 AUTHORITY TO ENTER UPON PROPERTY.
   The Enforcement Official may enter upon the property for the purpose of
posting or serving notice required by this chapter, in accordance to federal,
state and local law.
(Ord. 1529, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95A.110 SERVICE OF NOTICES AND ORDERS FOR THE ABATEMENT OF A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Service of notices and orders required under this chapter shall be made by
personally serving the property owner(s). If personal service is not possible,
service by at least two of the following methods is required:
   (A)   By posting the notice or order in a conspicuous place on, or in front
of the property.
   (B)   By registered or certified mail addressed to the owner(s) of the
property at the last-known address of the owner shown upon any current record
of the city or the last equalized assessment roll. If there is no known address
for the owner, lessee, occupant or other person having charge or control of the
property, the notice shall be sent to the property address. Service shall be
completed at the time of deposit into the United States mail.
(Ord. 1529, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95A.111 ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCE HEARING BY THE HEARING OFFICER.
   At the time and place stated in the notice to abate, issued pursuant to §
95A.106, the Hearing Officer shall hear and consider all relevant evidence,
objections, or protests, and shall receive sworn testimony of owners,
witnesses, city personnel, and interested persons relative to such alleged
public nuisance and to any proposed abatement measures. The hearing may be
continued from time to time at the request of the city or Hearing Officer.
(Ord. 1529, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95A.112 ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCE HEARING PROCEDURES.
   Pursuant to the Hearing Officer's determination, hearings held pursuant to
this chapter shall be recorded by either a video or audio-recording device or
transcribed by a court reporter. The hearings need not be conducted according
to technical rules of evidence. Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of
supplementing or explaining any direct evidence, but shall not be sufficient in
itself to support a finding unless it would be admissible over objection in a
civil action in a California court of competent jurisdiction. Any relevant
evidence shall be admitted if it is the type of evidence on which reasonable
persons are accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious affairs, regardless of
the existence of any common law or statutory rule which might make improper the
admission of such evidence over objection in a civil action. Oral evidence
shall be taken only on oath or affirmation. Irrelevant and unduly repetitious
evidence shall be excluded.
(Ord. 1529, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95A.113 ORDER ON THE ABATEMENT OF A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Within ten days of the hearing on the abatement of a public nuisance, the
Hearing Officer shall consider all relevant evidence and shall issue a written
decision. The written decision shall state that the Hearing Officer finds a
public nuisance to exist or not to exist, in whole or in part, as alleged by
the city.
   (A)   If the Hearing Officer finds a public nuisance does not exist, the
city shall have the right to appeal the decision to the Indio Consolidated
Appeals Board pursuant to §
95A.120. Such finding by the Hearing Officer shall not preclude the city from
seeking any other remedy, or taking any other lawful action, as provided for in
this code or under the laws of the State of California.
   (B)   If the Hearing Officer finds a public nuisance to exist, they shall
state in a written decision whether the property, in whole or in part, or any
building or structure thereon, constitutes a public nuisance.
   (C)   If the Hearing Officer finds a public nuisance to exist and finds
there is sufficient cause to abate the nuisance, the Hearing Officer shall make
a written order within five days of the hearing entitled "Order to Abate".
      (1)   Said order shall set forth those findings, and order the owner to
abate the nuisance.
      (2)   The order shall provide notice to the owner that the administrative
and incidental costs and expensive incurred in abating the nuisance shall be
assessed against the property and results in a recorded lien or special
assessment until paid.
      (3)   As applicable to the particular found to exist, the order shall
specifically direct the owner to abate the nuisance by rehabilitation, repair,
or demolition in a lawful manner. The order may set forth a particular manner
in which the nuisance must be abated.
      (4)   The order shall state if the nuisance is not abated, it will be
removed and abated by the city. The order shall state that the additional cost
and expenses of removal and abatement by the city, including any additional
cost and expenses, together with the prime interest rate plus 1% of the entire
amount owing, will be assessed and result in a lien or special assessment upon
the property until paid.
      (5)   The order shall set forth time within which the work shall be
commenced and completed. This time period shall not be longer than 30 calendar
days unless otherwise specified in the order upon finding that the nuisance
presents unusual circumstances which cannot be timely abated within a 30-day
time period.
      (6)   The order shall inform the property owners of their right to appeal
the order to the Indio Consolidated Appeals Board pursuant to §§
95A.120 and
95A.121.
(Ord. 1529, passed 3-5-08; Am. Ord. 1589, passed 3-16-11; Am. Ord. 1611, passed
4-18-12)
§ 95A.114 ALTERNATIVE PROCESS.
   In addition to being granted the authority to issue an "Order to Abate a
Public Nuisance," the Hearing Officer shall also be authorized to impose an
administrative fine and/or penalty pursuant to
Chapter 12 of this code.
(Ord. 1529, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95A.115 SERVICE OF THE ORDER TO ABATE A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The Hearing Officer's order to abate a public nuisance shall be served upon
the property owner, in accordance with §
95A.110.
(Ord. 1529, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95A.116 VOLUNTARY ABATEMENT AFTER ORDER TO ABATE A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The property owner may, at his or her own expense, remove and abate the
nuisance as prescribed by the order prior to the expiration of the abatement
period set forth in the order. If the property has been inspected by the
Enforcement Official and the nuisance has been abated in accordance with the
order to abate, the Enforcement Official shall not remove or abate the nuisance
but may schedule a hearing with the Hearing Officer to determine the
administrative and incidental costs and expenses incurred so far in abating the
public nuisance.
(Ord. 1529, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95A.117 ABATEMENT BY THE CITY.
   If a declared nuisance is not completely abated within the time prescribed
in the Hearing Officer's order to abate a public nuisance, the Enforcement
Official is authorized and directed to abate the nuisance by city forces or
private contract in accordance with law. Furthermore, the Enforcement Official
is expressly authorized to enter upon the premises for the purpose of removing
and abating the nuisance. An administrative inspection warrant shall be
obtained prior to any entry if the nuisance is not located in an open area or
if the nuisance is not seizable without an intrusion into privacy.
(Ord. 1529, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95A.118 RECORDING THE NOTICE OF INTENT TO DEMOLISH.
   A copy of an order to abate a public nuisance that requires abatement by
demolition of any habitable structure or any building with a floor, four wails,
a roof and which is larger than 120 square feet shall be immediately recorded
with the County Recorder.
(Ord. 1529, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95A.119 RECORD OF EXPENSES AND ORDER FOR COSTS OF ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The Enforcement Official shall keep an account of the expenses and
costs of removing and abating the nuisance on each separate lot or parcel of
land where the work is done, and shall render a written, itemized report to the
Hearing Officer, showing the costs and expenses of abating the nuisance
including the city's incidental and direct administrative expenses, less any
salvage value relating thereto. The Hearing Officer may make any revision,
correction, or modification in the report as he or she deems just, after which
the report, as submitted or modified, shall be confirmed.
   (B)   The term INCIDENTAL EXPENSES or EXPENSES shall include, but shall not
be limited to, the actual expenses and costs of the city in preparing notice,
specifications, and contracts, in inspecting the work, legal fees, and other
related costs.
(Ord. 1529, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95A.120 GRIEVANCE WITH ABATEMENT ORDER - APPEAL TO THE INDIO CONSOLIDATED
APPEALS BOARD.
   (A)   The city, owner, responsible party, or other party who has a legal or
equitable interest in the property may appeal the final order of the Hearing
Officer's order to abate a public nuisance pursuant to §
95A.113. The appeal must be in writing and must be filed with the City Clerk no
later than ten days from the date of the service of the Hearing Officer's
order. After ten days from the date of service of the Hearing Officer's order,
the order is deemed final and may no longer be appealed.
   (B)   Any written appeals to the nuisance abatement order shall be legible
and filed with the City Clerk and shall state the grounds for such appeal and
the specific factual and/or legal errors committed by the Hearing Officer in
issuing the order to abate a public nuisance. Any appeal shall contain:
      (1)   A specific identification of the subject property;
      (2)   The names and addresses of all appellants;
      (3)   A statement of appellant's legal interest in the subject property;
      (4)   A statement, in ordinary and concise language, of the specific
order or action protested and the grounds for appeal, together with all
supporting material facts;
      (5)   The date and signatures of all appellants; and
      (6)   The verification of at least one appellant as to the truth of the
matters stated in the appeal.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall then transmit a copy of the written appeal to the
Hearing Officer and the Enforcement Official.
   (D)   Upon receipt of the written appeal, the Hearing Officer shall transmit
to the Indio Consolidated Appeals Board the records of all hearings and copies
of all papers submitted, and orders given. The Hearing Officer shall also
submit a written report, stating the factual and legal basis upon which his or
her decision was reached pursuant to §
95A.113. Within 30 days of the receipt of the written appeal, the Indio
Consolidated Appeals Board shall, after review of the entire record, the
Hearing Officer’s report, and appellant’s written appeal, and without further
hearings on the matter, issue a final order decision affirming, reversing, or
modifying, in whole or in part, the order to abate any public nuisance deemed
to exist. Such final order decision shall be served upon the owners or other
appellants in accordance with §
95A.110. The decision of the Indio Consolidated Appeals Board shall be final.
   (E)   On the date a written appeal is filed under this section, all
proceedings in furtherance of the order appealed shall be stayed until the
final determination by the Indio Consolidated Appeals Board of the appeal,
unless the Enforcement Official finds that conditions on the property
constitute an immediate threat to the health, safety or welfare of persons or
property and must be abated immediately.
(Ord. 1529, passed 3-5-08; Am. Ord. 1589, passed 3-16-11; Am. Ord. 1611, passed
4-18-12)
§ 95A.121 GRIEVANCE WITH COST ORDER - APPEALS TO THE INDIO CONSOLIDATED APPEALS
BOARD.
   (A)   Upon the final determination for cost of abatement, the Hearing
Officer shall within ten days, in accordance with §
95A.110, serve the order for cost of abatement upon the owner, occupant, or
other party who has a legal or equitable interest in the property. An appeal of
the order for cost must be in writing and filed within ten calendar days from
the date of service of the Hearing Officer's order. Unless the written appeal
is filed within ten days from the date of service of the Hearing Officer's
order, the order determining the costs of abatement is final. This appeal is
limited to evaluating the fairness and accuracy of determining the costs of
abatement pursuant to §§
95A.113 and
95A.119.
   (B)   All written appeals as to a cost order shall be legible and filed with
the City Clerk and shall state the grounds for such appeal and the specific
factual and/or legal errors committed by the Hearing Officer in issuing either
the order of costs of abatement. Any appeal shall contain:
      (1)   A specific identification of the subject property;
      (2)   The names and addresses of all appellants;
      (3)   A statement of appellant's legal interest in the subject property;
      (4)   A statement, in ordinary and concise language, of the specific
order or action protested and the grounds for appeal, together with all
supporting material facts;
      (5)   The date and signatures of all appellants; and
      (6)   The verification, under penalty of perjury, of at least one
appellant as to the truth of the matters stated in the appeal.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall then transmit a copy of the written appeal to the
Hearing Officer or designee and the Enforcement Official.
   (D)   Upon receipt of the written appeal, the Hearing Officer shall transmit
to the Indio Consolidated Appeals Board the records of all hearings and copies
of all papers submitted, and orders given. The Hearing Officer shall also
submit a written report, stating the factual and legal basis upon which his or
her decision was reached pursuant to §
95A.113. Within 30 days of the receipt of the written appeal, The Indio
Consolidated Appeals Board shall, after review of the entire record, the
Hearing Officer’s report, and appellant’s written appeal, and without further
hearings on the matter, issue a final order decision affirming, reversing, or
modifying, in whole or in part, the order to abate any public nuisance deemed
to exist. Such final order decision shall be served upon the owners or other
appellants in accordance with §
95A.110. The decision of the Indio Consolidated Appeals Board shall be final.
(Ord. 1529, passed 3-5-08; Am. Ord. 1589, passed 3-16-11; Am. Ord. 1611, passed
4-18-12)
§ 95A.122 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   The order determining the cost of abatement of public nuisance shall
constitute a special assessment against the property to which it relates, and
upon recordation in the office of the County Recorder, shall constitute a lien
on the property for the amount of the assessment.
   (B)   Before the recording of a lien, not less than ten days after the order
of costs, notice thereof shall be served on the property owner of record by
certified mail or personal service, in the same manner as a civil summons. If
the owner of record cannot be found after diligent search, then the notice may
be served by posting a copy thereof in a conspicuous place upon the property
for a period of ten days and publication thereof in a newspaper of general
circulation published in Riverside County. The form of the notice shall be
available to the public upon request of the City Clerk.
   (C)   After the notice of lien is confirmed and recorded in the office of
the county recorder, a copy shall be filed with the assessor and tax collector
of Riverside County, acting for the city in order that the county officials may
add amounts of the respective assessments to the next regular tax bills levied
against the respective lots and parcels of land, and thereafter the amounts
shall be collected at the same time and in the same manner as ordinary
municipal taxes are collected and shall be subject to the same procedure under
foreclosure and sale in case of delinquency as provided for ordinary municipal
taxes.
   (D)   In the alternative, after recordation of the notice of lien, such lien
may be foreclosed by judicial or other sale in the manner and means provided by
law.
   (E)   Pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code § 38773.7, upon the entry of a second or
subsequent civil or criminal judgment within a two-year period that finds an
owner of property responsible for a condition that may be abated pursuant to
this code, the responsible party may be ordered to pay treble the costs of the
abatement. These costs shall not include costs incurred abating conditions
pursuant to § 17980 of the Cal. Health and Safety Code.
(Ord. 1529, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95A.123 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, whether the owner and/or other legally responsible party who
causes, permits or maintains any condition subject to abatement pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter to exist on any property, place or area within the
city, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall
be punishable as provided in
Chapter 10 of this code.
(Ord. 1529, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95A.124 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the Enforcement Official, Hearing
Officer or Indio Consolidated Appeals Board from requesting that the City
Attorney commence a civil, criminal or other proceeding to abate a public
nuisance as an alternative to, or in addition to, the proceedings set forth in
this chapter.
(Ord. 1529, passed 3-5-08; Am. Ord. 1589, passed 3-16-11)
FUGITIVE DUST CONTROL
§ 95A.131 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to establish minimum
requirements for construction and demolition activities and other specified
sources in order to reduce man-made fugitive dust and the corresponding PM10
emissions.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions are applicable.
      AGRICULTURAL OPERATIONS are any operation directly related to the growing
of crops, or raising of fowls or animals for the primary purpose of making a
livelihood.
      AQMD is the South Coast Air Quality Management District and the
representatives thereof.
      AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (ADT) is the number of motor vehicles that traverse
a given unpaved or paved surface during a specified 24-hour period. ADT levels
are calculated as the average daily volume over a specified 48-hour period as
determined by the City in consultation with the AQMD.
      BULK MATERIAL is all sand, gravel, soil, aggregate and other organic and
inorganic particulate matter.
      CHEMICAL DUST SUPPRESSANTS are non-toxic chemical soil binders that are
not prohibited for use by the City, the California Regional Water Quality
Control Board, the California Air Resources Board, the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency (U.S. EPA), or any other law, rule or regulation, used to
reduce dust on disturbed surfaces.
      COACHELLA VALLEY BEST AVAILABLE CONTROL MEASURES (CV BACM) are methods to
prevent or mitigate the emission and/or airborne transport of fugitive dust, as
identified in the Coachella Valley Fugitive Dust Control Handbook.
      COACHELLA VALLEY FUGITIVE DUST CONTROL HANDBOOK is the most recently
approved reference document by the AQMD that includes a description of fugitive
dust control measures, guidance for preparation of Fugitive Dust Control Plans,
notification forms, signage provisions, and test methods.
      CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES are any on-site activities preparatory to or
related to the building, alteration, rehabilitation, or improvement of
property, including, but not limited to the following activities; grading,
excavation, trenching, loading, vehicular travel, crushing, blasting, cutting,
planning, shaping, breaking, equipment staging/storage areas, weed abatement
activities or adding or removing bulk materials from storage piles.
      DEMOLITION ACTIVITIES are the wrecking or taking out of any load-
supporting structural member of a structure or building and related handling
operations or the intentional burning of any structure or building.
      DISTURBED SURFACE AREA is any portion of the earth's surface (or material
placed thereupon) that has been physically moved, uncovered, destabilized, or
otherwise modified from its undisturbed native condition (including vehicular
disturbances) thereby increasing the potential for the emission of fugitive
dust. This definition does not include land that has been restored to a native
condition, such that the vegetative ground cover and soil characteristics are
equal to surrounding native conditions.
      EARTH-MOVING OPERATIONS are the use of any equipment for an activity
where soil is being moved or uncovered.
      FINISH GRADE is the final grade of the site that conforms to the approved
grading plan.
      FUGITIVE DUST is any solid particulate matter that becomes airborne,
other than that emitted from an exhaust stack, directly or indirectly as a
result of human activities. PM10 is a subset of fugitive dust and is defined as
particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter of ten microns or less.
      FUGITIVE DUST CONTROL PLAN is a document that describes fugitive dust
sources at a site and the corresponding control measures and is prepared in
accordance with the guidance contained in the Coachella Valley Fugitive Dust
Control Handbook.
      HIGH-WIND EPISODE is when wind speeds exceed 25 miles per hour as
measured by:
         (a)   The closest AQMD monitoring station; or
         (b)   A certified meteorological monitoring station; or
         (c)   An on-site wind monitor calibrated and operated on-site in
accordance with the manufacturer's specifications with a data logger or strip
chart.
      OPERATOR is any person who owns, leases, operates, controls, or
supervises any potential fugitive dust generating operation subject to the
requirements of this subchapter. This definition includes any person who has
been officially designated by a property owner as the person responsible for
fugitive dust control at a site, as indicated in an approved Fugitive Dust
Control Plan.
      PAVED ROAD is an improved street, highway, alley, public way, or easement
that is covered by roadway materials (such as cement, asphalt or asphaltic
concrete).
      PHYSICAL ACCESS RESTRICTION is any barrier, including but not limited to;
curbs, fences, gates, posts with fencing, shrubs, trees, or other measures that
are effective in preventing vehicular and Off-Highway Vehicle (OHV) use of a
specified site.
      SILT is any bulk material with a particle size less than 75 micrometers
in diameter that passes through a Number 200 sieve as determined by American
Society of Testing and Materials (ASTM) Test Method C 136 or any other test
method approved by the U.S. EPA and AQMD.
      SITE is the real property on which construction, demolition, or other
activities subject to this ordinance may occur.
      STABILIZED SURFACE is any portion of land that meets the minimum
standards as established by the applicable test method contained in the
Coachella Valley Fugitive Dust Control Handbook.
      STORAGE PILE is any accumulation of bulk material with a height of three
feet or more and a total surface area of 300 or more square feet.
      UNPAVED PARKING LOT is an area utilized for parking vehicles and
associated vehicle maneuvering that is not covered with roadway materials (such
as cement, asphalt or asphaltic concrete).
      UNPAVED ROAD is any service roads, internal access roads, heavy and light
duty equipment paths and other roadways which are not covered by typical
roadway materials (such as cement, asphalt, asphaltic concrete).
      TEMPORARY UNPAVED PARKING LOTS are those used less than 24 days per year.
   (C)   Performance standards and test methods. All performance standards and
test methods referenced in this subchapter shall be based on the methodologies
included in the Coachella Valley Dust Control Handbook.
(Ord.1125, passed 10-7-92; Am. Ord. 1138, passed 3-17-93; Am. Ord. 1244, passed
5-5-99; Am. Ord. 1357, passed 12-3-03)
§ 95A.132 CONTROL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Work practices—all fugitive dust sources.
      (1)   No operator shall conduct any potential dust-generating activity on
a site unless the operator utilizes one or more Coachella Valley Best Available
Control Measures, as identified in the Coachella Valley Fugitive Dust Control
Handbook for each fugitive dust source such that the applicable performance
standards are met.
      (2)   Any operator involved in any potential dust-generating activity on
a site with a disturbed surface area greater than one acre shall, at a minimum,
operate a water application system as identified in the Coachella Valley
Fugitive Dust Control Handbook, if watering is the selected control measure.
      (3)   Performance Standards and Test Methods: No person subject to the
requirements contained in §
95A.132(B)(1) shall cause or allow visible fugitive dust emissions to exceed
20% opacity, or extend more than 100 feet either horizontally or vertically
from the origin of a source, or cross any property line.
   (B)   Construction and demolition activities.
      (1)   Any operator applying for a grading permit or a building permit for
an activity with a disturbed surface area of more than 5,000 square feet, shall
not initiate any earth-moving operations unless a Fugitive Dust Control Plan
has been prepared pursuant to the provisions of the Coachella Valley Fugitive
Dust Control Handbook and approved by the city.
      (2)   A complete copy of the approved Fugitive Dust Control Plan must be
kept on site in a conspicuous place at all times and provided to the city and
AQMD upon request.
      (3)   Any operator involved in demolition activities shall comply with
AQMD Rule 1403 (Asbestos Emissions from Demolition/Renovation Activities)
requirements, and the requirements of Title 40, Part 61 of the code of Federal
Regulations.
      (4)   Any operator involved in earth-moving operations shall implement at
least one of the following short-term stabilization methods during non-working
hours:
         (a)   Maintaining soils in a damp condition as determined by sight or
touch; or
         (b)   Establishment of a stabilized surface through watering; or
         (c)   Application of a chemical dust suppressant in sufficient
quantities and concentrations to maintain a stabilized surface.
      (5)   Within ten days of ceasing activity, an operator shall implement at
least one of the following long-term stabilization techniques for any disturbed
surface area where construction activities are not scheduled to occur for at
least 30 days:
         (a)   Revegetation that results in 75 % ground coverage provided that
an active watering system is in place at all times; or
         (b)   Establishment of a stabilized surface through watering with
physical access restriction surrounding the area; or
         (c)   Use of chemical stabilizers to establish a stabilized surface
with physical access restriction surrounding the area.
      (6)   Any operator shall remove all bulk material track-out from any site
access point onto any paved road open to through traffic:
         (a)   Within one hour if such material extends for a cumulative
distance of greater than 25 feet from any site access point; and
         (b)   At the conclusion of each workday.
      (7)   Any operator of a project with a disturbed surface area of five or
more acres or of any project that involves the import or export of at least 100
cubic yards of bulk material per day shall install and maintain at least one of
the following control measures at the intersection of each site entrance and
any paved road open to through traffic with all vehicles exiting the site
routed over the selected device(s):
         (a)   Pad consisting of minimum one inch washed gravel maintained in a
clean condition to a depth of at least six inches and extending at least 30
feet wide and at least 50 feet long; or
         (b)   Paved surface extending at least 100 feet and at least 20 feet
wide; or
         (c)   Wheel shaker/wheel spreading device consisting of raised
dividers (rails, pipe, or grates) at least three inches tall and at least six
inches apart and 20 feet long; or
         (d)   A wheel washing system.
      (8)   Any operator required to submit a Fugitive Dust Control Plan under
§
95A.132(B)(1) shall install and maintain project contact signage that meets the
minimum standards of the Coachella Valley Fugitive Dust Control Handbook,
including a 24-hour manned toll-free or local phone number, prior to initiating
any type of earth-moving operations.
      (9)   Any operator of a project with a disturbed surface area of 50 or
more acres shall have an Environmental Observer on the site or available on-
site within 30 minutes of initial contact that:
         (a)   Is hired by the property owner or developer; and
         (b)   Has dust control as the sole or primary responsibility; and
         (c)   Has successfully completed the AQMD Coachella Valley Fugitive
Dust Control Class and has been issued a Certificate of Completion for the
class; and
         (d)   Is identified in the approved Fugitive Dust Control Plan as
having the authority to immediately employ sufficient dust mitigation 24-hours
per day, seven days a week and to ensure compliance with this subchapter, the
approved Fugitive Dust Control Plan, and AQMD regulations.
      (10)   Performance Standards and Test Methods: No operator required to
submit a Fugitive Dust Control Plan under §
95A.132(B)(1) shall cause or allow visible fugitive dust emissions to exceed 20
percent opacity, or extend more than 100 feet either horizontally or vertically
from the origin of a source, or cross any property line.
      (11)   Exceedance of the visible emissions prohibition in §
95A.132(B)(10) occurring due to a high-wind episode shall constitute a
violation of §
95A.132(B)(10), unless the operator demonstrates to City all the following
conditions:
         (a)   All Fugitive Dust Control Plan measures or applicable Coachella
Valley Best Available Control Measures were implemented and maintained on site;
and
         (b)   The exceedance could not have been prevented by better
application, implementation, operation, or maintenance of control measures; and
         (c)   Appropriate recordkeeping was complied and retained in
accordance with the requirements in §§
95A.132(B)(12) through
95A.132(B)(15); and
         (d)   Documentation of the high-wind episode on the day(s) in question
is provided by appropriate records.
      (12)   Reporting/recordkeeping before construction : The operator of a
project with ten acres or more of earth-moving operations shall:
         (a)   Forward two copies of a Site-Specific, Stand Alone [8½ by 11
inch] Fugitive Dust Control Plan to the AQMD within ten days after approval by
the city. [Note: A separate AQMD approval will not be issued]; and
         (b)   Notify the city and the AQMD at least 24-hours prior to
initiating earth-moving operations.
      (13)   During construction: Any operator involved in earth-moving
operations shall compile, and maintain for a period of not less than three
years, daily self-inspection recordkeeping forms in accordance with the
guidelines contained in the Coachella Valley Fugitive Dust Control Handbook.
      (14)   During construction: Any operator involved in earth-moving
operations that utilizes chemical dust suppressants for dust control on a site
shall compile records indicating the type of product applied, vendor name, and
the method, frequency, concentration, quantity and date(s) of application and
shall retain such records for a period of not less than three years.
      (15)   After construction: Any operator subject to the provisions of §
420.12 shall notify the city and the AQMD within ten days of the establishment
of the finish grade or at the conclusion of the finished grading inspection.
(Ord. 1357, passed 12-3-03)
§ 95A.133 DISTURBED VACANT LANDS/WEED ABATEMENT ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Owners of property with a disturbed surface area greater than 5,000
square feet shall within 30 days of receiving official notice by the city
prevent trespass through physical access restriction as permitted by the city.
   (B)   In the event that implementation of §
95A.133 is not effective in establishing a stabilized surface within 45 days of
restricting access, the owner shall implement at least one of the following
long term stabilization techniques within an additional 15 days, unless the
City has determined that the land has been restabilized:
      (1)   Uniformly apply and maintain surface gravel or chemical dust
suppressants such that a stabilized surface is formed; or
      (2)   Begin restoring disturbed surfaces such that the vegetative cover
and soil characteristics are similar to adjacent or nearby undisturbed native
conditions. Such restoration control measure(s) must be maintained and
reapplied, if necessary, such that a stabilized surface is formed within eight
months of the initial application.
   (C)   Any operator conducting weed abatement activities on a site that
results in a disturbed surface area of 5,000 or more square feet shall:
      (1)   Apply sufficient water before and during weed abatement activities
such that the applicable performance standards are met; and
      (2)   Ensure that the affected area is a stabilized surface once weed
abatement activities have ceased.
   (D)   Performance Standards and Test Methods: No person subject to the
provisions of §§
95A.133(A) through
95A.133(C) shall cause or allow visible fugitive dust emissions to exceed 20%
opacity, or extend more than 100 feet either horizontally or vertically from a
source, or cross any property line, and shall either:
      (1)   Maintain a stabilized surface; or
      (2)   Maintain a threshold friction velocity for disturbed surface areas
corrected for non-erodible elements of 100 centimeters per second or higher.
   (E)   Reporting / Recordkeeping: Within 90 days of ordinance adoption,
operators of property with disturbed surface area of 5,000 or more square feet
shall notify the City of the location of such lands and provide owner contact
information.
   (F)   Any person subject to the provisions of §§
95A.133(A) through
95A.133(C) shall compile, and retain for a period of not less than three years,
records indicating the name and contact person of all firms contracted with for
dust mitigation, listing of dust control implements used on-site, and invoices
from dust suppressant contractors/vendors.
(Ord. 1357, passed 12-3-03)
§ 95A.134 UNPAVED ROADS; UNPAVED PARKING LOTS; PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PAVED ROADS.
   (A)   Unpaved roads.
      (1)   Owners of private unpaved roads with average daily traffic levels
between 20 and 150 vehicles must take measures (signage or speed control
devices) to reduce vehicular speeds to no more than 15 miles per hour.
      (2)   Owners of a cumulative distance of six or less miles of private
unpaved roads shall pave each segment having 150 or more average daily trips
or, alternatively apply and maintain chemical dust suppressants in accordance
with the manufacturer's specifications for a travel surface and the performance
standards included in §
95A.134(A)(4) in accordance with the following treatment schedule:
         (a)   One-third of qualifying unpaved road segments within one year of
ordinance adoption; and
         (b)   Remainder of qualifying unpaved road segments within three years
of ordinance adoption. (Note: treatments in excess of annual requirements can
apply to future years.)
      (3)   Owners of a cumulative distance of more than six miles of private
unpaved roads shall stabilize each segment having 150 or more average daily
trips in accordance with the following treatment schedule:
         (a)   At least two miles paved or four miles stabilized with chemical
dust suppressants in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications for a
travel surface and the performance standards established in § 440.4 within one
year of the ordinance adoption; and
         (b)   At least two miles paved or four miles stabilized with chemical
dust suppressants in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications for a
travel surface and the performance standards included in § 440.4 in accordance
with the following treatment schedule annually thereafter until all qualifying
unpaved roads have been stabilized. (Note: treatments in excess of annual
requirements can apply to future years).
      (4)   Performance Standards and Test Methods: Owners of any private
unpaved road shall not allow visible fugitive dust emissions to exceed 20%
opacity, or extend more than 100 feet either horizontally or vertically from
the origin of a source, and shall either:
         (a)   Not allow silt loading to be equal to or greater than 0.33
ounces per square foot; or
         (b)   Not allow the silt content to exceed six percent.
      (5)   Reporting/Recordkeeping: Within 90 days of ordinance adoption,
owners of unpaved roads shall provide to the City and the AQMD the location and
ADT estimates for all unpaved roads.
      (6)   Owners of unpaved roads that utilize chemical dust suppressants
shall compile, and retain for a period of not less than three years, records
indicating the type of product applied, vendor name, and the method, frequency,
concentration, quantity and date(s) of application.
   (B)   Unpaved parking lots.
      (1)   Owners of parking lots established subsequent to ordinance adoption
are required to pave such areas, or alternatively apply and maintain chemical
dust suppressants in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications for
traffic areas and the performance standards included in §
95A.134(B)(4).
      (2)   Owners of existing private unpaved parking lots shall implement one
of the following control strategies within 180 days of ordinance adoption:
         (a)   Pave; or
         (b)   Apply and maintain dust suppressants in accordance with the
manufacturer's specifications for traffic areas and the performance standards
included in §
95A.134(B)(4);
         (c)   Apply and maintain washed gravel in accordance with the
performance standards included in §
95A.134(B)(4).
      (3)   Owners of private temporary unpaved parking lots (those that are
used 24 days or less per year) shall apply and maintain chemical dust
suppressants in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications for traffic
areas and the performance standards included in §
95A.134(B)(4) prior to any 24-hour period when more than 40 vehicles are
expected to enter and park. The owner of any temporary unpaved parking lot
greater than 5,000 square feet shall implement the disturbed vacant land
requirements contained in §
95A.133 during non-parking periods.
      (4)   Performance standards and test methods: The operator of any private
unpaved parking lot shall not allow visible fugitive dust emissions to exceed
20 percent opacity, or extend more than 100 feet either horizontally or
vertically from the origin of a source, and shall either:
         (a)   Not allow silt loading to be equal to or greater than 0.33
ounces per square foot; or
         (b)   Not allow the silt content to exceed eight percent.
      (5)   Reporting/recordkeeping: Within 90 days of ordinance adoption,
owners of unpaved parking lots shall provide to the City and the AQMD the
location and ADT estimates and the size (in square feet) of unpaved parking
lots.
      (6)   Owners of unpaved parking lots that utilize chemical dust
suppressants or apply gravel shall compile, and retain for a period of not less
than three years, records indicating the type of product applied, vendor name,
and the method, frequency, concentration, quantity and date(s) of application.
   (C)   Public or private paved roads.
      (1)   Any owner of paved roads shall construct, or require to be
constructed all new or widened paved roads in accordance with the following
standards:
         (a)   Curbing in accordance with the American Association of State
Highway and Transportation Officials guidelines or as an alternative, road
shoulders paved or treated with chemical dust suppressants or washed gravel in
accordance with the performance standards included in §
95A.134(B)(4) with the following minimum widths:
 
Average Daily Trips Minimum Shoulder Width
500 - 3,000         4 feet
3,000 or greater    8 feet
 
         (b)   Paved medians or as an alternative, medians surrounded by
curbing and treated with landscaping, chemical dust suppressants, or washed
gravel applied and maintained in accordance with the performance standards
included in §
95A.134(B)(4).
      (2)   Any owner of public or private paved roads shall remove or cause to
be removed any erosion-caused deposits of greater than 2,500 square feet within
24-hours after receiving notice by the City or the AQMD or prior to resumption
of traffic where the paved area has been closed to vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 1357, passed 12-3-03)
§ 95A.135 ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS; EXEMPTIONS; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Administrative requirements.
      (1)   Any operator preparing a Fugitive Dust Control Plan shall complete
the AQMD Coachella Valley Fugitive Dust Control Class and maintain a current
valid Certificate of Completion.
      (2)   At least one representative of each construction or demolition
general contractor and subcontractor responsible for earth-movement operations
shall complete the AQMD Coachella Valley Fugitive Dust Control Class and
maintain a current valid Certificate of Completion.
      (3)   All reporting / recordkeeping required by §
95A.132(B) shall be provided to the city and AQMD representatives immediately
upon request.
      (4)   All reporting / recordkeeping required by §
95A.133 through §
95A.134(C) shall be provided to the city and AQMD representatives within 24-
hours of a written request.
   (B)   Exemptions.
      (1)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to:
         (a)   Agricultural operations including on-field sources and unpaved
roads used solely for agricultural operations.
         (b)   Any dust-generating activity where necessary fugitive dust
preventive or mitigative actions are in conflict with either federal or State
Endangered Species Act provisions as determined in writing by the appropriate
federal or state agency.
         (c)   Any action required or authorized to implement emergency
operations that are officially declared by the City to ensure the public health
and safety.
      (2)   The provisions of §
95A.132(B) shall not apply to any construction or demolition activity meeting
any of the following activity levels or requirements:
         (a)   The activity is occurring entirely within an enclosed structure
from which no visible airborne particulate matter escapes; or
         (b)   Activities that do not require issuance of a grading permit or
those that require a building permit provided that the project results in 5,000
or less square feet of soil disturbance.
      (3)   The provisions of §
95A.132(B)(8) shall not apply to:
         (a)   Projects that takes two weeks or less to complete provided that
a long-term stabilization technique(s) identified in §
95A.133 are implemented; and
         (b)   Line projects (such as pipelines, cable access lines, and the
like).
   (C)   Compliance.
      (1)   A person violating any section of this subchapter or with any
portion of an approved Dust Control Plan is guilty of an infraction punishable
by a fine of not more than $100 for a first violation and a fine not exceeding
$400 for a second violation within one year. A third violation, or more, within
one year shall each be prosecuted at a level consistent with a misdemeanor
violation.
      (2)   In addition to any other remedy provided by law, failure to correct
any condition indicated in a notice of violation within one hour of issuance
will allow the city to initiate one or more of the following actions where
appropriate:
         (a)   Criminal proceedings.
         (b)   Civil proceedings to obtain an injunction; or any other relief
against the owner or operator to stop operations at the site.
         (c)   Refusal to issue future permits and/or release of securities
held until owner or operator has adequately demonstrated compliance with the
notice of violation.
         (d)   Correction of the condition by the city through the use of any
securities held under this subchapter.
(Ord. 1357, passed 12-3-03)
CHAPTER 95B: DANGEROUS BUILDING ABATEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
95B.101   Purpose and scope
   
95B.102   Alterations, additions and repairs
   
95B.103   Definitions
   
95B.104   Dangerous building defined
Enforcement
   
95B.105   Enforcement
   
95B.106   Declaration of nuisance
   
95B.107   Violations
   
95B.108   Violation notices and orders
   
95B.109   Recordation of notice and order; removal of compliance
   
95B.110   Repair, vacation and demolition
   
95B.111   Notice to vacate
   
95B.112   Inspection of work
Appeals
   
95B.113   Appointment of the Indio Consolidated Appeals Board
   
95B.114   Administrative appeal before the Indio Consolidated Appeals Board
   
95B.115   Effect of failure to appeal
   
95B.116   Scope of hearing of appeal
   
95B.117   Staying of order under appeal
   
95B.118   Procedure for hearing appeals
   
95B.119   Form of notice of hearing
   
95B.120   Conduct of hearing
   
95B.121   Method and form of decision of the Indio Consolidated Appeals Board
   
95B.122   Reserved
   
95B.123   Enforcement of the order of the Enforcement Official and/or Indio
Consolidated Appeals Board
   
95B.124   Extension of time to perform work
Repair and Demolition
   
95B.125   Interference with repair or demolition work prohibited
   
95B.126   Performance of work, repair or demolition
   
95B.127   Recovery of cost
   
95B.128   Lien against property for repair or demolition of building
   
95B.129   Alternative actions
   
95B.130   Misdemeanors prosecuted as infractions
Cross-reference:
   Consolidated Appeals Board, see §
95.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95B.101 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a just, equitable and
practicable method by which:
      (1)   Buildings or structures, which irrespective of cause endanger the
life, limb, health, morals, property, safety or welfare of the general public,
or their occupants, may be required to be repaired, vacated or demolished; and
      (2)   Provisions are made to protect buildings or structures from
vandalism, burglary, or other unlawful acts.
This chapter is based upon the 1994 Edition of the Uniform Code for the
Abatement of Dangerous Buildings and meant to be cumulative with and in
addition to any other remedy provided by the building or housing codes or
otherwise available at law.
   (B)   These provisions shall apply to all dangerous buildings as defined in
§
95B.104 which are now in existence or which may hereafter become dangerous.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98)
§ 95B.102 ALTERATIONS, ADDITIONS AND REPAIRS.
   All buildings or structures which are required to be repaired under the
provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the provisions of the
administrative part of the current referenced codes of
Chapter 151 of the Municipal Code which are applicable to existing buildings
and structures.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98)
§ 95B.103 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATE. To remove the source of the public nuisance either by correcting
specific problems or by removal from public view.
   ABATEMENT COSTS. Also referred to as COSTS OF ABATEMENT and ADMINISTRATIVE
COSTS. They include all costs and expenses incurred by the city in abating a
public nuisance. Such costs include, but are not limited to, the following: the
actual expenses and costs to the city in the preparation of notices,
specification and contracts; inspection of the work; any attorneys’ fees
expended in the abatement of the nuisance, through civil action or otherwise;
all costs and expenses for which the city may be liable under state law arising
from or related to the nuisance abatement action; and all costs or expenses to
which the city may be entitled pursuant to Cal. Health and Safety Code § 520
and other statutory entitlements. ABATEMENT COSTS shall begin to accrue at the
time the city first receives a complaint regarding a problem on the property.
   ABATEMENT HEARING. The administrative appeal before the Board of Appeals
after issuance of a Notice to Abate by an Enforcement Official.
   APPLICABLE STATE CODE. Any state law which protects the health, safety or
welfare of the citizens of the city.
   BOARD OF APPEALS. The three member board appointed by the City Manager,
designated to hear administrative appeals under this chapter.
   BUILDING CODE. The Uniform Building Code promulgated by the International
Conference of Building Officials and currently adopted by ordinance.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Building Official of the city or that individual
qualified to determine if a violation of this code exists, designated by the
city or the City Manager to abate specific instances of dangerous buildings or
conduct special assignments as directed by the City Council or the City
Manager.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the city of Indio.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. The City Manager, the Building Official, the Chief of
Police and any employee or agent of the city so designated by them and charged
with enforcing the Municipal Code of the city or applicable state codes.
   INTERESTED PARTY. The owner, legal occupant, or holder of a recorded
interest of a property subject to a Notice or Order to Abate.
   NOTICE TO ABATE. That notice of a nuisance on the property and instructions
to abate as ordered by an Enforcement Official upon the finding of a nuisance.
   ORDER TO ABATE. That order of the city to abate a nuisance after an
Enforcement Official’s Notice to Abate is upheld by the City Manager or Hearing
Officer at the abatement hearing.
   POLICE CHIEF. The Chief of the Indio Police Department.
   PUBLIC WORKS SUPERINTENDENT. The Public Works Superintendent of the city.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98; Am. Ord. 1611, passed 4-18-12)
§ 95B.104 DANGEROUS BUILDING DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, any building, structure or portion thereof
which has any or all of the conditions or defects hereinafter described shall
be deemed to be a dangerous building provided that such conditions or defects
exist to the extent that the life, health, property or safety of the public or
the occupants are endangered:
   (A)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, stairway, stair rails,
guardrails, or other required means of exit is not of sufficient width or size,
or is not so arranged as to provide safe and adequate means of exit, as
provided by the Building Code or any applicable state code or ordinance of the
city;
   (B)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway, floor
or floor covering is so warped, worn, loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as not to
provide a safe and adequate means of passage;
   (C)   Whenever the stress in any structural materials, member or portion
thereof, due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times
the working stress or stresses allowed in the building code for new buildings
of similar structure, purpose or location;
   (D)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements of the building code for
new buildings of similar structure, purpose or location;
   (E)   Whenever any portion or member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, or to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
   (F)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified in the
building code for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or location
without exceeding the working stresses permitted in the building code for such
buildings;
   (G)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled or settled
to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have materially less
resistance to winds or earthquake than is required in the case of similar new
construction;
   (H)   Whenever the building or structure or any portion thereof is likely to
partially or completely collapse because of:
      (1)   Dilapidation, deterioration or decay;
      (2)   Faulty construction;
      (3)   The removal, movement or instability of any portion of the ground
necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
      (4)   The deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its foundation; or
      (5)   Any other cause.
   (I)   Whenever for any reason the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
   (J)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members list,
lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-half of the base;
   (K)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation, shows
33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members, or 50%
damage or deterioration of its nonsupporting members, enclosing walls or
coverings;
   (L)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire, wind,
earthquake or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to become
either:
      (1)   An attractive nuisance to children;
      (2)   A harbor for vagrants or criminals; or
      (3)   As to enable persons to resort thereto for the purpose of
committing unlawful acts;
   (M)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected in
accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has in any nonsupporting
part, member or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member or
portion less than 66% of either the strength, fire-resisting qualities, or
weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by law in the case of a
newly constructed building of like area, height and occupancy in the same
location;
   (N)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities is determined by the Enforcement Official to be unsanitary, unfit
for human habitation or in such a condition that it is likely to cause sickness
or disease;
   (O)   Wherever any building or structure because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas
connections, or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the
Enforcement Official to be a fire hazard;
   (P)   Whenever any building or structure is in such a condition as to
constitute a public nuisance, under any applicable city ordinance pertaining to
public nuisances or under any applicable state code, including but not limited
to Cal. Gov't Code § 38771 and Cal. Civ. Code § 3480;
   (Q)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure or portion thereof has been abandoned or deserted so
as to constitute an attractive nuisance or hazard to the public.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 95B.105 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Authorization and inspection. Enforcement Officials are authorized to
make such inspections and take such actions as may be required to enforce the
provisions of this chapter. Enforcement Officials are given summary power to
secure entry to any structure or to abate any hazardous condition upon private
property which, after inspection, is determined to be immediately dangerous to
the public health or safety. Enforcement Officials may use any method,
including but not limited to boarding-up, sealing off, and/or posting of
warning, which in their judgment and discretion will be sufficient to safeguard
the life, health and safety of the public or protect the structure from
vandalism, burglary or other unlawful acts. Enforcement Officials shall also
post notice to vacate the building as set forth in §
95B.111 and shall notify the record owner as set forth in §
95B.108.
   (B)   Right of entry. Subject to all applicable legal and constitutional
limitations, whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever an Enforcement Official has reasonable
cause to believe that there exists in any public or private building or upon
any public or private premises any condition or code violation which makes such
building or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, Enforcement Official may
enter the building or premises at all reasonable times to inspect it or to
perform any duty imposed upon the Enforcement Officials by this chapter.
Provided, however, that if such building or premises are occupied, the
Enforcement Official shall first present proper credentials and request entry.
If such building or premises are unoccupied, the Enforcement Official shall
first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having
charge or control of the building or premises and request entry. If such entry
is refused, the Enforcement Official shall have recourse to every remedy
provided by law to gain entry, to include a court-ordered inspection warrant.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98)
§ 95B.106 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   All buildings or portions of buildings which, after inspection by the
Enforcement Official, are determined to be dangerous as defined in this chapter
are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair,
rehabilitation, demolition or removal in accordance with the procedure
specified in this chapter.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98)
§ 95B.107 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person, firm or corporation
to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or
demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or structure or cause or
permit the same to be done in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98)
§ 95B.108 VIOLATION NOTICES AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Commencement of proceedings. Whenever an Enforcement Official has
inspected any building and has found and determined that such building is a
dangerous building, the Enforcement Official shall commence proceedings to
cause the repair, vacation or demolition of the building.
   (B)   Whenever an Enforcement Official has inspected a building and has
probable cause to believe that such building is a dangerous building under §
95B.104, but cannot make such determination based on his/her knowledge or
judgment, then the Enforcement Official shall make a report of the suspect
building to the Building Official stating the date of the inspection; the
address of the building; what sections of the municipal code are believed to be
violated; and any other information deemed important. Within five days of
receipt of the Enforcement Official's suspect building report, the Building
Official shall conduct an inspection of such building. If the Building Official
determines that violations of §
95B.104 are present, the Building Official shall commence proceedings under
his/her own authority as an Enforcement Official to cause the repair, vacation
or demolition of the building or shall submit a written order enumerating the
finding of violations of §
95B.104, and directing the commencement of proceedings to cause the repair,
vacation or demolition of the building.
   (C)   Notice and Order. The Enforcement Official shall issue and serve by
certified mail or personal service a notice and order directed to the record
owner and all interested parties, as set forth in division (C) of this section,
of the building. The notice and order shall contain:
      (1)   Street address and a legal description sufficient for
identification of the premises upon which the building is located;
      (2)   A statement that the Enforcement Official has found the building to
be dangerous with a brief and concise description of the specific conditions
found to render the building dangerous under the provisions of §
95B.104;
      (3)   (a)   If the Enforcement Official has determined that the building
or structure must be repaired, the order shall require that all necessary
permits be secured therefor and the work physically commenced within such time
(not to exceed 30 days from the date of the order) and completed within such
time as the Enforcement Official shall determine is reasonable under all of the
circumstances;
         (b)   If the Enforcement Official has determined that the building or
portion thereof must be vacated, the order shall require those portions to be
vacated within a time certain from the date of the order as determined by the
Enforcement Official to be reasonable;
         (c)   If the Enforcement Official has determined that the building or
structure must be demolished, the order shall require that the building be
vacated within such time as the Enforcement Official shall determine is
reasonable (not to exceed 60 days from the date of the order), that all
required permits be secured therefor within 60 days from the date of the order,
and that the demolition be completed within such time as the Enforcement
Official shall determine is reasonable;
      (4)   Statements advising that if any required repair or demolition work
without vacation also being required is not commenced within the time
specified, the Enforcement Official (1) will order the building vacated and
posted to prevent further occupancy until the work is completed and (2) may
proceed to cause the work to be done and charge the costs thereof against the
property or its owner;
      (5)   Statements advising (1) that any person having any record title or
legal interest in the building may appeal from the notice and order or any
action of the Enforcement Official to the Board of Appeals, provided the appeal
is made in writing as provided in this chapter and filed with the City Clerk
within 30 days from the date of service of such notice and order: and (2) that
failure to appeal will constitute a waiver of all right to an administrative
hearing and determination of the matter.
   (D)   Service of Notice and Order. The notice and order, and any amended or
supplemental notice and order shall be served upon the record owner and posted
on the property. One copy shall also be served on each of the following if
known to the Enforcement Official or disclosed from official public records in
the possession of the city:
      (1)   The holder of any mortgage or deed of trust or other lien or
encumbrance of record;
      (2)   The owner or holder of any lease of record; and
      (3)   The holder of any other estate or legal interest of record in or to
the building or the land on which it is located.
The failure of the Enforcement Official to serve any person listed herein shall
not invalidate any proceedings as to any other person duly served or relieve
such person from any duty or obligation imposed on him by the provisions of
this section.
   (E)   Method of service. Service of the notice and order shall be made upon
all persons so entitled either personally or by mailing a copy of such notice
and order by certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, to each
such person at his address as it appears on the last equalized assessment roll
of the county, or as known to the Enforcement Official. If no address of any
such person so appears or is known, then a copy of the notice and order shall
be so mailed to the address of the building involved in the proceedings. The
failure of any such person to receive such notice shall not affect the validity
of any proceedings taken under this section. Service by certified mail in the
manner herein provided shall be effective five days after the date of mailing.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98)
§ 95B.109 RECORDATION OF NOTICE AND ORDER; REMOVAL AFTER COMPLIANCE.
   If compliance with the order has not been accomplished within the time
specified and no appeal has been properly and timely filed, the Enforcement
Official shall file in the office of the County Recorder a certificate
describing the property and certifying that the building is a dangerous
building and that the owner has been so notified. Whenever the corrections
ordered by the Enforcement Official shall have been completed or the building
demolished so that it no longer exists as a dangerous building on the property
described in the certificate, the Enforcement Official shall file a new
certificate with the County Recorder certifying that the building has been
demolished or all required corrections have been made so that the building is
no longer dangerous, whichever is appropriate.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98)
§ 95B.110 REPAIR, VACATION AND DEMOLITION.
   The following standards shall be followed by the Enforcement Official in
ordering the repair, vacation or demolition of any dangerous building or
structure:
   (A)   Any building declared a dangerous building under this chapter shall
either be repaired in accordance with the current building code or shall be
demolished at the option of the building owner;
   (B)   If the owner or any other Interested Party fails to take any action,
the Enforcement Official, in deciding whether to require vacation and
demolition of the building or to repair as necessary, shall give preference to
the repair of the building, whenever it is economically feasible to do so
without having to repair more than 75% of the structure or if the expense of
repair exceeds 75% of the value of the structure, as determined by the
Enforcement Official, and shall give full consideration, where applicable, to
the need for housing, as expressed in the Housing Element.
   (C)   If the building or structure is in such condition as to make it
immediately dangerous to life, limb, property or safety of the public or its
occupants, it shall be ordered to be vacated.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98)
§ 95B.111 NOTICE TO VACATE.
   (A)   Posting. Every notice to vacate shall, in addition to being served as
provided in §
95B.108 be posted at or upon each exit of the building and shall be in
substantially the following form:
   DO NOT ENTER
   UNSAFE TO OCCUPY
   It is a misdemeanor to occupy this building,
   or to remove or deface this notice.
   Building Official
   City of Indio
   (B)   Compliance. Whenever such notice is posted, the Enforcement Official
shall include a notification thereof in the notice and order issued under §
95B.108, reciting the emergency and specifying the conditions which necessitate
the posting. No person shall remain in or enter any building which has been so
posted, except that entry may be made to inspect, repair, demolish or remove
such building under permit. No person shall remove or deface any such notice
after it is posted until the required repairs, demolition or removal have been
completed and a certificate of occupancy issued pursuant to the provisions of
the building code. Any person violating this division shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98)
§ 95B.112 INSPECTION OF WORK.
   All buildings or structures within the scope of this chapter and all
construction or work for which a permit is required shall be subject to
inspection by an Enforcement Official in accordance with and in the manner
provided by this chapter and the Indio Municipal Building Code.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98)
APPEALS
§ 95B.113 APPOINTMENT OF THE INDIO CONSOLIDATED APPEALS BOARD.
   The Indio Consolidated Appeals Board shall hear and decide appeals of
orders, decisions and determinations made by the Enforcement Official.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98; Am. Ord. 1589, passed 3-16-11)
§ 95B.114 ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL BEFORE THE INDIO CONSOLIDATED APPEALS BOARD.
   (A)   Form of appeal. Any person entitled to service under §
95B.108 may appeal from any notice and order or any action of the Enforcement
Official under this chapter by filing at the office of the City Clerk a written
appeal containing:
      (1)   The names of all appellants participating in the appeal;
      (2)   A brief statement setting forth the legal interest of each of the
appellants in the building or the land involved in the notice and order;
      (3)   A brief statement describing the specific order or action
protested, together with any material facts claimed to support the contentions
of the appellants;
      (4)   A brief statement of the relief sought and the reasons why it is
claimed the protested order or action should be reversed, modified or otherwise
set aside;
      (5)   The signatures of all parties named as appellants or their
representatives, their mailing addresses and telephone numbers.
The appeal shall be filed within 30 days from the date of service of such order
or action of the Enforcement Official; provided, however, that if the building
or structure is in such condition as to make it immediately dangerous to the
life, limb, property or safety of the public or adjacent property and is
ordered vacated and posted in accordance with this chapter, such appeal shall
be filed within ten days from the date of the service of the notice and order
of the Enforcement Official.
   (B)   Processing of appeal. Upon receipt of any appeal filed pursuant to
this section, the City Clerk shall tender it to the City Manager who shall
notify the Enforcement Official issuing the Notice and Order, and the Indio
Consolidated Appeals Board.
   (C)   Scheduling and noticing appeal for hearing. As soon as practicable
after receiving the written appeal, the Indio Consolidated Appeals Board shall
fix the date, time and place for hearing of the appeal. Such date shall be not
less than ten days nor more than 60 days from the date the appeal was filed
with the City Clerk. Written notice of the time and place of the hearing shall
be given to each appellant at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing,
either by causing a copy of such notice to be delivered to the appellant
personally or by mailing a copy thereof, postage prepaid, addressed to the
appellant at the address shown on the appeal.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98; Am. Ord. 1589, passed 3-16-11)
§ 95B.115 EFFECT OF FAILURE TO APPEAL.
   Failure of any person to file an appeal in accordance with the provisions of
§
95B.114 shall constitute a waiver of the right to an administrative hearing and
adjudication of the Notice and Order, or any portion thereof.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98)
§ 95B.116 SCOPE OF HEARING OF APPEAL.
   Only those matters or issues specifically raised by the appellant shall be
considered in the hearing of the appeal.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98)
§ 95B.117 STAYING OF ORDER UNDER APPEAL.
   Except for orders to vacate the premises made pursuant to §
95B.114, enforcement of any notice and order of the Enforcement Official issued
under this code shall be stayed during the pendency of an appeal therefrom
which is properly and timely filed.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98)
§ 95B.118 PROCEDURE FOR HEARING APPEALS.
   (A)   Reasonable diligence. The Indo Consolidated Appeals Board shall
proceed with reasonable diligence to conclude any matter before it. Although
due regard shall be shown for the convenience and necessity of any parties or
their representatives, the Indio Consolidated Appeals Board may grant
continuances only for good cause shown.
   (B)   Record. A record of the entire proceedings shall be made by tape
recording, or by any other means of permanent recording determined to be
appropriate by the Indio Consolidated Appeals Board.
   (C)   Reporting. The proceedings at the hearing shall also be reported by a
stenographic reporter if requested by any party thereto at that party's
expense. A transcript of the proceedings shall be made available to all parties
upon request and upon payment of the fee for the transcription.
   (D)   Oaths/certification. In any proceedings under this section, the Indio
Consolidated Appeals Board has the power to administer oaths and affirmations
and to certify to official acts.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98; Am. Ord. 1589, passed 3-16-11)
§ 95B.119 FORM OF NOTICE OF HEARING.
   The notice to appellant shall be substantially in the following form but may
include other information:
"You are hereby notified that a hearing will be held before the Indo
Consolidated Appeals Board at ________________(place), on
                                            , 20      , at ______________ A.M./
P.M., upon the Notice and Order served upon you. You must be present at the
hearing. You may be, but need not be, represented by counsel. You may present
any relevant evidence and will be given full opportunity to question all
witnesses testifying against you."
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98; Am. Ord. 1589, passed 3-16-11)
§ 95B.120 CONDUCT OF HEARING.
   (A)   Rules. Hearings need not be conducted according to the technical rules
relating to evidence and witnesses.
   (B)   Oral evidence. Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath or
affirmation.
   (C)   Hearsay evidence. Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of
supplementing or explaining any direct evidence, but shall not be sufficient in
itself to support a finding, unless it would be admissible over objection in
civil action in courts of competent jurisdiction in this state.
   (D)   Admissibility of evidence. Any relevant evidence shall be admitted if
it is the type of evidence on which responsible persons are accustomed to rely
upon in the conduct of serious affairs.
   (E)   Exclusion of evidence. Irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence
shall be excluded at the discretion of the Indio Consolidated Appeals Board.
   (F)   Rights of parties. Each party shall have these rights, among others:
      (1)   To call and examine witnesses on any matter relevant to the issues
of the hearing;
      (2)   To introduce documentary, photographic, and physical evidence;
      (3)   To question opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to the issues
of the hearing;
      (4)   To impeach any witness regardless of which party first called him
to testify;
      (5)   To rebut the evidence against that party first called to testify;
      (6)   To represent him/herself or to be represented by an attorney.
   (G)   Official notice.
      (1)   What may be noticed. In reaching a decision, official notice may be
taken, either before or after submission of the case for decision, of any fact
which may be judicially noticed by the courts of this state.
      (2)   Parties to be notified. Parties present at the hearing shall be
informed of the matters to be noticed.
      (3)   Opportunity to refute. Parties present at the hearing shall be
given a reasonable opportunity, on request, to refute the officially noticed
matters by evidence or by written or oral presentation of authority.
      (4)   Inspection of the premises. The Indio Consolidated Appeals Board
may inspect any or all premises involved in the appeal during the course of the
hearing; provided that (1) notice of such inspection shall be given to the
parties before the inspection is made; (2) the parties are given an opportunity
to be present during the inspection; and (3) the Indio Consolidated Appeals
Board shall state for the record upon completion of the inspection the material
facts observed and the conclusions drawn. Each party then shall have a right to
rebut or explain the matters so stated by the Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98; Am. Ord. 1589, passed 3-16-11)
§ 95B.121 METHOD AND FORM OF DECISION OF THE INDIO CONSOLIDATED APPEALS BOARD.
   The Indio Consolidated Appeals Board shall, within 15 days from the date
that the hearing is closed, file a written decision in the office of the City
Clerk, and a copy of said decision shall be served on each appellant by
certified mail or personal service. If the Indio Consolidated Appeals Board
determines that the building or portions thereof are dangerous and a nuisance,
the Indio Consolidated Appeals Board shall issue an Order to Abate directing
the appellant(s) to commence abatement of the nuisance within 15 days after the
service of the decision and to complete the abatement within 60 days or within
such time as the Indio Consolidated Appeals Board shall determine to be
reasonable, by having the building or property reconstructed or repaired or by
having the same razed or removed, and notifying the appellant that if the
nuisance is not abated within the time provided, the building will be
reconstructed or repaired, or razed, demolished and removed by the city, as
determined by the Indio Consolidated Appeals Board, and the expenses made a
lien on the lot or parcel of land upon which the building is located. Such
decision shall contain a brief summary of the evidence considered and state the
Indio Consolidated Appeals Board's findings, conclusions and recommendations.
The decision of the Indio Consolidated Appeals Board shall be final.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98; Am. Ord. 1589, passed 3-16-11; Am. Ord. 1611, passed
4-18-12)
§ 95B.122 RESERVED.
§ 95B.123 ENFORCEMENT OF THE ORDER OF THE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL AND/OR INDIO
CONSOLIDATED APPEALS BOARD.
   (A)   General. After any order of an Enforcement Official or the Indio
Consolidated Appeals Board made pursuant to this chapter shall have become
final, no person to whom any such order is directed shall fail, neglect or
refuse to obey any such order. Any such person who fails to comply with any
such order is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Failure to obey order. After any order of an Enforcement Official or
the Indio Consolidated Appeals Board made pursuant to this chapter has become
final, should the person to whom such order is directed fail, neglect or refuse
to obey such order, the Enforcement Official may:
      (1)   Refer the matter to the City Attorney who may cause such person to
be prosecuted under division (A) of this section; and/or
      (2)   Institute any appropriate action to abate such building as a public
nuisance.
   (C)   Failure to commence work. Whenever the required repair or demolition
is not commenced within ten days after any final notice and order issued under
this chapter becomes effective:
      (1)   The Enforcement Official shall cause the building described in such
notice and order it to be vacated by posting at each entrance thereto a notice
reading:
   DANGEROUS BUILDING
   DO NOT OCCUPY
   It is a misdemeanor to occupy this building
   or to remove or deface this notice.
   Building Official
   City of Indio
      (2)   No person shall occupy any building which has been posted as
specified in this division. No person shall remove or deface any such notice so
posted until the repairs, demolition or removal ordered by the Enforcement
Official have been completed and a certificate of occupancy issued pursuant to
the provisions of the city Building Code. Any person violating this division
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (3)   The Enforcement Official may, in addition to any other remedy
herein provided, cause the building to be repaired to the extent necessary to
correct the conditions which render the building dangerous as set forth in the
notice and order under §
95B.108; or, if the notice and order required demolition, to cause the building
to be demolished and the materials, rubble and debris removed and the lot
cleaned. Any such repair or demolition work shall be accomplished and the cost
thereof paid and recovered in the manner hereinafter provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98; Am. Ord. 1589, passed 3-16-11)
§ 95B.124 EXTENSION OF TIME TO PERFORM WORK.
   Upon receipt of an application from the person required to conform to the
order and an agreement by such person that he or she will comply with the order
if allowed additional time, the Enforcement Official may, at his or her
discretion, grant an extension of time, not to exceed an additional 120 days,
within which to complete the agreed-upon repair, rehabilitation or demolition.
Such extension shall be based on a determination by the Enforcement Official
that such an extension of time will not create or perpetuate a situation
imminently dangerous to life or property. The Enforcement Official’s authority
to extend time is limited to the physical repair, rehabilitation or demolition
of the premises and will not in any way affect the time to appeal the original
notice and order.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98)
REPAIR AND DEMOLITION
§ 95B.125 INTERFERENCE WITH REPAIR OR DEMOLITION WORK PROHIBITED.
   No person shall obstruct, impede or interfere with any officer, employee,
contractor or authorized representative of the city or with any person who owns
or holds any estate or interest in any building which has been ordered
repaired, vacated or demolished under the provisions of this chapter, or with
any person to whom such building has been lawfully sold pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, whenever such person is engaged in the work of
repairing, vacating and repairing, or demolishing any such building, pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter, or in performing any necessary act
preliminary to or incidental to such work or authorized or directed pursuant to
this chapter. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98)
§ 95B.126 PERFORMANCE OF WORK, REPAIR OR DEMOLITION.
   When any work of repair or demolition is to be undertaken by the city
pursuant to this chapter, the Enforcement Official shall issue an order for
such repair or demolition to the Public Works Superintendent and the work shall
be accomplished by personnel of the city or by private contractor under the
direction of the Public Works Superintendent or designee. Plans and
specifications may be prepared by the Public Works Superintendent or designee,
or the Public Works Superintendent may employ such architectural and
engineering assistance on a contract basis as deemed reasonably necessary. If
any part of the work is to be accomplished by private contract, the Public
Works Superintendent shall follow standard public works contractual procedures.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98)
§ 95B.127 RECOVERY OF COST.
   The Public Works Superintendent shall keep an itemized account of the
expenses incurred, including administrative costs, for the repair or demolition
work. The Public Works Superintendent shall mail a copy of the accounting to
the persons who have interest in the property, together with a notice of the
time and place that the statement will be submitted to the City Council for
confirmation and approval, and at which time the City Council will consider any
objection which may be raised by any party involved in the proceeding.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98)
§ 95B.128 LIEN AGAINST PROPERTY FOR REPAIR OR DEMOLITION OF BUILDING.
   (A)   At the time fixed for the hearing of the statement of expense, the
City Council shall consider the statement together with any objections or
protests which may be raised by any of the property owners or interested party
liable to be assessed for the doing of the work, after which, by resolution,
the report as submitted, or as ordered, revised, corrected or modified by the
City Council, shall be confirmed and adopted. If the statement is not paid
within five days after the passing of the resolution, it shall constitute a
lien on the real property from which the structure was repaired or removed, and
shall be collected as a special assessment against the real property. The
resolution shall further direct that the City Clerk shall file with the County
Auditor and the County Tax Assessor and Tax Collector certified copies of the
resolution and the statement adopted in the resolution. The City Clerk shall
direct the auditor to enter the amounts of the charges against the real
property described in the statement and resolution as it appears on the current
assessment roll. The amount of the charges shall constitute a lien against the
real property against which the charges have been imposed. The tax collector
shall include the amount of the charges on bills for taxes levied against the
real property. Thereafter, the amount of the charges shall be collected at the
same time and in the same manner and by the same person as, together with and
not separately from, the general taxes for the city and shall be subject to the
same penalties and interest upon delinquent payment.
   (B)   In the event that the Enforcement Official has caused summary
abatement as set forth in §§
95B.108 et seq., additional methods of insuring payment of costs incurred by
the city are hereby set forth:
      (1)   If the building is vacant or unoccupied, the Enforcement Official
is authorized to order all utility companies to discontinue utility service and
not restore service until authorized by the Enforcement Official. Notice to the
utility companies may be given verbally and the disconnect order shall be
confirmed in written form;
      (2)   Administrative costs may be recovered as set forth in §
95B.127; or
      (3)   Administrative costs may be recovered by increasing the fee charged
for the permit to repair or demolish the structure.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98)
§ 95B.129 ALTERNATIVE ACTIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the city from
commencing a civil action to abate a nuisance in addition to, alternatively to,
or in conjunction with, the proceedings set forth in this chapter, nor shall
anything in this chapter be deemed to prevent the city from commencing a
criminal action with respect to the nuisance in addition to, alternatively to,
or in conjunction with, the proceedings set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter is not the exclusive regulation of property maintenance.
It shall be supplemental and in addition to the other regulatory codes,
statutes, and ordinances heretofore or hereinafter enacted by the city, state,
or any other legal entity or agency having jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98)
§ 95B.130 MISDEMEANORS PROSECUTED AS INFRACTIONS.
   Any violation of this chapter constituting a misdemeanor may, in the
discretion of the City Attorney, be charged and prosecuted as an infraction.
(Ord. 1226, passed 8-5-98)
CHAPTER 95C: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
95C.01   Purpose
   
95C.02   Definitions
   
95C.03   General prohibitions
   
95C.04   Disturbing, excessive, offensive noises; declaration of certain acts
constituting
   
95C.05   Burglar alarms
   
95C.06   Sound trucks–commercial and noncommercial
   
95C.07   Prohibited conduct for commercial sound trucks; food vendors
   
95C.08   Disturbing, excessive, offensive noises or vibration created by
vehicle(s), tools, machinery; declaration of certain acts
   
95C.09   Special provisions; exemptions
   
95C.10   Enforcement procedures
   
95C.11   Enforcement authority
   
95C.12   Violation; infractions
   
95C.13   Continuing or subsequent violations; misdemeanor
   
95C.14   Excessive noise and vibration from vehicles
§ 95C.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to implement regulations and general
administrative procedure to control and abate unnecessary, excessive and
annoying noise and vibration. It is further the purpose of this chapter to
recognize that the existence of excessive noise and vibration within the city
is a condition that is detrimental to the peace, health, safety, welfare and
quality of life of the citizens and shall be regulated in the public interest.
(Ord. 1267, passed 4-5-00)
§ 95C.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms have the meanings given:
   AMBIENT NOISE LEVEL. The all-encompassing noise associated with a given
environment being a composite of all sources.
   AVERAGE SOUND LEVEL. A sound level typical of the sound levels at a certain
place during a given period of time; also, an equivalent continuous sound
level.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSES. The use, operation or maintenance of any sound
amplifying equipment mounted on a sound truck for the purpose of advertising
any business, or any goods, wares, merchandise, or services, and for the
purpose of attracting the attention of the public to, or advertising for, or
soliciting patronage of customers to or for any performance, show,
entertainment, exhibition, or event, or for the purpose of demonstrating any
such sound equipment.
   CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT. Tools, machinery or equipment used in connection
with construction operations, including all types of "special construction"
equipment as defined in the pertinent sections of California Vehicle Code when
used in the construction process on any construction site, home improvement
site or property maintenance site, regardless of whether such site is located
on highway or off-highway.
   DISTURBING, EXCESSIVE OR OFFENSIVE NOISE. Any sound or noise in excess of
the sound levels or noise levels set forth in this chapter for permissible
noises.
   FIXED NOISE SOURCE. A stationary device which creates sound, which is fixed
or motionless including, but not limited to, industrial and commercial
machinery and equipment, pumps, fans, compressors, generators, air conditioners
and refrigeration equipment.
   MOBILE NOISE SOURCE. Any noise source other than fixed noise source.
   NOISE LEVEL. Is interchangeable with SOUND LEVEL.
   NONCOMMERCIAL. The use of, operation or maintenance of any sound equipment
for other than a commercial purpose. NONCOMMERCIAL PURPOSES means and includes,
but is not limited to, philanthropic, patriotic, charitable, political or
community promotion purposes.
   SIMPLE TONE NOISE. Noise characterized by a predominant frequency or
frequencies so that other frequencies cannot be readily distinguished.
   SOUND AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT. Any machine or device for the amplification of
the human voice, music or any other sound.  SOUND AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT shall
not be construed as including standard automobile radios when used and heard
only by the occupants of the vehicle in which installed or warning devices on
authorized emergency vehicles.
   SOUND TRUCK. Any motor vehicle or other vehicle regardless of motive power
whether in motion or stationary having mounted thereon, built-in or attached
thereto any sound amplifying equipment.
(Ord. 1267, passed 4-5-00)
§ 95C.03 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause to be
made or continued, within the city limits or within 200 feet thereof, any
disturbing excessive or offensive noise or vibration which causes discomfort or
annoyance to any reasonable person of normal sensitivity in the area or that is
plainly audible at a distance greater than 50 feet from the source point for
any purpose.
   (B)   The characteristics and conditions which should be considered in
determining whether a violation of the provisions of this section exists should
include, but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   The level of the noise;
      (2)   Whether the nature of the noise is usual or unusual;
      (3)   Whether the origin of the noise is natural or unnatural;
      (4)   The level of the ambient noise;
      (5)   The proximity of the noise to sleeping facilities;
      (6)   The nature and zoning of the area from which the noise emanates and
the area where it is received;
      (7)   The time of day or night the noise occurs;
      (8)   The duration of the noise; and
      (9)   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent, or constant.
(Ord. 1267, passed 4-5-00)
§ 95C.04 DISTURBING, EXCESSIVE, OFFENSIVE NOISES; DECLARATION OF CERTAIN ACTS
CONSTITUTING.
   The following activities, among others, are declared to cause disturbing,
excessive or offensive noises in violation of this chapter and
Chapter 95A and are unlawful, namely:
   (A)   Horns, Signaling Devices, and the like. Unnecessary use or operation
of horns, signaling devices, or other similar devices, on automobiles,
motorcycles, or any other vehicle.
   (B)   Radios, Television Sets, Phonographs, Loud Speaking Amplifiers and
Similar Devices.
      (1)   Uses Restricted. The use or operation of any sound production or
reproduction device, radio receiving set, musical instrument, drums,
phonograph, television set, loud speakers, sound amplifier or other similar
machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such a manner as
to disturb the peace, quiet, or comfort of any reasonable person of normal
sensitivity in any area of the city is prohibited.
      (2)   Prima Facie Violations. Any of the following shall constitute
evidence of a prima facie violation of this section:
         (a)   The operation of any such sound production or reproduction
device, radio receiving set, musical instrument, drum, phonograph, television
set, machine, loud speaker and sound amplifier or similar machine or device in
such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from the
building, structure or vehicle in which located, or from the source point.
         (b)   The operation of any sound amplifier, which is part of, or
connected to, any radio, stereo receiver, compact disc player, cassette tape
player, or other similar device when operated in such a manner as to be plainly
audible at a distance of 50 feet from the source point or when operated in such
a manner as to cause a person to be aware of vibration at a distance of 50 feet
from the source point.
      (3)   Enforcement of Prima Facie violations.
         (a)   Any person who is authorized to enforce the provisions of this
chapter and who encounters evidence of a prima facie violation of this section
is empowered to confiscate and impound as evidence, any or all of the
components amplifying or transmitting the sound.
         (b)   Any peace officer, as defined in Cal. Penal Code, Ch. 4.5 §§ 830
et seq., who encounters evidence of a prima facie violation of this section
whereby the component(s) amplifying or transmitting the sound are attached to a
vehicle may, in accordance with the provisions of Cal. Veh. Code § 22655.5,
impound the vehicle, as containing evidence of a criminal offense, when the
amplifying and/or transmitting component(s) cannot be readily removed from the
vehicle without damaging the component(s) or vehicle.
   (C)   Animals.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
92.08 (E) of this code, it shall be unlawful for any person having charge,
care, custody, or control of any animal to keep, maintain, or to permit to be
kept or maintained upon any premises owned, occupied, or controlled by any
person to permit such animal to emit any excessive noise which is disturbing or
offensive. Excessive noise includes, but is not limited to, loud persistent or
habitual dog barking, howling, or yelping.
      (2)   No person, after being informed orally or in writing that his dog
or other animal has by barking or other noise or sound disturbed any other
person's peace and quiet, shall fail, refuse or neglect to take whatever steps
or use whatever means are necessary to assure that the dog or animal does not
again disturb the other person's peace and quiet.
      (3)   The Noisy Animal Petition shall include a description of the noisy
animal(s), the name, address, and telephone number of the complainant, as well
as the address of the animal owner, person having charge of the animal, or
custodian of the animal and a description of the noise.
      (4)   The city shall enforce this chapter as follows:
         (a)   Upon receiving a Noisy Animal Petition complaint involving
whining, barking, howling, screeching or similar animal noise, the city shall
cause the following to be performed:
            1.   The Enforcement Officer will advise the owner or person in
charge of the animal by mail or personal service, to quiet the animal within 72
hours of the notification, and failure to comply with the order may result in
the matter being referred to the District Attorney or City Attorney for
litigation.
            2.    72 hours after the notification has been made the Enforcement
Officer shall re-contact the complainant who filed the Noisy Animal Petition to
see if the problem has been resolved.
               a.   If the problem has been resolved there shall be no further
action and the Noisy Animal Petition shall be kept on file for a period of one
year.
               b.   If the noisy animal has not been quieted and the situation
has not been resolved at the end of this 72 hour period, a citation shall be
issued to either the animal owner, person having charge of the animal, or
custodian of the animal.
         (b)    Upon receipt of a subsequent Noisy Animal Petition being filed
within six months to the same animal owner, person having charge of the animal,
or custodian of the animal for the same violation, the Animal Control Officer
shall issue a citation to either the animal owner, person having charge of the
animal, or custodian of the animal for violation of this chapter.
      (5)   A habitually barking dog or other animal may be ordered removed
from the incorporated area of the city as a public nuisance, in accordance with
Chapter 95A of this code, by the Police Department, Animal Control Supervisor,
Code Enforcement Supervisor or his or her designee if he or she has such
evidence to show that the animal is a threat to the health, safety, general
welfare or peace and quiet of the general public.
   (D)   Hospitals, Schools, Libraries, Rest Homes, Long-Term Medical or Mental
Care Facilities. To make noise adjacent to a hospital, school, library, rest
home, or long-term medical or mental care facility, which noise reasonably
interferes with the workings of such institutions or which disturbs or unduly
annoys occupants in said institutions.
   (E)   Playing of Radios on Buses, Public Transportation.   The operation of
any radio, phonograph, or tape player on an urban transit bus or trolley so as
to emit noise that is audible to any other person in the vehicle is prohibited.
   (F)   Leaf Blowers.
      (1)   A LEAF BLOWER means any portable, hand held or back pack, engine
powered device with a nozzle that creates a directable airstream which is
capable of and intended for moving leaves and light materials.
      (2)   Leaf blowers shall only be operated between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 8:00 p.m. on any day except on Sunday when they may only be operated
between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
      (3)   Leaf blowers shall be equipped with functional mufflers and an
approved sound limiting device required to ensure that the leaf blower is not
capable of generating a sound level exceeding any limit prescribed in this
chapter.
   (G)   Yelling, Shouting, etc.   Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or
singing on the public streets or on any publicly owned property between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m., or at any time or place so as to disturb the
quiet comfort or repose of persons in any office, or in any dwelling, hotel or
other type of residence or persons in the close proximity shall be considered a
violation of this section.
(Ord. 1267, passed 4-5-00)
§ 95C.05 BURGLAR ALARMS.
   (A)   Audible burglar alarms for structures or motor vehicles are prohibited
unless the operation of such burglar alarm will be terminated within ten
minutes of being activated.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the requirements of this chapter, any member of the
Police Department of the city shall have the right to take such steps as may be
reasonable and necessary to disconnect any such alarm installed in any
building, dwelling, or motor vehicle at any time during the period of its
activation. This section does not preclude the towing and storage of vehicles
in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Cal. Veh. Code § 22651.5.
(Ord. 1267, passed 4-5-00)
§ 95C.06 SOUND TRUCK–COMMERCIAL AND NONCOMMERCIAL.
   (A)   No person shall use, or cause to be used, a sound truck with its sound
amplifying equipment in operation for commercial or noncommercial purposes in
the city, before filing a written Sound Truck Registration statement with the
city Business Licensing Department.
   (B)   Preexisting commercial and non-commercial sound trucks operating in
the city prior to the date of adoption of the ordinance codified in this
chapter shall be granted a 60 day period from the date of adoption within which
to comply with the provisions of this chapter and file a Sound Truck
Registration form with the city Business Licensing Clerk.
   (C)   This Sound Truck Registration statement shall be filed in duplicate
and shall state the following:
      (1)   Name and home address of the applicant;
      (2)   Address of place of business of applicant;
      (3)   License number and motor number of the sound truck to be used by
applicant;
      (4)   Name and address of person who owns the sound truck;
      (5)   Name and address of person having direct charge of the sound truck;
      (6)   Names and addresses of all persons who will use or operate the
sound truck;
      (7)   The purpose for which the sound truck will be used;
      (8)   A general statement as to the section or sections of the city in
which the sound truck will be used;
      (9)   The proposed hours of operation of the sound truck;
      (10)   The number of days of proposed operation of the sound truck;
      (11)   Proof of current liability insurance;
      (12)   A general description of the sound amplifying equipment which is
to be used;
      (13)   The maximum sound producing power of the sound amplifying
equipment to be used in or on the sound truck as follows:
         (a)   The wattage to be used;
         (b)   The volume in decibels of the sound which will be produced;
         (c)   The approximate maximum distance which sound will be thrown from
the sound truck.
   (D)   All persons using, or causing to be used, sound trucks for commercial
and noncommercial purposes shall amend any registration statement filed
pursuant to division (A) within 48 hours after any change in the information
therein furnished.
   (E)   The Business Licensing Clerk shall return to each applicant under
division (A) herein, one copy of the registration statement duly certified as a
correct copy of the application. The certified copy of the application shall be
in the possession of any person operating the sound truck at all times while
the sound truck's sound amplifying equipment is in operation and the copy shall
be presented to any enforcement officer of the city upon request.
   (F)   Noncommercial and commercial use of sound trucks in the city with
sound amplifying equipment in operation shall be subject to the following
regulations:
      (1)   The only sounds permitted are music or human speech;
      (2)   Operations are permitted during daylight hours each day. No sound
amplifying equipment shall be used during hours of darkness.  DARKNESS is
defined as any time from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before
sunrise and any other time when visibility is not sufficient to render clearly
discernable any person or vehicle on the roadway at a distance of 1,000 feet;
      (3)   Sound amplifying equipment shall only be operated when the sound
truck upon which such equipment is mounted is operated at a speed of at least
ten miles per hour. When stationary the sound amplifying equipment shall not be
operated;
      (4)   Sound amplification equipment shall not be operated within 100
yards of hospitals, schools, churches, courthouses, or polling places;
      (5)   The human speech and music amplified shall not be profane, lewd,
indecent, or slanderous;
      (6)   The volume of sound shall be controlled so that it will not be
plainly audible for a distance in excess of 50 feet from the sound truck and so
that the volume is not unreasonably loud, raucous, jarring, disturbing, or a
nuisance to persons within the area of audibility;
      (7)   No sound amplifying equipment shall be operated with an excess of
15 watts of power in the last state of amplification; and
      (8)   Sound amplifying equipment shall not exceed a threshold sound
output of 70 decibels when measured at a distance of ten feet. The measurement
is to be taken directly in front of the primary output source.
(Ord. 1267, passed 4-5-00)
§ 95C.07 PROHIBITED CONDUCT FOR COMMERCIAL SOUND TRUCKS; FOOD VENDORS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of
Chapter 114 of this code, it shall be unlawful for any person including, but
not limited to vending truck operators to sound, blow or operate any music,
chimes or bells, or any similar sound device amplified or otherwise, that can
be heard for a distance greater than 50 feet for any purpose.
(Ord. 1267, passed 4-5-00)
§ 95C.08 DISTURBING, EXCESSIVE, OFFENSIVE NOISES OR VIBRATION CREATED BY
VEHICLE(S), TOOLS, MACHINERY; DECLARATION OF CERTAIN ACTS CONSTITUTING.
   The following activities, among others, are declared to cause disturbing,
excessive or offensive noises or vibration in violation of this section but
such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   (A)   Standing motor vehicles. No person shall operate or permit the
operation of any motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating in excess of
10,000 pounds, or any auxiliary equipment attached to such a vehicle, including
but not limited to refrigerated truck compressors, for a period longer than 15
minutes in any hour while the vehicle is stationary and on a public right-of-
way or public space, within 150 feet of a residential area between the hours of
7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., except when movement of said vehicle is restricted by
other traffic.
   (B)   Controlled hours of operation. Notwithstanding the provisions of
Chapter 151 of this code it shall be unlawful for any person to operate,
permit, use or cause to operate, any of the following:
      (1)   Powered model vehicles/planes;
      (2)   Loading and unloading of vehicles, operating of fork lifts or
cranes within 1,000 feet of a residence [exempted if distance from residential
area exceeds 1,000 feet or as it may be reduced by the Planning Commission
subject to design review or conditional use permit]; and
      (3)   Construction tools and machinery.
   Other than between the hours of:
      (1)   Pacific Standard Time.
         (a)   Monday through Friday, 7:00 a.m. through 6:00 p.m.
         (b)   Saturday, 8:00 a.m. through 6:00 p.m.
         (c)   Sunday, 9:00 a.m. through 5:00 p.m.
         (d)   Government Holidays, 9:00 a.m. through 5:00 p.m.
      (2)   Pacific Daylight Time.
         (a)   Monday through Friday, 6:00 a.m. through 6:00 p.m.
         (b)   Saturday, 7:00 a.m. through 6:00 p.m.
         (c)   Sunday, 9:00 a.m. through 5:00 p.m.
         (d)   Government Holidays, 9:00 a.m. through 5:00 p.m.
(Ord. 1267, passed 4-5-00; Am. Ord. 1477, passed 9-20-06)
§ 95C.09 SPECIAL PROVISIONS; EXEMPTIONS.
   The following activities shall be exempted from the provisions of this
chapter:
   (A)   Those noise events in the community (e.g. arterial traffic noise,
railroad noise) that are more accurately measured by application of the general
plan noise element policy, utilizing the community noise equivalent level
(CNEL) method.
   (B)   School bands, school athletic and school entertainment events.
   (C)   Outdoor gatherings, public dances, shows and sporting and
entertainment events provided said events are authorized by the city via
permit, or previously approved development agreement.
   (D)   Activities conducted in public parks and public playgrounds with a
valid city permit.
   (E)   Any mechanical device, apparatus or equipment used, related to or
connected with emergency machinery, vehicle or work.
   (F)   All mechanical devices, apparatus or equipment which are utilized for
the protection or salvage of agricultural crops during periods of potential or
actual frost damage or other adverse weather conditions.
   (G)   Mobile noise sounds associated with agricultural operations provided
such operations do not take place between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
on weekdays, including Saturday, or at any time on Sunday or a Federal holiday.
   (H)   Mobile noise sources associated with agricultural pest control through
pesticide application.
   (I)   The provisions of this chapter shall not preclude the construction,
operation, maintenance and repairs of equipment, apparatus or facilities of
park and recreation departments, public work projects or essential public
services and facilities, including trash collection and those activities of
public utilities subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the California
Public Utilities Commission.
   (J)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to noise sources
associated with minor maintenance or improvement of property used either in
part or in whole for residential purposes provided said activities take place
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on any day except Sunday or
between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on Sunday.
   (K)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any activity to the
extent regulation thereof has been preempted by state or federal law or which
is necessary or appropriate means of complying with health or safety
requirements imposed by state or federal law.
   (L)   If at the time the enforcement officer investigates a noisy animal(s)
complaint, and determines that the cause of the noise is the result of a
person, other than the animal's owner or caretaker, committing or attempting to
commit an illegal act, such as trespass or theft, no violation of §
95C.04 shall have taken place.
(Ord. 1267, passed 4-5-00)
§ 95C.10 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   The city shall enforce this chapter as follows:
   (A)   Upon receiving a complaint of a violation or evidence of a prima facie
violation of this chapter the city shall cause the following to be performed:
      (1)   The Enforcement Officer shall respond to the complainant's location
and verify if the disruptive noise is still occurring. If the disruptive noise
is present, the Enforcement Officer shall serve as a witness to the violation.
If the noise has ceased, the Enforcement Officer shall have the complainant
complete and sign a Declaration of Violation statement.
      (2)   The Enforcement Officer will advise the owner or person causing the
disturbing noise and advise him or her of the complaint. The Enforcement
Officer will advise the owner or person causing the noise that he or she is in
violation of the City of Indio Noise Ordinance.
      (3)   The Enforcement Officer will issue a written Noise Warning Notice
to abate the disturbing noise. The Noise Warning Notice will be in writing and
will contain the following:
Notice: Noise Complaint Response By The City of Indio. This notice of violation
given to (NAME) (DOB) at (LOCATION) on (DATE) (TIME) (PHONE NUMBER) is the
result of a disruptive noise complaint in accordance with the City of Indio
Code of Ordinance
Chapter 95A and/or
Chapter 95C. You are asked to cease and desist from making any disruptive
noises in violation of the City of Indio Code of Ordinances. A second response
to this location within thirty (30) days for the same violation may result in a
citation being issued and can also result in a service charge to you for the
City's actual costs expended in personnel and equipment for a subsequent return
to the location.
      (4)   If the problem has been resolved there shall be no further action
and the Noise Warning Notice shall be kept on file for a period of 30 days.
      (5)   If after issuing the Noise Warning Notice an Enforcement Officer
has prima facie evidence of a violation or upon receiving a complaint is
required to respond to the same location a second time for the same violation
within 30 days the owner or person causing the disturbing noise shall be issued
a citation. The owner or person causing the disturbing noise may be held liable
for the service fee charge of the city's actual costs expended in personnel and
equipment for the second and subsequent responses.
   (B)   Second response costs and joint and several liability. The costs for
the second response may include damage to city property and/or injuries to city
personnel, and shall be computed as outlined in §
33.100 et seq., as amended from time to time, but shall in no case be less than
$100. The costs charged pursuant to this section shall be a personal obligation
of the owner or person causing the disturbing noise, or if that person is a
minor, then the parent(s) or guardian(s) of that minor.
(Ord. 1267, passed 4-5-00)
§ 95C.11 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Police Department, the Building Department and/or Business Licensing
Department shall have the power and authority and duty to enforce any and all
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1267, passed 4-5-00)
§ 95C.12 VIOLATION; INFRACTIONS.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of an infraction.
(Ord. 1267, passed 4-5-00)
§ 95C.13 CONTINUING OR SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS; MISDEMEANOR.
   Any person having been convicted of a violation of any provisions of this
chapter who thereafter commits a violation of the same provisions of this
chapter may be prosecuted, at the discretion of the City Attorney, as either an
infraction or as a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not exceeding $1,000, or
imprisonment in the county jail for a term not exceeding six months, or by both
such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 1267, passed 4-5-00)
§ 95C.14 EXCESSIVE NOISE AND VIBRATION FROM VEHICLES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this chapter, when the
source point of the excessive noise and/or vibration is located in or emanates
from a vehicle, any violation of §
95C.04(B)(2) of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to vehicles exempted by §
95C.09 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1299, passed 8-1-01)
CHAPTER 95D: REGISTRATION AND MAINTENANCE OF ABANDONED PROPERTIES
Section
   
95D.101   Purpose
   
95D.102   Definitions
   
95D.103   Duty to record assignment of rents
   
95D.104   Registration
   
95D.105   Maintenance requirements
   
95D.106   Security requirements
   
95D.107   Additional authority
   
95D.108   Fees
   
95D.109   Enforcement
   
95D.110   Appeals
§ 95D.101 PURPOSE.
   It is the intent of the City Council, through the adoption of this chapter,
to establish a mechanism to protect residential neighborhoods from becoming
blighted through the lack of maintenance and security of abandoned properties;
to establish an abandoned property registration program and to set forth
guidelines for the maintenance of abandoned properties.
(Ord. 1530, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95D.102 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. Any building, structure or real property that is vacant or
occupied by a person without a legal right of occupancy, and subject to a
current notice of default and/or notice of trustee's sale, pending tax
assessors lien sale and/or any real property conveyed via a foreclosure sale
resulting in the acquisition of title by an interested beneficiary of a deed of
trust, and/or any real property conveyed via a deed in lieu of foreclosure/
sale.
   ABATEMENT ORDER. A Hearing Officer's "Order to Abate" issued pursuant to §
95A.113 or a Nuisance Abatement Appeals Board's written final order decision
issued pursuant to §
95A.120, if any.
   ACCESSIBLE PROPERTY. Real property that is accessible to the public, either
in general or through an open and unsecured door, window, gate, fence, wall, or
the like.
   ACCESSIBLE STRUCTURE. A building or structure that is not secured or is open
in such a way as to allow public or unauthorized access to the interior.
   ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTY PAYMENT DUE DATE. The date that is the eleventh day
after the issuance of a Hearing Officer's issuance of a written "Order to
Abate" pursuant to §
95A.113, or the Nuisance Abatement Appeals Board's issuance of a final order
decision pursuant to §
95A.120, if any.
   AGREEMENT. Any written instrument that transfers or conveys title to
residential real property from one owner to another after a sale, trade,
transfer or exchange.
   ASSIGNMENT OF RENTS. An instrument that transfers the beneficial interest
under a deed of trust from one lender or entity to another.
   BENEFICIARY. A lender participating in a real property transaction that
holds a secured interest in the real property in question identified in a deed
of trust.
   BUYER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation, fiduciary or other
legal entity that agrees to transfer anything of value in consideration for
real property via an "agreement" as that term is defined in this section.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. Any building or structure reasonably deemed by qualified
city staff to represent a violation of any provision specified in
Chapter 95B.
   DAYS. Calendar days.
   DEED OF TRUST. An instrument whereby an owner of real property, as trustor,
transfers a secured interest in the real property in question to a third party
trustee, said instrument relating to a loan issued in the context of a real
property transaction. This definition applies to any and all subordinate deeds
of trust, such as second trust deed, third trust deed, and the like.
   DEED IN LIEU OF FORECLOSURE. A recorded instrument that transfers ownership
of real property between parties to a particular deed of trust as follows: from
the trustor, borrower, to the trustee upon consent of the beneficiary, lender.
   DEFAULT. The material breach of a legal or contractual duty arising from or
relating to a deed of trust, such as a trustor's failure to make a payment when
due.
   DISTRESSED. Any building, structure or real property that is subject to a
current notice of default and/or notice of trustee's sale, pending tax
assessors lien sale and/or any real property conveyed via a foreclosure sale
resulting in the acquisition of title by an interested beneficiary of a deed of
trust, and/or any real property conveyed via a deed in lieu of foreclosure/
sale, regardless of vacancy or occupancy by a person with no legal right of
occupancy.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. The City Manager, the Building Official, the Chief of
Police and/or any employee or agent of the city designated and/or charged with
enforcing the code, including but not limited to applicable codes adopted by
reference therein.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any real property condition that independently, or in
the context of the totality of circumstances relevant to that real property
would lead a reasonable Enforcement Official to believe that a property is
vacant or occupied by a person without a legal right of occupancy. Such real
property conditions include but are not limited to: overgrown or dead
vegetation; accumulation of newspapers, circulars, flyers or mail; past due
utility notices or disconnected utilities; accumulation of trash, junk or
debris; the absence of window coverings such as curtains, blinds or shutters;
the absence of furnishings or personal items consistent with residential
habitation; and/or statements by neighbors, passersby, delivery agents,
government employees that the property is vacant.
   FORECLOSURE. The process by which real property subject to a deed of trust
is sold to satisfy the debt of a defaulting trustor, borrower.
   LOCAL. Within 40 driving miles of the building, structure or real property
in question.
   NEIGHBORHOOD STANDARD. The condition of real property that prevails in and
through the neighborhood where an abandoned building, structure or real
property is located. When determining the neighborhood standard no abandoned or
distressed building, structure or real property shall be considered.
   NOTICE OF DEFAULT. A recorded instrument that reflects and provides notice
that a default has taken place with respect to a deed of trust, and that a
beneficiary intends to proceed with a trustee's sale.
   OUT OF AREA. In excess of 40 road or driving miles of the subject property.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation, fiduciary or other
legal entity having a legal or equitable title or any interest in real
property.
   OWNER OF RECORD. The person holding recorded title to the real property in
question at any point in time when official records are produced by the
Riverside County Recorder's Office.
   PROPERTY. Any unimproved or improved real property, or portion thereof,
including but not limited to buildings or structures located on said real
property, regardless of condition.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. Any improved real property, or portion thereof,
designed or permitted to be used for dwelling purposes, including buildings and
structures located on such improved real property. This includes any real
property being offered under any circumstances for sale, trade, transfer, or
exchange as "residential," whether or not said property is legally permitted
and zoned for such use.
   SECURING. Such measures as may be directed by an Enforcement Official that
assist in rendering real property inaccessible to unauthorized persons,
including but not limited to repairing fences and walls, chaining/pad locking
gates, the repairing or boarding doors, windows or other openings. Such
measures shall be implemented in conformance with all applicable standards of
the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   TRUSTEE. Any person, partnership, association, corporation, fiduciary or
other legal entity holding a deed of trust securing an interest in real
property.
   TRUSTOR. Any owner/borrower identified in a deed of trust, who transfers an
interest in real property to a trustee as security for payment of a debt by
that owner/trustor.
   VACANT. Any building, structure or real property that is unoccupied or
occupied by a person without a legal right of occupancy.
(Ord. 1530, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95D.103 DUTY TO RECORD ASSIGNMENT OF RENTS.
   Within ten days of a property transaction involving a change in the identity
of an owner or the owner of record, or alternatively a transfer/assignment of a
loan or deed of trust secured by residential property, each beneficiary and
trustee engaged in said transaction or transfer/assignment shall record, via
the Riverside County Recorder's Office, an assignment of rents, or similar
instrument. This instrument shall reflect the identity, mailing address and
telephone number of the trustee and beneficiary responsible for receiving
payments associated with the loan or deed of trust in question. This duty/
obligation shall be joint and several among and between all trustees and
beneficiaries and their respective agents.
(Ord. 1530, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95D.104 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Each beneficiary and trustee, who holds a deed of trust on a property
located within the city, shall perform an inspection of the property in
question prior to recording a notice of default or similar instrument with the
Riverside County Recorder’s Office. If the property is found to be vacant or
shows evidence of vacancy, as defined by this chapter, it is hereby deemed to
be abandoned.
   (B)   Within ten days of identification of any abandoned property, the
beneficiary and trustee must register the property with the Police Department
on specified forms.
   (C)   If the property is occupied but distressed, the trustee and
beneficiary or a designee shall inspect the property on a monthly basis until:
      (1)   The trustor or another party remedies the default; or
      (2)   The property is found to be vacant or shows evidence of vacancy,
deemed abandoned and rendered subject to §
95D.104(B).
   (D)   The registration pursuant to division (B) above shall contain the
identity of the beneficiary and trustee, the direct mailing address of the
beneficiary and trustee and, in the case of a corporate or out of area
beneficiary or trustee, the local property management company, if any,
responsible for the security, maintenance and marketing of the property in
question.
   (E)   The registration pursuant to division (B) above shall be renewed
annually.
   (F)   An annual registration fee, adopted in conformance with §
95D.108, shall accompany the submission of each registration form. The fee and
registration shall be valid for one year from the date of registration.
Registration fees will not be prorated.
   (G)   This section shall also apply to properties that have been the subject
of a foreclosure sale wherein title has been transferred to the beneficiary of
a deed of trust involved in the foreclosure, and to any properties transferred
under a deed in lieu of foreclosure or sale.
   (H)   Properties subject to this chapter shall remain subject to the annual
registration requirement, security and maintenance standards of this chapter as
long as they remain vacant.
   (I)   Any person, partnership, association, corporation, fiduciary or other
legal entity that has registered a property under this chapter must make a
written report to the Police Department of any change of information contained
in the registration within ten days of the change.
   (J)   The duties/obligations specified in this section shall be joint and
several among and between all trustees and beneficiaries and their respective
agents.
(Ord. 1530, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95D.105 MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   It is declared a public nuisance for any person, partnership, association,
corporation, fiduciary or other legal entity, that owns, leases, occupies,
controls or manages any property subject to the to the registration requirement
contained in § 950.104, to cause, permit, or maintain any property condition
contrary to any provision of this chapter. Consequently, the following
maintenance requirements as to any property subject to the registration
requirement contained in §
95D.104 are adopted.
   (A)   Any property subject to this section must comply with the requirements
of Indio Municipal Code
Chapter 95A.
   (B)   In addition, the property shall be kept free of weeds, dry brush, dead
vegetation, trash, junk, debris, building materials, any accumulation of
newspaper, circular, flyers, notices (except those required by federal, state
or local law), discarded personal items including but not limited to,
furniture, clothing, large and small appliances, printed material or any other
items that give the appearance that the property is abandoned.
   (C)   The property shall be maintained free of graffiti, tagging or similar
marking. Any removal or painting over of graffiti shall be with an exterior
grade paint that matches the color of the exterior of the structure.
   (D)   Visible front and side yards shall be landscaped and maintained to the
neighborhood standard.
   (E)   Landscaping includes, but is not limited to, grass, ground covers,
bushes, shrubs, hedges or similar plantings, decorative rock or bark or
artificial turf/sod designed specifically for residential installation.
   (F)   Landscaping does not include weeds, gravel, broken concrete, asphalt,
plastic sheeting, mulch, indoor-outdoor carpet or any similar material.
   (G)   Pools and spas shall be kept in working order so that water remains
clear and free of pollutants and debris, or alternatively shall be drained and
kept dry. In either case, properties with pools and/or spas must comply with
the minimum security fencing requirements of the State of California.
   (H)   Adherence to this section does not relieve the beneficiary/trustee or
property owner of obligations set forth in any covenants conditions and
restrictions and/or home owners association rules and regulations which may
apply to the property.
   (I)   The duties/obligations specified in this section shall be joint and
several among and between all trustees and beneficiaries and their respective
agents.
   (J)   The sole exception to these maintenance requirements shall, within the
sole reasonable discretion of a duly authorized Enforcement Official, apply to
property subject to the registration requirement contained in §
95D.104 that is under construction and/or repair, not less than three business
days per week, undertaken in compliance with all applicable law including but
not limited to city permitting requirements.
(Ord. 1530, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95D.106 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Properties subject to this section shall be maintained in a secure
manner so as not to be accessible to unauthorized persons.
   (B)   Secure manner includes but is not limited to closing and locking of
windows, doors (walk-through, sliding and garage) gates and any other opening
that may allow access to the interior of the property and or structure(s). In
the case of broken windows securing means re-glazing or boarding the window.
   (C)   If the property is owned by a corporation and/or out of area
beneficiary/trustee/owner, a local property management company shall be
contracted to perform weekly inspections to verify that the requirements of
this section, and any other applicable laws, are being met.
   (D)   The property shall be posted with the name and 24-hour contact phone
number of the local property management company. The posting shall be no less
than 18 inches by 24 inches, shall be of a font that is legible from a distance
of 45 feet, and shall contain the following verbiage: "THIS PROPERTY MANAGED BY
                    ,” and "TO REPORT PROBLEMS OR CONCERNS CALL (name and phone
number)".
   (E)   The posting shall be placed on the interior of a window facing the
street to the front of the property so it is visible from the street, or
secured to the exterior of the building/structure facing the street of the
front of the property so it is visible from the street. If no such area exists,
the posting shall be on a stake of sufficient size to support the posting, in a
location that is visible from the street to the front of the property, and to
the extent possible, not readily accessible to potential vandalism. Exterior
posting must be constructed of, and printed with weather resistant materials.
   (F)   The local property management company shall inspect the property on a
weekly basis to determine if the property is in compliance with the
requirements of this chapter. If the property management company determines the
property is not in compliance, it is the company's responsibility to bring the
property into compliance.
   (G)   The duties/obligations specified in this section shall be joint and
several among and between all trustees and beneficiaries and their respective
agents.
(Ord. 1530, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95D.107 ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY.
   In addition to the enforcement remedies established in this chapter, the
city shall have the authority to require the beneficiary, trustee, owner or
owner of record of any property affected by this section, to implement
additional maintenance and/or security measures including but not limited to,
securing any and all doors, windows or other openings, installing additional
security lighting, increasing on-site inspection frequency, employment of an
on-site security guard or other measures as may be reasonably required to
secure and reduce the visual decline of the property.
(Ord. 1530, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95D.108 FEES.
   The fee for registering and re-registering an abandoned property shall be
set, from time to time, by resolution of the City Council. The amount of the
fee charges shall not exceed the cost of administering the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1530, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95D.109 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter shall be treated as a strict liability
offense; a violation shall be deemed to have occurred regardless of a
violator's intent.
   (B)   Any person, partnership, association, corporation, fiduciary or other
legal entity, that owns, leases, occupies, controls or manages any property
subject to the to the registration requirement contained in §
95D.104, and causes, permits, or maintains a violation of this chapter as to
that property, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished as provided in
Chapter 10 of this code.
   (C)   This section is intended to be cumulative to, and not in place of,
other rights and remedies available to the city pursuant to the code. Above and
beyond the violation and penalty specified in this section, the City Attorney
or a duly authorized Enforcement Official may pursue any other right or remedy
permitted by the code, including but not limited to commencement of any civil
action, or administrative action to abate the condition of a property as a
public nuisance pursuant to
Chapter 95A.
   (D)   In the event that the city takes administrative action to abate the
condition of a property subject to the to the registration requirement
contained in §
95D.104, above and beyond the rights and remedies specified in
Chapter 95A, the following administrative penalties shall apply.
      (1)    On the administrative penalty due date, each party subject to an
abatement order shall pay an administrative penalty of $1,000.
      (2)   In the event that a violation of this chapter addressed by an
abatement order has not been abated, cured, remedied and/or eliminated to the
reasonable satisfaction of a duly authorized Enforcement Official by the
thirtieth day after the administrative penalty due date, each party subject to
said abatement order shall pay a supplemental administrative penalty of $5,000.
      (3)   In the event that a violation of this chapter addressed by an
abatement order has not been abated, cured, remedied and/or eliminated to the
reasonable satisfaction of a duly authorized enforcement official by the
sixtieth day after the administrative penalty due date, each party subject to
said abatement order shall pay a second supplemental administrative penalty of
$25,000.
   (E)   In each instance when a party becomes subject to an administrative
penalty specified in this section, an Enforcement Official shall issue an order
providing written notice of that party's obligation to make payment of said
administrative penalty. Each such order shall constitute a special assessment
against the property in question having the same legal status as an order
determining the cost of abatement of a public nuisance pursuant the provisions
of §
95A.122.
   (F)   In each instance when a party becomes subject to an administrative
penalty specified in division (D), and the order providing for said
administrative penalty issues when that party is either seeking to perfect its
interest in the subject property subsequent to the recordation of a notice of
default, or is the property's owner of record, that party is not relieved of
its obligation to pay any administrative penalty based upon the sale of the
property in question to another.
(Ord. 1530, passed 3-5-08)
§ 95D.110 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by any of the requirements of this chapter may appeal a
determination made hereunder to the Indio Consolidated Appeals Board in the
manner specified with respect to appeals under
Chapter 95A of the code.
(Ord. 1530, passed 3-5-08; Am. Ord. 1589, passed 3-16-11)
CHAPTER 95E: SHOPPING CART CONTAINMENT, RETRIEVAL AND ABATEMENT
Section
   
95E.101   Purpose
   
95E.102   Declaration of public nuisance
   
95E.103   Definitions
   
95E.104   Administration
   
95E.105   Cart identification
   
95E.106   Removal of carts prohibited
   
95E.107   Prevention of cart removal - cart containment plan
   
95E.108   Prevention of cart removal - cart retrieval plan
   
95E.109   Notification and removal of abandoned carts
   
95E.110   Penalty
§ 95E.101 PURPOSE.
   This ordinance is intended to ensure that measures are taken by owners of
carts and businesses that provide carts to its customers to prevent those carts
from being removed from the owner's premises, to make removal of the cart a
violation of this code and to facilitate the retrieval of abandoned carts in a
manner consistent with State law.
(Ord. 1642, passed 11-20-13)
§ 95E.102 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The City has determined that the unauthorized removal of carts from business
establishments and their subsequent abandonment on public and private
properties creates visual blight and potential hazards to the health, safety
and welfare of the public, interferes with pedestrian and vehicular traffic and
constitutes a public nuisance and shall be subject to abatement in the manner
set forth in this chapter or in any other manner provided by law.
(Ord. 1642, passed 11-20-13)
§ 95E.103 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases have the meanings
set forth below:
   BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT.  Any business that provides or makes available carts
for and used by customers.
   CART.  A basket that has been mounted on wheels or a similar device
generally used in a business establishment by a customer for the purpose of
transporting goods of any kind. A "cart" also includes a laundry cart and
shopping carts.
   CHIEF OF POLICE.  The Chief of Police of the City of Indio.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.  Any police officer or code enforcement officer
employed by the city and charged with enforcing the Municipal Code of the City
of Indio.
   LAUNDRY CART.  A basket which is mounted on wheels and used in a coin-
operated laundry or dry-cleaning establishment by a customer or an attendant
for the purpose of transporting fabrics and the supplies necessary to process
them.
   OWNER.  Any person who, in the connection with the conduct of a business
establishment owns, rightfully possess or makes any cart available to patrons
and/or the public. Owner shall include the owner's agent or authorized
representative.
   PARKING AREA.  A parking lot or other property provided by a business
establishment for the use of customers for parking of customer vehicles. The
parking area of a business establishment located in a multi-store complex or
shopping center includes the entire parking area used by the multi-store
complex or shopping center.
   PREMISES.  Any building, property or other area upon which any business
establishment is conducted or operated in the City and includes the parking
area and adjacent walkways and where the business establishments' carts are
permitted.
(Ord. 1642, passed 11-20-13)
§ 95E.104 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Chief of Police shall have the authority to promulgate and or adopt
written regulations to implement the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1642, passed 11-20-13)
§ 95E.105 CART IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Each cart owned or provided by a business establishment in the City
shall have a cart identification sign permanently affixed to it and which, at a
minimum, contains the following information:
      (1)   The identity of the owner of the cart or the name of the business
establishment, or both;
      (2)   Notification to the public of the procedures to be utilized for
authorized removal of the cart from the premises of the business establishment;
      (3)   Notification to the public that the unauthorized removal of the
cart from the premises of the business establishment, or the unauthorized
possession of the car, is a violation of state and municipal law; and
      (4)   The address for returning a cart removed from the premises to the
owner and the phone number to contact the owner or report the location of the
cart.
   (B)   Every cart owner shall continuously maintain or cause to be maintained
the cart identification sign so that all of the required information is
accurate and clearly legible.
(Ord. 1642, passed 11-20-13)
§ 95E.106 REMOVAL OF CARTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person (other than a cart owner or its
authorized representative) to either temporarily or permanently remove a cart
from the premises of an owner's business establishment, unless the cart owner
authorizes its removal in writing.
   (B)   It is unlawful to be in possession of a cart that has been removed
from the premises of a business establishment unless it is in the process of
being immediately returned to the owner.
   (C)   This section does not apply to carts that are removed for the purpose
of repair or maintenance.
(Ord. 1642, passed 11-20-13)
§ 95E.107 PREVENTION OF CART REMOVAL - CART CONTAINMENT PLAN.
   Every owner that provides carts to customers for use on the premises of a
business establishment shall develop and implement a written cart containment
plan to prevent the unauthorized removal of such carts from the premises. The
cart containment plan shall be provided to the City upon request and at a
minimum include the following elements:
   (A)   Written notice shall be provided to customers that the removal of
carts from the premises are prohibited and a violation of State and local law.
   (B)   Signs shall be placed in pertinent and highly visible locations near
all exit doors and near parking lot exits used by business patrons warning
customers that cart removal is prohibited and a violation of State and local
law.
   (C)   Specific physical measures shall be implemented to prevent, deter or
impede the removal of carts from the premises. These measures may include, but
are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Mechanical disabling devices installed and maintained on all carts;
      (2)   Having one or more designated employee's assigned the
responsibility to deter or stop customers from removing carts from the
premises;
      (3)   Preventing carts from being taken outside of the confines of the
business unless accompanied by an employee of the business;
      (4)   Requiring security deposits by customers for cart use.
   (D)   All carts located on the premises of a business establishment (other
than an establishment open for business 24 hours per day) shall be collected at
the end of each business day, returned to an approved cart containment area and
secured in a manner that prevents removal until the commencement of the next
business day.
   (E)   All carts located on the premises of a business establishment that is
open for business twenty-four (24) hours a day, other than carts that are
currently in use, shall be collected and returned to approved cart containment
areas at least once per calendar day.
   (F)   The owner of the business establishment shall implement and maintain a
periodic training program for new and existing employees designed to educate
such employees on the requirements of the business establishment's cart
containment plan and the provisions of state and local laws prohibiting the
unauthorized removal of carts from the premises of the business establishment.
(Ord. 1642, passed 11-20-13)
§ 95E.108 PREVENTION OF CART REMOVAL - CART RETRIEVAL PLAN.
   Every business establishment that provides carts for customer use shall
develop, implement and carry out a specific retrieval plan to recover carts
removed from the premises. The cart retrieval plan shall be provided to the
City upon request and at a minimum include the following elements with a
description of how the elements will be implemented:
   (A)   The owner of the business establishment shall provide retrieval
personnel assigned to the retrieval of lost, stolen or abandoned carts. This
can include licensed independent cart retrieval services.
   (B)   The owner of the business establishment shall provide retrieval
personnel in sufficient number to assure all public streets, sidewalks, bus
stops and parks within a two (2) miles radius of the business premises and
patrolled and all carts retrieved no less than once every twenty-four (24)
hours.
   (C)   The owner of the business establishment shall provide a written report
the Chief of Police on the tenth day of every month specifying the number of
carts retrieved by retrieval personnel during the prior month.
   (D)   The owner of the business establishment shall provide the Chief of
Police with a contact phone number to report abandoned carts. This phone number
shall be available seven (7) days a week.
   (E)   If notified by an Enforcement Official, the owner of the business
establishment shall ensure that an abandoned cart(s) is removed within 24 hours
of the notification.
(Ord. 1642, passed 11-20-13)
§ 95E.109 NOTIFICATION AND REMOVAL OF ABANDONED CARTS.
   (A)   In accordance with California Business and Professions Code section
22435.7, the City shall notify the owner of any abandoned cart (that has
affixed to it the cart identification required by §
95E.105) if the City intends to remove the cart from public or private property
or impound such cart.
   (B)   Carts without the cart identification affixed to it as required by §
95E.105 may be removed from street, sidewalks and other public locations
immediately by the City and/or the Enforcement Official. Such carts may be
destroyed.
(Ord. 1642, passed 11-20-13)
§ 95E.110 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this Chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor or at the discretion of the prosecuting attorney, an infraction as
set forth in Section
10.99 of the Indio Municipal Code.
   (B)   Any owner, which includes a person, partnership, association,
corporation or legal entity, that owns, leases, occupies, controls, manages or
possesses any cart subject to this chapter, who violates or fails to comply
with or fails to continuously maintain any provision of the cart containment
plan or retrieval plan as required by this Chapter, or who causes, permits or
maintains a violation of this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, or at
the discretion of the prosecuting attorney, an infraction as set forth in §
10.99 of the Indio Municipal Code.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, and any cart
owner who violates or fails to comply with or continuously maintain any
provision of the cart containment or retrieval plan, shall be subject to
enforcement procedures for each violation by any lawful means available to the
city, including, but not limited to, those set forth in California Business and
Professions Code Division 8 Chapter 19, and those set forth in the Indio
Municipal Code.
   (D)   This section is intended to be cumulative to, and not in place of,
other rights and remedies available to the City pursuant to the City's
municipal code and/or state law. The City Attorney or duly authorized
Enforcement Official may pursue any other right and remedy permitted by the
City's municipal code, including but not limited to commencement of any civil
action, or administrative action to abate as a public nuisance pursuant to
Chapter 95A of this code.
(Ord. 1642, passed 11-20-13)
CHAPTER 96: CITY PARKS AND FACILITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Desert Recreation District
Park Use Rules
   
96.10   Large group events by permit only; reservations for other group events
   
96.11   Public hours of use; parking
   
96.12   Fires
   
96.13   Weapons
   
96.14    Noise
   
96.15   Horses and vehicles
   
96.16   Rubbish
   
96.17   Conducting business in a park
   
96.18   Camping
   
96.19   Vandalism
   
96.20   Dogs
   
96.21   Off-leash areas
   
96.22   Golf
   
96.23   Inflatable structures
   
96.24   Alcohol in park
   
96.25   Additional regulations
   
96.26   Use of fields on Sundays; permits
   
96.27   Title 100, Skate Parks
   
96.28   Park use as city enterprise
   
96.29   Fees
   
96.30   Smoking prohibited
   
96.31   Public records
Permits for Group Events
   
96.40   Permit application
   
96.41   Permit review, issuance and denial
   
96.42   Permit contents
   
96.43   Appeals
   
96.44   Signs
   
96.45   Rain or adverse weather condition
 
   
96.98   Violations; enforcement
Cross-reference:
   Skate Park, see
Chapter 100
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   This chapter shall be the city's "Parks Ordinance." For the purposes of this
chapter and all park regulations adopted pursuant hereto, words and phrases
shall have the meanings listed in this section.
   CITY EVENT. A group event that is sponsored or co-sponsored by the City of
Indio or any of its commissions or committees, or the Indio Water Authority, or
a Joint Powers Authority of which the City of Indio is a member.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the City of Indio, or his or her designee.
   COMMUNITY BASED ORGANIZATION or CBO. Any public nonprofit benefit
corporation of demonstrated effectiveness approved by the City Manager. The
City Clerk shall maintain a list of approved CBOs prepared and updated by the
City Manager as a public record.
   FIRE MARSHAL. The person responsible for direction of fire services provided
throughout the city or that person's designee.
   GROUP EVENT.
      (1)   An organized picnic, exhibit, show, class, or similar gathering of
people in a park:
         (a)   At which the organizing person or party serves food or
beverages, regardless of whether those consuming said food or beverages are
charged for same; or
         (b)   To which the organizing person or party brings furniture or
equipment such as tables, booths, tents or play equipment.
      (2)   GROUP EVENTS include any large group event; however, no city event
shall be considered or treated as a GROUP EVENT hereunder.
   INDIO-BASED GROUP EVENT. A group event wherein the applicant for a permit
per this chapter is a city resident, a business or school located in the city,
a community based organization wherein the majority of members or board members
are city residents, or which CBO provides services to a significant number of
city residents on a continuing basis. A large group event may meet the criteria
of an INDIO-BASED GROUP EVENT, and shall be treated as same.
   LARGE GROUP EVENT. Any group event, including any Indio-based group event,
meeting both of the following criteria: (1) the application for the group event
permit in question anticipates attendance of 50 persons or more, including the
organizing person or party and any staff thereof, and any people who will be
performing or entertaining at the proposed group event, and (2) the City
Manager determines that the group event in question will require the dedication
of city staff time to address and mitigate event-specific impacts on the
community such as those listed in §
96.40(B). However, every GROUP EVENT with an anticipated attendance of 100
persons or more, including the organizing person or party and any staff
thereof, shall be a LARGE GROUP EVENT.
   PARK. A parcel or contiguous parcels of land owned, operated and maintained
by the city that provides space and/or a facility, whether indoor or outdoor,
for the benefit and enjoyment of people residing or visiting in the city. PARKS
may be classified as community or neighborhood parks, community centers such as
the Indio Teen Center or Indio Senior Center, athletic or aquatic facilities,
golf courses, libraries, picnic areas, cultural centers, or similar facilities
to those listed herein. PARKS may include parking lots, playground equipment,
sports fields, skate parks, buildings or other structures, or other amenities.
PARKS may include or be limited to open space areas suitable for active or
passive uses. PARKS regulated by this chapter shall be limited to space and/or
facilities that contain park sites that may be used for a group event.
   PARK REGULATIONS. Regulations adopted by the City Council, City Manager, or
Community Services Commission to facilitate this chapter's implementation and
advance its efficiency in meeting the needs of the community.
   PARKSITE. A discreet or definable site or an area within a park that may
serve as the location for a group event, and for which a permit may be obtained
per this chapter.
   POLICE CHIEF. The Chief of the Indio Police Department or his or her
designee.
   PERMIT. A certificate or written approval to engage in specified activity in
a park as specified in this chapter; any PERMIT issued per this chapter shall
also function as an exclusive reservation of a park site, or under limited
circumstances the entirety of a park, for a particular use.
   WEAPON. Any firearm, firecracker, rocket, firework, missile, item listed in
§ 12020(a) of the Cal. Penal Code, or less than lethal weapon listed in § 12601
(a) of the Cal. Penal Code.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1808, passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.02 DESERT RECREATION DISTRICT.
   This chapter shall not apply to any park or facility owned, operated and
maintained by the Desert Recreation District except by written agreement with
that agency.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09)
PARK USE RULES
§ 96.10 LARGE GROUP EVENTS BY PERMIT ONLY; RESERVATIONS FOR OTHER GROUP EVENTS.
   (A)   This chapter shall not apply to any park or facility owned by the
Desert Recreation District except by written agreement with that agency.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to any park or facility owned by the City of
Indio, notwithstanding that such park or facility is managed, operated, or
maintained by the Desert Recreation District. For city-owned parks managed,
operated, or maintained by Desert Recreation District, the City Manager may
designate the General Manager of the District as his or her designee for any
acts to be done under this chapter.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1618, passed 9-19-12; Am. Ord. 1808,
passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.11 PUBLIC HOURS OF USE; PARKING.
   (A)   Except in accord with a specific written permit provision, no person
shall remain, stay, or loiter in any park between the hours of 10 p.m. and 6
a.m. Parking at any park shall be in accordance with §
71.11.
   (B)   The City Manager may designate extended park hours for any park when
the City Manager determines that such extension of hours is consistent with
sound use of park resources, will enhance recreational activities in the city,
and will not be detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare. The
prohibitions contained in subsection (A) of this section shall not apply to any
person present in a park during extended park hours designated pursuant to this
subsection.
   (C)   Notwithstanding subsection (A) of this section, the Police Chief may
order any park closed before sunset and after sunrise when he or she determines
that activities constituting a threat to public health, safety or welfare have
occurred or are occurring in the park and that such closing is necessary to
protect the public health, safety or welfare. At least one sign designating the
hours when the park is closed shall be installed prominently in the park.
During any time when a park is ordered closed, it is unlawful for any person to
remain, stay, or loiter in said park during said period.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to enter or remain in a children's playground
area if such person is 18 years of age or older unless actually engaged in the
care, custody or supervision of a person younger than 18 years of age who is
using the child playground facilities.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1808, passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.12 FIRES.
   No person shall light or maintain any fire, except in a place designated by
the city as a park amenity, feature or fixture, or as specifically approved by
the Fire Marshal concurrent with the issuance of a permit under this chapter.
This section shall prohibit the use of any personal barbeque equipment in any
park.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1808, passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.13 WEAPONS.
   Except as authorized by §
130.081, generally permitted by state or federal law, or specifically permitted
by the city or another authorized governmental authority, no person shall
possess, carry or discharge any weapon in any park.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1808, passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.14 NOISE.
   (A)   Exemption from noise ordinance. City issuance of a permit for any
group event or Sunday field use under this chapter shall qualify activity
taking place per that permit as exempt from regulation under
Chapter 95C dedicated to noise control.
   (B)   Noise ordinance otherwise applicable. With the exception of the
specified exemptions enumerated in §
95C.09 and conduct or speech that is permitted or protected by state or federal
law,
Chapter 95C shall apply to any activity or proposed activity undertaken in a
park without a permit.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1808, passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.15 HORSES AND VEHICLES.
   Except as authorized by a special event permit or a permit issued per this,
chapter, no person shall ride or drive any horse or other animal or propel any
vehicle, cycle or automobile in a park except in locations designated as roads,
trails, parking lots, or driveways provided for that purpose, and only in a
direction as may be posted.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1808, passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.16 RUBBISH.
   No person shall throw, discard, place or dispose of any garbage or refuse in
a park, in any place other than a garbage can or other receptacle maintained
for that purpose. No person shall bring or transport garbage or refuse
generated outside a park to a park for disposal.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1808, passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.17 CONDUCTING BUSINESS IN A PARK.
    No person shall sell, offer or solicit the sale of goods or services within
a park, or shall pass out commercial handbills or advertising, or shall
commercially offer or provide teaching services within a park. This prohibition
shall not apply to activity authorized by a special event permit, a vending
permit, or a permit issued per this chapter. Nothing in this section shall in
any way or to any degree limit the applicability of
Chapter 110 of this code to any activity or proposed activity in a park. Sales
of food or goods from vending carts is prohibited except as authorized by
Chapter 114 or addressed by a specific written permit provision.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1767, passed 12-15-21; Am. Ord. 1808,
passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.18 CAMPING.
   Camping in any park shall only take place in compliance with Code of Indio
§§
130.020 through
130.022 inclusive.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1808, passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.19 VANDALISM.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Pick, dig, remove, destroy, injure, mutilate or cut any tree, plant,
shrub, bloom or flower, or any portion thereof growing in a park; or
   (B)   Cut, break, deface or injure any building, structure, monument, sign,
fence, bench, equipment or property in a park.
   (C)   No person shall open, expose, or interfere with any water system or
utility, provided that this prohibition shall not apply to the use of any
drinking fountain for its intended purpose.
(Ord. 1565, passed 10-21-09; Am. Ord. 1808, passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.20 DOGS.
   (A)    In accord with city signage, a dog at any location within a park
shall be restrained by a leash; provided, however, that the provisions of this
section may be temporarily waived per the terms of a permit issued pursuant to
this chapter.
   (8)   In park areas designated by the City Council as off leash areas, dogs
are permitted off-leash under the rules stated in §
96.21.
   (C)   Each person having care or custody of a dog anywhere in a park shall
be solely responsible for promptly placing that dog's waste into a garbage can
or other trash or rubbish receptacle maintained in the park in question.
   (D)   No dog shall be allowed on any sports field in a park except per a
specific written permit provision.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1808, passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.21 OFF-LEASH AREAS.
   The following rules apply within off-leash areas:
   (A)   No dog is permitted in an off-leash area except in the care, custody
and control of a person 13 years of age or older.
   (B)   No person may have more than two dogs in an off-leash area at any
time.
   (C)   Any dog in an off-leash area must be under the voice control of its
caretaker(s) at all times.
   (D)   No dog is permitted in the off-leash area except during that area's
posted hours of operation.
   (E)   Any dog in an off-leash area must be at least four months of age,
vaccinated for rabies, and have a current animal license.
   (F)   No dog that is sick, in heat, or unreasonably aggressive is permitted
in an off-leash area.
   (G)   Any person having care or custody of a dog in the off-leash area shall
all promptly remove that dog's waste.
   (H)   No animals other than dogs are permitted in an off-leash area.
   (I)   No dog obedience classes may be conducted in an off-leash area.
   (J)   The use of an off-leash area by a dog's owner or any other person
hlaving care, custody, or control of the dog in question shall constitute an
agreement by the dog owner or custodian in question to follow the rules stated
in this section, a further, a waiver and release of any and all claims of the
city, and agreement to protect, indemnify defend and hold the city harmless
from any claim, injury or damage arising from or related to such use.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have a dog in an off-leash area
between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1808, passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.22 GOLF.
   No person shall take part in or abet the playing of a game of golf or the
practice thereof in any park. Further, no person shall cause any object such as
a ball or !stone to be propelled by use of a golf club or similar instrument
within any park. This section shall not apply to the use of the Indio Municipal
Golf Course, and may only be waived as to another park or park site pursuant to
the terms and conditions of a permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1808, passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.23 INFLATABLE STRUCTURES.
   No person shall erect, install, or use any inflatable structure or fixture
(such as waterslide, inflatable, bounce house, jumper, or any similar device)
in any park. This section may only be waived pursuant to the terms and
conditions of a permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1808, passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.24 ALCOHOL IN PARK.
   (A)   No person shall enter, be or remain in any park while in possession of
any can, bottle, or other receptacle containing any alcoholic beverage that has
been opened, or a seal broken, or the contents of which have been partially
removed.
   (B)   No person shall consume, or provide or offer for consumption, any
alcoholic beverage in any park. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
chapter, a violation of this division may, within the discretion of the City
Attorney, be prosecuted as a misdemeanor or an infraction, and punished per §
10.99.
   (C)   This section may only be waived pursuant to the terms and conditions
of a permit issued pursuant to this chapter by the Community Services
Commission.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1618, passed 9-19-12; Am. Ord. 1808,
passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.25 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   General and temporary regulations shall apply to park use and shall
facilitate the function of this parks ordinance. Upon a resolution of the
Community Services Commission, the city may adopt, modify or repeal general
park regulations. The City Manager, or their designee, may administratively
issue, modify or repeal temporary regulations for any park's use. No temporary
regulation issued hereunder may be enforced for more than 180 consecutive days.
Each new park regulation adopted, or a summary statement explaining the
modification or repeal of an established park regulation, shall be published in
the local newspaper twice within the two weeks after adoption, with not less
than five days between publications. The park regulations shall provide the
process for appealing the adoption of a new park regulation, or the
modification or repeal of an established regulation. The City Council retains
and may exercise at its discretion authority to adopt, modify or repeal any
park regulation.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1618, passed 9-19-12; Am. Ord. 1808,
passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.26 USE OF FIELDS ON SUNDAYS; PERMITS.
   No formally organized sports competition may be scheduled to take place in
any park on Sunday unless a permit for said scheduling has been approved by the
Community Services Commission and issued by the City Manager, or their
designee. Permits for such activity, and appeals regarding decisions as to same
shall be considered per the city's park regulations.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1618, passed 9-19-12; Am. Ord. 1808,
passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.27 TITLE 100, SKATE PARKS.
   Title 100 of the Code of Indio shall continue in full force and effect as
additional authority applicable to the use of skate parks in the city.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1808, passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.28 PARK USE AS CITY ENTERPRISE.
   The City Council may from time to time consider and approve park programs,
including but not limited to facilitating the rental or leasing of a park, and
may also sponsor city events incorporating the use of a park that will serve to
advance the public welfare and allow the city's use of its parks as a revenue-
generating enterprise.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1808, passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.29 FEES.
   The City Council shall from time to time, by resolution, set and modify the
fees payable by any applicant: (A) that applies for a permit to have a large
group event in a city park pursuant to § 96.03, (B) that applies for a permit
to engage in Sunday use of park fields pursuant to §
96.26 and any applicable park regulation, (C) that applies for a permit that
necessitates the presence of city staff at a park during a group event pursuant
to the park regulations, (D) that wishes to appeal any determination or
citation under this ;chapter and the park regulations. Fees shall generally
shall not be payable by any applicant for a group event permit that does not
meet the criteria of a large group event. However, notwithstanding any other
provision of this chapter, any applicant for a group event permit shall pay
fees payable upon an appeal, fees payable for a background investigation, and
fees payable to fund the presence of city staff at a group event per this
chapter. No fees payable per this chapter shall exceed the costs reasonably
borne of providing the corresponding services provided per this chapter. No
fees shall be payable with respect to the filing or consideration of an
application for a city event. The fees payable in relation to an Indio-based
group event shall be at least 20% lower than any fees payable for any other
group event. Any appellant under this chapter that prevails upon its appeal
shall be entitled to the city's return of its fees that were payable on appeal.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1808, passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.30 SMOKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to smoke or to dispose of any lighted
match or cigarette, cigar ashes or any flaming or glowing substance in any
park.
   (B)   For the purposes of the section:
      (1)   “Smoke” or “smoking” means and includes any of the following: (a)
the direct burning or indirect heating of any cigar, cigarette, pipe,
electronic smoking device, or any similar kind of smoking equipment or article,
using any form of tobacco, cannabis, plant product, or other combustible
substance in any form, or (b) the holding or carrying of a lighted or operated
cigar, cigarette, pipe, electronic smoking device, or any other lighted smoking
equipment or device, or (c) emitting or exhaling the smoke directly from a
cigar, cigarette, pipe, electronic smoking device, or any other lighted smoking
equipment or device. "Smoke" also means the gaseous or vaporous products or
particles created by the use of a lighted or operated pipe, cigar, cigarette,
electronic smoking device, or other kind of smoking equipment or article.
      (2)   “Electronic smoking device” means an electronic device that can be
used to deliver an inhaled dose of nicotine, or other substances, including any
component, part, or accessory of such a device, whether or not sold separately;
and includes any such device, whether manufactured, distributed, marketed, or
sold as an electronic cigarette, an electronic cigar, an electronic cigarillo,
an electronic pipe, an electronic hookah, or any other product name or
descriptor.
      (3)   “Park” shall have the same meaning as in §
96.01, except shall not include golf courses.
(Ord. 1808, passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.31 PUBLIC RECORDS.
   Any document prepared per this chapter shall be a public record maintained
in accord with the city's records retention policy, and shall be subject to
redaction only per a decision by the City Attorney in accord with the
California Public Records Act.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1808, passed 2-21-24)
PERMITS FOR GROUP EVENTS
§ 96.40 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Each application for a group event permit shall be made in writing on a form
provided by the City Manager and shall be filed with the Community Services
Department together with any application fees that may be established from time
to time by resolution of the City Council. The contents of each permit
application shall comply with the city's park regulations.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1618, passed 9-19-12; Am. Ord. 1808,
passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.41 PERMIT REVIEW, ISSUANCE AND DENIAL.
   (A)   The City Manager shall be the City Official responsible for the
receipt, review and consideration of applications for group event permits filed
per this chapter. However, the Community Services Commission shall review and
consider any application for a large group event permit. The process through
which each application is reviewed, issued or denied shall conform to the
city's park regulations.
   (B)   Absent group event specific circumstances, the city's consideration of
each application shall address whether the proposed group event or large group
event can be approved as requested without causing, or likely causing any of
the following impacts:
      (1)   Damage to park landscaping and equipment;
      (2)   Overload any restroom and other facilities;
      (3)   Irresolvable conflict with another group event or with a city
event;
      (4)   Excessive traffic congestion or noise in a neighborhood; or
      (5)   Any other adverse impact upon the city, or the health, safety or
welfare of its residents.
   (C)   The City Official responsible for implementing this section in
coordination with the city's Community Services Department shall be the
Facilities and Construction Manager or his or her designee.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1618, passed 9-19-12; Am. Ord. 1808,
passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.42 PERMIT CONTENTS.
   Any permit issued per this chapter shall reflect all information required by
the city's park regulations.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1808, passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.43 APPEALS.
   Any determination upon a permit application, whether that determination be
an approval of a permit, a denial of a permit, or the placement of any
particular term or condition upon the issuance of a permit, may be appealed per
the city's park regulations.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1808, passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.44 SIGNS.
   This subchapter shall only apply to group events proposed to take place in a
park that incorporates a sign advising the public of the requirement of a
permit for any proposed group event.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1808, passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.45 RAIN OR ADVERSE WEATHER CONDITION.
   When rain or any other adverse weather condition, such as excessive heat,
wind, and the like, prevents a group event that has been the subject of an
approved permit issued per this subchapter from taking place, the approved
group event may not take place on any rescheduled date absent written
authorization of said rescheduled date by the City Manager. The organizing
person or party with respect to any group event necessarily postponed by rain
or an adverse weather condition has the sole responsibility to secure the
Supervisor's authorization for that group event's rescheduling hereunder.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1618, passed 9-19-12; Am. Ord. 1808,
passed 2-21-24)
§ 96.98 VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter shall be treated as a strict liability
offense; a violation shall be deemed to have occurred regardless of a
violator's intent. The City Manager, Police Chief, Fire Marshal and their
respective designees are charged with the enforcement of this chapter's
provisions.
   (B)   Any person, partnership, association, corporation, or other legal
entity that engages in any conduct that represents a violation of this chapter
shall be guilty of in infraction, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in § 10.99 of this code.
   (C)   Any person, partnership, association, corporation, or other legal
entity that engages in any conduct that represents a second violation of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in § 10.99 of this code.
   (D)   This section is intended to be cumulative to, and not in place of,
other rights and remedies available to the city. Above and beyond the
violations and penalties specified herein, the City Attorney and/or any duly
authorized city official authorized by the City Manager or the Police Chief to
enforce this chapter, may pursue any other right or remedy permitted by this
code or other applicable authority, including but not limited to the
commencement of a civil action, or an administrative action based upon a
citation issued per
Chapter 12 of this code to any person, partnership, association, corporation,
or other legal entity that engages in any conduct that represents a violation
of this chapter.
   (E)   Administrative penalties for citations arising from a violation of
this chapter shall be punished per the schedule of fines established by
resolution of the City Council or by the park regulations.
   (F)   Any person who fails to timely pay an administrative penalty specified
in Chapter 12 for a violation of this chapter, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
   (G)   Notwithstanding the absence in
Chapter 12 of any provision requiring payment due upon appeal of an
administrative citation, any person appealing the issuance of an administrative
citation issued upon a violation of this chapter shall pay an appellate fee
established by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 1565, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 1808, passed 2-21-24)
CHAPTER 97: STREETS; PARKWAYS; PUBLIC PLACES
Section
General Provisions
   
97.001   Short title
   
97.002   Application
   
97.003   Definitions
   
97.004   Purpose and intent
   
97.005   Encroachment permit
   
97.006   Application
   
97.007   Permit fees
   
97.008   Work requirements
   
97.009   Liability
   
97.010   Cash deposits
   
97.011   Protection measures and routing of traffic
   
97.012   Clearance for vital structures
   
97.013   Relocation and protection of utilities
   
97.014   Abandonment of facilities
   
97.015   Care of excavated material
   
97.016   Cleanup
   
97.017   Protection of watercourses
   
97.018   Cutting of pavement, sidewalk, curb, gutter and cross-gutter
   
97.019   Boring and jacking of utility lines and conductor casings
   
97.020   Depth of substructures
   
97.021   Backfilling
   
97.022   Site restoration
   
97.023   Trenches
   
97.024   Prompt completion of work
   
97.025   Urgent work
   
97.026   Emergency action
   
97.027   Noise, dust and debris
   
97.028   Preservation of monuments
   
97.029   Inspections
Banners
   
97.040   Purpose and intent
   
97.041   Special requirements
   
97.042   Duration of permit
   
97.043   Installation
   
97.044   Public liability and property damage
   
97.045   Removal and cleanup
   
97.046   Illegal banners
   
97.047   Banner permit fee
Off-Site Improvements
   
97.065   Purpose
   
97.066   Duties of property owners, lessees, tenants or occupants
   
97.067   Soil and trash upon parkway and public streets
   
97.068   Fences and walls in parkway and public streets
   
97.069   Landscaping and decorative lighting
   
97.070   Display of goods on sidewalks, parkways, streets and alleys
   
97.071   Drainage of water onto streets and sidewalks
   
97.072   Repairs of sidewalks, curbs and driveways, and the like
   
97.073   Construction of off-site improvements
   
97.074   Moving permits; building, overweight and overwidth equipment and the
like
   
97.075   Reimbursement of public improvement funds
   
97.076   Violations constitute a public nuisance
   
97.077   Appeals
   
97.078   Abatement and recovery of costs
Mapped Streets
   
97.085   Definitions
   
97.086   Building lines established
   
97.087   Protection of rights-of-way for future widening of existing streets
and for mapped streets
   
97.088   Restrictions on issuance of building permits
   
97.089   Hearings before Planning Commission; criteria of decision; appeals
   
97.090   Acquisition of property by city
   
97.091   Existing structures
   
97.092   City Clerk to accept streets and roads into city street system
Parades, Processions, Marches
   
97.100   Definitions
   
97.101   Exemptions
   
97.102   Permit; required
   
97.103   Application
   
97.104   Issuance
   
97.105   Terms
   
97.106   Rejection; notice
   
97.107   Appeal
   
97.108   Alternative permits
   
97.109   Notification of permits
   
97.110   Interference with parade
Regulation of Newspaper Racks
   
97.130   Intent and purpose
   
97.131   Definitions
   
97.132   Permit required
   
97.133   Prohibited installations
   
97.134   Placement and maintenance standards
   
97.135   Display of certain matter prohibited
   
97.136   Display of harmful matter
   
97.137   Violation; notice to owner
   
97.138   Impounding of newsracks
   
97.139   Return of impounded newsracks
   
97.140   Sale or disposal after impoundment
   
97.141   Hearing procedures on impoundment
   
97.142   Appeals
   
97.143   Restoration
 
   
97.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 97.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Indio Streets, Parkway
and Public Places Ordinance.”
('61 Code, § 18.1) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.002 APPLICATION.
   The purpose of this chapter is to develop procedures and regulations and to
assign responsibility for the use and maintenance of the public streets,
parkway and public places.
('61 Code, § 18.2) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY, ADMINISTRATIVE. The Director of Public Works or his designated
representative, unless otherwise specified in the various sections.
   BANNER. Any device made of cloth, plastic, or any other material, including
any article of display, advertising or decorative matter whose purpose is to
advertise special civic events, seasons, holidays or activities of service
clubs, or youth groups that conform to the Unified Development Code and are
made to be extended over and/or along or across a public place.
   ENCROACHMENT. The entry upon, over, under, or placing any facility upon,
across, over or under, or the use of any public place in such a manner as to
interfere temporarily or permanently with the normal use thereof.
   EXCAVATION. Any opening in, under, or across the surface of a public place
in any manner except a  lawful opening into substructure below the surface of
the public place.
   FACILITIES. Any pipe, pipeline, tube, service line, vault, manhole, meter
gauge regulator, valve, conduit, wire, power pole, pole line, anchor, cable,
junction box, transformer, curb, gutters, sidewalks, paving, irrigation and
landscaping, or any other object including buildings, portions, or any other
material substance whether natural or manmade, constructed, left, placed in,
upon, along, over, under or across, or maintained temporarily or permanently in
any public place.
   IMPROVEMENTS, OFFICE. Facilities constructed in public streets, parkways and
public places and included, but not limited to sidewalks, curbs and gutters,
planters, landscaping, irrigation systems, street lighting and ornamental
lighting.
   PARKWAY. That portion of the street right-of-way lying outside the curbline,
existing or proposed, whether improved or not.
   PERMITS (ENCROACHMENT, BANNER, CONSTRUCTION).  A form provided by the city.
The form will be two-fold; it will be an application when filled out by the
permittee and a permit when approved by the Administrative Authority. All
permit forms are obtained at the office of the Department of Public Works.
   PERSON. Any individual, owner, lessee, tenant, occupant, private company,
firm, partnership, corporation, governmental agency or organization of any
kind.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, square, plaza, park, mall, parking lot or
other property owned by the city and dedicated for public use.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the sidewalk area that has been improved with a
concrete or asphaltic surface.
   SIDEWALK AREA. A portion of or all of a parkway that is unimproved (no
concrete or asphaltic concrete sidewalks), but is maintained for pedestrian
purposes.
   STREET. Any dedicated right-of-way for street, alley, or utility purposes,
whether improved or not.
   SUBSTRUCTURE. Any pipe, conduit, duct, tunnel, cable, wire, vault, manhole
or any other similar structure located below the surface of any public place.
   UTILITY. Any individual, private company, partnership, corporation, and the
like, operating under the public utility commission or a municipality, county
district, or other governmental agencies engaged in providing a particular
service to the general public.
('61 Code, § 18.3) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.004 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations to control
encroachments into public places by requiring encroachment permits and to
establish measures for the protection of life and property, including traffic
and pedestrian safeguards. Additionally, this chapter regulates backfilling and
resurfacing of excavations, prescribes application procedures for permit
issuance, establishes bonding and liability requirements and prescribes
penalties for violations of its provisions.
('61 Code, § 18.4) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.005 ENCROACHMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall establish or cause any encroachment in any public
place unless there has been first obtained an encroachment permit therefor from
the Administrative Authority, except as may be otherwise provided in this
chapter.
   (B)   The Administrative Authority may issue an annual blanket permit to
utilities for purposes of placing, replacing or repairing facilities within a
public place in an unimproved area or where the opening or excavation in a
paved area does not exceed two feet in width and three feet in length.
('61 Code, § 18.5) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.006 APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application form provided by the Administrative Authority shall be
submitted before any encroachment permit is issued. The application shall state
the name and address and principal place of business of the applicant, the
purpose of the facility, the location and dimensions (where applicable) of the
installation or removal, the size of any excavation to be made, the approximate
time when work will begin, and the approximate time required to complete the
work, including removing all obstructions, material and debris, backfilling,
compacting and placing permanent resurfacing and/or replacing improvements. A
permit expiration date may be established by the Administrative Authority.
Additionally, the permittee shall give the Administrative Authority 24 hours'
advance notice when work will be started.
   (B)   Conditions may be added at the time of the issuance of the permit
consistent with and in implementation of the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   When approved and signed by the Administrative Authority, the
application constitutes a permit. Whenever significant changes or modifications
are to be made to existing facilities, the permittee shall secure written
approval from the owner of the facility and an addendum to the original
encroachment permit from the Administrative Authority.
('61 Code, § 18.6) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.007 PERMIT FEES.
   The Administrative Authority may collect a permit fee to cover the cost
incurred by the city pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. Recoverable
costs include administrative expenses involved in the issuance of an
encroachment permit, checking plans for compliance with this and other
ordinances, and field inspections conducted to insure compliance with the terms
and conditions under which the encroachment permit was issued. Fee schedules
may be established by resolution of the city.
('61 Code, § 18.7) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.008 WORK REQUIREMENTS.
   All encroachment work shall be performed in accordance with State of
California Department of Transportation Standard Specifications and Standard
Details, most recent edition, or according to the plans and specifications
referred to in the permit, and in addition to any special requirements and/or
specifications which may be made a part of the permit.
('61 Code, § 18.8) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.009 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The permittee shall indemnify, defend and save the city, its
authorized agents, officers, representatives and employees harmless from and
against any and all penalties, liabilities or loss resulting from claims or
court action and arising out of any accident, loss or damage to persons or
property happening or occurring as approximate result of any work undertaken
under the permit granted pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Additionally, the permittee shall be responsible for all liability
imposed by law for personal injury or property damage caused by work performed
under the encroachment permit or caused by failure on permittee's part to
perform his maintenance obligations under such permit.
   (C)   If any liability claim is made against the city, its officers or
employees, the permittee shall defend, indemnify and hold them and each of them
harmless from such claim insofar as permitted by law. The Administrative
Authority may require proof of financial responsibility to meet the permittee's
obligation under this section. An insurance policy acceptable to the city and
naming the city as an additional insured may meet the requirements of this
section.
('61 Code, § 18.9) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.010 CASH DEPOSITS.
   If required by the Administrative Authority, the permittee shall provide a
cash surety bond or owner acceptable security in the amount determined by the
Administrative Authority as sufficient to reimburse the city for the cost of
restoring the public place to its original position in the event the permittee
fails to do so.
('61 Code, § 18.10) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.011 PROTECTION MEASURES AND ROUTING OF TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person undertaking any construction,
including making an excavation in or upon any public place, to place and
maintain barriers and warning devices necessary for safety of the general
public.
   (B)   For excavations over five feet in depth, blasting operations and
tunneling work, the permittee shall, when required by law, obtain a permit from
the California Division of Industrial Safety and/or any other permit required
by state or federal safety regulations.
   (C)   Barrels, warning signs, lights, and the like, shall conform to the
requirements of the Manual of Warning Signs, Lights and Devices for Use in
Performance of Work Upon Highways, issued by the state of California,
Department of Transportation and to any additional requirements specified by
the Administrative Authority. Warning signs shall be placed as described in
Article 402 of the Traffic Manual, issued by the State Department of
Transportation.
   (D)   The permittee shall take appropriate measures to assure that during
the performance of construction work on streets, traffic conditions as near
normal as practicable shall be maintained at all times so as to minimize
inconvenience to the occupants of the adjoining property and to the general
public.
   (E)   When traffic conditions permit, the Administrative Authority may, by
written approval, permit the closing of streets and alleys to all traffic for a
period of time prescribed by him. The written approval of the Administrative
Authority may require that the permittee provide approved detours and give
notification to various public agencies and to the general public. In such
cases, the written approval shall not be valid until notice is given.
('61 Code, § 18.11) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.012 CLEARANCE FOR VITAL STRUCTURES.
   The construction work shall be performed and conducted so as not to
interfere unreasonably with access to fire hydrants, fire stations, fire
escapes, watergates, underground vaults, valve housing structures, and all
other vital equipment designated by the Administrative Authority.
('61 Code, § 18.12) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.013 RELOCATION AND PROTECTION OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   Permittees shall inform themselves as to the existence and location of
all facilities likely to be encountered by their operations.
   (B)   Unless the law otherwise provides, relocation of an existing facility
shall be performed in accordance with a plan approved by the owner. No facility
owned by the city shall be moved to accommodate the permittee unless the cost
of such work is borne by the permittee.
   (C)   All facilities affected by any excavation or other construction work
shall be supported and protected by the permittee with methods approved by the
owner of the facility. Should an existing facility be damaged by the
permittee's operations, and for this purpose pipe coating or other encasement
or devices are to be considered as part of a facility, the permittee shall
promptly notify the owner of the damaged facility. All facilities damaged by
the permittee's operations shall be repaired as directed by the owner and the
expense of such repairs shall be charged to the permittee.
('61 Code, § 18.13) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.014 ABANDONMENT OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Whenever a substructure is abandoned, except the abandonment of
service lines designed to serve single properties, the person owning, using,
controlling or having an interest therein shall file with the Administrative
Authority a drawing or written statement indicating, in detail, the location of
the substructure so abandoned. At the time of such abandonment, the
Administrative Authority may determine what portion, if any, of the abandoned
substructure shall be removed or otherwise treated.
   (B)   Whenever a driveway approach is abandoned or can no longer be
justified by the use made of the abutting property, the Administrative
Authority may require removal of any associated driveway, apron or curb
depression, and restoration of any existing curb, gutter or sidewalk across the
driveway width.
('61 Code, § 18.14) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.015 CARE OF EXCAVATED MATERIAL.
   Where the confines of any area being excavated are too narrow to permit
piling of excavated material beside the trench, the Administrative Authority
may require the permittee to haul away the excavated material. The permittee
shall be responsible for securing any necessary disposal sites. In addition,
the permittee shall anticipate and make provisions for abatement of dust and
dirt nuisances resulting from its operations.
('61 Code, § 18.15) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.016 CLEANUP.
   As the excavation or other construction work progresses, all streets shall
be thoroughly cleaned of all rubbish, excess earth, rock and other debris
resulting from the work. All cleanup operations at the location of the
construction shall be accomplished at the expense of the permittee to the
satisfaction of the Administrative Authority.
('61 Code, § 18.16) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.017 PROTECTION OF WATERCOURSES.
   The permittee shall provide and maintain adequate waterways for all surplus
water, including storm water, runoff pumped from excavations, flushings or
other water resulting from the permittee's operations.
('61 Code, § 18.17) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.018 CUTTING OF PAVEMENT, SIDEWALK, CURB, GUTTER AND CROSS-GUTTER.
   (A)   Asphalt pavement. Asphalt pavement shall be saw-cut unless an
alternate method is approved by the Administrative Authority.
   (B)   Concrete sidewalk, curb, gutter and cross- gutter. All concrete
facilities shall be saw-cut. The depth of cut shall be a minimum of one-third
of the thickness of the material being cut. Sidewalks. curbs, gutters and
cross-gutters shall be cut on and removed to the nearest joint or score line.
In the absence of lines and joints, the area to be cut and removed will be
determined in the field by the Administrative Authority or his agent.
('61 Code, § 18.18) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.019 BORING AND JACKING OF UTILITY LINES AND CONDUCTOR CASINGS.
   (A)   The Administrative Authority may require boring and jacking of utility
lines and conductor casings in public streets.
   (B)   All nonrigid, nonmetallic pipe larger than three inches shall be
installed in a conductor casing.
   (C)   All metallic and nonmetallic pipe three inches and under may be
installed without a conductor casing.
('61 Code, § 18.19) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.020 DEPTH OF SUBSTRUCTURES.
   Unless otherwise approved by the Administrative Authority, the minimum cover
of substructures shall be as follows:
   (A)   Streets and alleys. 36 inches below the established flow line of the
nearest gutter, or if a flow line is not established, then the depth shall be
at a minimum of 48 inches below the surface of the nearest outermost edge of
the traveled portion of the street, or, designed elevations, approved by the
Administrative Authority;
   (B)   Parkways. 36 inches below established parkway elevation;
   (C)   Other public places. Twelve inches below the surface. Unless the law
otherwise provides, nothing in this chapter shall impose a duty upon the
permittee to maintain these minimum depth requirements upon subsequent changes
of elevation in the surface unless the depth of the substructure interferes
with the maintenance of, or travel on, a public street.
('61 Code, § 18.20) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.021 BACKFILLING.
   Backfilling shall consist of placing and compacting excavated or imported
backfilling material in an excavation. Compaction to a relative density of 90%
up to the ground surface, or up to the base material if in a paved street,
shall be achieved upon completion of the backfill. Base material shall be
compacted to a relative density of 95%. Compaction tests by an approved soils
laboratory or engineer may be required at the permittee's expense to assure
compliance with this section.
('61 Code, § 18.21) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.022 SITE RESTORATION.
   (A)   Concrete sidewalk, curb, gutter and cross- gutter. All concrete
facilities shall be replaced at the same cross-section thickness as that
removed except that sidewalks shall be a minimum of four inches thick and
driveways, gutters and cross-gutters shall be a minimum of six inches thick or
as required by the adopted standards of the Administrative Authority.
   (B)   Asphalt pavement. All trenches within existing paved roads shall be
provided with temporary surfacing unless the permittee immediately installs
permanent resurfacing. Temporary paving shall be properly maintained until
permanent surfacing is placed.
      (1)   Prior to placing of permanent pavement, edges shall be trimmed to a
vertical face. Permanent pavement shall be the thickness of the existing
pavement plus one inch. The pavement shall be placed so that the finished
surface after compaction is level with or does not exceed a maximum of one-
quarter inch above the existing pavement and does not overlap onto the existing
pavement. If the pavement is to overlap the trench cut, it shall be brought up
in two lifts; the first lift to be level with the existing pavement when
completed.
      (2)   If over 50% of a street is destroyed, the Administrative Authority
may require a structural overlay of the entire street.
   (C)   Lawn areas. Whenever it may be necessary for the permittee to trench
any lawn area, the area shall be reseeded or the sod shall be carefully cut and
rolled and replaced after ditches have been backfilled as required in this
chapter. All construction and maintenance work shall be done in a manner
calculated to leave the lawn area clear of earth and debris and in a condition
as near as practicable to that which existed before the work began. The
permittee shall not remove, even temporarily, any trees or shrubs which exist
in parkway areas without first obtaining the consent of the Administrative
Authority.
('61 Code, § 18.22) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.023 TRENCHES.
   The maximum amount of open trench to be allowed shall be determined by the
Administrative Authority.
('61 Code, § 18.23) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.024 PROMPT COMPLETION OF WORK.
   After the project is commenced, the permittee shall diligently pursue all
work covered by the encroachment permit, promptly complete all work and restore
the street, as near as practicable, to its original condition to avoid
obstructing the public place more than is reasonably necessary.
('61 Code, § 18.24) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.025 URGENT WORK.
   When, in the judgment of the Administrative Authority, the safety or
convenience of the traveling public or the public interest requires that
encroachment work be performed as emergency work, the Administrative Authority
shall have full power to order at the time the permit is granted that a crew of
men and adequate facilities be employed by the permittee 24 hours a day to the
end that such work may be completed as soon as practicable.
('61 Code, § 18.25) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.026 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the making of
excavations or the performance of work necessary for the preservation of life
or property or for the location of trouble in conduit or pipe, or for making
repairs; provided that the person undertaking such work shall apply to the
Administrative Authority for a permit on the first working day after the work
is commenced.
('61 Code, § 18.26) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.027 NOISE, DUST AND DEBRIS.
   Each permittee shall carry out encroachment work in a manner which will
avoid unnecessary inconvenience to the general public and occupants of
neighboring property, and the permittee shall take all practicable measures to
reduce noise, dust and debris. Hours of restricted operation, if any, may be
established by resolution of the city.
('61 Code, § 18.27) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.028 PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTS.
   (A)   No monument set for the purpose of locating or preserving the lines of
any street or property subdivision, including precise survey reference points
or permanent survey benchmarks within the city shall be removed or disturbed by
any person who has not first obtained written permission from the
Administrative Authority.
   (B)   Permission to remove, disturb or replace monuments shall only be
granted upon the condition that the removal, disturbance or replacement of any
monument be done under the supervision of a registered engineer or licensed
land surveyor. Any expenses incurred by the Administrative Authority for the
proper placement of monuments shall be paid by the permittee.
('61 Code, § 18.28) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.029 INSPECTIONS.
   The Administrative Authority shall make inspections and may establish rules
and regulations reasonably necessary to enforce and carry out the intent of
this chapter.
('61 Code, § 18.29) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
BANNERS
§ 97.040 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish uniform regulations and
procedures for the installation and maintenance of banners in, along, or over
any public place.
('61 Code, § 18.30) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.041 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No permit will be issued until after the applicant has obtained a temporary
sign permit from the Department of Planning and Development.
('61 Code, § 18.31) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.042 DURATION OF PERMIT.
   The duration of the permit shall be the same as the sign permit.
('61 Code, § 18.32) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.043 INSTALLATION.
   The banners shall be installed in a safe manner. The installation shall be
inspected by the Administrative Authority. If, in the opinion of the
Administrative Authority, the installation is unsafe, it shall be repaired or
removed.
('61 Code, § 18.33) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.044 PUBLIC LIABILITY AND PROPERTY DAMAGE.
   The applicant shall submit proof of public liability and property damage
insurance in the following amounts:
   (A)   $1,000,000 combine single; and
   (B)   $50,000 property damage.
('61 Code, § 18.34) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.045 REMOVAL AND CLEANUP.
   A permittee shall remove any banner for which a permit has been issued
within 24 hours after the expiration date of the permit. The removal includes
all cleanup of debris and fixtures.
('61 Code, § 18.34) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.046 ILLEGAL BANNERS.
   All banners require signed permit. Removal of illegal banners shall be in
accordance with the Unified Development Code.
(‘61 Code, § 18.36) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.047 BANNER PERMIT FEE.
   The banner permit fee shall be as established by resolution of the City
Council.
('61 Code, § 18.37) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENTS
§ 97.065 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter are to assign responsibility for the
improvement and maintenance of parkways and sidewalks and to establish uniform
guidelines and standards for the construction of off-site improvements required
by city code regulations or being installed by a property owner or occupant on
his own initiative.
   (B)   The improvements include, but are not limited to connecting pavement,
curb and gutter, sidewalks, street lighting, landscaping, planters, irrigation
systems and decorative lighting.
('61 Code, § 18.38) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.066 DUTIES OF PROPERTY OWNERS, LESSEES, TENANTS OR OCCUPANTS.
   It is unlawful for any person, whether owner, lessee, tenant or occupant to
fail to keep the parkway and sidewalk or sidewalk area in and along any or all
street frontages of any property under his control in a safe and clean
condition.
('61 Code, § 18.39) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.067 SOIL AND TRASH UPON PARKWAY AND PUBLIC STREETS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person having charge or control of any lot or
premises, either as owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or otherwise to allow or
permit any soil, trash, rubbish, garden refuse, tree trimmings, ashes, in cans
or other waste or refuse to remain upon or in any public street, alley, or upon
any sidewalk abutting on such lot or premises, or to interfere with or obstruct
the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles along such sidewalks, alleys, or
streets, or to allow or permit the same to be moved or transported by wind or
otherwise onto or upon any public street or alley or sidewalk, or upon any
private property without the consent of the owner.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning or operating any vehicle to allow
any of the items mentioned in division (A) to spill, fall off or blow onto any
public street or alley or sidewalk abutting such street or onto any private
property without the consent of the owner.
('61 Code, § 18.40) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.068 FENCES AND WALLS IN PARKWAY AND PUBLIC STREETS.
   (A)   No barbed wire fences will be allowed in any parkway, street, alley or
public place.
   (B)   No fences or walls will be allowed in the street or alley or in the
parkway of any land zoned for commercial or industrial uses. Decorative fences
and walls will be allowed by encroachment permit in the parkway of land zoned
for residential uses. The fence or wall shall be located between the sidewalk
and the property line. If no sidewalk exists, the construction of the wall or
fence will be conditioned upon the installation of the sidewalk. The maximum
height of walls and fences shall be 36 inches within the parkway, except the
corner lot where the end 20 feet on each street shall be reduced to 24 inches
for visibility. All walls and fences have to provide four-foot clearance around
fire hydrants, water meters, and all other utility structures. If a wall or
fence is constructed over underground utility lines, the utility company may
remove such fence or wall as necessary to repair and maintain its facilities,
and it will be the property owners' responsibility to replace the same.
   (C)   All walls and fences that are not maintained properly shall be
declared a nuisance and abated in accordance with
Chapter 95A.
('61 Code, § 18.41) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.069 LANDSCAPING AND DECORATIVE LIGHTING.
   (A)   Landscaping consisting of approved shrubs, trees, irrigation systems,
including decorative lighting, may be constructed in that portion of the
parkway not included in sidewalk areas. The landscaping shall be in accordance
with the requirements of the zoning regulations in the Unified Development
Code. The material and design of the sprinkler system and decorative lights
shall be in accordance with the city policy and approved by the Public Works
Department. All shrubs shall be maintained at a height not to exceed 36 inches
except where a lesser height of 24 inches is required on comer lots and at
driveways for visibility.
   (B)   All landscaping that is not properly maintained in the parkway shall
be declared a hazard and nuisance and abated in accordance with
Chapter 95A.
('61 Code, § 18.42) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.070 DISPLAY OF GOODS ON SIDEWALKS, PARKWAYS, STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   It is unlawful for any person to display or store any merchandise, materials
and the like in or on any parkway, sidewalk, street or alley except as provided
by the zoning regulations and except during shipping, loading and/or delivery.
('61 Code, § 18.43) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.071 DRAINAGE OF WATER ONTO STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person having control of any lot or premises to allow
any water or other liquids used to clean a premises or in conjunction with the
service provided or the product produced, including irrigation and air
conditioning water of all types, to be deposited upon any sidewalk, street,
alley or public place. Water from roof drains is prohibited from being
deposited directly upon sidewalks or parkways.
('61 Code, § 18.44) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.072 REPAIRS OF SIDEWALKS, CURBS AND DRIVEWAYS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The owner of lots, or portions of lots, fronting on any portion of a
public street shall clean, repair and maintain sidewalk areas. The sidewalk
area shall be maintained in a safe condition such that it does not endanger
persons or property during reasonable use. The failure to maintain the sidewalk
area in a safe condition is negligence. Liability for any injuries occurring
from such negligence is assigned to the owner of the lot fronting the sidewalk.
   (B)   The owner is not liable for conditions created or maintained upon or
in connection with the sidewalk area by any person other than the owner under
any permit or right granted by law and by the city. During the period of the
permitted activity, the permit holder assumes the duties and obligation of
division (A) of this section. It is the duty of the permit holder to leave the
sidewalk area in a safe condition during periods of inactivity and upon the
completion of the permitted activity.
   (C)   It is the duty of the city to notify the owner or person in possession
of the property when any portion of the sidewalk area presents a condition
which endangers persons or property during reasonable use. The notice shall be
in writing and be delivered in person or by certified mail to the occupant of
the premises, and also to the owner of the property if not the same as the
occupant. The notice shall describe the property by a recorded map, metes and
bounds, assessor's parcel number, and shall include the street address of the
property. The notice shall describe the hazardous condition and the repairs
required. The repair must begin within 14 days from the date of the notice and
be completed without unreasonable interruption or delay. If the work is not
begun within 14 days, the city will cause the work to be done and the cost to
be assessed against the property owner in accordance with Chapter 22 of the
Improvement Act of 1911.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, “maintenance and repair of sidewalk
areas” shall include but not be limited to removal and replacement of
sidewalks; removal and filling or replacement of parking strips; removal of
weeds and/or debris; and trimming of trees, shrubs, hedges and/or ground cover.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to diminish any rights of the
city to seek indemnification from abutting landowners.
   (F)   For purposes of this section “conditions of sidewalk areas which are
deemed likely to endanger persons or property during reasonable use” shall
include but not be limited to: broken. cracked or spilled concrete or asphalt
surfacing; litter, debris; holes; rough or uneven surface; or otherwise
hazardous conditions of improved or unimproved sidewalk areas.
('61 Code, § 18.45) (Ord. 702, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1060, passed - - )
§ 97.073 CONSTRUCTION OF OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to construct, replace or otherwise
modify off site improvements without first obtaining a construction permit from
the Administrative Authority, except work orders by the Administrative
Authority to abate a hazard or those required as a condition of a subdivision
map. The permit will be on a form provided by the Administrative Authority and
filing and inspection fees will be adopted by City Council resolution.
   (B)   All off-site improvements shall be constructed in accordance with the
city's standard specifications. Fees shall be set at the discretion of the City
Council.
('61 Code, § 18.46) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.074 MOVING PERMITS; BUILDING, OVERWEIGHT AND OVERWIDTH EQUIPMENT AND THE
LIKE.
   (A)   Moving permits for buildings shall be in accordance with §
151.120 et seq.
   (B)   Moving permits for overweight and overwidth equipment shall be issued
by the Administrative Authority. It shall be on a form provided by the city,
and it shall contain a description of the equipment and method of moving. The
Administrative Authority, upon filing of the permit, will determine which
street it may move upon, time of day it may be moved, signs, lights and/or if a
convoy is required.
   (C)   The permittee shall be responsible for any and all damage to public
streets and facilities. The Administrative Authority may require a cash or
surety bond in an amount not less than $1,000, or the estimated cost of
probable damage, if any, whichever is greater. Permit fees shall be established
by resolution of the City Council.
('61 Code, § 18.47) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.075 REIMBURSEMENT OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT FUNDS.
   (A)   Purpose of provisions: From time to time city and private development
installed the public improvements including water lines, sewer lines, other
underground utilities, connecting pavements, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, median
islands, and similar public right-of-way improvements appurtenant to parcels
yet to be developed. These improvements cause the value of these parcels to
increase. When these developed parcels develop, the city for the most part does
not receive property tax revenues to reimburse for the public improvements that
have directly benefited these parcels. In addition, the private developer
installing these improvements is not reimbursed for the benefit bestowed on
adjacent property. This section is intended as a procedure for reimbursement of
public improvements made of moneys from the treasury of the city for such
public improvements and to reimburse private developers for installation of
public improvements of benefit to adjacent private landowners.
   (B)   Recovery of costs:
      (1)   Whenever the City Council determines that the public interest and
necessity demand the construction and completion of public projects including
but not limited to street improvements including; water lines, sewer lines,
other underground utilities, connecting pavements, curbs and gutters,
sidewalks, median islands and similar public right-of-way improvements, to
undeveloped areas of the city, not adequately improved, and appropriates moneys
out of the treasury of the city for such public improvements, no person shall
be permitted to develop such property until such property owner has paid to the
city the proportionate share of the cost of the street improvements as
established by the City Council with respect to the property; and no
application, either by petition or otherwise, shall be approved by the City
Council for the building and or development of such property until the property
owners to be benefited or a significant number thereof shall have paid to the
city, or agreed to pay such proportionate share of the costs of the street
improvements as in the opinion of the Council insures the payment of the cost
of the public street improvements. Such payments include a development fee or
license tax fee on new construction obligation and shall be in addition to any
other fee prescribed by any ordinance of the city.
      (2)   Whenever a public project is financed in any part by the general
fund of the city, the City Engineer shall determine if there are any parcels
directly benefited by the installation of the public project. Whenever the City
Engineer determines that a parcel is directly benefited from a public project,
the City Engineer shall recommend to the City Council, as part of the documents
to be approved by the Council for the public project. The amount of
reimbursement to be apportioned to any such parcel. Reimbursement may be in the
form of a lump sum payment to the city or payment of a development fee or
license tax on new construction. The owner of any such parcel as designated
upon the latest records of the County Assessor shall be notified of the
Council's hearing for the consideration of the public project. At said hearing,
if the City Council approves the public project, the City Council shall also
consider the apportionment of the cost of said improvements among the parcels
directly benefited from the project. If a parcel is required to reimburse the
City for any portion of the public project, a recorded document will be filed
with the County Recorder's office, stating the obligation that is due and
payable upon issuance of any permit for the development upon the parcel.
      (3)   As referred to herein "permit" refers to any permit issued by the
city and "development" shall refer to any improvement upon real property for
which any permit is required.
      (4)   A temporary waiver of payment of lots may be requested, in writing,
to the City Manager. A waiver request may only be submitted for a permit of
improvements upon a parcel already occupied with a resident's structure. The
City Manager may waive, for a designated period of time, all or a portion of
the reimbursement.
   (C)   Reimbursement for utility undergrounding: When utility undergrounding,
and the total estimated development fee for license, tax, collections for
utility undergrounding is required by the city to accommodate a street
widening, the developer shall receive a partial reimbursement from the city if
the cost of utility undergrounding exceeds the amount estimated to be collected
for utility undergrounding as part of the development fee or license tax
payments over the duration of the construction project.The partial
reimbursement shall be limited to the difference between the cost of
undergrounding. Reimbursement by the City shall only be paid from designated
utility undergrounding accounts, subject to the variability of funds.
   (D)   Private projects-reimbursement by benefited property owner
      (1)   Whenever the City Council determines that the public interest and
necessity demand the construction and completion of public right-of-way
improvements including, but not limited to water lines, sewer lines and other
underground utilities, connecting pavement, street improvements, including
curbs, gutters, paving and sidewalks and related improvements, including median
island improvements and utility undergrouding, adjacent to undeveloped areas of
the city not adequately improved and places conditions of approval upon a
private project for construction of such public improvements, no person shall
receive a permit to develop the benefited property until such property owner
has paid to the city a proportionate share of the original costs of the public
right-of-way improvements as previously required by the City Council with
respect to the property so benefited.
      (2)   In making this determination, the City Engineer shall determine the
percentage of benefit to the benefited parcel. Such payment by the benefited
parcel shall then be paid by the city to the original private developer having
installed such improvements. If the city record fail to include the identity of
that developer or the developer no longer exists or for any reason the payment
cannot be made after reasonable effort by the city, the City Council may order
the payment returned to the payor.
(Ord. 1248, passed 6-2-99)
§ 97.076 VIOLATIONS CONSTITUTE A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Unless expressly stated otherwise, any violation of this chapter constitutes
a public nuisance and is subject to all civil, administrative and criminal
remedies, and all abatement procedures set forth in
Chapter 95A of this code, pertaining to the abatement of public nuisances.
(Ord. 1297, passed 6-20-01)
§ 97.077 APPEALS.
   Within 15 days of receiving a notice of hazardous condition or within 15
days of any other action taken by the Public Works Superintendent or authorized
city agent, a property owner or any person having possession or control of the
lot or premises, either as owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or otherwise, can
appeal from such notification or action to the Board of Appeals created by §
95.112A of this code. Such appeal shall be subject to the rules and procedures
applicable to the Board of Appeals as set forth in §§ 95.113A through 95.120A
of this code. The decision of the Board of Appeals shall be final and
conclusive.
(Ord. 1297, passed 6-20-01)
§ 97.078 ABATEMENT AND RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   If the condition described in the notice of hazardous condition is not
remedied within the time prescribed in the notice for which an appeal is not
sought or within the time set forth in the decision of the Board of Appeals,
then the City Manager or designee can cause the hazardous condition to be
abated by the city forces or by private contract, and the cost of such remedial
actions can be recovered in accordance with §§ 95.122A through 95.127A of this
code.
(Ord. 1297, passed 6-20-01)
MAPPED STREETS
§ 97.085 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person applying for a building permit within this city.
   GENERAL PLAN. The general plan of the city.
   LINE, BUILDING. That certain line established by the City Council as
provided in this subchapter. Within the area of a lot between such building
line and an abutting street right-of-way no structure shall be erected,
constructed or maintained except as set forth in this subchapter.
   LOT. Any lot, parcel or other real property situated within the city.
   NOTICE OF APPEAL. A written statement, filed on a prescribed form, appealing
to the City Council an action or decision of the Planning Commission hereunder.
   NOTICE, WRITTEN.  A written notice deposited by United States mail, postage
prepaid, addressed to the last-known address of the designated addressee.
   OWNER. Any person entitled to the possession of real property.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind, including public agencies.
   SETBACK AREA, BUILDING. The area of a lot between the building line and
abutting street right-of-way extending the full width of such lot.
   STREET. Any street, highway, avenue, boulevard, road, walk, alley, right-of-
way, lane, place, square or other public way which heretofore has been, or may
hereafter be dedicated or otherwise acquired by this city or other governmental
agency for public street purposes.
   STREET, MAPPED. A future street which is laid out and delineated on the
general plan and on an addendum map of such size, scale and detail that the
precise alignment of such street is ascertainable.
   STRUCTURE and BUILDING. Anything constructed or erected from an assembly of
materials or component parts and which is attached or affixed to realty, or
which is intended to rest other than temporarily thereupon, or which is
attached to something having a fixed location on or below the ground.
('61 Code, § 18.48) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.086 BUILDING LINES ESTABLISHED.
   Where a lot abuts a public street, a building line is established on such
lot parallel to the front lot line thereof and located, measured from the
existing center of the street, a distance equal to the required depth of the
front yard of the lot (as prescribed by the zoning regulations in the Unified
Development Code), plus a distance equal to one-half of the ultimate width of
the abutting street, as the ultimate width is shown on the general plan.
(‘61 Code, § 18.49) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.087 PROTECTION OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY FOR FUTURE WIDENING OF EXISTING STREETS
AND FOR MAPPED STREETS.
   (A)   Establishment of future streets.  In accordance with applicable
provisions of state law, the City Council may designate and delineate mapped
streets and make the same as part of the general plan. When any such mapped
street has been so established, no person shall construct, install or maintain
any structure within the right-of-way thereof, except as specifically provided
in this subchapter.
   (B)   Building lines on partially dedicated streets. With regard to lots
abutting a street or streets upon which there has been a previous determination
by the Planning Commission and City Council that only a portion of the ultimate
street width has been acquired, the City Council shall determine the precise
ultimate street width and shall adopt the same as a mapped street on the
general plan, and thereafter such alignment shall be the basis for the
establishment of a building line, as provided in §
97.086.
   (C)   Proceedings for building permit. Proceedings for amendment of the
general plan by the designation of mapped streets for proposed widenings along
any existing street or portion thereof or for any future street may be
initiated by the Planning Commission, by the City Council, or by any person
filing a petition therefor with the Planning Commission. The Planning
Commission shall thereupon process the matter as an amendment to the general
plan.
   (D)   Upon receiving such recommendation of the Planning Commission and
whenever the public peace, health, safety, interest or welfare is found to so
require, the City Council may establish the proposed width of such street or
streets, and the alignment of such future streets, and thereupon shall cause
the general plan to be amended accordingly, as provided by state law.
('61 Code, § 18.50) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.088 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS.
   No building permit shall be issued for construction of any structure in any
building setback area or in the right-of-way of any mapped street. Temporary
structures such as walls, fences, signs or other easily removable structures,
involving a cost of not to exceed $1,000 may be permitted in such areas.
('61 Code, § 18.51) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.089 HEARINGS BEFORE PLANNING COMMISSION; CRITERIA OF DECISION; APPEALS.
   (A)   Hearings. Any applicant aggrieved by the denial or conditional
approval of a building permit pursuant to §
97.088 may by written notice request a hearing on such matter before the
Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall thereupon and within 30 days
thereafter hold a hearing at which the applicant and other interested persons
shall be given the opportunity to be heard. At least ten days prior to the date
fixed for the hearing, the Planning Commission shall cause notice of the time
and place thereof to be mailed to the applicant and to any other person
requesting such notice.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall direct the issuance of the requested
building permit if it finds either of the following facts to be true:
         (a)   The denial of the building permit, because of the nature of the
land or other unique circumstances, will cause substantial damage to the
applicant; or
         (b)   In balancing the interest of the public in preserving the
integrity of mapped streets against the private interest of the owner of the
land in using his property, it is determined that issuance of the building
permit is required in the interest of justice and equity.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall not direct the issuance of the
requested building permit if it finds either of the following facts to be true:
         (a)   The applicant will not be substantially damaged by relocating
the proposed structure on the lot elsewhere than in the building setback area,
or in the mapped street; or
         (b)   In balancing the interest of the public and preserving the
integrity of mapped streets against the private interest of the owner of the
land in using his property, the resulting loss and disadvantage to the public
would be unreasonable and disproportionate to the private benefits the owner
would accrue from so using the property.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may attach reasonable conditions to its
decision.
      (4)   The applicant and City Council shall be given written notice of the
action taken by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Appeals. Any person dissatisfied with the decision of the Planning
Commission may appeal such decision to the City Council by filing a written
notice of appeal with the City Clerk within 15 days after the date of the
mailing of the notice of the decision of the Planning Commission. The City
Council shall set the matter for hearing before it within 30 days, and shall,
at least ten days prior to the date fixed for the hearing, cause written notice
of the time and place thereof to be given to the appellant, the applicant and
to any person requesting the same. The procedure before the City Council shall
be the same as for the Planning Commission, and the applicant shall be notified
of the decision of the City Council.
('61 Code, § 18.52) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.090 ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY BY CITY.
   After exhaustion of administrative relief as provided in §
97.100, any applicant dissatisfied with the final decision may, by written
notice filed within 15 days thereafter, demand that the City Council acquire by
eminent domain or other available proceeding the land belonging to applicant
and located within the right-of- way of the mapped street. Upon failure of the
City Council within six months thereafter to commence such acquisition
proceedings, or thereafter with reasonable diligence to prosecute the same to
completion, the applicant may reapply for such building permit and thereupon
such building permit shall be issued.
('61 Code, § 18.53) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.091 EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   Structures existing in building setback areas and in mapped streets on the
date of the adoption of this subchapter shall be deemed to be legal
nonconforming structures, subject to the regulations, limitations, abatement
and amortization provided in the zoning regulations in the Unified Development
Code.
(‘61 Code, § 18.54) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.092 CITY CLERK TO ACCEPT STREETS AND ROADS INTO CITY STREET SYSTEM.
   The City Clerk is hereby designated to accept, on behalf of the city,
streets and roads or portions thereof, into the city street system and to
record conveyances to the city of real property interests for street and road
uses and purposes. The City Clerk shall, prior to recording any conveyances,
affix a certificate to the instrument stating the acceptance into the city
street system and designating the name or number, or both, of the city street
or road.
(Ord. 1150, passed 2-16-94)
PARADES, PROCESSIONS, MARCHES
§ 97.100 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the city.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any other similar display, in or upon any street,
park, or other public place in the city.
('61 Code, § 18.55) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.101 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Funeral processions;
   (B)   Students of the schools going to and from classes or when constituting
a part of their educational activities and under the immediate direction and
supervision of the proper school authorities; nor
   (C)   A governmental agency within the scope of its functions.
('61 Code, § 18.56) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.102 PERMIT; REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to hold, manage, conduct, aid, participate in,
form, start or carry on, any parade, or procession of any kind or cause or
permit the same upon any public street, alley, park, or any other public
grounds in the city unless there has first been obtained from the Chief of
Police a permit to do so. Such permit shall be carried by the person in charge
of, heading or leading such activity.
('61 Code, § 18.57) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.103 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to conduct or manage a parade shall, not less than
ten days before the date on which it is proposed to conduct such parade, file
with the Chief of Police a verified application on a form furnished by the
Chief of Police, setting forth the following information:
      (1)   The name of the person or organization wishing to conduct such
parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf, or by an
organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of the
organization, and the authorized and responsible head of such organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who is the
parade chairperson and will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The name, address and telephone number of the person or
organization to whom the permit is desired to be issued;
      (5)   The date when such parade is to be conducted;
      (6)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
      (7)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles
constituting such parade, the type of animals, and a general description of the
vehicles;
      (8)   The time when such parade will start and terminate;
      (9)   Whether such parade will occupy all or a portion of the width of
the streets proposed to be traveled;
      (10)   The location by streets of any assembly area or areas for such
parade;
      (11)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas.
   (B)   In the event the above-referenced investigation can be accomplished in
a more timely fashion than set forth above, the Chief of Police may waive the
ten-day filing requirement.
('61 Code, § 18.58) (Ord. 702, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 997, passed - - )
§ 97.104 ISSUANCE.
   The Chief of Police shall issue a permit as provided for in this subchapter
when, from a consideration of the application and from such other information
as may otherwise be obtained, he finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of such parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movements of other trains contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of such parade will not require the diversion of so great
a number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to such assembly areas;
   (D)   The conduct of such parade will not unduly interfere with the movement
of firefighting equipment en route to a fire or other emergency equipment;
   (E)   The conduct of such parade is not reasonably likely to cause injury to
persons or property; and
   (F)   Such parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising the
goods, wares, or merchandise of a particular business establishment or vendor.
('61 Code, § 18.59) (Ord. 702, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 997, passed - - )
§ 97.105 TERMS.
   The permit to be issued by the Chief of Police shall prescribe the
following:
   (A)   The name of the person or organization wishing to conduct such parade;
   (B)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by an
organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of the
organization and of the authority and responsible head of such organization;
   (C)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be the
parade chairperson and will be responsible for its conduct;
   (D)   The name, address and telephone number of the person or organization
to whom the permit is desired to be issued;
   (E)   The date when such parade is to be conducted;
   (F)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
   (G)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles constituting
such parade, the type of animals and general description of the vehicles;
   (H)   The time when such parade will start and terminate;
   (I)   Whether such parade will occupy all or only a portion of the width of
the streets proposed to be traversed;
   (J)   The location by streets of any assembly area or areas for such parade;
and
   (K)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at any
such assembly area or areas.
('61 Code, § 18.61) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.106 REJECTION; NOTICE.
   The Chief of Police shall act upon the application for a parade permit
within two days after the filing thereof. If the Chief of Police disapproves
the application, he shall immediately notify the applicant of his action,
stating the reasons for his denial of the permit. Such notice shall be mailed
to the applicant at his address as given therein.
('61 Code, § 18.62) (Ord. 702, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 997, passed - - )
§ 97.107 APPEAL.
   Any person who has been denied a permit by the Chief of Police may appeal to
the City Council by filing a written notice of such appeal within five days
after the mailing by the Chief of Police of the notice of rejection.
('61 Code, § 18.63) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.108 ALTERNATIVE PERMITS.
   The Chief of Police in denying an application may authorize the conduct of
such parade on a date, at a time, or by a route different from that named by
the applicant. If the applicant desires to accept the proposed date, time, and
route, be shall, within two days after notice of the action of the Chief of
Police, file a notice of acceptance with the Chief of Police. The Chief of
Police shall thereupon issue a permit. Such permit shall conform to the
requirements of this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 18.64) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.109 NOTIFICATION OF PERMITS.
   Immediately upon the granting of a parade permit, the Chief of Police shall
send a copy thereof to the following:
   (A)   The City Manager;
   (B)   The Fire Chief;
   (C)   The Director of Public Works;
   (D)   The Director of Planning;
   (E)   The State Highway Patrol;
   (F)   The County Sheriff's office;
   (G)   Any other public officials responsible for functions deemed likely to
be affected by the parade;
   (H)   Any public transportation or other utility, the regular routes of
whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed parade.
('61 Code, § 18.65) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
§ 97.110 INTERFERENCE WITH PARADE.
   No person shall without the consent of the permittee join or participate in
a parade, nor in any manner interfere with its progress or orderly conduct.
('61 Code, § 18.66) (Ord. 702, passed - - )
REGULATION OF NEWSPAPER RACKS
§ 97.130 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City Council hereby finds that newsracks, stands, containers and
similar newspaper and vending devices have proliferated and increased in areas
of the city to the extent that in some instances they constitute a threat to
the public health, safety and welfare by impending pedestrian traffic and
interfering with ingress and egress to and from buildings, vehicles and public
modes of transportation.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety,
and welfare through the regulation of placement, appearance, number, size, and
servicing of newsracks on public rights-of-way so as to:
      (1)   Provide for pedestrian and vehicular safety.
      (2)   (a)   Protect the right to distribute information protected by the
state and federal constitutions through the use of newsracks.
         (b)   Avoid interference with the emergency activities of public
safety agencies.
      (3)   Insure no unreasonable interference with the flow of pedestrian or
vehicular traffic including ingress into, or egress from, any residence or
place of business, or from the street to the sidewalk, by persons exiting or
entering parked or standing vehicles.
      (4)   Provide reasonable access for the use and maintenance of sidewalks,
poles, posts, traffic signs or signals, hydrants, mailboxes, and access to
locations used for public transportation services.
      (5)   Reduce exposure to the city to personal injury or property damage
claims and litigation.
      (6)   Reduce visual blight on the public rights-of-way, and protect the
aesthetics of store window displays, public landscaping and other improvements.
      (7)   Maintain and protect the value of surrounding properties.
   (C)   It is not the intent of this chapter to in any way discriminate
against, regulate or interfere with the publication, circulation, distribution,
or dissemination of any newspapers or other written materials.
(Ord. 1216, passed 9-3-97)
§ 97.131 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Indio.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Development Services of the city, or his or her
successor or his or her designee.
   EXPLICIT SEXUAL ACTS. Depictions of sexual intercourse, oral copulation,
anal intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, sadism, masochism, or
excretory functions in conjunction with sexual activity, masturbation, or lewd
exhibition of genitals, whether any of the above conduct is depicted or
described as being performed alone or between members of the same or opposite
sex or between humans and animals, or other acts of sexual arousal involving
any physical contact with a person's genitals, pubic region, pubic hair,
perineum, anus or anal region.
   NEWSRACK. Any self-service or coin-operated box, container, storage unit or
other dispenser installed, used or maintained for the display, sale or
distribution of any publication.
   OWNER. Any person or company whose name appears as an owner on a newsrack as
required by
§ 97.134(H) of this chapter, for which a permit is sought or obtained.
   PARKWAY. The area between the sidewalks and the curb of any street, and
where there is no sidewalk, that area between the edge of the roadway and the
property line adjacent thereto. PARKWAYS shall also include any area within a
roadway which is not open to vehicular travel.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any place of any nature which is dedicated to use by
the public for pedestrian and vehicular travel, and includes, but is not
limited to, a street, sidewalk, curb, gutter, public easement, crossing,
intersection, parkway, highway, alley, lane, mall, court, way, thoroughfare, a
park, square and any other similar public way.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. Any surface provided for the use of pedestrians.
   STREET. All that area dedicated to public use for public street purposes and
shall include, but not be limited to, roadways, parkways, alleys and sidewalks.
(Ord. 1216, passed 9-3-97)
§ 97.132 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A newsrack permit issued in accordance with this chapter shall be
required prior to the installation, placement or maintenance of any newsrack
which in whole or in part rests upon, in or over any public right-of-way. Each
permit shall be valid for one year unless sooner terminated as provided herein,
and may be renewed annually. Each permit shall designate the number and
location or locations of newsracks for which the permit has been issued.
   (B)   A written application far a newsrack permit shall be filed with the
Director and shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and of the
owner of the newsrack(s).
      (2)   The name, address and telephone number of a representative or other
responsible person whom the city may notify or contact at any time concerning
the applicant's newsrack(s).
      (3)   The number of newsracks at the street address of each proposed
location as shown on a scaled drawing.
      (4)   A diagram of the locations proposed for the installation of the
newsrack(s).
      (5)   Names of newspapers or other written material to be contained in
each newsrack.
      (6)   Type or brand of newsrack, including a photograph or scaled drawing
of the newsrack and mount.
      (7)   A written statement satisfactory to the City Attorney whereby the
owner agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the city, its officers,
officials and employees, from any loss or liability or damage, including
expenses and costs, for bodily or personal injury, and for property damage
sustained by any person, as a result of the installation, use or maintenance of
a newsrack or newsracks within the city.
   (C)   Each application shall be accompanied by a non refundable fee in an
amount set by resolution of the City Council, which shall not exceed the actual
cost of investigating the facts contained in the application and processing of
the application.
   (D)   Upon a finding that the applicant and the owner are in compliance with
the provisions of this chapter, the Director shall issue a newsrack permit
applicable to the location or locations approved by the traffic engineer. If a
permit is denied, the applicant shall be notified in writing of the specific
cause of such denial by the Director and of the right to appeal in accordance
with §
97.142.
   (E)   A newsrack permit shall not be required prior to the installation,
placement or maintenance of a newsrack which does not rest in whole or in part
in or upon a public right-of-way. Such newsrack may not, however, be placed
within any required setback area, or where otherwise prohibited by the zoning
ordinance of the city. For purposes of application of the zoning ordinance to
newsracks, a newsrack shall be deemed to be a structure.
   (F)   Termination of permit for failure to maintain current information. The
applicant and the owner have a continuing duty to maintain current information
enabling the Director to contact the applicant and the owner, and any
representative or other responsible person, during the term of the permit. Any
failure by the applicant or the owner to maintain current the information set
forth in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above shall constitute grounds for
termination of the permit. Upon termination of any permit because of such
failure to maintain current contact information, all newsstands for which the
permit had been issued shall be deemed abandoned.
(Ord. 1216, passed 9-3-97)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.133 PROHIBITED INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall install, use or maintain, or cause to be installed,
used or maintained, any newsrack which projects onto, into or over any part of
the roadway of any public street, or which rests, wholly or in part, upon,
along or over any portion of the roadway of any public street.
   (B)   No person shall install, use or maintain, or cause to be installed,
used or maintained, any newsrack which in whole or in part rests upon, in or
over any public sidewalk or parkway when such installation, use or maintenance:
      (1)   Would endanger the safety of persons or property;
      (2)   Is on a site or location used for public utility purposes, public
transportation purpose or other governmental purpose;
      (3)   Would interfere unreasonably with or impede the flow of pedestrian
or vehicle traffic, including access to any legally parked or stopped vehicle;
      (4)   Would interfere unreasonably with or impede ingress into or egress
from any residence or place of business, or the use of poles, posts, traffic
signs or signals, hydrants, mailboxes or other objects permitted at or near the
location; or
      (5)   Would interfere with the cleaning of any sidewalk by the use of
mechanical sidewalk cleaning machinery.
(Ord. 1216, passed 9-3-97)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.134 PLACEMENT AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   Any newsrack which in whole or in part rests upon, in or over any public
sidewalk or parkway shall comply with the following standards:
   (A)   No newsrack shall exceed 40 inches in height, 30 inches in width or 24
inches in thickness.
   (B)   Newsracks shall only be placed near a curb or adjacent to the wall of
a building. Newsracks placed near the curb shall be placed no less than 18
inches nor more than 24 inches from the edge of the curb. Newsrack placed
adjacent to the wall of a building shall be placed parallel to the wall and not
less than six inches nor more than 18 inches from the wall. No newsrack shall
be placed or maintained on a sidewalk or parkway opposite a newsstand or
another newsrack.
   (C)   No newsrack shall be chained, bolted or otherwise attached to any
property without the express written permission of the owner of such property.
No newsrack shall be bolted or affixed to any city-owned sidewalk, utility pole
or signpost whatsoever.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
97.133, no newsrack shall be placed, installed, used or maintained:
      (1)   Within ten feet of any marked mid-blocked crosswalk;
      (2)   Within 30 feet of any street or alley curb return;
      (3)   Within eight feet of any fire hydrant, fire call box, curb
bordering any fire access lane, police call box or other emergency facility;
      (4)   Within ten feet of any driveway;
      (5)   Within five feet in front of or 25 feet behind any sign marking a
designated bus stop;
      (6)   Within six feet of any bus bench or bus shelter;
      (7)   At any location whereby the clear space for the passage of
pedestrians is reduced to less than four feet; or
      (8)   Within three feet of any area improved with lawn, flowers, shrubs
or trees, or within three feet of any display window of any building abutting
the sidewalk or parkway or in such manner as to impede or interfere with the
reasonable use of such window for display purposes.
   (E)   No newsrack shall be used for advertising signs or publicity purposes
other than that dealing with the display, sale or purchase of the newspaper or
printed material sold therefrom.
   (F)   Each newsrack shall be maintained in a clean and neat condition and in
good repair at all times.
   (G)   Each newsrack shall be constructed and located in compliance with this
chapter and in such manner as to comply with all state and federal regulations
concerning access by disabled persons.
   (H)   Each newsrack shall have affixed thereto in a place such information
may be easily seen, the correct name, address and telephone number of the owner
thereof. Upon acceptance of a newsrack permit, each permit shall be deemed to
have consented to receive any notices given pursuant to this chapter, by mail,
at the address affixed to such permitted newsrack(s).
   (I)   No newsrack permit shall be transferable without ten working days'
prior notification to the city, complete contact information regarding the
proposed transferee and continued compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1216, passed 9-3-97)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.135 DISPLAY OF CERTAIN MATTER PROHIBITED.
   Publications offered for sale from newsracks placed or maintained on or
projecting into or over a public right-of-way shall not be displayed or
exhibited in a manner which exposes to public view from any public right-of-way
any of the following:
   (A)   Any statements or words describing explicit sexual acts, sexual organs
or excrement where such statements or words have as their purpose or effect
sexual arousal, gratification or affront.
   (B)   Any picture or illustration of genitals, pubic hair, perinea, anuses
or anal regions of any person where such picture or illustration has as its
purpose or effect sexual arousal, gratification or affront.
   (C)   Any picture or illustration depicting explicit sexual acts where such
picture or illustration has as its purpose or effect sexual arousal,
gratification or affront.
(Ord. 1216, passed 9-3-97)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.136 DISPLAY OF HARMFUL MATTER.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the terms HARMFUL MATTER,
MATTER, PERSON, KNOWINGLY, EXHIBIT, and MINOR shall have the meanings specified
in Cal. Penal Code § 313 or and successor provisions thereto. For purposes of
this section, the term BLINDER RACK shall mean opaque material placed in front
of, or inside, the newsrack and which prevents exposure to public view.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall knowingly exhibit, display, or cause to
be exhibited or displayed, harmful matter in any newsrack located in whole or
in part in or on a public right of way or other public place from which minors
are not excluded, unless blinder racks have been installed so that the lower
two-thirds of the matter is not exposed to public view.
(Ord. 1216, passed 9-3-97)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.137 VIOLATION; NOTICE TO OWNER.
   Whenever any newsrack is found to be in violation of this chapter, the
Director shall cause a tag to be attached to such newsrack specifying the date
and nature of the violation. Within three working days thereafter, a written
notice of such violation shall be sent by first class mail be the Director to
the owner whose name appears on the newsrack as required in §
97.137(H), specifying the nature of the violation and that the newsrack shall
be impounded if corrections are not made. The owner shall, within ten working
days from the date on which the notice of violation was mailed, either cause
the violation to be corrected or request a hearing pursuant to §
97.141.
(Ord. 1216, passed 9-3-97)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.138 IMPOUNDING OF NEWSRACKS.
   (A)   If an owner fails to timely correct the violation(s) specified in the
written notice, and fails to request a hearing within the time provided herein,
the Director may impound such newsrack or newsracks.
   (B)   In the event a newsrack does not have the owner's name, address and
telephone number affixed thereto as required by this chapter, then such
newsrack may be impounded if, within ten working days of the date the violation
tag was affixed, the owner has not requested a hearing as provided in §
97.141, in which case the newsrack shall be deemed to be abandoned.
   (C)   Where the installation, use or maintenance of a newsrack creates an
immediate threat to the public health safety or welfare, it may be impounded,
provided written notice is thereafter provided to the owner by first class mail
pursuant to division (E) below.
   (D)   When such newsrack had been abandoned, it may be impounded. For
purposes of this section, a newsrack shall be deemed abandoned when it has
remained empty for 30 consecutive days or longer, or no new publication has
been placed in the newsrack for 45 days longer. Upon abandonment, a newsrack
may be impounded notice is given to the owner, if the owner can be identified,
pursuant to division (E) below.
   (E)   Whenever any newsrack is impounded, the Director shall provide written
notice by first class mail to the owner within three working days of such
impoundment and of the rights of the owner to recover such impounded newsrack
(s).
(Ord. 1216, passed 9-3-97)
§ 97.139 RETURN OF IMPOUNDED NEWSRACK.
   (A)   Any newsrack, together with its contents, which has been impounded
shall be returned to the owner:
      (1)   If a hearing is, not timely requested, upon receipt of an impound
fee within 30 days of impoundment, amount of which has been set by resolution
of the City Council;
      (2)   Upon a determination after hearing by the Director that the
newsrack should not have been impounded and should be returned to the owner; or
      (3)   Upon a decision by the City Council on appeal that the newsrack
should not have been impounded.
   (B)   In the event a hearing has not been requested within the time
permitted, an impound fee, the amount of which has been set by resolution of
the City Council, shall be imposed upon the owner.
(Ord. 1216, passed 9-3-97)
§ 97.140 SALE OR DISPOSAL AFTER IMPOUNDMENT.
   The Director may sell or otherwise dispose of any newsrack, together with
its contents, and retain the proceeds, on behalf of the city, from any such or
other disposition and any moneys contained in the newsrack at the time of its
impoundment, provided that either:
   (A)   Thirty days have elapsed since impoundment occurred, no hearing has
been required within the time permitted and the owner has failed to pay all
impound fees assessed; or
   (B)   A hearing and an appeal, if filed, have resulted in a final
determination that the newsrack was properly impounded and fees assessed have
not been received with in 30 days from the date of said final determination.
(Ord. 1216, passed 9-3-97)
§ 97.141 HEARING PROCEDURES ON IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any newsrack owner may file a written request with the Director of a
hearing within the time specified in §
97.137 for the purpose of demonstrating that a newsrack should not be
impounded, was properly impounded, or that a violation as specified in the
notice of violation has not in fact occurred.
   (B)   Within five working days from the date on which the request for
hearing is received, the Director shall set a hearing date and shall notify the
owner by first class mail of the date, time and place of such hearing. The
hearing shall occur within ten working days of the date of mailing notice.
   (C)   Conduct of hearing. At the time set for the hearing or at the date to
which the hearing is continued, the Director shall receive all evidence
relevant to the occurrence or nonoccurrence of the specified violation(s), the
compliance or noncompliance with any or all of the provisions of this chapter
,and any other relevant information. The hearing need not be conducted
according to technical rules relating to evidence and witnesses.
   (D)   Within ten working days after the conclusion of the hearing, the
Director shall find and determine, from the facts adduced at the hearing,
whether the newsrack is in violation of this chapter. Any decision of the
Director shall be in writing and shall contain findings of fact, a
determination of the issues presented and the amount of the impound fee, if
any, to be imposed. Thereafter, the Director may order the owner to remove such
newsrack, of determined to be in violation of this chapter, within ten working
days of the mailing date of the decision. If a notice of appeal is not timely
filed during in ten day period, the Director may thereafter order the newsrack
to be impounded without further notice to the owner.
   (E)   The Director shall send to the owner, a copy of the decision and
order, by first class mail.
(Ord. 1216, passed 9-3-97)
§ 97.142 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any newsrack owner may, within ten working days of the mailing state
of the copy of the Director's decision and order, appeal; such decision to the
City Council by filling a notice of appeal. If no hearing was timely requested
and a newsrack was impounded, then the owner may appeal such impoundment
provided a written request for appeal such is received by the Director with ten
working days of such impoundment.
   (B)   An appeal shall set forth in writing specifically wherein the
appellant believes there was error or abuse of discretion on the part of the
Director. The Director shall, within ten working days, transmit the appeal,
together with a copy of the file, decision and order, to be set for hearing.
   (C)   The City Council shall, upon receipt of the material specified in the
preceding division from the Director, and after a hearing:
      (1)   Approve the decision and order of the Director;
      (2)   Reverse or modify the decision and order, and refer the matter back
to the director; or
      (3)   Where no hearing before the Director was timely requested, sustain
the impoundment or impose fees or order the newsrack returned with or without
fees being imposed.
(Ord. 1216, passed 9-3-97)
§ 97.143 RESTORATION.
   (A)   In the event an owner removes any newsrack, or has a newsrack removed
by the Director following hearing and/or appeal, if any, it shall be such
owner's responsibility to restore the site of the newsrack to an undamaged
condition. Undamaged condition shall mean a condition which is smooth, free of
holes, fasteners, and physical devices of any nature such that another news
rack may be located on that specific site without further restoration.
   (B)   In the event such newsrack permittee fails to restore the site as
required herein, the city shall be authorized, at its discretion, to restore
the site following the expiration of five working days' prior written notice to
the owner stating his or her obligation to perform restoration. The cost of
such restoration performed by the city shall be recoverable from the permit as
a debt in a contract action.
(Ord. 1216, passed 9-3-97)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.999 PENALTY.
   Except as otherwise provided in the Vehicle Code, it is an infraction of §§
97.100 through
97.110 for any person to violate or fail to comply with any local ordinance
adopted pursuant to the Vehicle Code.
('61 Code, § 18.67) (Ord. 997, passed - - )
CHAPTER 98: CITY TREES
Section
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Duties of Community Services Commission
   
98.03   Duties of Public Works Director
   
98.04   Duties of private property owners
   
98.05   Street trees
   
98.06   Tree planting in subdivisions
   
98.07   Permits
   
98.08   Fees
   
98.09   Protection of city trees
   
98.10   Interference with the Public Works Director
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DESIGNATED STREET TREE LIST. A list of specific tree species which have been
designated by the Community Services Commission for each city street, or part
of it, as the species of tree to be planted and maintained within the city
easement of that street.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Public Works or his or her designee.
   DRIPLINE. The ground area at the outside edge of the tree branches or
canopy.
   EASEMENT, PARKWAY, or RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land owned by another over which the
city has right-of-way for street and related purposes. PARKWAY refers to that
portion of a street right-of-way which available for landscaping, and not for
curb, gutter, or pavement.
   HERITAGE TREES. Any trees within the city's easement or on city-owned
property which have been found to be of significance to the community or of
notable historic interest and are so designated by action of the Community
Services Commission.
   MAINTAIN or MAINTENANCE. Includes root pruning, trimming spraying, watering,
fertilizing, mulching, treating for disease or injury, or any other similar act
which promotes growth, health, beauty, and life of any tree.
   MEDIAN. A strip of concrete or planted ground between the lanes of a divided
street or highway.
   PRUNING, TRIMMING or THINNING. To reduce the size of a tree using
professionally accepted standards, as established by the International Society
of Arboriculture (ISA), National Arborists Association (NAA) or American
National Standards Institute (ANSI) Section A300, to control the height and
spread of a tree, lessen the wind resistance, preserve its health and natural
appearance, produce fuller branching and shaping, aid in disease prevention by
allowing more light and air passage within the tree branches, or make
adjustments which will increase its longevity in an urban environment.
   PUBLIC TREE or CITY TREE. Any tree which is located within any public park,
city easement, or any other city-owned property.
   TOPPING, HEADING BACK, STUBBING, or POLLARDING. A severe type of pruning
which usually produces less desirable results than a more moderate pruning with
respect to the to the tree's natural form and which is generally hazardous to
the overall health and stability of the tree.
   TREE POLICY MANUAL. A document prepared by the Public Works Department which
states policies (approved by the City Council), procedures and other relevant
information regarding the selection, planting, maintenance, and removal of all
city trees.
   URBAN FOREST or URBAN FORESTRY. The ecology of native and non-indigenous
plantings creating a forest in the human living desert environment, and
emphasizing the practice of wise, professional, planned management of all tree
resources within an urban area for multiple use and benefit of the entire
community.
(Ord. 1519, passed 11-14-07; Am. Ord. 1618, passed 9-19-12)
§ 98.02 DUTIES OF THE COMMUNITY SERVICES COMMISSION.
   The Community Services Commission serves as the city's Tree Advisory Board.
The Commission shall:
   (A)   Study the problems and determine the needs of the city in connection
with its tree planting and maintenance programs; establish and revise the
designated street tree list; and hold discussions of tree-related issues at
public meetings; and
   (B)   Hear and determine appeals of staff decisions regarding street tree
removal. The Commission may grant an appeal if it finds that the staff decision
would result in a burden on the property owner that substantially outweighs the
benefit to the public. The Commission's decision may be appealed to the City
Council if a written appeal, setting forth the grounds, is filed with the City
Clerk, within ten days of the Commission decision. If no timely appeal is
filed, the decision shall be final.
(Ord. 1519, passed 11-14-07; Am. Ord. 1618, passed 9-19-12)
§ 98.03 DUTIES OF THE PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   The powers and duties of the Director of Public Works, or his or her
designee, under this chapter are as follows:
   (A)   To designate a particular place within the city easement or on any
city-owned property where a city tree will be planted;
   (B)   To recommend to the Community Services Commission any changes or
additions to the designated street tree list;
   (C)   To draft a Tree Policy Manual that states policies and procedures
concerning the selection, planting, maintenance and removal of trees in public
places to promote a viable urban forest;
   (D)   To grant or deny any issuance of permits in accordance with the terms
of this chapter; and
   (E)   To maintain city trees in an attractive and healthy condition by
utilizing the highest accepted professional standards for planting, pruning,
fertilization, pest and disease control.
(Ord. 1519, passed 11-14-07; Am. Ord. 1618, passed 9-19-12)
§ 98.04 DUTIES OF PRIVATE PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Except in those specific areas where the city has formed and formally
accepted maintenance through a development agreement or another instrument, the
duties of any owner of private property whose property has a city parkway or
easement on it for street and related purposes are as follows:
   (A)   To accept, protect, and provide adequate water to any city tree
planted in the public easement over his or her property, and not to interfere
with the city's provision of water to such, whether by water truck or other
means;
   (B)   To notify the Public Works Department of any suspected tree hazards or
maintenance needs of any city tree planted in the public easement over his or
her property;
   (C)   To remove any vegetation from city street trees planted in the
easement over his or her property;
   (D)   To remove all fallen leaves and other deadfall from any city tree
planted in the public easement over his or her property, and to properly
dispose of the deadfall in an appropriate waste receptacle;
   (E)   To maintain and water any vegetation planted in the public easement,
to keep the easement free of trash, garbage, weeds, dead or diseased
vegetation, to maintain any lawn grass species in the easement area to no more
than 12 inches, and to reduce the height of any hedge, shrubbery, or other
plant material growing in the easement are to a height of no more than 36
inches, however, this section shall not apply to city street trees; and
   (F)   To remove all vegetation, garbage, and debris from any sidewalk, swale
(improved or unimproved), or trail in the right of way easement over his or her
property.
(Ord. 1519, passed 11-14-07)
§ 98.05 STREET TREES.
   No tree shall be planted within a parkway or median other than the species
designated as the street tree for that particular street, or portion of the
street, by the Public Works Department. No street tree shall be planted, except
by the city, until a tree permit has been issued for it.
(Ord. 1519, passed 11-14-07)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.06 TREE PLANTING IN SUBDIVISIONS.
   Any subdivider of land shall install city trees in accordance with the
requirements of the Indio Code of Ordinances and the provisions of this chapter
and any related resolutions.
(Ord. 1519, passed 11-14-07)
§ 98.07 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall plant, remove, cut, prune, root prune, apply
pesticides or otherwise disturb any city tree or shrubs without first obtaining
a permit from the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   Applications for permits must be made to the Public Works Department
on forms provided by the Department, and shall include such information as the
Director deems necessary to review the application.
   (C)   The Director shall issue the permit if, in his or her judgment, the
proposed work is desirable and the proposed method is and workmanship are
performed to the standards defined under the "pruning" definition of §
98.01 of this chapter. Any permit granted shall contain a date of expiration
and the work shall be completed in the time allowed on the permit and in the
manner described in it. A permit shall be null and void if violated.
   (D)   Work undertaken by the permittee or his or her agents may be stopped
immediately and the permittee's permit may be revoked by oral or written order
of the Director when the Director determines that the program of work or
conditions outlined in the permit are not being complied with.
   (E)   The Director's decision may be appealed to the City Manager if a
written appeal, setting forth the grounds, is filed with the City Clerk within
ten days of the Director's decision. If no timely appeal is filed, the decision
shall be final.
(Ord. 1519, passed 11-14-07)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.08 FEES.
   Fees for permits and appeals shall be established by resolution of the City
Council.
(Ord. 1519, passed 11-14-07)
§ 98.09 PROTECTION OF CITY TREES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to cut, damage, carve, transplant,
prune, root prune to remove any public tree, except pursuant to a permit issued
under §
98.07 of this chapter. Tree topping, heading back, stubbing or pollarding of
public trees is prohibited.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to attach or keep attached to any public
tree, or to the guard or stakes intended for the protection thereof, any rope,
wire, nails, tacks, staples, advertising posters or any other contrivance
whatsoever.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to cause or allow any poison or any
other substance harmful to tree life to lie, leak, pour, flow, or drip upon or
into the soil within the dripline of any public tree, or set fire or permit any
fire to burn when such fire or heat thereof will injure any portion of the
public tree; or to operate any equipment, such as mechanical weeding devices,
in such a manner as to cause damage to a public tree in any way.
   (D)   No person shall injure any public tree located within an easement or
public right-of-way on his or her private property by neglecting to provide the
necessary amount of water, as determined by the Tree Policy Manual and the
terms of this chapter, required for said tree's continued good health and
viability.
   (E)   No person shall, without written consent of the Director, pave the
area with a city easement or deposit, store or maintain within the city
easement or on any city-owned property any stone, brick, concrete, lumber,
tile, pipe, or other material or park any vehicle that reasonably may be
expected to damage the root system, compact the soil over the roots, or impede
free passage of water, air, or fertilizer to the roots of any public tree.
   (F)   Special consideration shall be afforded public trees determined by the
Community Services Commission to be heritage trees. Such trees shall be removed
only when public interest served by removal outweighs the interest in
preservation and heritage status.
   (G)   During the construction, repair, alteration, moving or removal of any
building or structure or any other type of construction in the city, no person
in control of such work shall leave any public tree, shrub or plant in the
vicinity of such activity without sufficient guards or protectors as identified
in the tree policy manual to prevent injury to the tree, shrub, or plant in
connection with such construction, repair, or alteration, moving or removal.
The costs of any such protection shall be borne by the person responsible for
the improvement.
(Ord. 1519, passed 11-14-07; Am. Ord. 1618, passed 9-19-12)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.10 INTERFERENCE WITH THE PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   No person shall hinder, prevent, delay, or interfere with the Director or
any of his or her agents while engaged in carrying out the execution or
enforcement of this chapter. Provided, however, that nothing in this section
shall be construed as an attempt to inhibit the pursuit of any remedy, legal or
equitable, in any court of competent jurisdiction for the protection of
property rights by the owner of any property within the city.
(Ord. 1519, passed 11-14-07)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor or infraction at
the discretion of the City Attorney or District Attorney.
   (B)   Irrespective of and cumulative to any criminal conviction for a
violation of this chapter, the city may, pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code § 36901,
impose a civil penalty in an amount not exceeding $1,000 on any person who
commits a violation of this chapter. The city may recover the penalty either
through an administrative hearing or civil action brought either by the City
Attorney or a designated employee of the city.
   (C)   Irrespective of whether the city pursues criminal and/or civil action
under this chapter, nothing in this chapter shall prevent the city from seeking
resolution for damage to city property as an alternative for criminal action
and/or civil action to recover a civil penalty in accordance with division (B)
of this section.
(Ord. 1519, passed 11-14-07)
CHAPTER 99: MOBILE HOME FAIR PRACTICES
Section
General Provisions
   
99.01   Definitions
   
99.02   Maximum rent
   
99.03   Applicability
   
99.04   Extraordinary hardship increases
   
99.05   Notices
   
99.06   Services
   
99.07   Effect on local law
   
99.08   Retaliation
   
99.09   Waivers
   
99.10   Challenges of validity
   
99.11   Remedies
Administration and Enforcement
   
99.20   Mobile Home Fair Practices Commission
   
99.21   Powers and duties of the Mobile Home Fair Practices Commission
   
99.22   Initiation of Commission proceeding
   
99.23   Conduct of Commission proceedings
   
99.24   Mandatory procedure
   
99.25   Priorities, timeliness of proceedings
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 99.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The Mobile Home Fair Practices Commission established by this
chapter.
   MOBILE HOME. For the purpose of this chapter shall be defined by the
statutes of the state.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land where two or more mobile home sites are
rented, or held out for rent, to accommodate mobile homes used for human
habitation.
   PARK. A mobile home park.
   RENT or SPACE RENT. The consideration, including any bonus, benefit or
gratuity demanded or received in connection with the use and occupancy of a
mobile home space in a mobile home park.
   HOMEOWNER. Any person entitled to occupy a mobile home pursuant to ownership
thereof or a rental or lease agreement with the owner of the mobile home, or
any person responsible for paying rent to the landlord.
   LANDLORD. Any owner, lessor, operator or manager who is authorized to act in
such capacity in connection with matters relating to a tenancy in a mobile home
park.
(Ord. 892, passed 4-4-84)
§ 99.02 MAXIMUM RENT.
   (A)   Until such times as this chapter is no longer deemed necessary by the
City Council, and approved by the majority of the voters of the city, no
landlord of any mobile home space covered by this chapter shall request, demand
or receive a rent increase in excess of three-fourth of the increase of the
cost of living as indicated in the Consumer Price Index. The increase shall be
calculated from the base rent date, which is defined for the purposes of this
chapter as the monthly rent charged on April 1, 1983, except if the space was
vacant or not yet completed as of April 1, 1983, the base rent shall be the
monthly rent charged when the unit first became occupied after April 1, 1983.
No landlord shall be entitled to more than one such rent increase in any 12-
month period. As used herein the term CONSUMER PRICE INDEX shall mean that
portion of the Consumer Price Index published by the United States Department
of Labor for the Los Angeles- Long Beach-Anaheim Metropolitan Area, designated
as “All Urban Consumer, All Items, 1967=100.” Computation of rent increases
allowable by this chapter shall be in accordance to the following formula:
      (1)   STEP 1. Multiply the “annual percentage change in the Consumer
Price Index” by .75. The resulting figure is the allowable annual percentage
rent increase, expressed in decimal figures.
      (2)   STEP 2. Multiply the allowable annual percentage rent increase by
the base rent. The resulting figure is the allowable monthly rent increase for
the coming year, expressed in dollars.
      (3)   STEP 3. To obtain the maximum allowable monthly space rent, add the
allowable monthly rent increase (expressed in dollars) to the current rent. The
resulting figure is the maximum allowable monthly space rent that the mobile
home park owner may charge for the following 12 months on any mobile home space
covered by this chapter.
   (B)   Beginning 90 days after this chapter becomes effective, no landlord
shall request, demand or receive any rent in excess of the base rent plus any
increase allowable under this section calculated from the base rent date which
is April 1, 1983.
   (C)   At the landlord's option, for bookkeeping convenience, the rent (base
rent plus allowable increase) may be rounded to the nearest dollar, provided
such adjustment is made for all mobile home spaces included in any group of
mobile home spaces.
(Ord. 892, passed 4-4-84)
§ 99.03 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to mobile home parks
located within the city and to those rental spaces in a mobile home park which
are located entirely with the city limits.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any rental increase agreed to
in a lease executed subsequent to the adoption of this chapter.
   (C)   If a space in a mobile home park is voluntarily vacated by the
homeowner on or after the effective date of this chapter and while this chapter
is in effect, the rent may be increased upon the re-rental of the space to an
amount which does not exceed the average rental rate for comparable space rent
in the park. If the space is not rented to one or more of the same homeowners,
the rent in effect on the re-rental shall be base rent for the purpose of the
Mobile Home Fair Practices Commission's review of any rental rate increases
after the date of re-rental. For the purposes of this division, the vacation of
a space is voluntary if it was not the result of an eviction, whether for just
cause or otherwise or the result of owner's refusal to renew a periodic tenancy
or lease agreement.
(Ord. 892, passed 4-4-84; Am. Ord. 896, passed 5-16-84)
§ 99.04 EXTRAORDINARY HARDSHIP INCREASES.
   (A)   Fair return. It is the intent of this chapter to permit rents to be
established at a level which will provide landlords with a fair return on their
property, consistent with this chapter and the law and Constitution of the
state.
   (B)   Definitions for this section on hardship increases only.
      (1)   Net operating income (NOI) equals gross income less allowable
operating expenses.
      (2)   Gross income equals:
         (a)   Gross rents, computed as gross rental income at 100% paid
occupancy, plus
         (b)   Interest from rental deposits, unless directly paid by the
landlord to the tenants (interest shall be imputed at the rate of 5½% of all
deposits un-less such deposits actually earn greater interest), plus
         (c)   Income from laundry facilities, vending machines, amusement
devices, cleaning fees or services, garage and parking fees, plus
         (d)   All other income or consideration received or receivable for or
in connection with the use or occupancy of rental units and housing services,
         (e)   Minus uncollected rents due to vacancy and bad debts to the
extent that the same are beyond the landlord's control. Uncollected rents in
excess of 3% gross rents shall be presumed to be unreasonable unless
established otherwise by the landlord by clear and convincing evidence. Where
uncollected rents must be estimated, the average of the preceding three years'
experience shall be used, or in the discretion of the Commission, some other
comparable method.
      (3)   Operating expenses:
         (a)   Operating expenses shall include the following:
            1.   Real property taxes.
            2.   Utility costs. Sub-metering expenses for the provision of
electricity or gas to the homeowners shall not be included in calculating
operating expenses for purposes of determining NOI. Each park owner shall have
the burden to present to the Commission adequate financial records showing to
the satisfaction of the Commission that the operating expenses do not include
sub-metering expenses. If a park owner does not have sufficient financial
records to show the amount of sub-metering expenses to be excluded from the
1982 base year, then such park owner shall present to the Commission and/or the
Commission shall request from the park owner other data needed to show what the
reasonable amount of sub-metering expenses would have been in the base year
1982. Such data may include, without limitation, financial data showing the
average sub-metering expenses for other years, adjusted to reflect 1982 actual
costs. After considering all available data, the Commission shall determine, in
its discretion, the amount of operating expenses for the 1982 base year, after
excluding the appropriate amount of sub-metering expenses.
            3.   Management fees (contracted or owner performed) of 5% or less
of gross income are presumed to be reasonable. Management fees in excess of 5%
of gross income are presumed to be unreasonable. Such presumption may be
rebutted by clear and convincing evidence.
            4.   Other reasonable management expenses including but not limited
to necessary and reasonable advertising, accounting and insurance.
            5.   Normal repair and maintenance expenses, including but not
limited to painting, normal cleaning, fumigation, landscaping and repair of all
standard services, including electrical, plumbing, carpentry, furnished
appliances, drapes, carpets and furniture.
            6.   Owner-performed labor, which shall be compensated at the
following hourly rates upon documentation of the date, time and nature of the
work performed:
               a.   At the general prevailing rate of per diem wages for the
Palm Springs area, for the specified type of work performed as determined and
published by the Director of the Department of Industrial Relations of the
state pursuant to § 1770 et. seq.
               b.   If no such general prevail- ing rate has been determined
and published then:
                  General maintenance - $7.00 per hour.
                  Skilled labor - $13.00 per hour.
   Notwithstanding the above, a landlord may received greater or lesser
compensation for self-labor if the landlord proves by clear and convincing
evidence that the amounts set forth above are substantially unfair in a given
case.
   Owner-performed labor in excess of 5% of gross income shall not be allowed
unless the landlord proves by clear and convincing evidence that such excess
labor expenses resulted in proportionately greater services for the benefit of
the homeowners.
            7.   License and registration fees required by law to the extent
same are not otherwise paid by the homeowners.
            8.   Capital expenses of less than $100 per item per unit actually
expended in the year of application.
            9.   The yearly amortized portion of capital expenses not included
in division (B)(3)(a)8. above, computed in accordance with the following
schedule; or if not itemized therein, in accordance with any useful life table
utilized by the Internal Revenue Service.
Improvement Years
Improvement                       Years
Air conditioners                  10
Appliances:                        
   Dishwasher                  5
   Garbage disposal            2
   Refrigerator                5
   Stove                       5
   Water heater                5
Cabinets                          10
Carpentry                         10
Door                              10
Electrical wiring                 10
Elevator                          20
Fencing:                           
   Block                       10
   Chain                       10
   Wood                        10
Fire alarm system                 10
Fire escape (metal)               10
Flooring:                          
   Asbestos Tile & Linoleum    5
   Carpet                      5
   Hardwood                    10
Furniture                         5
Gates:                             
   Chain link                  10
   Wood                        10
   Wrought iron                10
Heater:                            
   Central                     10
   Electric                    10
   Gas                         10
   Sauna                       5
   Water (potable)             5
   Water (therapy)             5
   Water (swimming)            5
Insulation                        10
Landscaping:                       
   Planting                    10
   Sprinklers                  10
Lighting                          10
Locks                             5
Plumbing:                          
   Fixtures                    10
   Pipes                       10
Painting:                          
   Exterior                    5
   Interior                    2
Pools, swimming                   25
Pumps:                             
   Pool                        5
   Sump                        10
Paving:                            
   Asphalt                     10
   Cement                      10
   Reslurry                    3
   Resurfacing                 3
Plastering                        10
Roofing:                           
   Asphalt shingle             10
   Built-up Tar & Gravel       5
   Polyurethane                5
   Tile                        15
   Wood shakes                 7
Sauna                             25
Security entry telephone intercom 10
Sewers                            25
Stucco                            10
Tennis courts                     25
Therapy pools                     25
Window:                            
   Awnings                     5
   Drapes                      3
   Screebs                     3
   Shades                      5
 
            10.   Reasonable attorney's fees and costs incurred as normal and
reasonable costs of doing business, including but not limited to good faith
attempts to recover rents owing and good faith unlawful detainer actions not in
derogation, of applicable law, to the extent same are not recovered from the
homeowners.
         (b)   Operating expenses shall not include:
            1.   Avoidable and unreasonable or unnecessary expenses;
            2.   Mortgage principal and interest payments;
            3.   Lease purchase payments and rent or lease payments to
landlord's lessor.
            4.   Any penalties, fees or interest assessed or awarded for
violation of this or any other law;
            5.   Attorney's fees and other costs incurred for proceedings
before the Commission or in connection with civil actions or proceedings
against the Commission;
            6.   Depreciation of the real property;
         7.   Any expense for which the landlord has been reimbursed by any
security deposit, insurance settlement, judgement for damages, settlement or
any other method.
      (4)   Base year for purposes of this section on hardship increases only
shall mean calendar year 1982.
      (5)   Consumer Price Index is the same as defined in §
99.02.
   (C)   Presumption of fair base year net operating income. Except as provided
in division (D) of this section, it shall be presumed that the net operating
income produced by a property during the base year provided a fair return on
property. Landlords shall be entitled to maintain and increase their net
operating income from year to year in accordance with division (G) of this
section.
   (D)   Rebutting the presumption.
      (1)   If the Commission determines that the base year NOI yielded other
than a fair return on property, it shall adjust the base year NOI accordingly.
The Commission shall not make such a determination unless it has first made at
least one of the following findings:
         (a)   That the landlord's operating and maintenance expenses in the
base year where unusually high or low. In such instances, the expenses for each
of the three years last preceding the base year shall be adjusted in accordance
with division (F) of this section and the average of such adjusted expenses
shall be substituted in calculating the base year NOI. Such average shall be
presumed to reflect reasonable average annual expenses; such presumption may be
rebutted by clear and convincing evidence. In the event that the property shall
not have been continuously occupied as a rental unit for three years last
preceding the base year, the base year operating expenses shall be adjusted to
reflect average expenses over a period of time deemed reasonable by the
Commission. In determining whether the landlord's expenses were unusually high
or low, the Commission shall consider:
            1.   The landlord made substantial capital improvements during the
base year, which were not reflected in the rent levels on the base date.
            2.   Substantial repairs were made due to damage caused by fire,
natural disaster or vandalism.
            3.   Maintenance and repair were below accepted standards so as to
cause significant deterioration in the quality of housing services.
            4.   Other expenses were unreasonably high or low notwithstanding
the following of prudent business practice. In making this determination, the
fact that property taxes prior to 1982 may have been higher than in the base
year shall not be considered.
         (b)   That the rent on the base date was disproportionate due to one
of the enumerated factors below. In such instances, adjustments shall be made
in calculating gross rents consistent with the purposes of these standards:
            1.   The rent on the base date was established by a lease or other
formal rental agreement which provided for substantially higher rent at other
periods during the term of the lease.
            2.   The rent on the base date was substantially higher or lower
than at other times of the year by reason of seasonal demand or seasonal
variations in rent.
            3.   The rent on the base date was substantially higher or lower
than preceding months by reason of premiums being charged or rebates given for
reasons unique to particular units or limited to the period determining the
base rent.
      (2)   It shall be presumed that where net operating income is less than
50% of gross income in the base year, after making adjustments as permitted by
this division (D)(1)(a) and (b), the landlord was receiving less than a fair
return on property. In such a case, for purpose of determining base year net
operating income, gross income hall be adjusted upward to twice the amount of
adjusted base year operating expenses.
   (E)   Determination of base year net operating income.
      (1)   Base year net operating income shall be determined by deducting
from the annualized gross income being realized during the base year 1982, the
actual or adjusted operating expenses for calendar year 1982, except as
provided in this division (E)(2) hereinbelow.
      (2)   In the event that the landlord did not own the subject property on
January 1, 1982, the operating expenses for 1982 shall be determined in
accordance with one of the following:
         (a)   The previous owner's actual operating expenses as defined
herein; or, where petitioner has established to the satisfaction of the
Commission that same are unavailable.
         (b)   Actual operating expenses for the first calendar year of
ownership, discounted to 1982 in accordance with § [pending inquiry].
   (F)   Schedule of increase in operating expenses. Where scheduling of rent
increases, or other calculations require projections of income or expenses, it
shall be assumed that operating expenses, exclusive of property taxes and
management fees, increase at 10% per year, the property taxes increase at 2%
per year, and that management fees are 5% of gross income.
   (G)   Allowable rent increases. Upon filing of an individual hardship
petition by a landlord, the Commission shall permit rent increases, unless
otherwise prescribed by law, such that the landlord's net operating income will
be increased by 50% of the increase in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) over the
base year. The increase in the CPI shall be calculated by dividing the most
recently reported monthly figure at the time of close of hearing by the
Commission by the monthly figure for January, 1982.
   (H)   Retroactive effect. In no event shall retroactive rent increases be
authorized by application of this chapter, except as permitted by this chapter,
and in no event shall any rent increase be retroactive to a date preceding the
filing of a petition for hardship adjustment of rent.
(Ord. 892, passed 4-4-84; Am. Ord. 896, passed 5-16-84; Am. Ord. 1298, passed
7-5-01)
§ 99.05 NOTICES.
   (A)   If any notice of rent increase served pursuant to this section does
not state the actual dollar amount of such rent increase, a supplemental or
additional notice which does state the actual dollar amount of such rent
increase shall be served upon the homeowner, in the manner prescribed by law,
not less than sixty days prior to the effective date of such rent increase.
   (B)   Service upon a homeowner of a copy of the petition or application to
such commission for a hardship adjustment of rent shall be deemed to constitute
the notice of rent increase referred to in section A herein; provided, however,
that the homeowner shall be entitled to at least sixty days written notice of
the actual dollar amount of the rent increase.
(Ord. 1079, passed 11-21-90)
§ 99.06 SERVICES.
   (A)   No landlord shall reduce or eliminate any service to any mobile home
space so long as this chapter is in effect, unless and until a proportionate
share of the cast savings resulting from such reduction or elimination is
passed on to the homeowner in the form of a decrease in space rent. If a
landlord who provides services to a mobile home space in the nature of utility
services, shall reduce or eliminate such service by separate metering or other
lawful means of transferring payment for such services, the cost savings, if
any, resulting from such reduction or elimination to be passed on to the
homeowner in the form of a decrease of rent, shall be deemed to be the cost of
such transferred utility service for the month of April 1, 1983. If April, 1983
is not representative of a normal or usual cost of such utility service at the
time, or if either landlord or homeowner shall protest the use of the April,
1983 billing as a measure of such cost savings, then the computation of such
cost savings for the period of April, 1983 through May, 1983, inclusive or such
other period as the parties shall mutually agree is representative of such cost
savings. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent that Cal. Civil Code §
798.41 or any successor section is applicable, the amount of such reduction
shall be computed pursuant to Cal. Civil Code § 798.41. Cal. Civil Code §
798.41 provides that the amount of the deduction shall be equal to the average
amount charged to the park management for that utility service for that space
during the 12 months immediately preceding notice of the commencement of the
separate billing for that utility service.
   (B)   For purposes of this section in determining cost savings to be passed
on to the homeowner in the form of decreased rent, the cost of installation of
separate utility meters, or similar or analogous costs to the landlord to shift
the obligation for payment of utility costs to the homeowner, shall not be
considered. Nothing stated herein shall be constructed to prohibit or prevent
the consideration or inclusion of such costs, together with other operational
costs of a landlord, in any proceedings before a duly appointed board,
commission or other appointed body, authorized to hear and determine requests
for hardship adjustment.
(Ord. 892, passed 4-4-84; Am. Ord. 1154, passed 5-18-94)
§ 99.07 EFFECT ON LOCAL LAW.
   This chapter shall not be construed to prohibit or preempt the City Council
from enacting legislation supplementing this chapter, whether by enforcement,
interpretation, or further regulation, so long as the City Council in no way
diminishes any protection which this chapter affords to homeowners.
(Ord. 892, passed 4-4-84; Am. Ord. 896, passed 5-16-84)
§ 99.08 RETALIATION.
   No landlord shall in any way retaliate against any homeowner for the
homeowner's assertion of, or exercise of any right under this chapter. Such
retaliation shall be subject to suit for actual and punitive damages,
injunctive relief and attorney's fees. Such retaliation shall also be an
available defense in any unlawful detainer action.
(Ord. 892, passed 4-4-84)
§ 99.09 WAIVERS.
   Any provisions of a lease agreement, by which the homeowner agrees to modify
or waive any right granted under this chapter shall be void as contrary to
public policy except as set forth in §
99.03(B). This section shall apply only to rental agreements executed on or
after the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 892, passed 4-4-84; Am. Ord. 896, passed 5- 16-84)
§ 99.10 CHALLENGES OF VALIDITY.
   If any action in which the validity of this chapter or any part thereof is
challenged, reasonable attorney's fees and other costs shall be awarded to the
prevailing party or parties.
(Ord. 892, passed 4-4-84)
§ 99.11 REMEDIES.
   (A)   If a mobile home park owner demands, accepts receives or retains any
space rent payment in excess of the amounts permitted by this chapter. The
homeowner may recover said sum from mobile home park owner as actual damages,
together with a civil penalty of $500 per violation, and reasonable attorney's
fees as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   In any action for the recovery of space rent, or for unlawful detainer
based on nonpayment of rent, the homeowner may defend such action on the ground
that the amount of space rented is in excess of the space rent allowed by this
chapter. Nothing contained herein shall limit or preclude any other lawful
defence, cause of action or claim by either the owner of the mobile home park
or homeowner.
   (C)   In any action involving the validity of any proposed or actual space
rent increase, the mobile home park owner shall have the burden of proving all
facts sustaining the space rent increase.
   (D)   Nothing in this section is intended to limit or preclude any other
unlawful defense, cause of action or claim of the mobile home park owner or
homeowner.
   (E)   Any homeowner may bring an action for injunctive relief to prevent or
remedy any violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 892, passed 4-4-84; Am. Ord. 896, passed 5-16-84)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 99.20 MOBILE HOME FAIR PRACTICES COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Mobile Home Fair Practices Commission has been established
pursuant to Ordinance 892 adopted by the voters of the City of Indio on March
20, 1984. If there is any inconsistency between this §
99.20 and Ordinance 892, the provisions of Ordinance 892 shall prevail.
   (B)   The Mobile Home Fair Practices Commission ("Commission") shall consist
of five members who are resident electors of the city and who are neither
mobile home owners nor tenants nor landlords, operators or managers. Members to
the Commission shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the City
Council.
   (C)   Any member of the Commission who is absent without being excused by
the Commission from three successive regular meetings of the Commission shall
be deemed to have vacated his or her Commission office.
   (D)   Three members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum. Three
affirmative votes are required for a decision, including all motions, orders
and rulings of the Commission.
   (E)   The Commission shall serve without compensation. The Commission shall
have not have the authority to expend or authorize the expenditure of any
public funds except with the prior express approval of the City Council. The
City Council shall approve the necessary and reasonable expenditure of funds
for the operation of the Commission.
(Ord. 1750, passed 4-15-20)
§ 99.21 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE MOBILE HOME FAIR PRACTICES COMMISSION.
   The powers and duties of the Mobile Home Fair Practices shall be those set
forth in Ordinance 892, a copy of which is on file with the Office of the City
Clerk, and is incorporated herein as if set forth in full.
(Ord. 1750, passed 4-15-20)
§ 99.22 INITIATION OF COMMISSION PROCEEDING.
   (A)   Any homeowner of a mobile home park affected by this chapter, upon
payment of such filing fees as shall be duly established, may petition the
Mobile Home Fair Practices Commission for an interpretation of this chapter, or
for a determination whether a proposed or actual action by the landlord of such
homeowner is legal, valid and within the terms of this chapter. If the
Commission shall establish forms for such petitions, the petition shall be
prepared and submitted upon such form. In the absence of such designated form,
the petition shall contain the name, address and telephone number, if any, of
the petitioner, and the name, address and telephone number, if known, of the
landlord, manager or other person authorized to represent the landlord of the
mobile home space, a brief statement of the facts giving rise to the request
for interpretation or determination; and a statement that a copy of the
petition has been personally served or mailed to the landlord, manager or other
person authorize to accept and receive notices of the landlord.
   (B)   Any landlord of a mobile home park affected by this chapter may, upon
payment of such filing fee as shall be duly established, petition the
Commission for an interpretation of this chapter, or for a determination
whether a particular proposed course of action by the landlord is allowable,
valid and in conformity with this chapter. The Commission may designate forms
for the filing of such petitions. In the event that no such form has been
designated, the petition shall be in writing, and shall contain the name,
address and telephone number, if any, of the person requesting the
interpretation or opinion; the name and address of each homeowner of a mobile
home space owned or managed by the person requesting the interpretation or
opinion, if it is intended that such interpretation or opinion affects such
mobile home space; a brief statement of the facts giving rise to the request
for interpretations or opinion; and a statement that a copy of such petition
has been personally served upon or mailed to each such homeowner who might be
affected there.
   (C)   A landlord or any representative of the landlord, operator or manager
of a mobile home space affected by this chapter, upon payment of such filing
fee as shall be duly established, may petition the Commission for a hardship
increase of the maximum rent permitted to be charged pursuant to this chapter.
If the Commission shall designate a form for the filing of such petition, such
petition shall be filed upon such form. If no such form shall be designated,
such petition shall be in writing, verified by the applicant, and shall contain
the name, address and telephone number of the applicant; the name and address
of the homeowner of each mobile home space which would be affected if the
petition were granted; a statement of the facts giving rise to the petition for
hardship increase, in sufficient detail that if established, such facts would
demonstrate the existence of a hardship upon the landlord warranting such
hardship increase; a statement that a copy of the petition has been served upon
or mailed to each homeowner of a mobile home park space which would be affected
by the hardship increase if granted.
   (D)   Filing fees charged for individual petitions shall not be so high as
to violate an individual's due process right to a hearing.
(Ord. 892, passed 4-4-84)
§ 99.23 CONDUCT OF COMMISSION PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Each party to a hearing may have assistance in presenting evidence or
in setting forth by argument his position, from any attorney or such other
person as may be designated by such party.
   (B)   Formal rules of evidence shall not apply to Commission proceedings;
however, all oral testimony offered as evidence shall be under oath.
   (C)   In the event that any party shall fail to appear at the time and place
set for hearing of a petition, the Commission may hear and review such evidence
as may be presented, and may make such findings and decisions as shall be
supported by the evidence presented.
   (D)   The Commission, or designated hearing officer, shall make findings
based on the evidence as to each fact relevant to the Commission's decision on
the petition. The decision of the Commission shall be based upon the findings,
and shall interpret this chapter; determine whether the action or proposed
action of a landlord if valid, permitted and in conformity with this chapter;
and/or determine whether a hardship exists, and if so, the nature and amount of
relief to be granted or authorized to the landlord.
   (E)   Nothing in this section is intended to limit or preclude any other
lawful defense, cause of action, or claim of the landlord or homeowner.
(Ord. 892, passed 4-4-84)
§ 99.24 MANDATORY PROCEDURE.
   The proceedings of the Mobile Home Fair Practices Commission are
administrative proceedings, and are mandatory. Every person, whether landlord
or homeowners, is required to file a petition, and to carry proceedings from
the Commission to conclusion before exercising the right to seek judicial
relief. There shall be no appeal, as such, from a final determination of the
Commission. A party not satisfied with such decision may then seek judicial
remedy provided by this chapter or otherwise provided by law.
(Ord. 892, passed 4-4-84)
§ 99.25 PRIORITIES, TIMELINESS OF PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   The Mobile Home Fair Practices Commission shall establish categories
of petitions or request, and may set priorities for those categories deemed
most urgent. In view of the projections provided for homeowners elsewhere in
this chapter, the highest priority for the proceedings of the Commission shall
be given to the category for petitions of landlord for hardship increase, and
among such petitions, the highest priority shall be given to petitions based
upon hardship alleged to be created by landlord's payment of utilities or other
necessary services used in mobile home spaces.
   (B)   The Commission shall so arrange its affairs that each petition filed
by a landlord seeking a hardship rent increase shall be hear and determined not
later than 90 days following the filing of such petition. If the Commission
shall deem it necessary in order to meet such time constraints, it shall
request of the City Council the appointment of one or more hearing officers to
hear such cases, make findings thereon, and recommend disposition thereof to
the Commission. In any case in which a verified petition, or any affidavit or
declaration under penalty or perjury has been filed by a landlord stating facts
which appear prima facie to constitute a hardship, if such petition is not
heard and determined within 90 days of its filing, exclusive of any delays
requested, consented to or caused by the landlord or his representatives, no
fees, charges or costs shall be charged or assessed against such landlord for
any of the hearing costs of the Commission.
(Ord. 892, passed 4-4-84; Am. Ord. 896, passed 5- 16-84)
CHAPTER 100: SKATE PARK
Section
   
100.01   Purpose
   
100.02   Definitions
   
100.03   State law compliance
   
100.04   Hazardous recreational activity
   
100.05   Use of the Skate Park and surrounding area
   
100.06   Regulations
   
100.07   Notice
 
   
100.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parks, see
Chapter 96
§ 100.01 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are:
   (A)   To establish regulations for the use and enjoyment of the Skate Park
facility, in the interest of public safety;
   (B)   To comply with Cal. Health & Safety Code § 115800, by adopting an
ordinance requiring the use of safety equipment, with penalty by citation and
notice by sign; and
   (C)   To satisfy the conditions of Cal. Health & Safety Code § 115800 for
qualified immunity from liability for hazardous recreational activities.
(Ord. 1328, passed 1-15-03)
§ 100.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The terms used in this chapter, e.g., "skateboard," shall have the
meanings in common usage, except as otherwise defined in this chapter or by the
Cal. Health & Safety Code and other applicable laws.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SKATE PARK . The Skate Park facility(ies) located in the City of Indio,
California
   SKATING AREA . The area within the Skate Park designed for skateboarding and
in-line skating activities, which are limited to the adjacent concrete.
(Ord. 1328, passed 1-15-03)
§ 100.03 STATE LAW COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Cal. Health & Safety Code § 115800 prohibits any operator of a
skateboard park to permit any person to ride a skateboard therein unless that
person is wearing a helmet, elbow pads and knee pads.
   (B)   Pursuant to Cal. Health & Safety Code § 115800, the city requires
that:
      (1)   Any person riding a skateboard at the Skate Park must wear a
helmet, elbow pads and knee pads; and
      (2)   Notice of the safety equipment required in subsection (B)(1), and
notice of the penalty for violation shall be provided.
   (C)   The Parks and Recreation Commission shall develop a system for
recording skateboarding injuries and claims, and shall report those incidents
to the Judicial Council in accordance with Cal. Health & Safety Code § 115800.
   (D)   The city will further require that any person using in-line skates
must wear a helmet, elbow pads and knee pads.
(Ord. 1328, passed 1-15-03)
Penalty, see § 100.99
§ 100.04 HAZARDOUS RECREATIONAL ACTIVITY.
   (A)   Skateboarding is deemed a HAZARDOUS RECREATIONAL ACTIVITY , within the
meaning of Cal. Gov't Code § 831.7, and by Cal. Health & Safety Code § 115800
under specified conditions.
   (B)   The city adopts the pertinent state law definitions of HAZARDOUS
RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES and affirms that use of the Skate Park is deemed a
HAZARDOUS RECREATIONAL ACTIVITY to the fullest extent permitted by law.
(Ord. 1328, passed 1-15-03)
§ 100.05 USE OF THE SKATE PARK AND SURROUNDING AREA.
   (A)   Stunts or tricks with skateboards, luge skateboarding, and the like,
and stunts, tricks and the like with in-line skates are:
      (1)   Prohibited in the picnic area, parking lot, curbs, and surrounding
areas of the Skate Park ; and
      (2)   Permitted only in the skating area.
   (B)   (1)   Skateboarding and in-line skating are the only activities
permitted in the skating area
      (2)   Bicycles or other vehicles are prohibited from entering the skating
area.
   (C)   The safety of the skating area is reduced by the presence of debris of
any kind and by wet conditions.
      (1)   Food and beverage consumption produces foreseeable litter and are
not permitted within the skating area.
      (2)   Use of the skating area under wet conditions is also prohibited.
   (D)   (1)   The city designates the Skate Park as a PUBLIC PLACE within the
meaning of §
97.003.
      (2)   "No smoking" shall be included in the regulations posted for public
notice.
   (E)   In addition to those set out in § 100.06, the following regulations
shall be posted and shall apply within the designated skateboarding areas:
      (1)   No person shall skate or skateboard at times other than those
established as the hours of operation. The hours of operation shall be 6:00
a.m. to 10:00 p.m.;
      (2)   Motorized skateboards or other vehicles are prohibited;
      (3)   All persons using the designated skateboard park area must place
trash in cans provided by the city or such persons may be removed from the
designated skateboard park area;
      (4)   No person shall cause graffiti or tagging in or around the
designated skateboard park area;
      (5)   No unauthorized pieces of equipment, obstacles or apparatus may be
brought into the skateboard park area;
      (6)   Reckless and destructive skating that jeopardizes the safety of
persons and property is prohibited;
      (7)   Animals are not allowed in the skateboard park area.
(Ord. 1328, passed 1-15-03; Am. Ord. 1388, passed 8-18-04)
Penalty, see § 100.99
§ 100.06 REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall be posted for public notice:
   (A)   "The Skate Park is for skateboarding and in-line skating only."
   (B)   "Any person using the skating area must wear a helmet, elbow pads and
knee pads."
   (C)   "No bicycles or other vehicles are permitted in the skating area."
   (D)   "No spectators are permitted in the skating area."
   (E)   "No food, glass bottles or cans are permitted in the skating area at
any time."
   (F)   "No unauthorized ramps, jumps or obstacles are permitted in the Skate
Park."
   (G)   "Use of the skating area is prohibited when it is raining or the Skate
Park surface is wet."
   (H)   "No smoking, alcohol or drug use is permitted in the Skate Park."
   (I)   "Sponsored events (contests, demonstrations, classes, etc.) must be
approved by the city, in advance, through the park reservation process."
(Ord. 1328, passed 1-15-03)
Penalty, see § 100.99
Cross-reference:
   Park reservation process, see §§
96.04 through
96.11
§ 100.07 NOTICE.
   (A)   The city shall post an official sign at the entries of the Skate Park,
and additional signs thereon as needed, to provide reasonable notice of the
regulations set out in this chapter.
   (B)   The sign s shall provide notice of:
      (1)   The regulations set out in §§
100.03(B)(1), (D),
100.05 and
100.06;
      (2)   The cautions "Skateboarding and in-line skating are hazardous
recreational activities and the city is not liable for injuries" and “This
facility is not supervised by the city and you skate AT YOUR OWN RISK ASSUMING
THE RISK OF INJURY”; and
       (3)   The penalty for violation of the regulations as set out in §
100.99.
(Ord. 1328, passed 1-15-03; Am. Ord. 1388, passed 8-18-04)
Penalty, see § 100.99
§ 100.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of §§
100.03(B)(1),
100.03(D),
100.05 or
100.06 shall be an infraction, punishable by a fine as allowed by law, as well
as removal from the Skate Park and prohibit from future use.
   (B)   Notice of such penalties shall be posted as set out in §
100.07.
(Ord. 1328, passed 1-15-03; Am. Ord. 1388, passed 8-18-04)
CHAPTER 101: SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS
Section
   
101.01   Purpose
   
101.02   Definitions
   
101.03   Permit - general requirement
   
101.04   Use of safe and sane fireworks restricted
   
101.05   Safe and sane fireworks - permit requirements
   
101.06   Dangerous fireworks prohibited - exceptions
   
101.07   Dangerous fireworks exemption - certain public displays of fireworks
   
101.08   Pyrotechnic special effects material - restrictions
   
101.09   Manufacture of fireworks - permit required
   
101.10   Sale to minors prohibited
   
101.11   Responsible person - liability
   
101.12   Exceptions
   
101.13   Revocation
   
101.14   Rules and regulations
   
101.15   Enforcement
   
101.16   Disposal fees
 
   
101.99   Penalty
§ 101.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter are intended to regulate the use of all
fireworks to provide for the safety of the community and the prevention of
fires.
   (B)   This chapter details the Safe and Sane Fireworks Permit Process of the
city which was formerly encompassed in an amendment to the California Fire Code
as authorized by §
93.07.
   (C)   This chapter shall simultaneously serve as the added
Chapter 93 of the California Fire Code, amended pursuant to §
93.07 and referred to in division (H) therein.
(Ord. 1787, passed 11-2-22)
§ 101.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AGRICULTURAL AND WILDLIFE FIREWORKS. Has the same meaning ascribed to it
under § 12503 of the Cal. Health and Safety Code, as presently adopted or
further amended from time to time, and includes fireworks designed and intended
by the manufacturer to be used to prevent damage to crops or unwanted occupancy
of areas by animals or birds through the employment of sound or light, or both.
      DANGEROUS FIREWORKS. Has the same meaning ascribed to it under §§ 12505
and 12561 of the Cal. Health and Safety Code, as presently adopted or further
amended from time to time, and includes all of the following:
         (a)    Any fireworks which contain any of the following:
            1.   Arsenic sulfide, arsenates, or arsenites.
            2.   Boron.
            3.    Chlorates, except:
               a.   In colored smoke mixture in which an equal or greater
amount of sodium bicarbonate is included.
               b.   In caps and party poppers.
               c.   In those small items (such as ground spinners) wherein the
total powder content does not exceed four grams of which not greater than 15%
(or 600 milligrams) is potassium, sodium, or barium chlorate.
            4.   Gallates or gallic acid.
            5.    Magnesium (magnesium-aluminum alloys, called magnalium, are
permitted).
            6.   Mercury salts.
            7.    Phosphorous (red or white except that red phosphorus is
permissible in caps and party poppers).
            8.   Picrates or picric acid.
            9.    Thiocyanates.
            10.    Titanium, except in particle size greater than 100-mesh.
            11.    Zirconium.
         (b)   Firecrackers.
         (c)   Skyrockets and rockets, including all devices which employ any
combustible or explosive material and which rise in the air during discharge.
         (d)   Roman candles, including all devices which discharge balls of
fire into the air.
         (e)   Chasers, including all devices which dart or travel about the
surface of the ground during discharge.
         (f)   Sparklers more than ten inches in length or one-fourth of one
inch in diameter.
         (g)   All fireworks designed and intended by the manufacturer to
create the element of surprise upon the user. These items include, but are not
limited to, auto-foolers, cigarette loads, exploding golf balls, and trick
matches.
         (h)   Fireworks known as devil-on-the-walk, or any other firework
which explodes through means of friction, unless otherwise classified by the
State Fire Marshal pursuant to this part.
         (i)   Torpedoes of all kinds which explode on impact.
         (j)   Fireworks kits.
         (k)   Such other fireworks examined and tested by the State Fire
Marshal and determined by him, with the advice of the State Board of Fire
Services, to possess characteristics of design or construction which make such
fireworks unsafe for use by any person not specially qualified or trained in
the use of fireworks.
      DISCHARGE. Means and includes, but is not limited to, shoot, set off,
ignite, explode, project, fire or otherwise discharge FIREWORKS of any
classification or kind.
      EXEMPT FIREWORKS. Has the same meaning ascribed to it under § 12508 of
the Cal. Health and Safety Code, as presently adopted or further amended from
time to time, and includes any special item containing pyrotechnic compositions
which the State Fire Marshal, with the advice of the State Fire Advisory Board,
has investigated and determined to be limited to industrial, commercial,
agricultural use, or religious ceremonies when authorized by a permit granted
by the authority having jurisdiction and the Fire Chief.
      FIRE CHIEF. Means the person designated as the Fire Chief of the County
of Riverside or his or her authorized designee.
      FIREWORKS. Has the same meaning ascribed to it under § 12511 of the Cal.
Health and Safety Code as presently adopted or further amended from time to
time. The term FIREWORKS includes DANGEROUS FIREWORKS, EXEMPT FIREWORKS, and
SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS, and further includes but is not limited to any device
containing chemical elements and chemical compounds capable of burning
independently of the oxygen of the atmosphere and producing audible, visual,
mechanical, or thermal effects which are useful as pyrotechnic devices or for
entertainment, including not limited to, devices designated by the manufacturer
as fireworks, torpedoes, skyrockets, roman candles, rockets, Daygo bombs,
sparklers, party poppers, paper caps, chasers, fountains, smoke sparks, aerial
bombs, and fireworks kits.
      FIREWORKS KIT. Has the same meaning ascribed to it under § 12512 of the
Cal. Health and Safety Code, as presently adopted or further amended from time
to time, and means any assembly of materials or explosive substances, which is
designed and intended by the seller to be assembled by the person receiving
such material or explosive substance and when so assembled would come within
the definition of FIREWORKS.
      PERSON. Any natural person, business, organization, corporation or other
entity.
      POLICE CHIEF. The person designated as the Police Chief of the City of
Indio or his or her authorized designee.
      PROPERTY. Any private property, including but not limited to a home, yard
or field, whether or not occupied as a dwelling and whether owned, leased,
rented or used with or without compensation.
      PUBLIC DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS. Has the same meaning ascribed to it under §
12524 of the Cal. Health and Safety Code, as presently adopted or further
amended from time to time, and means an entertainment feature where the public
or a private group is admitted or permitted to view the display or discharge of
DANGEROUS FIREWORKS.
      PYROTECHNIC COMPOSITIONS. Has the same meaning ascribed to it under §
12525 of the Cal. Health and Safety Code, as presently adopted or further
amended from time to time, and means any combination of chemical elements or
chemical compounds capable of burning independently of the oxygen of the
atmosphere.
      PYROTECHNIC OPERATOR. Has the same meaning ascribed to it under § 12527
of the Cal. Health and Safety Code, as presently adopted or further amended
from time to time, and means any licensed pyrotechnic operator, who by
examination, experience, and training, has demonstrated the required skill and
ability in the use and discharge of fireworks as authorized by the license
granted.
      PYROTECHNIC SPECIAL EFFECTS MATERIAL. A low explosive material, other
than detonating cord, commonly used in motion picture, television, theatrical,
or group entertainment production for which a permit from the Fire Chief is
required for use, storage or disposal.
      RESPONSIBLE PERSON. A person or persons with a right of possession of the
residence or other private property at which fireworks, dangerous fireworks,
exempt fireworks, or safe and sane fireworks are sold, offered for sale, used
or possessed. A RESPONSIBLE PERSON includes but is not limited to:
         (a)   Owner(s) and/or lessee(s) of the residence or other private
property where fireworks. dangerous fireworks. exempt fireworks, or safe and
sane fireworks are kept, stored, possessed, used, shot, discharged, set off,
ignited, exploded, manufactured, sold, offer for sale, given, or transported.
         (b)   Tenant in possession of the residence or other private property
where fireworks, dangerous fireworks, exempt fireworks, or safe and sane
fireworks are kept, stored, possessed, used, shot, discharged, set off,
ignited, exploded, manufactured, sold, offer for sale, given, or transported.
         (c)   Person or persons in immediate control of the residence or other
private property where fireworks, dangerous fireworks, exempt fireworks, or
safe and sane fireworks are kept, stored, possessed, used, shot, discharged,
set off, ignited, exploded, manufactured, sold, offer for sale, given, or
transported.
         (d)   Person or persons who organize, supervise, sponsor, conduct,
allow, control or controls access to the residence or other private property
where fireworks, dangerous fireworks, exempt fireworks, or safe and sane
fireworks are kept, stored, possessed, used, shot, discharged, set off,
ignited, exploded, manufactured, sold, offer for sale, given, or transported.
         (e)   Any "responsible party" as defined in §
11.02 of this code.
      SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS. Has the same meaning ascribed to it in Cal.
Health and Safety Code § 12529, as presently adopted or further amended from
time to time, and includes any fireworks which do not come within the
definitions of DANGEROUS FIREWORKS or EXEMPT FIREWORKS, as defined in Cal.
Health and Safety Code §§ 12505 or 12508, as presently adopted or further
amended from time to time.
      SPECIAL EFFECTS. Has the same meaning ascribed to it in Cal. Health and
Safety Code § 12532, as presently adopted or further amended from time to time,
and means articles containing any pyrotechnic composition manufactured and
assembled, designed, or discharged in connection with television, theater, or
motion picture productions, which mayor may not be presented before live
audiences and any other articles containing any pyrotechnic composition used
for commercial, industrial, education, recreation, or entertainment purposes
when authorized by the authority having jurisdiction.
   (B)   Other general terms defined. In addition to the terms set forth above,
the terms defined in Cal. Health & Safety Code Division 11, Part 1 (Health and
Safety Code §§ 12500 et seq.) are hereby incorporated into this chapter.
(Ord. 1787, passed 11-2-22)
§ 101.03 PERMIT - GENERAL REQUIREMENT.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person, without having a
valid permit issued pursuant to this chapter, shall do any of the following:
   (A)   Keep, store, possess, use, shoot, discharge, set off, ignite, explode,
manufacture, sell, offer to sell, give away, offer to give away distribute,
offer to distribute, discharge, or use fireworks, including dangerous
fireworks, exempt fireworks, or safe and sane fireworks, or fireworks kits,
within the city.
   (B)   Make or carry out any public display of fireworks in any place or
location.
   (C)   Transport fireworks, except as provided in the state fireworks law.
(Ord. 1787, passed 11-2-22)
§ 101.04 USE OF SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer to sell or possess for
the purpose of sale, any safe and sane fireworks or fireworks kit without a
valid retail sales permit issued by the city in accordance with §
101.05 of this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to discharge or otherwise use any safe
and sane fireworks or fireworks kit within the city except during the hours of
9:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, or possess for
the purpose of sale to any person, any safe and sane fireworks or fireworks kit
at any time prior to noon on June 28 or after midnight on July 6 of the same
calendar year.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale or possess for
the purpose of sale to any person, any safe and sane fireworks or fireworks kit
within the city except at a temporary fireworks stand approved as part of a
city-permit issued in accordance with §
101.05 of this chapter.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, it is unlawful for
any person to discharge or otherwise use at any time safe and sane fireworks or
fireworks kit in or upon any city-owned or leased property, or any city
redevelopment agency- owned or leased property, including but not limited to
sidewalks, streets, parking facilities, parks, or in any upon any property not
zoned for residential uses. This prohibition shall not apply to any city-
permitted, city-sponsored or city-conducted fireworks show that is reviewed and
approved by the Fire Chief.
(Ord. 1787, passed 11-2-22)
§ 101.05 SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS - PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General. This section establishes the requirements and procedures to
obtain a permit for the retail sale of safe and sane fireworks or fireworks
kits within the city.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   Timing. In addition to the requisite license from the State Fire
Marshal pursuant to Cal. Health and Safety Code §§ 12500 et seq., application
must be made to the City Clerk for a retail sales permit on or before the last
Friday in March of the calendar year for which the permit is sought. Permit
applications may be obtained from the Office of the City Clerk.
      (2)   Eligibility and granting of permits. Eligibility shall only be open
to those tax-exempt organizations as defined under Code Section 501 (c)(3) of
the Internal Revenue Code, one permit per each tax-exempt identification
number. Every year, the City Clerk shall review all applications for timeliness
and proper qualifications and shall issue a maximum of nine permits in any
given year to qualified, timely applicants, one of which shall go to the Indio
Youth Task Force. If the City Clerk shall have in excess of nine timely
applications, the City Clerk shall select a total of eight permitees from the
pool of qualified, timely applicants based on a lottery.
      (3)   Notice. Applicants shall be notified of the granting or denial of
the permit on or before the first Monday in May of each calendar year.
      (4)   Limitations.
         (a)   Retail sales of safe and sane fireworks shall be authorized only
during the period of 12:00 noon and 10:00 p.m. on June 28 of each year and 9:00
a.m. through 10:00 p.m. each day from June 29 through July 6 of the same
calendar year and such license shall expire at the end of such period. Retail
sales of safe and sane fireworks shall be prohibited on any other date or time
during any calendar year.
         (b)   No temporary safe and sane fireworks stand may be erected prior
to June 18 or remain in place after July 6 of the same calendar year.
   (C)   Permit authority. The City Clerk may grant or deny the issuance of a
permit for erection of a temporary safe and sane fireworks stand and the retail
sales of safe and sane fireworks pursuant to the delegation of such authority
by the city. If an applicant believes its application was improperly excluded
from the pool of qualified and timely applications, the applicant may receive a
hearing by the City Manager to appeal the denial of a permit, at which time the
City Manager may reverse, modify, or sustain the denial.
   (D)   Permit requirements. The following provisions apply to each of the
nine permittees for the retail sale of safe and sane fireworks:
      (1)   By August 1 of each year following the sales period authorized in
subsection (B)(4) above, each applicant shall remit to the city an amount equal
to 7% of gross receipts, as that term is defined in §
110.01 of this Code as a pro rata portion payment of the cost to the city of
processing and issuing payments, inspection of fireworks stands, public
education and awareness campaigns regarding fireworks, and fire operation and
suppression efforts related to safe and sane fireworks;
      (2)   Once issued, permits shall not be transferable, assignable or
renewable. Any permit issued shall be valid only for the dates and location
specified in the permit. Only one temporary safe and sane fireworks stand may
be operated by each permittee;
      (3)   The applicant must be insured for the minimum coverage amounts of
$1,000,000/$1,000,000 for potential public liability and property damage in
connection with the operation of the temporary safe and sane fireworks stand.
The city must be named as an additional insured under the insurance policy;
      (4)   Each permittee is required to obtain a City of Indio Special Events
Business License;
      (5)   Each permittee is required to obtain a State Board of Equalization
Permit;
      (6)   All permit requirements must be completed and returned to the City
Clerk by 5:00 p.m. on June 1 of the calendar year for which the permit is
sought;
      (7)   Each organization must be issued a license from the State Fire
Marshal pursuant to Cal. Health and Safety Code §§ 12500, et seq.;
      (8)   Each organization must be a nonprofit association or corporation
organized primarily for veteran, youth, patriotic, welfare, civic betterment,
or charitable purposes;
      (9)   Each organization must have its principal and permanent meeting
place within the territorial limits of the city, must have been organized and
established for a minimum of one year continuously preceding the filing of the
application for the retail sales permit, and must have a bona fide membership
of at least 20 members, the majority of whom reside in the city;
      (10)   No permit issued or authorized to be issued by the provisions of
this section shall be transferable; and
      (11)   Failure to meet any of the requirements will result in revocation
of the application permit.
   (E)   Temporary safe and sane fireworks stand requirements. Each of the nine
selected permittees must submit to the Fire Chief a plot plan approved by the
owner of the property upon which the applicant will construct a temporary
fireworks stand for the sale of safe and sane fireworks. The Fire Chief shall
make an investigation of the proposed site to ensure compliance with the
following:
      (1)   The temporary fireworks stand erected for the retail sale of safe
and sane fireworks must be constructed under the supervision of the City
Building Department Inspector in such a manner as will reasonably ensure the
safety of salespersons and patrons. An electrical permit must be obtained if a
temporary power pole is required;
      (2)   The temporary fireworks stand shall have at least two exits, each
at least 30 inches in width, in locations to be approved by the Fire Chief. The
stand shall be located at least 25 feet from any other structure or property
line of adjoining land. Minimum setback from the public sidewalk shall be ten
feet. No stand shall have a floor area in excess of 260 square feet;
      (3)   At least two water base fire extinguishers shall be present in each
temporary fireworks stand. The extinguishers shall be subject to inspection by
the Fire Chief;
      (4)   There shall be at least one adult present in the temporary
fireworks stand who is 21 years of age or over during all hours of retail
sales. No person under 18 years of age shall sell fireworks at such stand;
      (5)   No smoking shall be allowed in the temporary fireworks stand nor
within ten feet thereof. No alcoholic beverages shall be allowed on the
premises;
      (6)   All weeds and combustible material shall be cleared from the
location of the temporary fireworks stand including a distance of at least 25
feet surrounding the stand;
      (7)   Signs stating "NO SMOKING" and "NO SALES TO ANYONE UNDER SIXTEEN
(16) YEARS OF AGE:" and all permits must be posted in a conspicuous place;
      (8)   An alert night watchman, at least 21 years of age, must be provided
by the permittee to guard the temporary fireworks stand during the hours of
storage;
      (9)   If a portable power generator is utilized, it shall be screened or
otherwise isolated to prevent public access and shall be located a minimum of
25 feet from the temporary fireworks stand. No combustible material shall be
stored/placed within 25 feet of the portable generator. A minimum 2A10BC
extinguisher shall be on site;
      (10)   Motor vehicles shall be parked or otherwise located a minimum of
25 feet from the temporary fireworks stand;
      (11)   A safety handout in English and Spanish shall be provided with
each purchase, and the handout shall also be posted on the temporary fireworks
stand in a location visible to the public;
      (12)   No dangerous fireworks or exempt fireworks shall be sold, offered
for sale, distributed from, offered for distribution, given away, offered to be
given away, displayed, or stored on any temporary fireworks stand; and
      (13)   No other merchandise, goods, or items of any kind shall be sold,
offered for sale, distributed from, offered for distribution, given away,
offered to be given away, displayed, or stored on any temporary fireworks
stand.
   (F)   Revocation: remedies. In addition to all other remedies set forth in
this chapter, failure to remove the temporary fireworks stand in accordance
with this chapter will result in the assessment of a penalty of $50 per day
that the stand remains in place, or portion thereof. The Fire Chief may revoke
the permit granted to any permittee that is operating a temporary fireworks
stand in violation of the provisions of the permit, or of this chapter. Such
permittee shall not be eligible for a new permit for a period of one year
thereafter. The remedies and penalties prescribed by this section or which are
available under any other provision of this code are cumulative and non-
exclusive.
(Ord. 1787, passed 11-2-22; Am. Ord. 1799, passed 11-15-23)
§ 101.06 DANGEROUS FIREWORKS PROHIBITED - EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by law, this chapter, or as part of a
public display of fireworks permitted by the city under § 101.07 of this
chapter, it is unlawful for any person to sell, offer to sell, give away, offer
to give away, distribute, offer to distribute, possess, keep, store, discharge
or use dangerous fireworks within the city, or to permit another person offer
to sell, give away, offer to give away, distribute. offer to distribute,
possess, keep, store, discharge or use dangerous fireworks within the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to implicitly or expressly, directly or
indirectly, permit, allow, or consent to the discharge or use of dangerous
fireworks on property within the city that is owned, leased, rented, or
otherwise lawfully possessed by such person.
   (C)   Any enforcement official of the city shall have the authority to
remove or cause to be removed or disposed of in an approved manner, at the
expense of the owner, explosives, explosive materials or fireworks offered or
exposed for sale, stored, possessed or used in violation of this section.
(Ord. 1787, passed 11-2-22; Am. Ord. 1799, passed 11-15-23)
§ 101.07 DANGEROUS FIREWORKS EXEMPTION - CERTAIN PUBLIC DISPLAYS OF FIREWORKS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, dangerous fireworks may
be lawfully possessed and used for public display within the city, only in
accordance with Cal. Health and Safety Code §§ 12575 through 12577 and the Fire
Code Chapter 56 (as presently adopted or further amended from time to time),
and upon compliance with all applicable requirements of the State Fire Marshal
and state statutes and regulations, upon a permit issued written authorization
by the Fire Chief.
(Ord. 1787, passed 11-2-22)
§ 101.08 PYROTECHNIC RESTRICTIONS. SPECIAL EFFECTS MATERIAL.
   (A)   A permit is required to manufacture, compound, store, discharge or use
pyrotechnic special effects material. Permit application shall be made to the
Fire Chief pursuant to rules and regulations adopted by the Fire Chief. A
permit shall be granted only to a State Fire Marshal licensed pyrotechnic
operator.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to manufacture, compound, store,
discharge or use pyrotechnic special effects material, a pyrotechnic device or
pyrotechnic production effect unless such person is in possession of a valid
pyrotechnic operator's license issued by the office of the State Fire Marshal,
a valid permit issued by the Fire Chief, and has paid the fees established by
the City Council.
(Ord. 1787, passed 11-2-22)
§ 101.09 MANUFACTURE OF FIREWORKS - PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to manufacture any fireworks, including any
dangerous fireworks, exempt fireworks, or safe and sane fireworks, within the
city, except pursuant to a permit obtained under the provisions of §§ 12640 to
12654 of the Cal. Health and Safety Code, as presently adopted or further
amended from time to time, the Fire Code adopted by the city, and this chapter,
and any other state or local regulations issued by the Fire Chief.
(Ord. 1787, passed 11-2-22)
§ 101.10 SALE TO MINORS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer to sell, expose for sale,
display, distribute, offer to distribute, give away, or offer to give away, any
fireworks, including any dangerous fireworks, exempt fireworks, safe and sane
fireworks, or any fireworks kit of any classification or type, within the city
to any person under the age of 18 years.
(Ord. 1787, passed 11-2-22)
§ 101.11 RESPONSIBLE PERSON - LIABILITY.
   No property owner or person in control of property shall allow, cause,
create, maintain, suffer, or permit a person to possess, keep, store, use,
shoot, discharge, set off, ignite, explode, manufacture, sell, offer to sell,
give, or transport any fireworks, dangerous fireworks, or safe and sane
fireworks on the property owned by such a person or under such person's control
except for use as agricultural and wildlife fireworks, or for use in a public
display of fireworks pursuant to a permit obtained under the provisions of
Health and Safety Code §§ 12640 through 12654 and this section. Any such person
shall be in violation of this section, regardless of such person's intent,
knowledge or negligence, such violation being hereby expressly declared a
strict liability offense.
(Ord. 1787, passed 11-2-22)
§ 101.12 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the use of
fireworks by railroads or other transportation agencies for signal purposes of
illumination, or the sale or use of blank cartridges for a show or theater, or
for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports or for use by military
organizations.
   (B)   This chapter does not forbid or control acts or matters expressly
allowed, permitted, or licensed under state law; nor does it allow acts or
matters more strictly forbidden or controlled by state law or by local fire
regulations.
(Ord. 1787, passed 11-2-22)
§ 101.13 REVOCATION.
   The Fire Chief may suspend or revoke any permit upon proof that the
permittee, or any of its officers, officials, employees, agents or members, has
violated any of the provisions of this chapter relating to fireworks. The
revocation of a permit may be appealed to the hearing officer in writing within
15 days of the date the notice was issued. Upon failure to file such notice
within the 15-day period, the action of the Fire Chief shall be final and
conclusive.
(Ord. 1787, passed 11-2-22)
§ 101.14 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Fire Chief and his or her authorized representatives are authorized to
establish reasonable rules, regulations and procedures to implement this
chapter, including but not limited to the issuance of the permits authorized
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 1787, passed 11-2-22)
§ 101.15 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief and his or her authorized
representatives and the police chief and his or her authorized representatives
to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Fire Chief and his or her authorized representatives and the
Police Chief and his or her authorized representatives shall have the authority
to seize, take, and remove any fireworks, dangerous fireworks, exempt
fireworks, safe and sane fireworks, and fireworks kits of any classification or
type. The Fire Chief and his or her authorized representatives and the Police
Chief and his or her authorized representatives may charge any person whose
fireworks or fireworks kits are seized pursuant to this section, a reasonable
amount which is sufficient to cover the cost of transporting, storing,
handling, and disposing of the seized fireworks or fireworks kits.
   (C)   The additional remedies and procedures for violations of this chapter
and for recovery of costs related to enforcement are provided for in §§
10.23 through
10.25 of this code.
(Ord. 1787, passed 11-2-22)
§ 101.16 DISPOSAL FEES.
   (A)   All companies licensed with the CAL FIRE-Office of the State Fire
Marshal as a importers, exporters and wholesale are required to pay in addition
to the annual license fee an annual dangerous fireworks disposal fee as
prescribed section 981.3 of Article 3, Chapter 6, Division 1 of Title 19 of the
Cal. Code of Regulations.
   (B)   All temporary safe and sane fireworks stands are required to pay at
the time application a dangerous fireworks disposal fee in addition to the
application fee as prescribed Section 981.3.
(Ord. 1787, passed 11-2-22)
§ 101.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal misdemeanor penalty. Any person who causes, permits, aids,
abets, suffers or conceals a violation any provision of this chapter is guilty
of a misdemeanor in accordance with §§ 10.98 and 10.99 of this code, except
that upon conviction shall be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000 or by
imprisonment in the city or county jail not exceeding six months, or by both
such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   Nuisance; civil remedies available. In addition to other penalties
provided by law, any violation of any provision of this chapter or any state
law enforceable by the city shall constitute a public nuisance and may be
abated by the city through civil process by means of a restraining order,
preliminary injunction, or any other manner provided by this code or state law
for abatement of nuisances. Each day such condition continues shall constitute
a new and separate offense in accordance with §
10.11 of this code.
   (C)   Administrative citation.
      (1)   General. In addition to any other penalties provided by law,
whenever the enforcement official, as that term is defined in § 12.08,
determines that a violation of this chapter has occurred, the enforcement
official shall have the authority to issue an administrative citation with
administrative civil penalties to any responsible person, as that term is
defined in §
101.02, pursuant to the procedures set forth in
Chapter 12 (Enforcement of Code) of Title 1 (General Provisions). Use of the
administrative citation procedure in
Chapter 12 with respect to violations of this chapter shall be at the sole
discretion of the city.
      (2)   Dangerous fireworks. Administrative fines and penalties collected
pursuant this section related to dangerous fireworks shall not be subject to
Cal. Health and Safety Code § 12706, and shall be allocated in compliance with
Cal. Health and Safety Code § 12557, which requires the city to reimburse the
State Fire Marshal for the costs associated with the disposal of seized
dangerous fireworks.
      (3)   Civil penalty amounts. The amount of the administrative civil
penalties imposed for administrative citations issued for violations of this
chapter shall be established by resolution of the City Council. Different
administrative civil penalties may be established for violations of this
chapter involving safe and sane fireworks, exempt fireworks or dangerous
fireworks.
   (D)   Separate offenses. A person is guilty of a separate offense for each
and every day or portion thereof during which he or she commits. continues. or
permits a violation of this chapter.
   (E)   No limitation under state law. Nothing in this chapter limits any of
the penalties provided in the Cal. Health and Safety Code or Cal. Penal Code
with regard to the unlawful transportation, use, discharge, possession, storage
or sale of fireworks.
   (F)   Remedies cumulative. The remedies and penalties prescribed by this
section or which are available under any other provision of this chapter are
cumulative and non-exclusive. The use of one or more remedies by the city shall
not bar the use of any other remedy set forth in this chapter or code for the
purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1787, passed 11-2-22)
CHAPTER 102: SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE OF NUISANCE VEHICLES
Section
   
102.01   Definitions
   
102.02   Findings, purpose, intent; declaration of nuisance
   
102.03   Vesting of title
   
102.04   Seizure of vehicles subject to forfeiture; proceedings
   
102.05   Seized vehicles as evidence
   
102.06   Return of seized vehicles if no authorization to hold
   
102.07   Forfeiture of vehicles; procedures
   
102.08   Innocent parties; return of vehicle
   
102.09   Claim procedure
   
102.10   Forfeiture hearing
   
102.11   Forfeiture of vehicles determined to be nuisances
   
102.12   Alternative settlement procedures
   
102.13   Sale of vehicles
   
102.14   Nonexclusive remedy
§ 102.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   CITY.  The City of Indio.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.  A drug, substance or immediate precursor as defined
in Cal. Health & Safety Code § 11007, or any controlled substance analog as
defined in Cal. Health & Safety Code § 11401.
   DEPARTMENT.  The Police Department of the City of Indio.
   GARBAGE, RUBBISH and SWILL.  Defined as set forth in §
51.01 of the Indio Municipal Code.
   MOTOR VEHICLE SPEED CONTEST.  A motor vehicle speed contest as defined in
California Vehicle Code § 23109(a).
   OWNER. The last registered and legal owner of record of the vehicle that is
used to solicit prostitution and/or acquire or attempt to acquire a controlled
substance, as shown on records of the Department of Motor Vehicles or similar
state entity.
   SOLICIT PROSTITUTION or SOLICITING PROSTITUTION.  The solicitation of
prostitution as defined in Cal. Penal Code § 647(b).
   SOLICIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES or SOLICITING CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.  The
solicitation of controlled substances as these are defined in this section.
   VEHICLE. A vehicle as defined in Cal. Vehicle Code § 670.
(Ord. 1355, passed 10-15-03)
§ 102.02 FINDINGS, PURPOSE, INTENT; DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   The City Council has determined that persons who operate vehicles and
use them to solicit prostitution, or to acquire or attempt to acquire
controlled substances, bring decay to local neighborhoods where they engage in
such activities. The Council has further determined that seizing and forfeiting
the vehicles of persons who come into the local neighborhoods to engage in such
activities will deter them from creating said nuisances. The City Council finds
there is a need to provide for the abatement of such nuisance vehicles.
   (B)   Any vehicle used to solicit an act of prostitution and/or to acquire
or attempt to acquire any controlled substance is declared a nuisance and the
vehicle shall be subject to seizure and forfeiture as provided in this chapter.
Any person, or his or her servant, agent or employee who owns, leases,
conducts, uses or maintains any vehicle for the purpose of soliciting
prostitution and/or acquiring or attempting to acquire any controlled substance
shall be guilty of committing a nuisance. Such vehicle shall be subject to
seizure and forfeiture as provided in this chapter. Declaration of this
nuisance is made according to the authority of Cal. Government Code § 38771.
   (C)   The City Council has determined that persons who operate vehicles and
use them to illegally dump garbage, rubbish or swill bring decay to local
neighborhoods where they dump such matter. The Council has further determined
that seizing and forfeiting the vehicles of persons who come into the local
neighborhoods to engage in such activities will deter them from creating said
nuisances. The City Council finds there is a need to provide for the abatement
of such nuisance vehicles.
   (D)   Any vehicle used to illegally dump garbage, rubbish or swill in
violation of §
51.02 of the Indio Municipal Code is declared a nuisance, and the vehicle shall
be subject to seizure and forfeiture as provided in this chapter. Any person or
his or her servant, agent, or employee who owns, leases, possesses, conducts,
uses or maintains any vehicle to illegally dump garbage, rubbish or swill is
guilty of a nuisance. Declaration of this nuisance is made according to the
authority of Cal. Government Code § 38771.
   (E)   The City Council has determined that persons who participate in motor
vehicle speed contests blatantly disregard motor vehicle laws resulting in
dangerous streets for innocent residents of the City, and have been responsible
for deaths in the Coachella Valley area. The Council has further determined
that seizing and forfeiting the vehicles of persons who come into the city to
engage in such activities will deter them from creating said nuisances. The
City Council finds there is a need to provide for the abatement of such
nuisance vehicles.
   (F)   Any Vehicle used to participate in a motor vehicle speed contest is
declared a nuisance, and the vehicle shall be subject to seizure and forfeiture
as provided in this chapter. Any person or his or her servant, agent, or
employee who owns, leases, possesses, conducts, uses or maintains any vehicle
that is used in a motor vehicle speed contest is guilty of a nuisance.
Declaration of that nuisance is made according to the authority of Cal.
Government Code § 38771.
(Ord. 1355, passed 10-15-03)
§ 102.03 VESTING OF TITLE.
   Subject to the requirements of §§
102.04 and
102.08, and except as further limited by this chapter to protect innocent
parties who claim an interest in any vehicle, all right, title, and interest in
any vehicle used to commit any nuisance defined in §
102.02 above shall vest in the city upon commission of the act giving rise to
forfeiture.
(Ord. 1355, passed 10-15-03)
§ 102.04 SEIZURE OF VEHICLES SUBJECT TO FORFEITURE; PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   A vehicle subject to forfeiture under this chapter may be seized by
any peace officer of the city upon process issued by any court having
jurisdiction over the vehicle. Seizure without process may be made if any of
the following situations exist:
      (1)   The seizure is incident to an arrest or a search under a search
warrant;
      (2)   There is probable cause to believe that the vehicle was used or is
intended to be used in violation of this chapter; or
      (3)   There is probable cause to believe that the vehicle is directly or
indirectly dangerous to the health or safety of persons or property.
   (B)   The city may notify the Franchise Tax Board of a vehicle seized where
there is reasonable cause to believe that the value of the seized vehicle
exceeds $5,000.
   (C)   Receipts for vehicles seized pursuant to this chapter shall be
delivered to any person out of whose possession such vehicle was seized, in
accordance with Cal. Penal Code § 1412. There shall be a presumption affecting
the burden of proof that a person to whom a receipt was issued is the owner
thereof. This presumption may, however, be rebutted at the forfeiture hearing
specified in §
102.10.
(Ord. 1355, passed 10-15-03)
§ 102.05 SEIZED VEHICLES AS EVIDENCE.
   A vehicle seized pursuant to §
102.04, where appropriate, may be held for evidence in proceedings against the
owner of the vehicle or the individual who used the vehicle to commit any
nuisance described in this chapter. The City Attorney shall institute and
maintain the proceedings.
(Ord. 1355, passed 10-15-03)
§ 102.06 RETURN OF SEIZED VEHICLES IF NO AUTHORIZATION TO HOLD.
   Within 15 days after seizure, if the peace officer does not hold the vehicle
for evidence or if the Department does not refer the matter in writing for
institution of forfeiture proceedings by the City Attorney, the peace officer
or Department shall comply with any notice to withhold issued to the city with
respect to the vehicle by the Franchise Tax Board. If no notice to withhold has
been issued with respect to the vehicle by the Franchise Tax Board, the peace
officer or the Department shall return the vehicle to the registered owner.
Alternatively, the city may return the vehicle to the registered lienholder
upon the lienholder's filing of a hold harmless agreement on behalf of the
city. The hold harmless agreement shall be acceptable to the Department and the
City Attorney.
(Ord. 1355, passed 10-15-03)
§ 102.07 FORFEITURE OF VEHICLE; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (H) of this section, or §
102.12, if the City Attorney determines that the factual circumstances warrant
that a vehicle described in §
102.02 is subject to forfeiture, and are not automatically made forfeitable by
another provision of this chapter, the City Attorney shall file a petition for
forfeiture with the Superior Court of Riverside County.
   (B)   A petition for forfeiture under this subdivision shall be filed as
soon as practicable, but in any case within one year of the seizure of the
vehicle which is subject to forfeiture.
   (C)   Physical seizure of the vehicle shall not be necessary in order to
have the vehicle alleged to be forfeitable in a petition pursuant to this
section. The City Attorney may seek protective orders for any such vehicle.
   (D)   The City Attorney shall cause notice of the seizure and of the
intended forfeiture proceedings, as well as a notice stating that any
interested party may file a verified claim with the Superior Court of Riverside
County, to be served by personal delivery or by registered mail upon any person
who has an interest in the vehicle. Whenever a notice is delivered pursuant to
this section, it shall be accompanied by a claim form as described in §
102.09, as well as directions for the filing and service of a claim. Notice
shall also be published once in a newspaper of general circulation in Riverside
County.
   (E)   An investigation shall be made by the Department as to any claimant to
the vehicle whose right, title, interest, or lien is of record in the
Department of Motor Vehicles or appropriate federal agency. If the Department
finds that a person, other than the registered owner, is the legal owner of the
vehicle, and such ownership did not arise subsequent to the date and time of
arrest or notification of the forfeiture proceedings or seizure of the vehicle,
it shall forthwith send a notice to the legal owner at his or her address
appearing on the records of the Department of Motor Vehicles or appropriate
federal agency.
   (F)   All notices shall set forth the time within which a claim of interest
in the vehicle seized or that is subject to forfeiture is required to be filed
pursuant to §
102.09.
   (G)   The City Attorney may, pursuant to this section, order the forfeiture
of the vehicle seized pursuant to this chapter. The City Attorney shall provide
notice of the proceedings under this subsection, including the following
information:
      (1)   A description of the vehicle;
      (2)   The date and place of seizure;
      (3)   The violation of law alleged with respect to forfeiture of the
vehicle;
      (4)   The instructions for filing and serving a claim with the City
Attorney pursuant to §
102.09 and time limits for filing a claim.
   (H)   If no claims are timely filed, the City Attorney shall prepare a
written declaration of forfeiture of the vehicle to the city and dispose of the
vehicle in accordance with this chapter. A written declaration of forfeiture
signed by the City Attorney under this section shall be deemed to provide good
and sufficient title to the forfeited vehicle. The City Attorney ordering
forfeiture pursuant to this section shall provide a copy of the declaration of
forfeiture to any person who received notice of the forfeiture proceedings.
   (I)   If a claim is timely filed within 15 days, then the City Attorney
shall file a petition for forfeiture pursuant to this section within 30 days of
receipt of the claim.
(Ord. 1355, passed 10-15-03)
§ 102.08 INNOCENT PARTIES; RETURN OF VEHICLE.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, the Department shall return
a seized vehicle upon the filing of a timely claim pursuant to §
102.09 and upon a showing by the claimant that:
   (A)   The vehicle is owned by two or more persons and there is a community
property interest in the vehicle by a person other than the person who used or
maintained the Vehicle while committing any nuisance described in §
102.02, and the vehicle is the sole vehicle available to the person's immediate
family; or
   (B)   The vehicle is owned by the employer of the person who used or
maintained the vehicle while committing any nuisance described in §
102.02; or
   (C)   The vehicle is owed by a rental car agency with a duly executed
contract with the person who used or maintained the vehicle while committing
any nuisance described in §
102.02; or
   (D)   The vehicle was reported stolen to a law enforcement agency by the
registered owner prior to the date and time of the commission of any nuisance
described in §
102.02.
(Ord. 1355, passed 10-15-03)
§ 102.09 CLAIM PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Any person claiming an interest in the vehicle seized pursuant to §
102.02 must at any time within 15 days from the date of the notice of seizure,
file with the Superior Court of Riverside County a claim, verified in
accordance with Cal. Code of Civil Procedure § 446, stating his or her interest
in the vehicle. An endorsed copy of the claim shall be served by the claimant
on the City Attorney within ten days of the filing of the claim.
   (B)   Court proceedings shall be in accordance with the following:
      (1)   If a verified claim is filed, the forfeiture proceeding shall be
set for a hearing on a day not less than 30 days therefrom.
      (2)    The hearing shall be before the court.
      (3)   The provisions of Cal. Code of Civil Procedure shall apply to
proceedings under this chapter unless otherwise inconsistent with the
provisions or procedures set forth in this chapter. However, there shall be no
joinder of actions or coordination of actions, except for forfeiture
proceedings, or cross-complaints and the issues shall be limited strictly to
questions related to this chapter.
(Ord. 1355, passed 10-15-03)
§ 102.10 FORFEITURE HEARING.
   With the respect to a vehicle described in §
102.02 for which forfeiture is sought and as to which forfeiture is contested,
the city shall have the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence
that the vehicle was used as set forth in §
102.02. Trial shall be before the court. The presiding judge of the Superior
Court shall assign actions brought pursuant to this chapter for trial.
(Ord. 1355, passed 10-15-03)
§ 102.11 FORFEITURE OF VEHICLES DETERMINED TO BE NUISANCES.
   Upon proof by a preponderance of the evidence that the vehicle was used for
any of the purposes set forth in §
102.02, the court shall declare the vehicle a nuisance and order that the
vehicle be seized, if not previously seized and held by the Department,
forfeited and sold and the proceeds distributed in accordance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 1355, passed 10-15-03)
§ 102.12 ALTERNATIVE SETTLEMENT PROCEDURES.
   Any person, or his or her servant, agent or employee who owns, leases,
conducts, uses or maintains any Vehicle while committing any nuisance described
in §
102.02 and whose vehicle has been seized in accordance with this chapter may
request to execute a voluntary settlement agreement with the city for the
return of the vehicle. Such request shall be made in writing to the Department
or the City Attorney. The minimum amount of the settlement agreement shall be
sufficient to cover all of the city's reasonable administrative costs,
including attorney's fees and personnel time for the seizure and forfeiture
action. The actual amount shall be at the sole and absolute discretion of the
City Attorney. The executed settlement agreement shall be accompanied by the
appropriate settlement fee amount in the form of a money order, cash or
cashier's check. All settlement funds shall be distributed as set forth in §
102.13, divisions (B) and (C).
(Ord. 1355, passed 10-15-03)
§ 102.13 SALE OF VEHICLES.
   In all cases where a vehicle is seized and forfeited to the city pursuant to
this chapter, the vehicle shall be sold, or if cash is paid as settlement in
lieu of forfeiture of the vehicle, and the proceeds of the sale or said cash
shall be distributed and appropriated as follows:
   (A)   To the bona fide or innocent purchaser, conditional sales vendor,
mortgage or lien holder of the vehicle, if any, up to the amount of his or her
interest in the vehicle, when the court or City Attorney declares the
forfeiture and sale of the vehicle and orders a distribution to that person.
   (B)   To the city for all expenditures made or incurred by it in connection
with the publication of the notices set forth in this chapter, and sale of the
vehicle, including expenditures for any necessary repairs, storage or
transportation of any vehicle seized under this chapter.
   (C)   The remaining funds shall be distributed to the Department to cover
the costs of implementing the program. Such funds shall be placed in a separate
account titled "The Vehicle Forfeiture Account." The Vehicle Forfeiture Account
shall be subject to appropriate accounting controls and financial audits for
all deposits and expenditures.
   (D)   All the funds distributed to the Department pursuant to division (C)
of this section shall not supplant any funds that would, in the absence of this
chapter, be made available to support the law enforcement and prosecutorial
efforts of the Department.
(Ord. 1355, passed 10-15-03)
§ 102.14 NONEXCLUSIVE REMEDY.
   This chapter is not the exclusive regulation against or penalty for
committing the nuisances described in this chapter. It supplements and is in
addition to the other regulatory codes, statutes, and ordinances heretofore or
hereafter enacted by the city, the state or any other legal entity or agency
having jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1355, passed 10-15-03)
CHAPTER 103: REUSABLE BAGS
Section
   
103.01   Findings and purpose
   
103.02   Definitions
   
103.03   Single-use carryout plastic bags prohibited
   
103.04   Permitted bags
   
103.05   Single-use carryout plastic bag regulations
   
103.06   Exemptions
   
103.07   Operative date
   
103.08   Enforcement
§ 103.01 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City Council of the City of Indio finds and determines that the
City is committed to protecting the public health, safety, welfare, and
environment, and that in order to meet these goals, it is necessary for the
City to promote the public purposes served by this Chapter and adopt the
following regulations pursuant to these findings.
   (B)   The City finds that ordinances limiting the use of Single-Use Carryout
Plastic Bags have been proven to reduce the amount of pollution and improve
quality of life for the citizens of Indio.
   (C)   The City finds that, except in unusual circumstances, it is feasible
and reasonable for parties who provide Single-Use Carryout Plastic Bags to
easily transition to paper bags and move to a model that charges for paper bag
use by consumers.
   (D)   The City of Indio recognizes that Single-Use Carryout Plastic Bags are
a public nuisance and affect public health and impact tourism and quality of
life to both residents and visitors.
(Ord. 1653, passed 5-15-14)
§ 103.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER.  Any Person obtaining goods from a Store.
   OPERATOR.  The Person in control of, or having the responsibility for, the
operation of a Store, which may include, but not be limited to, the owner of
the Store.
   PERSON.  Any natural person, firm, corporation, partnership, or other
organization or group however organized.
   PHARMACY.  Any retail store, where prescriptions, medications, controlled or
over the counter drugs, personal care products or health supplement goods or
vitamins are sold, but excluding any licensed Pharmacy located within a
hospital.
   PREPARED FOOD.  Foods or beverages which are prepared on the premises by
cooking, chopping, slicing, mixing, freezing, or squeezing, and which require
no further preparation to be consumed. Prepared Food does not include any raw,
uncooked meat product or fruits or vegetables which are chopped, squeezed, or
mixed.
   PRODUCE BAG  or PRODUCT BAG.  Any bag without handles used exclusively to
carry produce, meats, or other food items to the point of sale inside a store
or to prevent such food items from coming into direct contact with other
purchased items.
   RECYCLED PAPER BAG.  A paper bag provided to the Customer at the check
stand, cash register, point of sale, or other point of departure for the
purpose of transporting food or merchandise out of the establishment that
contains no old growth fiber and a minimum of forty percent (40%) post-consumer
recycled content; is one hundred percent (100%) recyclable; and has printed in
a highly visible manner on the outside of the bag the words "Reusable" and
"Recyclable," the name and location of the manufacturer, and the percentage of
post-consumer recycled content. The Recycled Paper Bag is capable of
composting, consistent with the timeline and specifications of the American
Society of Testing and Material (ASTM) Standard Specification for Compostable
Plastics D6400, as published in September 2004.
   REUSABLE BAG.  A bag that has handles that is specifically designed and
manufactured for multiple reuse and meets all of the following requirements:
(1) is machine washable or is made of material that can be cleaned or
disinfected; (2) has a minimum lifetime of one hundred twenty-five (125) uses,
which for purposes of this subsection, means the capability of carrying a
minimum of twenty-two (22) pounds one hundred twenty-five (125) times over a
distance of at least one hundred seventy-five (175) feet; (3) if made of a
plastic, it must be at least two and one-quarter (2.25) millimeter thick; (4)
does not contain lead, cadmium, or any other heavy metal in toxic amounts, as
defined by applicable State and Federal standards and regulations for packaging
or Reusable Bags.
   SINGLE-USE CARRYOUT PLASTIC BAG.  A bag other than a Reusable Bag provided
to the Customer at the check stand, cash register, point of sale or other point
of departure for the purpose of transporting food or merchandise out of the
Store. Single-Use Carryout Plastic Bags do not include bags without handles
provided to the Customer (1) to transport produce, bulk food, or meat from a
produce, bulk food, or meat department within a Store to the point of sale; (2)
to hold prescription medication dispensed from a Pharmacy; or (3) to segregate
food or merchandise that could damage or contaminate other food or merchandise
when placed together in a Reusable Bag or Recycled Paper Bag.
   STORE.  Any of the following retail establishments located within the City
limits of the City of Indio:
      (1)   A retail store with gross annual sales of two million dollars
($2,000,000), or more, that sells a line of dry grocery, canned goods, or
nonfood items and some perishable items;
      (2)   A store of at least 10,000 square feet of retail space that sells
any perishable or non-perishable goods including, but not limited to clothing,
food, or personal items, and generates sales or use tax pursuant to the
Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law (Part 1.5 (commencing with
Section 7200) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code); or
      (3)   A drug store, Pharmacy, supermarket, grocery store, convenience
food store, foodmart, or other entity engaged in the retail sale of a limited
line of goods that includes milk, bread, soda, and snack foods, including those
stores with a Type 20 or 21 license issued by the Department of Alcoholic
Beverage Control; or
      (4)   A store of less than 10,000 square feet of retail space that sells
any perishable or non-perishable goods including, but not limited to, clothing,
food, or personal items, and generates sales or use tax pursuant to the
Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law (Part 1.5 (commencing with
Section 7200) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code).
(Ord. 1653, passed 5-15-14)
§ 103.03 SINGLE-USE CARRYOUT PLASTIC BAGS PROHIBITED.
   No Store shall provide to any Customer a Single-Use Carryout Plastic Bag.
This prohibition applies to bags provided for the purpose of carrying away
goods from the point of sale and does not apply to Produce Bags or Product
Bags.
(Ord. 1653, passed 5-15-14)
§ 103.04 PERMITTED BAGS.
   All Stores shall provide or make available to a Customer only Recyclable
Paper Bags or Reusable Bags for the purpose of carrying away goods or other
materials from the point of sale, subject to the terms of this Chapter. Nothing
in this Chapter prohibits Customers from using bags of any type that they bring
to the Store themselves or from carrying away goods that are not placed in a
bag, in lieu of using bags provided by the Store.
(Ord. 1653, passed 5-15-14)
§ 103.05 SINGLE-USE CARRYOUT PLASTIC BAG REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No Person shall distribute a Single-Use Carryout Plastic Bag at any
City facility, City-managed concession, City-sponsored event, or City-permitted
event unless otherwise provided in this Section.
   (B)   Single-Use Carryout Plastic Bags may be distributed to Customers by
food providers for the purpose of safeguarding health and safety during the
transportation of Prepared Foods and liquids intended for consumption away from
the food provider's premises (i.e. take-out food).
   (C)   A Store shall make Recycled Paper Bags available to Customers for a
minimum charge of ten cents ($.10) per bag. The sale of each bag shall be
separately itemized on the sale receipt.
   (D)   All Stores must keep records of the total number of Recycled Paper
Bags provided, the total amount of monies collected for providing Recycled
Paper Bags, and a summary of any efforts a Store has undertaken to promote the
use of Reusable Bags by Customers in the prior calendar year. Such records must
be made available to the City Manager or his/her designee, to review at any
time. These records may be kept at the retailer's corporate office.
(Ord. 1653, passed 5-15-14)
§ 103.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   A Store may provide a Customer participating in the California Special
Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants, and Children pursuant to Article
2 (commencing with Section 123275) of Chapter 1 of Section 2 of Division 106 of
the Health and Safety Code; and a Customer participating in the Supplemental
Food Program pursuant to Chapter 10 (commencing with Section 15500) of Part 3
of Division 9 of the California Welfare and Institutions Code, with one (1) or
more Recycled Paper Bags or Reusable Bags at no cost.
(Ord. 1653, passed 5-15-14)
§ 103.07 OPERATIVE DATE.
   This Chapter shall become operative six (6) months after its effective date
for Stores defined in §§
103.02(J)(1) and
103.02(J)(2). This Chapter shall become operative twelve (12) months after its
effective date for Stores defined in §§
103.02(J)(3) and
103.02(J)(4).
(Ord. 1653, passed 5-15-14)
§ 103.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any violation of this Chapter may be enforced by the City by criminal
prosecution, civil action, administrative action or any other means authorized
by law.
   (B)   Violations of this Chapter may, in the discretion of the City
Prosecutor, be prosecuted as infractions or misdemeanors.
   (C)   The remedies provided in this Chapter are cumulative and in addition
to any other remedies available by law or in equity. The City Attorney, City
Prosecutor or duly authorized Enforcement Officer may pursue any other right
and remedy permitted by the City's municipal code, including but limited to
commencement of any civil action, the issuance of administrative fines and
fees, or administrative action to abate as a public nuisance pursuant to
Chapter 95A of this code.
(Ord. 1653, passed 5-15-14)
CHAPTER 104: RESERVED
CHAPTER 105: DRONE REGULATIONS
Section
   
105.01   Purpose and Intent
   
105.02   Definitions
   
105.03   Operating Requirements and Restrictions
   
105.04   Protected Sites
   
105.05   Exemptions
   
105.06   Commercial Operations
   
105.07   Enforcement
§ 105.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of this Chapter is to effectively regulate unmanned
aircraft and unmanned aircraft systems, commonly known as “Drones”, operated
within the City in order to promote the health, safety, and general welfare of
City residents. The City seeks to implement appropriate regulations of unmanned
aircraft and unmanned aircraft systems pursuant to the City’s police powers and
its authority to issue regulations related to zoning, land use, privacy,
trespass, and law enforcement operations. All regulations herein are intended
to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public and address specific
areas of local municipal concern where the operation of unmanned aircraft and
unmanned aircraft systems could cause harm and injury. This Chapter is not
intended to restrict persons operating commercial unmanned aircraft and
unmanned aircraft systems in compliance with all applicable FAA rules and other
applicable laws, outside of prohibited sites. This Chapter is not intended to
restrict persons operating unmanned aircraft and unmanned aircraft systems
flown strictly for recreational purposes in compliance with all applicable FAA
rules and other applicable laws, outside of protected sites.
   Federal laws, state laws, and FAA rules and regulations are subject to
change. Compliance with this Chapter may not constitute compliance with
current, pending or future, federal laws, state laws or FAA rules and
regulations. It is the responsibility of all persons operating, or involved in
the operation of, unmanned aircraft and unmanned aircraft systems to ensure
they are in compliance with all the legal duties that may be applicable to
their involvement in the operation of any unmanned aircraft and unmanned
aircraft systems.
   This Chapter is not intended to preempt Federal laws, State laws or FAA
rules and regulations, but to operate in conjunction with those rules to
promote the safe and lawful operation of unmanned aircraft and unmanned
aircraft systems within the City.
(Ord. 1731, passed 3-7-18; Am. Ord. 1790, passed 2-15-23)
§ 105.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise, or if there is a conflict between a
definition of this section and federal or state law, the definition set under
federal or state law is controlling:
   (A)   “CITY MANAGER’S DESIGNEE” means the City Manager or any agent of the
City as designated by the City Manager.
   (B)   “EMERGENCY RESPONDER” means any person engaged in providing emergency
services who is an agent of the City, the County of Riverside, a public agency,
a law enforcement agency, the fire department, or a public safety organization.
   (C)   “FAA” means the Federal Aviation Administration.
   (D)   “PERSON” means and includes any natural person, corporation, company,
firm, association, organization, co-partnership, joint venture, trust, business
trust, syndicate, estate, receiver, society, club, fraternal organization, any
group or combination thereof acting as a unit, and any officer, agent,
employee, or servant of any of the foregoing.
   (E)   “SPECIAL EVENT” means any event, assembly, or gathering held on public
land or open-air facility, private property, or commercial or industrial
facility that is open to the public and intended to attract people. This
includes, but is not limited to, sporting events, concerts, festivals, farmer’s
markets, and other similar events.
   (F)   "LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER" means any person authorized under federal,
state, or local laws to enforce the laws and regulations of the City of Indio,
the State of California, or the United States of America.
   (G)   "DRONE" means an unmanned aircraft.
   (H)   "UNMANNED AIRCRAFT" means an aircraft operated without the possibility
of direct human intervention from within or on the aircraft, as defined by
Title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations § 1.1, and California Government
Code § 853.5.
   (I)   “UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEM” means an unmanned aircraft and associated
elements (including communication links and the components that control the
unmanned aircraft) that are required for the operator to operate safely and
efficiently in the national airspace system, as defined under Title 49 United
States Code Annotated § 44801(12), 14 C.F.R. § 107.3 and California Government
Code § 853.5.
   (J)   “SMALL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT” means an unmanned aircraft weighing less
than 55 pounds at takeoff. This weight includes everything that is on board or
otherwise attached to the aircraft before and after takeoff, in accordance with
14 C.F.R. § 1.1, 14 C.F.R. § 170, 14 C.F.R. § 107.1, and 14 C.F.R. § 107.3.
   (K)   “SMALL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEM” means an unmanned aircraft and
associated elements (including communication links and the components that
control the unmanned aircraft) that are required for the operator to operate
safely and efficiently in the national airspace system, as defined under 49
U.S.C.A. § 44801(12), 14 C.F.R. § 1.1, 14 C.F.R. § 107.3, and California
Government Code § 853.5.
   (L)   “FOREIGN CIVIL AIRCRAFT” means any aircraft of foreign registry that
is not part of the armed forces of a foreign nation, or a U.S. registered
aircraft owned, controlled, or operated by persons who are not  citizens or
permanent residents of the United States, as defined in 14 C.F.R. § 375.1, 14
C.F.R. § 375.11, and 14 C.F.R. § 375.10.
   (M)   “DECLARATION OF COMPLIANCE” means a record submitted to the FAA that
certifies the small unmanned aircraft conforms to the Category 2 or Category 3
requirements under 14 C.F.R. § 107.160, in accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.
   (N)   “REMOTE PILOT CERTIFICATE” means a certificate issued pursuant to
subpart C of 14 C.F.R. § 107 that satisfies all the requirements of 14 C.F.R. §
107.65 (See 14 C.F.R. § 107.52 through § 107.59).
   (O)   “REMOTE PILOT IN COMMAND” means a person who holds a remote pilot
certificate with a small unmanned aircraft system rating and has final
authority and responsibility for the operation and safety of a small unmanned
aircraft operation conducted in compliance with all provisions of 14 C.F.R. §
107 and all other federal, state, county, city or other regulations applicable
to the date, time, location, and conditions of the small unmanned aircraft
operation.
   (P)   “PERSON MANIPULATING CONTROLS” means a person other than the remote
pilot in command who is controlling or manipulating the flight or flight
controls of a small unmanned aircraft in accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.12.
   (Q)   “VISUAL OBSERVER” means a person who is designated by the remote pilot
in command to assist the remote pilot in command and the person manipulating
the flight controls of the small unmanned aircraft to see and avoid other air
traffic or objects in flight or on the ground, as defined under 14 C.F.R. §
107.3.
   (R)   “VISUAL LINE OF SIGHT” means the remote pilot in command, the visual
observer (if one is used), and the person manipulating the flight controls (if
one is used) of the small unmanned aircraft system must be able to see the
unmanned aircraft throughout the entire flight with vision that is unaided by
any device other than corrective lenses, as defined under 14 C.F.R. § 107.31.
   (S)   “OPERATION WAIVER” means the required official documentation, issued
by the FAA under 14 C.F.R. § 11, 14 C.F.R. § 107.200, 14 C.F.R. § 107.205, 49
U.S.C.A. § 44807, or other applicable FAA provision, authorizing the operation
of an unmanned aircraft in a way that falls outside the permissible operation
limitations of federal regulations. An operation waiver is required to operate
any unmanned aircraft weighing 55 pounds or more at takeoff, or during flight.
   (T)   “SPECIAL FLIGHT AUTHORIZATION FOR FOREIGN CIVIL AIRCRAFT” means the
required official documentation, issued by the FAA in accordance with 14 C.F.R.
§ 170.12(c), 14 C.F.R. § 170.13, 14 C.F.R. § 91.715, 14 C.F.R. § 357.11, or
other applicable FAA provision, authorizing the operation of a foreign civil
aircraft or a U.S. registered aircraft owned, controlled, or operated by
persons who are not citizens or permanent residents of the United States.
(Ord. 1731, passed 3-7-18; Am. Ord. 1790, passed 2-15-23)
§ 105.03 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   No person may operate a drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft
in a manner that is prohibited by any applicable federal, state, or local laws
and regulations. In addition to all other applicable laws and regulations, the
following shall apply to the operation of drones, unmanned aircrafts, and small
unmanned aircrafts within the City of Indio:
   (A)   Preflight designation of remote pilot in command.  In accordance with
14 C.F.R. § 107.19, a remote pilot in command must be designated before any
flight of a drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft.
      (1)   Requirements to qualify as a remote pilot in command. In accordance
with 14 C.F.R. § 107.12 and California Public Utilities Code § 21409, no person
may act as a remote pilot in command unless:
         (a)   That person has a remote pilot certificate with a small unmanned
aircraft rating issued pursuant to 14 C.F.R. § 107.52 through § 107.79 and
satisfies the requirements of 14 C.F.R. § 107.65; or
         (b)   The person is in possession of a valid FAA-issued operation
waiver, or a special flight authorization for foreign civil aircraft,
consistent with international standards, authorizing an airman to operate a
civil foreign-registered small unmanned aircraft without an FAA-issued remote
pilot certificate with a small unmanned aircraft system (UAS) rating.
      (2)   Inspection of remote pilot certificate.  A remote pilot in command,
owner, or person manipulating the flight controls of a small unmanned aircraft
system must have their remote pilot certificate, with a small UAS rating and
identification containing the information listed at 14 C.F.R. § 107.67(b)(1) -
(3), in that person's physical possession and readily accessible to present for
inspection, upon the request of any federal, state, or local law enforcement
officer, and authorized representative of the agencies identified in 14 C.F.R.
§ 107.7, California Public Utilities Codes § 21410, § 21252, and all other
applicable federal, state and local regulations.
      (3)   Inspection of operation waiver.  A remote pilot in command, owner,
or person manipulating the flight controls of a small unmanned aircraft system
under an operation waiver, or a special flight authorization for foreign civil
aircraft, must have the operation waiver in their physical possession and
readily accessible to present for inspection, upon the request of any federal,
state, or local law enforcement officer, in accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107,
California Public Utilities Codes § 21410, § 21252, and all other applicable
federal, state and local regulations.
      (4)   General duties of a remote pilot in command. In accordance with 14
C.F.R. § 107.19, a remote pilot in command has the following duties:
         (a)   The remote pilot in command is directly responsible for and is
the final authority as to the operation of the small unmanned aircraft system.
         (b)   The remote pilot in command must ensure that the small unmanned
aircraft will pose no undue hazard to other people, other aircraft, or other
property in the event of a loss of control of the small unmanned aircraft for
any reason.
         (c)   The remote pilot in command must ensure that the drone or small
unmanned operation complies with all applicable regulations of this chapter and
all applicable FAA regulations.
         (d)   The remote pilot in command must have the ability to direct the
small unmanned aircraft to ensure compliance with the applicable provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Inspection, testing and demonstration before operation. The remote
pilot in command, visual observer, owner, operator, or person manipulating the
flight controls of a small unmanned aircraft system must, upon request of law
enforcement, allow any test or inspection of the small unmanned aircraft
system, the remote pilot in command, the person manipulating the flight
controls of a small unmanned aircraft system, and, if applicable, the visual
observer to determine compliance with all applicable FAA regulations, in
accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.7.
   (C)   Preflight remote pilot in command procedure. In accordance with 14
C.F.R. § 107.49, before any flight of a small unmanned aircraft, the remote
pilot in command must do all of the following:
      (1)   The remote pilot in command must assess the operating environment,
considering risks to persons and property in the immediate vicinity both on the
surface and in the air. This assessment must include:
         (a)   Local weather conditions; and
         (b)   Local airspace and any flight restrictions; and
         (c)   The location of persons and property on the surface; and
         (d)   Other ground hazards.
      (2)   The remote pilot in command must ensure that all persons directly
participating in the small unmanned aircraft operation are informed about the
operating conditions, emergency procedures, contingency procedures, roles and
responsibilities, and potential hazards; and
      (3)   The remote pilot in command must ensure that all control links
between the ground control station and the small unmanned aircraft are working
properly; and
      (4)   If the small unmanned aircraft is powered, the remote pilot in
command must ensure that there is enough available power for the small unmanned
aircraft system to operate for the intended operational time; and
      (5)   The remote pilot in command must ensure that any object attached or
carried by the small unmanned aircraft is secure and does not adversely affect
the flight characteristics or controllability of the aircraft; and
      (6)   If the operation will be conducted over human beings, the remote
pilot in command must ensure that the aircraft meets the requirements of 14
C.F.R. § 107.110, § 107.120(a), § 107.130(a), or § 107.140, as applicable; and
      (7)   In accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.15, no person may operate a
civil small unmanned aircraft system unless it is in a condition for safe
operation. Before each flight, the remote pilot in command must check the small
unmanned aircraft system to determine whether it is in a condition for safe
operation.
   (D)   Person manipulating controls. In accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.12,
no person may manipulate the flight controls of a small unmanned aircraft
system unless:
      (1)   That person has a remote pilot certificate with a small unmanned
aircraft rating issued pursuant to 14 C.F.R. § 107.52 through § 107.79 and
satisfies the requirements of 14 C.F.R. § 107.65; or
      (2)   That person is under the direct supervision of a remote pilot in
command and the remote pilot in command can immediately take direct control of
the flight of the small unmanned aircraft.
   (E)   Use of a visual observer. In accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.33, if a
visual observer is used during the aircraft operation, all of the following
requirements must be met:
      (1)   The remote pilot in command, the person manipulating the flight
controls of the small unmanned aircraft system, and the visual observer must
maintain effective communication with each other at all times.
      (2)   The remote pilot in command must ensure that the visual observer is
able to maintain a continuous visual line of sight of the unmanned aircraft
throughout the entire flight with vision that is unaided by any device other
than corrective lenses, in accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.31.
      (3)   The remote pilot in command, the person manipulating the flight
controls of the small unmanned aircraft system, and the visual observer must
coordinate to do the following:
         (a)   Scan the airspace where the small unmanned aircraft is operating
for any potential collision hazard; and
         (b)   Maintain awareness of the position of the small unmanned
aircraft through direct visual observation.
   (F)   General operation requirements during flight. The remote pilot in
command, and the person manipulating the flight controls of the small unmanned
aircraft system, must comply with all of the operating regulations under 14
C.F.R. § 107, and all other applicable FAA regulations when operating a drone,
unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Required certification and registration. In accordance with 14
C.F.R. § 107.13, a person operating a drone, unmanned aircraft, or small
unmanned aircraft, for purposes of flight, must ensure the drone, unmanned
aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft complies with all applicable FAA
certification and registration requirements, including but not limited to the
provisions of 14 C.F.R. § 91.203(a)(2) and California Public Utilities Code §
21411.
      (2)   Operation limitations during flight. In accordance with 14 C.F.R. §
107.51 and all other applicable federal, state, and local regulations, a remote
pilot in command, and the person manipulating the flight controls of the small
unmanned aircraft system, must comply with all of the following operating
limitations when operating a small unmanned aircraft system:
         (a)   The groundspeed of the small unmanned aircraft may not exceed 87
knots (100 miles per hour).
         (b)   The altitude of the small unmanned aircraft cannot be higher
than 400 feet above ground level, unless the small unmanned aircraft is flown
within a 400-foot radius of a structure; and does not fly higher than 400 feet
above the structure's immediate uppermost limit.
         (c)   The minimum flight visibility, as observed from the location of
the control station, must be no less than three statute miles. For purposes of
this section, “flight visibility” means the average slant distance from the
control station at which prominent unlighted objects may be seen and identified
by day and prominent lighted objects may be seen and identified by night.
         (d)   The minimum distance of the small unmanned aircraft from clouds
must be no less than 500 feet below the cloud and 2,000 feet horizontally from
the cloud.
      (3)   Medical condition. In accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.17, no person
may manipulate the flight controls of a small unmanned aircraft system or act
as a remote pilot in command, visual observer, or direct participant in the
operation of the small unmanned aircraft if they know or have reason to know
that they have a physical or mental condition that would interfere with the
safe operation of the small unmanned aircraft system.
      (4)   Alcohol or drugs. No person may manipulate the flight controls of a
small unmanned aircraft system, or act as a remote pilot in command, or a
visual observer within eight hours after the consumption of any alcoholic
beverage; while under the influence of alcohol; while using any drug that
affects the person's faculties in a way contrary to safety; or while having an
alcohol concentration of 0.04 or greater in a blood or breath specimen, in
accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.27, 14 C.F.R. § 91.17 and California Public
Utilities Codes § 21407.1, § 21415.
         (a)   Submission to testing related to alcohol or drugs. A person
manipulating the flight controls of a small unmanned aircraft system or acting
as a remote pilot in command or visual observer shall, upon request of a law
enforcement officer, submit to a test to indicate the alcohol concentration in
the blood or breath, or the presence of any drug in the blood, in accordance
with 14 C.F.R. § 107.59, 14 C.F.R. § 91.17, and California Public Utilities
Codes § 21407.2 and § 21252.
         (b)   Refusal of testing. The law enforcement officer requesting a
person manipulating the flight controls of a small unmanned aircraft system or
acting as a remote pilot in command or visual observer to submit to a chemical
test of the blood, breath, or urine in accordance with this section, shall
report any person manipulating the flight controls of a small unmanned aircraft
system, or acting as a remote pilot in command, or visual observer refusing to
submit to the chemical test to the Federal Aviation Administration for
appropriate administrative action in accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.57, 14
C.F.R. § 107.59, 14 C.F.R. § 91.17, and California Public Utilities Codes §
21407.2.
      (5)   Operation of multiple unmanned aircraft. In accordance with 14
C.F.R. § 107.35, a person may not manipulate flight controls or act as a remote
pilot in command or visual observer in the operation of more than one drone,
unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft at the same time, unless the
operation is in accordance with a valid operation waiver.
      (6)   Operation near aircraft. In accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.37, no
person may operate a drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft so
close to another aircraft as to create a collision hazard. Each drone, unmanned
aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft must yield the right of way to all
aircraft, airborne vehicles, and launch and reentry vehicles. Yielding the
right of way means that the drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned
aircraft must give way to the aircraft or vehicle and may not pass over, under,
or ahead of it unless well clear.
      (7)   Interference with airports and heliports. In accordance with 14
C.F.R. § 107.43 and all other applicable federal regulations, no person may
operate a drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft in a manner that
interferes with operations and traffic patterns at any airport or heliport.
      (8)   Operation in certain airspace. In accordance with 14 C.F.R. §
107.41, and all other applicable FAA regulations, no person may operate a
drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft in Class B, Class C, or
Class D airspace or within the lateral boundaries of the surface area of Class
E airspace designated for an airport unless that person has prior authorization
from the applicable Air Traffic Control.
         (a)   Class B, C, D, and E airspace are defined under 14 C.F.R. § 71.
      (9)   Flight restrictions in the proximity of certain areas designated by
notice to airmen. A person acting as a remote pilot in command must comply with
the provisions of 14 C.F.R. § 91.137 through § 91.145 and 14 C.F.R. § 99.7.
      (10)   Carriage of hazardous materials. In accordance with 14 C.F.R. §
107.36, a drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft may not carry
hazardous material. For purposes of this section, the term “hazardous material”
is defined in 49 C.F.R. § 171.8.
      (11)   Carriage of controlled substances and alcohol. No person may
operate a drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft with knowledge
that narcotic drugs, marihuana, and depressant or stimulant drugs or substances
as defined in Federal or State statutes are carried in, on, or by the drone,
unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft, in accordance with 14 C.F.R. §
91.19 and 14 C.F.R. § 107.57. This section does not apply to any carriage of
narcotic drugs, marihuana, and depressant or stimulant drugs or substances
authorized by or under any Federal or State statute or by any Federal or State
agency.
      (12)   Operation from a moving vehicle. In accordance with 14 C.F.R. §
107.25, no person may operate a drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned
aircraft from a moving aircraft, or from a moving land or water-borne vehicle
unless:
         (a)   The small unmanned aircraft is flown over a sparsely populated
area and is not transporting another person's property for compensation or
hire; or
         (b)   The operation is done in compliance with a valid operation
waiver.
   (G)   Operations over human beings. Except as provided in 14 C.F.R. § 107.39
(a), § 107.39(b) and § 107.145, a remote pilot in command may conduct
operations over human beings only in accordance with the following, as
applicable: 14 C.F.R. § 107.110 for Category 1 operations; 14 C.F.R. § 107.115
and 14 C.F.R. § 107.120 for Category 2 operations; 14 C.F.R. § 107.125 and 14
C.F.R. § 107.130 for Category 3 operations; or 14 C.F.R. § 107.140 for Category
4 operations.
      (1)   Operation over human beings. Pursuant to 14 C.F.R. § 107.39, no
person may operate a small unmanned aircraft over a human being unless:
         (a)   That human being is directly participating in the operation of
the small unmanned aircraft; or
         (b)   That human being is located under a covered structure or inside
a stationary vehicle that can provide reasonable protection from a falling
small unmanned aircraft; or
         (c)   The operation meets the requirements of at least one of the
operational categories specified in 14 C.F.R. § 107.100-165; or
         (d)   The operation is done in compliance with a valid operation
waiver.
      (2)   Operation over human beings in moving vehicles. Pursuant to 14
C.F.R. § 107.145, no person may operate a small unmanned aircraft over a human
being located inside a moving vehicle unless the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The operation occurs in accordance with § 107.110 for Category 1
operations; § 107.115 for Category 2 operations; § 107.125 for Category 3
operations; or § 107.140 for Category 4 operations.
         (b)   For an operation under Category 1, Category 2, or Category 3,
the small unmanned aircraft, throughout the operation must remain within or
over a closed- or restricted-access site, and all human beings located inside a
moving vehicle within the closed- or restricted-access site must be on notice
that a small unmanned aircraft may fly over them; or must not maintain
sustained flight over moving vehicles.
         (c)   For a Category 4 operation, the small unmanned aircraft must
have an airworthiness
certificate issued by the FAA and be operated in accordance with the operating
limitations approved by the FAA.
      (3)   Category 1 operations - 14 C.F.R. § 107.110.
         (a)   A remote pilot in command must use a small unmanned aircraft
that weighs 0.55 pounds or less on takeoff and throughout the duration of each
operation under Category 1, including everything that is on board or otherwise
attached to the aircraft, and does not contain any exposed rotating parts that
would lacerate human skin upon impact with a human being.
         (b)   No remote pilot in command may operate a small unmanned aircraft
in sustained flight over open-air assemblies of human beings unless the
operation meets the requirements of either 14 C.F.R. § 89.110 or 14 C.F.R. §
89.115(a).
      (4)   Category 2 operations. In accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.120, to
be eligible for use in Category 2 operations, the small unmanned aircraft must
be designed, produced, or modified such that it meets all of the following
requirements:
         (a)   Characteristi cs. In accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.120(a), the
small unmanned aircraft will not cause injury to a human being that is
equivalent to or greater than the severity of injury caused by a transfer of 11
foot-pounds of kinetic energy upon impact from a rigid object; does not contain
any exposed rotating parts that would lacerate human skin upon impact with a
human being; and does not contain any safety defects.
         (b)   Labeling. In accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.120(b)(1), the
small unmanned aircraft must display a label on the small unmanned aircraft
indicating eligibility to conduct Category 2 operations. The label must be in
English and be legible, prominent, and permanently affixed to the small
unmanned aircraft.
         (c)   Compliance. In accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.120(b)(2) and
(3), the small unmanned aircraft must meet all of the requirements of 14 C.F.R.
§ 107.120(b) and have the necessary declaration of compliance.
         (d)   In accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.115, A remote pilot in
command must use a small unmanned aircraft that is eligible for Category 2
operations pursuant to 14 C.F.R. § 107.120(a); and is listed on an FAA accepted
declaration of compliance as eligible for Category 2 operations in accordance
with 14 C.F.R. § 107.160; and is labeled as eligible to conduct Category 2
operations in accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.120(b)(1).
         (e)   Operation requirements. No remote pilot in command may operate a
small unmanned aircraft in sustained flight over open-air assemblies of human
beings unless the operation meets the requirements of either 14 C.F.R. § 89.110
or 14 C.F.R. § 89.115(a).
      (5)   Category 3 operations. In accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.130, to
be eligible for use in Category 3 operations, the small unmanned aircraft must
be designed, produced, or modified such that it meets all of the following
requirements:
         (a)   Characteristi cs. In accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.130(a), the
small unmanned aircraft will not cause injury to a human being that is
equivalent to or greater than the severity of the injury caused by a transfer
of 25 foot-pounds of kinetic energy upon impact from a rigid object; does not
contain any exposed rotating parts that would lacerate human skin upon impact
with a human being; and does not contain any safety defects.
         (b)   Labeling. In accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.130(b)(1), the
small unmanned aircraft must display a label on the small unmanned aircraft
indicating eligibility to conduct Category 3 operations. The label must be in
English and be legible, prominent, and permanently affixed to the small
unmanned aircraft.
         (c)   Compliance. In accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.130(b)(2) and
(3), the small unmanned aircraft must meet all of the requirements of 14 C.F.R.
107.130(b) and have the necessary declaration of compliance.
         (d)   Operation requirements. In accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.125,
to conduct Category 3 operations, a remote pilot in command must use a small
unmanned aircraft that is eligible for Category 3 operations pursuant to §
107.130(a); is listed on an FAA-accepted declaration of compliance as eligible
for Category 3 operations in accordance with § 107.160; and is labeled as
eligible for Category 3 operations in accordance with § 107.130(b)(1).
         (e)   Operation limitations. In accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.125,
to conduct Category 3 operations, a remote pilot in command must not operate
the small unmanned aircraft over open-air assemblies of human beings; and may
only operate the small unmanned aircraft above any human being if the operation
is within or over a closed- or restricted-access site and all human beings
located within the closed- or restricted-access site must be on notice that a
small unmanned aircraft may fly over them; or the small unmanned aircraft does
not maintain sustained flight over any human being unless that human being is
directly participating in the operation of the small unmanned aircraft; or is
located under a covered structure, or inside a stationary vehicle that can
provide reasonable protection from a falling small unmanned aircraft.
      (6)   Labeling by remote pilot in command for Category 2 and Category 3
operations.  In accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.135, if a Category 2 or
Category 3 label affixed to a small unmanned aircraft is damaged, destroyed, or
missing, a remote pilot in command must label the aircraft in English such that
the label is legible, prominent, and will remain on the small unmanned aircraft
for the duration of the operation before conducting operations over human
beings. The label must correctly identify the category or categories of
operation over human beings that the small unmanned aircraft is qualified to
conduct in accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.100 through 14 C.F.R. § 107.165.
      (7)   Category 4 operations. In accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.140, to
be eligible for use in Category 4 operations over human beings, the small
unmanned aircraft must meet all of the following requirements:
         (a)   In accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.140(b), the small unmanned
aircraft must have an airworthiness certificate issued by the FAA and be
operated in accordance with the operating limitations approved by the FAA.
         (b)   In accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.140(b)(3) and 14 C.F.R. §
107.140(b)(c), the owner of the small unmanned aircraft must have maintenance,
preventive maintenance, alterations, or inspections performed on the small
unmanned aircraft in compliance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.140, and the owner must
maintain all records of maintenance, preventive maintenance, and alterations
performed on the aircraft.
         (c)   In accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.140(d), compliance with 14
C.F.R. § 43 and part 14 C.F.R. § 91.401 through 14 C.F.R. § 91.421, fulfills
the requirements in paragraphs 14 C.F.R. § 107.140(b)(3) and 14 C.F.R. §
107.140(c).
      (8)   Operating in multiple categories. In accordance with 14 C.F.R. §
107.150, a small unmanned aircraft system may be eligible for one or more
categories of operation over human beings under this subpart, as long as a
remote pilot in command cannot inadvertently switch between modes or
configurations.
   (H)   Night operations. In accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.29, no person may
operate a small unmanned aircraft at night unless:
      (1)   The remote pilot in command of the small unmanned aircraft has
completed an initial knowledge test or training, as applicable, under 14 C.F.R.
§ 107.65 after April 6, 2021; and
      (2)   The small unmanned aircraft has lighted anti-collision lighting
visible for at least three statute miles that has a flash rate sufficient to
avoid a collision. The remote pilot in command may reduce the intensity of, but
may not extinguish, the anti-collision lighting if they determine that, because
of operating conditions, it would be in the interest of safety to do so; or
      (3)   The person is operating under a valid operation waiver issued after
May 17, 2021.
   (I)   Twilight operations. In accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.29, no person
may operate a small unmanned aircraft during civil twilight unless:
      (1)   The small unmanned aircraft has lighted anti- collision lighting
visible for at least three statute miles that has a flash rate sufficient to
avoid a collision. The remote pilot in command may reduce the intensity of, but
may not extinguish, the anti-collision lighting if they determine that, because
of operating conditions, it would be in the interest of safety to do so.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, civil twilight is the 30 minutes
before official sunrise and the 30 minutes after official sunset.
   (J)   Hazardous operation. In accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.15 and
California Public Utilities Code § 21407, no person may:
       (1)   Operate a drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft in
a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger the life or property of
another.
      (2)   Allow an object to be dropped from a drone, unmanned aircraft, or
small unmanned aircraft in a manner that creates an undue hazard to persons or
property.
      (3)   Hazardous operation of a drone, unmanned aircraft, or small
unmanned aircraft includes any operation in violation of applicable federal,
state, or local laws and regulations, including but not limited to, the
operation of a drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft without the
required certification, registration, operation waiver, permit, written
authorization, records, or other necessary documentation for the operation of
the drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft under the
circumstances.
      (4)   In any proceeding charging operation of a drone, unmanned aircraft,
or small unmanned aircraft in violation of this section, the court in
determining whether the operation was careless or reckless, may consider the
standards for safe operation of aircraft prescribed by federal statutes or
regulations governing aeronautics.
      (5)   No person may continue flight of a drone, unmanned aircraft, or
small unmanned aircraft when they know or have reason to know that the drone,
unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft is no longer in a condition for
safe operation.
   (K)   Invasion of privacy. No person may operate a drone, unmanned aircraft,
or small unmanned aircraft in a manner that violates an individual's reasonable
expectation of privacy, as set forth by all applicable state laws, or record or
transmit any visual image, sound recording, or other physical impression of any
person or private real property located in the City of Indio under
circumstances in which the subject person or owner of the subject real property
has a reasonable expectation of privacy, including, but not limited to, inside
the premises or curtilage of a private residence, office, or hotel room, or
inside an enclosed yard or exterior deck. (See California Civil Code § 1708.8
and § 3480)
   (L)   Interference with personnel at the scene of an emergency. In
accordance with California Penal Code § 402, no person may operate a drone,
unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft, within the City of Indio, in a
manner that impedes the activities of police officers, firefighters, emergency
medical, or other emergency personnel, or military personnel coping with an
emergency in the course of their duties during the time it is necessary for
emergency vehicles or those personnel to be at the scene of the emergency or to
be moving to or from the scene of the emergency for the purpose of protecting
lives or property, unless it is part of the duties of that person's employment
to operate a drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft to view that
scene or those activities.
   (M)   Weapons. No person may operate a drone, unmanned aircraft, or small
unmanned aircraft, within the City of Indio, that contains, or has affixed or
attached to it, hazardous materials, a weapon, a firearm, a bb device, an
explosive, a device, or container assembled for the purpose of causing an
explosion, or any other item that may be used as a weapon.
   (N)   Public areas. No person may operate a drone, unmanned aircraft, or
small unmanned aircraft, within the City of Indio, over any public street,
park, sidewalk, hiking trail, railway, parking lots or any other public areas
in the City of Indio where people or vehicles travel or gather, unless the
operation is in accordance with all applicable federal, state, and local
regulations.
   (O)   Private property. No person may operate a drone, unmanned aircraft, or
small unmanned aircraft above any private property unless:
      (1)   The operation is conducted in compliance with the express written
consent of the property owner, or if the property is being rented, with the
express written consent of the current tenant of the property.
      (2)   Any operation of a drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned
aircraft over private property must comply with all applicable federal, state,
and local regulations.
   (P)   Commercial property. No person may operate a drone, unmanned aircraft,
or small unmanned aircraft above any commercial property unless:
      (1)   The operation is conducted with the express written consent of the
property owner, or if the property is being rented, with the express written
consent of the current tenant of the property.
      (2)   Any operation of a drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned
aircraft over commercial property must comply with all applicable federal,
state, and local regulations.
   (Q)   Injury. Any person who causes injury to another person while operating
a drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft shall comply with all
applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including but not
limited to the following:
      (1)   The operator shall notify the Indio Police Department of the injury
within 24 hours of the incident.
      (2)   The operator shall give the operator's name and current residential
address to the City's Police Department and shall also present a valid and
unexpired form of identification issued by the United States federal
government, a state government, or foreign government.
      (3)   The operator shall render to any person injured during the incident
reasonable assistance, including transporting, or making arrangements for
transporting, any injured person to a physician, surgeon, or hospital for
medical or surgical treatment if it is apparent that treatment is necessary or
if that transportation is requested by any injured person.
      (4)   Each failure to report injury to another person as required by this
section shall constitute a separate violation of this Chapter.
      (5)   Compliance with this section does not constitute compliance with
any other reporting requirements or mandatory duties required under federal,
state, or local laws and regulations. It is the responsibility of all persons
involved in any operation of a drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned
aircraft to ensure they are in compliance with all applicable legal duties that
may be applicable to their role in the operation of any drone, unmanned
aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft.
   (R)   Property damage. Any person who causes damage to the property of
another person while operating a drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned
aircraft shall comply with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and
regulations, including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   The operator of the drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned
aircraft shall immediately locate and notify the owner or person in charge of
the damaged property; and
      (2)   Provide the owner or person in charge of the damaged property the
full name and address of the operator and owner of the drone, unmanned
aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft involved; and
      (3)   Upon request, the operator of the drone, unmanned aircraft, or
small unmanned aircraft shall also present the owner or person in charge of the
damaged property all of the following applicable information:
         (a)   The operator's remote pilot certificate; or
          (b)   Proof the operator has passed an aeronautical knowledge and
safety test described in subsection 49 U.S.C. § 44809(g); or
         (c)   A valid operation waiver; or
         (d)   Other documentation authorizing the operation of the drone,
unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft involved; and
         (e)   The registration and identification information of the drone,
unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft involved; and
         (f)   A valid and unexpired form of identification issued by the
United States federal government, a state government, or foreign government.
         (g)   The information presented shall include the current residence
address of the operator and owner of the drone, unmanned aircraft, or small
unmanned aircraft involved.
      (4)   If the operator of the drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned
aircraft is unable to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
damaged property they shall leave in a conspicuous place on the property
damaged a written notice giving the name and address of the operator and of the
owner of the drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft involved and
a statement of the circumstances thereof. The operator must also provide this
information to the City's Police Department within 24 hours of the incident.
      (5)   The operator of the drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned
aircraft shall take reasonable steps to determine the value of the damage and
if the value of the damage to the property involved exceeds $1,000, the
operator shall notify the City's Police Department within 24 hours of
determining, or being informed of, the value of the damage.
      (6)   Each failure to report an incident of property damage as required
by this section shall constitute a separate violation of this Chapter.
      (7)   Compliance with this section does not constitute compliance with
any other reporting requirements or mandatory duties required under federal,
state, or local laws and regulations. It is the responsibility of all persons
involved in any operation of a drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned
aircraft to ensure they are in compliance with all applicable legal duties that
may be applicable to their role in the operation of any operation of a drone,
unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft.
   (S)   No Fly proclamations.  The City Manager, the Chief of Police, the Fire
Chief, or their respective designees may issue "No Fly" proclamations
prohibiting drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft operations in
the City of Indio as necessary to protect public safety. No Fly proclamations
shall specify the locations, dates, and times that drone, unmanned aircraft, or
small unmanned aircraft operations are prohibited and shall be posted on the
City's website, at City Hall, and at the Police Department. Operators of
drones, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft are required to verify
whether a No Fly proclamation is in effect prior to initiating drone, unmanned
aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft operations. No Fly proclamations may be
imposed citywide or limited to certain areas and may be in effect for certain
times or for certain dates in their entirety, as necessary to protect public
safety. It is a violation to operate a drone, unmanned aircraft, or small
unmanned aircraft during No Fly hours, or to fail to immediately cease drone,
unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft operations after being notified
by law enforcement or an agent of a public safety agency that a No Fly
restriction is in effect.
(Ord. 1731, passed 3-7-18; Am. Ord. 1790, passed 2-15-23)
§ 105.04 PROTECTED SITES.
   (A)   Operations in protected sites. In accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 107.45,
no person may operate a drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft in
prohibited or restricted areas unless that person has permission from the using
or controlling agency, as appropriate.
      (1)   City government buildings. No person may operate a drone, unmanned
aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft above or within a 500- foot horizontal
distance of any city government building, unless:
         (a)   The operation is in compliance with all applicable federal,
state, and local laws and regulations; and
         (b)   Is operating in compliance with the written authorization of the
chief administrator of the building.
         (c)   The remote pilot in command must have the written authorization
in their physical possession and readily accessible to present for inspection,
upon the request of any law enforcement officer, the chief administrator of the
building, City Manager, or other designated representative of the City of
Indio.
      (2)   City Hall. No person may operate a drone, unmanned aircraft, or
small unmanned aircraft above or within a 500-foot horizontal distance of City
Hall, unless:
         (a)   The operation is in compliance with all applicable federal,
state, and local laws and regulations; and
         (b)   Is operating in compliance with the written authorization of the
City Manager or other designated representative of the City of Indio.
         (c)   The remote pilot in command must have the written authorization
in their physical possession and readily accessible to present for inspection,
upon the request of any law enforcement officer, the chief administrator of the
building, the City Manager or the designated representative of the City of
Indio.
      (3)   Courts. No person may operate a drone, unmanned aircraft, or small
unmanned aircraft above or within a 500-foot horizontal distance of any
courthouse or courthouse facilities that are operated, controlled, owned or
managed by the State of California or the Judicial Council of California,
unless:
         (a)   The operation is in compliance with all applicable federal,
state and local laws and regulations; and
         (b)   Is operating in compliance with the written authorization of the
designated representative of the State of California or the Judicial Council of
California.
         (c)   The remote pilot in command must have the written authorization
of the designated representative of the State of California or the Judicial
Council of California in their physical possession and readily accessible to
present for inspection, upon the request of any law enforcement officer, judge
or commissioner of the courthouse, or the designated representative of the
State of California or the Judicial Council of California.
      (4)   Jails, juvenile hall, and other custody facilities. No person may
operate a drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft above or within
a 500-foot horizontal distance of any juvenile hall, jail, prison, or other
custody facility, unless:
         (a)   The operation is in compliance with all applicable federal,
state, and local laws and regulations; and
          (b)   Is operating in compliance with the written authorization of
the Riverside County Sheriff's Department or the California Department of
Corrections and Rehabilitation.
         (c)   The remote pilot in command must have the written authorization
of the Riverside County Sheriff's Department or the California Department of
Corrections in their physical possession and readily accessible to present for
inspection, upon the request of any law enforcement officer, or representative
of the of the Riverside County Sheriff's Department or the California
Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation. (See California Penal Code §
4577).
      (5)   Police stations. No person may operate a drone, unmanned aircraft,
or small unmanned aircraft above or within a 500-foot horizontal distance of
any Indio police station, structure, or facility, unless:
         (a)   The operation is in compliance with all applicable federal,
state, and local laws and regulations; and
         (b)   Is operating in compliance with the written authorization of the
Chief of Police or the designated representative of the Indio Police
Department.
         (c)   The remote pilot in command must have the written authorization
of the Chief of Police, or the designated representative of the Indio Police
Department, in their physical possession and readily accessible to present for
inspection, upon the request of any law enforcement officer or representative
of the Indio Police Department.
      (6)   Sheriff stations. No person may operate a drone, unmanned aircraft,
or small unmanned aircraft above or within a 500-foot horizontal distance of
any Riverside County Sheriff's station or structure, unless:
         (a)   The operation is in compliance with all applicable federal,
state, and local laws and regulations; and
         (b)   Is operating in compliance with the written authorization of the
Riverside County Sheriff's Department.
         (c)   The remote pilot in command must have the written authorization
of the Riverside County Sheriff's Department in their physical possession and
readily accessible to present for inspection, upon the request of any law
enforcement officer or representative of the Riverside County Sheriff's
Department.
      (7)   Fire stations. No person may operate a drone, unmanned aircraft, or
small unmanned aircraft above or within a 500-foot horizontal distance of any
fire station, structure, or facility, unless:
         (a)   The operation is in compliance with all applicable federal,
state, and local laws and regulations; and
         (b)   Is operating in compliance with the written authorization of the
Fire Department.
         (c)   The remote pilot in command must have the written authorization
of the Fire Department in their physical possession and readily accessible to
present for inspection, upon the request of any law enforcement officer or
representative of the Fire Department.
      (8)   Schools. No person may operate a drone, unmanned aircraft, or small
unmanned aircraft above or within a 500-foot horizontal distance of any school
building, property, or facility unless:
         (a)   The operation is in compliance with all applicable federal,
state and local laws and regulations; and
         (b)   Is operating in compliance with the written authorization of the
principal or superintendent of the school.
         (c)   The remote pilot in command must have the written authorization
of the principal or superintendent of the school in their physical possession
and readily accessible to present for inspection, upon the request of any law
enforcement officer, school staff, or representative of the school or school
district.
      (9)   Public utility facilities. No person may operate a drone, unmanned
aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft above or within a 500-foot horizontal
distance of any public utility facility, including, but not limited to, any
water, sewage, or electric generating facility, unless:
         (a)   The operation is in compliance with all applicable federal,
state, and local laws and regulations; and
         (b)   Is operating in compliance with the written authorization of the
public utility facility.
         (c)   The remote pilot in command must have the written authorization
of the public utility facility in their physical possession and readily
accessible to present for inspection, upon the request of any law enforcement
officer or representative of the public utility facility.
      (10)   Communication and utility lines. No person may operate a drone,
unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft above or within a 500- foot
horizontal distance of any cell tower, overhead wire, cable, conveyor, or
similar equipment for the transmission of sounds, signal, heat, light, power,
utility, or data, within the City, unless:
         (a)   The operation is in compliance with all applicable federal,
state and local laws and regulations; and
         (b)   Is operating in compliance with the written authorization of the
chief administrator of the equipment.
         (c)   The remote pilot in command must have the written authorization
of the chief administrator of the equipment in their physical possession and
readily accessible to present for inspection, upon the request of any law
enforcement officer, or chief administrator of the equipment.
      (11)   Religious institutions. No person may operate a drone, unmanned
aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft above or within a 500-foot horizontal
distance of any place of worship, building, facility, or property owned, rented
or operated by a religious institution, unless:
         (a)   The operation is in compliance with all applicable federal,
state, and local laws and regulations; and
         (b)   Is operating in compliance with the written authorization of the
designated representative of the religious institution.
         (c)   The remote pilot in command must have the written authorization
of the designated representative of the religious institution in their physical
possession and readily accessible to present for inspection, upon the request
of any law enforcement officer or representative of the religious institution.
      (12)   Hospitals. No person may operate a drone, unmanned aircraft, or
small unmanned aircraft above or within a 500-foot horizontal distance of any
hospital building or facility, unless:
         (a)   The operation is in compliance with all applicable federal,
state, and local laws and regulations; and
         (b)   Is operating in compliance with the written authorization of the
hospital administrator or authorized representative of the hospital.
         (c)   The remote pilot in command must have the written authorization
of the hospital administrator or authorized representative of the hospital, in
their physical possession and readily accessible to present for inspection,
upon the request of any law enforcement officer or hospital staff.
      (13)   County buildings. No person may operate a drone, unmanned
aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft above or within a 500-foot horizontal
distance of any building, property, or facilities that are operated,
controlled, owned, or managed by the County of Riverside, unless:
         (a)   The operation is in compliance with all applicable federal,
state and local laws and regulations; and
         (b)   Is operating in compliance with the written authorization of the
designated representative of the County of Riverside.
         (c)   The remote pilot in command must have the written authorization
of the designated representative of the County of Riverside in their physical
possession and readily accessible to present for inspection, upon the request
of any law enforcement officer or employee of the County of Riverside.
      (14)   State buildings. No person may operate a drone, unmanned aircraft,
or small unmanned aircraft above or within a 500-foot horizontal distance of
any building, property, or facilities that are operated, controlled, owned, or
managed by the State of California, unless:
         (a)   The operation is in compliance with all applicable federal,
state, and local laws and regulations; and
         (b)   Is operating in compliance with the written authorization of the
designated representative of the State of California.
         (c)   The remote pilot in command must have the written authorization
of the State of California in their physical possession and readily accessible
to present for inspection, upon the request of any law enforcement officer or
representative of the State of California.
      (15)   Federal buildings. No person may operate a drone, unmanned
aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft above or within a 500-foot horizontal
distance of any building, property, or facilities that are operated,
controlled, owned, or managed by the United States of America, unless:
         (a)   The operation is in compliance with all applicable federal,
state, and local laws and regulations; and
         (b)   Is operating in compliance with the written authorization of the
designated representative of the United States of America.
         (c)   The remote pilot in command must have the written authorization
of the designated representative of the United States of America in their
physical possession and readily accessible to present for inspection, upon the
request of any law enforcement officer or representative of the United States
of America.
      (16)   Special events. No person may operate a drone, unmanned aircraft,
or small unmanned aircraft above or within a 500-foot horizontal distance of
any special event held in the City, unless:
         (a)   The operation is in compliance with all applicable federal,
state, and local laws and regulations; and
         (b)   Is operating in compliance with the written authorization of the
City Manager or their designee.
         (c)   The remote pilot in command must have the written authorization
of the City Manager or their designee in their physical possession and readily
accessible to present for inspection, upon the request of any law enforcement
officer, the City Manager or their designee.
(Ord. 1731, passed 3-7-18; Am. Ord. 1790, passed 2-15-23)
§ 105.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   In accordance with 14 C.F.R. § 48.15 and 49 U.S.C.A. § 44809, a person
may operate a drone or unmanned aircraft in the City of Indio without specific
certification or operating authority from the Federal Aviation Administration
if the operation adheres to all of the following limitations:
      (1)   The aircraft weighs 0.55 pounds (250 grams) or less on takeoff,
including everything that is on board or otherwise attached to the aircraft.
      (2)   The aircraft is flown strictly for recreational purposes.
      (3)   The aircraft is operated in accordance with or within the
programming of a community-based organization's set of safety guidelines that
are developed in coordination with the Federal Aviation Administration.
      (4)   The aircraft is flown within the visual line of sight of the person
operating the aircraft or a visual observer co-located and in direct
communication with the operator.
      (5)   The aircraft is operated in a manner that does not interfere with
and gives way to any manned aircraft.
      (6)   In Class B, Class C, or Class D airspace or within the lateral
boundaries of the surface area of Class E airspace designated for an airport,
the operator obtains prior authorization from the Administrator or designee
before operating and complies with all airspace restrictions and prohibitions.
      (7)   In Class G airspace, the aircraft is flown from the surface to not
more than 400 feet above ground level and complies with all airspace
restrictions and prohibitions.
      (8)   The operator has passed an aeronautical knowledge and safety test
described in subsection 49 U.S.C. § 44809(g) and maintains proof of test
passage to be made available to the Administrator or law enforcement upon
request.
   (B)   Drone or unmanned aircraft operations that do not comply with all of
the requirements in this section must comply with all federal, state, and local
laws and regulations generally applicable to drones, unmanned aircraft, and
small unmanned aircraft, including but not limited to registration
requirements, and obtaining operating authority from the Federal Aviation
Administration.
   (C)   The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to any drone, unmanned
aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft that is used or operated on behalf of the
City or any law enforcement, public safety, or government agency in compliance
with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations.
   (D)   The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to any aircraft that is
used or operated on behalf of the Armed Forces of the United States.
(Ord. 1731, passed 3-7-18; Am. Ord. 1790, passed 2-15-23)
§ 105.06 COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the other requirements of this Chapter, commercial
drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft operators must comply with
all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations while operating
within the City.
   (B)   A business license must be obtained from the City before commencing
any commercial drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft activities
within the City. If commercial drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned
aircraft activities involve operating in, or passing through, multiple
jurisdictions, the commercial drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned
aircraft operator is responsible for paying the proportionate business license
fees and taxes due to the City for the proportion of operations occurring
within the limits of the City and its airspace.
   (C)   Commercial drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft
operators must submit a request for approval at least ten business days to the
City before commencing any commercial drone, unmanned aircraft, or small
unmanned aircraft operations. The request for approval must include all of the
following:
      (1)   The intended flight plan; and
      (2)   The date of the operation; and
      (3)   If the operation will be done during the day or night; and
      (4)   If the operation will be done over human beings; and
      (5)   If the operation will be done over vehicles; and
      (6)   Any FAA approved operation waiver; and
      (7)   Number of drones, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft;
and
      (8)   All required registration, identification and certification numbers
for all drones, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft being used during
the operation; and
      (9)   The full names of all remote pilots, visual observers (if used), or
persons manipulating controls (if used); and
      (10)   A copy of all remote pilot certificates for all remote pilots
participating in the operation.
   (D)   Before approval the remote pilot in command, visual observer, owner,
operator, or person manipulating the flight controls of a small unmanned
aircraft system must, upon request of the City, allow any test or inspection of
the small unmanned aircraft system, the remote pilot in command, the person
manipulating the flight controls of a small unmanned aircraft system, and, if
applicable, the visual observer to determine compliance with all applicable
federal, state, and local laws and regulations, and this Chapter, in accordance
with 14 C.F.R. § 107.7 and 14 C.F.R. § 107.45.
(Ord. 1731, passed 3-7-18; Am. Ord. 1790, passed 2-15-23)
§ 105.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft operated in
violation of any provision of this Chapter is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
   (B)   Any unmanned aircraft system, or small unmanned aircraft system
operated in violation of any provision of this Chapter is hereby declared to be
unlawful and a public nuisance.
   (C)   Any party who engages in a violation of this Chapter, or who owns,
possesses, manages, controls, operates, or has charge of any drone, unmanned
aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft in violation of this Chapter, shall be
subject to the penalties and remedies provided by this Chapter.
   (D)   Any violation of this Chapter shall constitute a separate offense for
each and every day the violation occurs or persists.
   (E)   Any person in violation of any provision of this Chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of up to $1,000 and
by imprisonment of up to six months in jail.
   (F)   Any person in violation of any provision of this Chapter shall be
punishable by an administrative fine of up to $1,000 per offense per day.
   (G)   Any intentional injury or property damage caused while operating a
drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft, that is otherwise in
compliance with the applicable provisions of this chapter and all other
applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations, shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
   (H)   Any injury or property damage caused while operating a drone, unmanned
aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft, that is not in compliance with the
applicable provisions of this chapter and all other applicable federal, state,
and local laws and regulations, shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (I)   Upon any violation of this Chapter, the City Manager's Designee, any
Emergency Responder, or any other law enforcement officer (collectively
"Officer") shall be authorized to use reasonable force in the course of the
lawful performance of their duties to cause any violating drone, unmanned
aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft to land on the ground. Neither the City,
nor the Officers involved, shall be liable for any damage to a drone, unmanned
aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft caused by an Officer if such damage was
reasonably necessary to the enforcement of this Chapter. (See California Penal
Code § 402, California Government Codes § 820.2, § 853 and § 853.1)
   (J)   Neither the City, nor any Emergency Responders involved, shall be
liable for any damage to any drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned
aircraft caused by an Emergency Responder while performing emergency services
if such damage was reasonably necessary to ensure unhindered performance of
emergency services. (See California Government Codes § 820.2, § 853 and §
853.1)
   (K)   Any drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft found to be
operated in violation of this Chapter may be impounded and held as evidence in
any enforcement proceeding, including a proceeding brought under this Chapter.
Any impounded drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft will be
returned at the conclusion of any enforcement proceeding upon payment to the
City of an impound fee as set forth by separate resolution.
   (L)   The expenses of seizing, eradicating, destroying, or taking remedial
action with respect to any impounded drone, unmanned aircraft, or small
unmanned aircraft shall be recoverable from the owner and operator of the
drone, unmanned aircraft, or small unmanned aircraft. Proof of liability for
any forfeiture petition under this Chapter shall be by a preponderance of the
evidence.
   (M)   These penalties and remedies are cumulative, and in addition to any
other penalties and remedies available to the City.
(Ord. 1731, passed 3-7-18; Am. Ord. 1790, passed 2-15-23)
CHAPTER 106: HEALTH REGULATIONS
Section
   
106.01   County Health Officer–Regulations relating to public health
   
106.02   County Health Officer orders–Penalties
§ 106.01 COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER–REGULATIONS RELATING TO PUBLIC HEALTH.
   (A)   The County Health Officer of the County of Riverside is authorized to
enforce and observe all of the following relating to public health within the
boundaries of the City of Indio:
      (1)   Orders, quarantine regulations, and rules prescribed by the State
Department of Public Health and other rules and regulations issued under the
provisions of the California Health and Safety Code; and
      (2)   Statutes relating to the public health.
   (B)   As used in this chapter, the RIVERSIDE COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER ("COUNTY
HEALTH OFFICER") shall mean the County Health Officer acting as the City of
Indio Health Officer, except where the County Health Officer is the correct
notation due to the circumstances set forth in the text.
(Ord. 1753, passed 4-15-20; Am. Ord. 1754, passed 5-6-20)
§ 106.02   COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER ORDERS–PENALTIES.
Any person who violates an order of the County Health Officer issued under
their authority pursuant to state law, is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable
as set forth in Health and Safety Code §§ 120275, 120295 or any other
applicable statute(s).
   (B)   Any person who violates § 106.01, including an order of the County
Health Officer issued under their authority pursuant to state law, shall be
guilty of violating the Indio Municipal Code and may be issued an
administrative citation pursuant to
Chapter 12 of Title I of the Indio Municipal Code except that no grace period
in which to cure the violation to avoid the fine will be provided. This
administrative remedy may be exercised in place of, or in addition to, any
administrative, criminal, civil, or equitable remedy allowed by law. The amount
of the fine associated with the issued administrative citation shall be set
forth in a resolution adopted by the City Council.
(Ord. 1753, passed 4-15-20; Am. Ord. 1754, passed 5-6-20)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   LICENSES; CLOSING-OUT SALES
         
111.   BINGO GAMES
         
112.   STATE VIDEO FRANCHISE HOLDERS
         
113.   ENTERTAINMENT PERMITS
         
114.   SIDEWALK VENDORS AND VENDING VEHICLES
         
115.   MASSAGE REGULATIONS
         
116.   PSYCHIC ACTIVITIES
         
117.   SOLICITATION
         
118.   TAXICABS AND VEHICLES FOR HIRE
         
119.   PARKING AND BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT
         
120.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
         
121.   RESTAURANT GRADING SYSTEM
         
122.   GARAGE SALE PERMITS
         
123.   CANNABIS BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
         
124.   PERMITTING OF TOBACCO RETAILERS
CHAPTER 110: LICENSES; CLOSING OUT SALES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Purpose; effect of other city ordinances; effect of chapter on past
actions and obligations; no change in tax provisions
   
110.03   Licenses, taxes required; businesses requiring additional review/
permits
   
110.04   Doing business based on an unapproved application prohibited
   
110.05   Evidence of doing business
   
110.06   Branch establishments
   
110.07   Exemptions from tax
   
110.08   Exemption—charitable and nonprofit organizations
   
110.09   Exemption—disabled veterans
   
110.10   Minor's exemption
   
110.11   Exemption for artist and art exhibits and those individuals on
retirement pension
   
110.12   Revocation of exemption
   
110.13   Application procedure
   
110.14   Declaration to determine amount of tax for first license
   
110.15   Declaration to determine amount of tax for renewal licenses
   
110.16   Statements; confidentiality
   
110.17   Failure to file statement or corrected statements
   
110.18   Approval; Revocation; denial; appeal
   
110.19   Unpaid fees
   
110.20   Extension of time for filing required statements; waiver of penalty;
compromise of claims
   
110.21   Transferability amendment of changed location
   
110.22   Unexpired licenses
   
110.23   Duplicates
   
110.24   Posting and keeping
   
110.25   Inspection for business license
   
110.26   Misrepresentation
   
110.27   Investigation of places of business
   
110.28   Background investigations
Administration and Enforcement
   
110.35   Duties of Finance Director
   
110.36   Right of City Council to refuse license
   
110.37   Penalties
   
110.38   Refunds
Taxes
   
110.50   Time and method of payment
   
110.51   Penalty for failure to pay when due
   
110.52   Schedule
   
110.53   Taxes to constitute debt; enforcement
Closing-Out Sales
   
110.65   License required
   
110.66   Definition
   
110.67   Application for license
   
110.68   Issuance of license
   
110.69   Conditions of license
   
110.70   Rules and regulations
   
110.71   Records
   
110.72   Exemptions
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BRANCH.  A separate establishment or location of a business (which may or
may not have a separate type of business activity) not including a warehouse or
distributing plant used in connection with and incidental to the business.
   BUSINESS. Professions, arts, trades and occupations and all and every kind
of calling whether or not carried on for profit.
   CODE COMPLIANCE FEE. Those fees paid by an applicant to reimburse the city
the costs of having city departments checking the applicant's compliance with
applicable sections of the Municipal, County and/or State Code.
   COMPLIANCE OFFICER. Any employee or agent of the City so designated by the
City Manager, Building Official or Police Chief and charged with enforcing the
Municipal Code of the city or applicable state code.
   CONTRACTOR. A builder or any person who undertakes to, or submits a bid to,
or does himself or through others, construct, alter, repair, add to, subtract
from, improve, move, wreck or demolish any building, highway, road, parking
facility, railroad, excavation or other structure, project, development or
improvement, or to do any part thereof, including the erection of scaffolding
or other structures or works in connection therewith. CONTRACTOR includes
subcontractor, specialty contractor and owner/builder when the definition of
owner/builder hereunder does not apply.
   DOING BUSINESS ON AN UNAPPROVED APPLICATION. Engaging in a business trade or
occupation after submitting an application for a business license but prior to
receiving approval of such application.
   EMPLOYER. A person who is or should be registered with the state and federal
government as an employer and subject to several obligations including state
and federal income tax withholding, federal social security taxes, workers'
compensation insurance, disability insurance costs and unemployment
compensation contributions.
   FINANCE DIRECTOR. The FINANCE DIRECTOR of the city or his/her designee.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The total amount of the sale price of all sales and the
total amount charged or received for the performance of any act or service, of
whatever nature it may be, for which a charge is made or credit allowed,
whether or not such act or service is done as a part of or in connection with
the sale of materials, goods, wares or merchandise. Included in GROSS RECEIPTS
shall be all receipts, cash, credits and property of any kind or nature,
without any deduction there from on account of the cost of the property sold,
the cost of the materials  used, labor or service costs, interest paid or
payable, or losses or other expenses. Excluded from gross receipts shall be
cash discounts allowed and taken on sales; credit allowed on property accepted
as part of the purchase price and which property may later be sold; any tax
required by law to be included in or added to the purchase price and collected
from the consumer or purchaser, such part of the sale price of property
returned by purchasers upon rescission of the contract of sale as is refunded
either in cash or by credit; amounts collected for others where the business is
acting as an agent or trustee to the extent that such amounts are paid to those
for whom collected; that portion of the receipts of a general contractor which
represent payments to subcontractors, provided that such subcontractors are
licensed under this chapter, and provided the general contractor furnishes the
collector with the names and addresses of the subcontractors and the amounts
paid each subcontractor.
   OPERATE. To manage, control or carry on.
   OWNER-BUILDER. An individual authorized by this code to do construction or
install equipment in or on buildings on premises used exclusively for a single-
family residence, of which the individual is the legal owner and in which
residence he resides or intends to reside. He shall pay fees herein the same as
a general contractor if the residence is offered for sale within one year after
the date of completion of the same.
   PERSON. All domestic and foreign corporations, associations, syndicates,
joint stock corporations, partnerships of every kind, clubs, or common law
trusts, societies, and individuals transacting and carrying on any business in
the city other than as an employee.
   PUBLIC CONCERT. Any type of live or recorded entertainment held in a public
or private place, for free or fee, open to the public in general.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04; Am. Ord. 1767, passed 12-15-21)
§ 110.02 PURPOSE; EFFECT OF OTHER CITY ORDINANCES; EFFECT OF CHAPTER ON PAST
ACTIONS AND OBLIGATIONS; NO CHANGE IN TAX PROVISIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is enacted to raise revenue for municipal purposes, as
well as for regulation.
   (B)   Persons required to pay a license tax for transacting and carrying on
any business under this chapter shall not be relieved from the payment of any
license tax for the privilege of doing such business required under any other
ordinance of the city and shall remain subject to the regulatory provisions of
other ordinances.
   (C)   Neither the adoption of this chapter nor its superseding of any
portion of any other ordinance of the city shall in any manner be construed to
affect the prosecution for violation of any other ordinance committed prior to
the effective date hereof, nor be construed as a waiver of any license or any
penal provision applicable to any such violation, nor be construed to affect
the validity of any bond or cash deposit required by any ordinance to be
posted, filed or deposited, and all rights and obligations thereunto
appertaining shall continue in full force and effect. The renumbering and
updating of the nonfinancial provisions of this chapter in no way changes or
increases or effects in any way the existing business license taxes or fees.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
§ 110.03 LICENSES, TAXES REQUIRED; BUSINESSES REQUIRING ADDITIONAL REVIEW/
PERMITS.
   (A)   There are imposed upon the businesses specified in this chapter,
license taxes in the amount set forth by resolution. It is unlawful for any
person to transact and carry on any business, trade, profession, calling or
occupation in the city without first having procured a license from the city
pursuant to all applicable provisions of this chapter. Failure to comply with
the provisions of this chapter shall subject a person doing business to all
those penalties set forth in this chapter, as well as any other penalties as
set forth by law.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to require any person to obtain a
license prior to doing business within the city if such requirement conflicts
with applicable statutes of the United States or of the state.
   (C)   Persons not required to obtain a license prior to doing business
within the city because of conflict with applicable statutes of the United
States or of the state shall not be liable for payment of the tax imposed by
this chapter.
   (D)   All individuals, firms, companies. Associations, organizations,
partnerships and/or corporations granted a license for cabarets shall be
required to hire security personnel in the number determined necessary by the
Chief of Police who are licensed under the Private Investigator Act (Cal. Bus.
& Prof. Code § 7512 et seq.). The security personnel shall possess the
appropriate certification under the Private Investigator Act and/or shall have
training in crowd control beyond that required by the Private Investigator Act.
The requirement of such security may be waived upon written application of
applicant, which details the lack of need, and that such will not jeopardize
the health, safety and general welfare of the City and its inhabitants.
   (E)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, in addition to a license as
required by this Chapter, those businesses identified in this Title (including
but not limited to businesses vending by pushcarts or vending vehicles, massage
establishments, taxicabs, and so forth) also shall meet the requirements set
out in the applicable Chapter before a license may be obtained hereunder.
Failure to do so shall subject the person to all applicable penalties.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04; Am. Ord. 1652, passed 4-16-14)
§ 110.04 DOING BUSINESS BASED ON AN UNAPPROVED APPLICATION PROHIBITED.
   It is prohibited to begin engaging in a business after submitting an
application for a business license, but prior to receiving such license. Such
an act shall be deemed doing business based on an unapproved application and
shall be deemed a failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter and
shall subject a person doing business to all those penalties set forth in this
chapter, as well as any other penalties as set forth by law. Doing business
based on an unapproved application shall constitute grounds for denial of an
application for a business license.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
§ 110.05 EVIDENCE OF DOING BUSINESS.
   When any person by use of signs, circulars, cards, telephone books, or
newspapers, advertises, holds out, or represents that he is in business in the
city, or has established a base of business in the city, or when any person
holds an active license or permit issued by a governmental agency indicating
that he is doing business in the city, and such person fails to deny by a sworn
statement given to the Finance Director that he is not conducting a business in
the city, after being requested to do so by the Finance Director, then these
facts shall be considered prima facie evidence that he is conducting a business
in the city.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
§ 110.06 BRANCH ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   A separate license must be obtained for each branch establishment or
location of the business transacted and carried on and for each separate type
of business at the same location, and each license shall authorize the licensee
to transact and carry on only the business licensed thereby at the location or
in the manner designated in such license. However, warehouses and distributing
plants used in connection with and incidental to a business licensed under the
provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to be separate places of
business or branch establishments so long as no retail transactions are made at
such warehouses or distributing plant. Such warehouses and distributing plants
must be noted on the business license upon application therefor or added as
they become operative.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) of this section, any person transacting
or engaged in the rental or letting of three or more long-term rental units
(whether such unit is an apartment house, single-family dwelling, duplex,
triplex, condominium, apartment house or other residential property rental),
shall not be deemed to be a separate place of business for tax purposes and
shall be taxed as one business. A separate business license, however, is
required for each of the rental units.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04; Am. Ord. 1682, passed 12-16-15)
§ 110.07 EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX.
   (A)   None of the license taxes provided for by this chapter shall be so
applied to create an undue burden upon interstate commerce, prohibited by the
United States and state Constitutions and certain federal and state laws. Where
a license tax is believed by a licensee or applicant for a license to place an
undue burden upon interstate commerce, the licensee or applicant may apply to
the Finance Director for an exemption from the tax. In the event the tax has
already been paid, the licensee or applicant may apply to the Finance Director
for an adjustment of the tax, and the Finance Director may order a refund of
the amount over and above the amount eventually fixed as the license tax. The
application shall be made within six months after payment of the prescribed
license tax or it shall be deemed waived.
   (B)   The applicant for exemption from the license tax shall file a sworn
written statement with the tax administrator stating the facts upon which
exemption is claimed, and in the absence of such statement substantiating the
claim, such person shall be liable for the payment of taxes imposed by this
title. The sworn written statement shall contain the following:
      (1)   The nature of the business;
      (2)   The gross volume or estimated gross volume of the business;
      (3)   The gross receipts for the previous calendar year;
      (4)   Such other information and documents as the Finance Director may
deem necessary.
   (C)   The applicant for exemption from the license tax based on a claim of
undue burden on interstate commerce shall, in addition to the requirements of
division (B) above, furnish the Finance Director with a sworn written statement
containing the following:
      (1)   Information indicating that the applicant has paid a substantially
similar tax in another jurisdiction; and
      (2)   Such other information and documents as the Finance Director may
deem necessary in order to determine the extent, if any, of the undue burden on
the interstate commerce aspect of applicant's business.
   (D)   The Finance Director shall have the power to exempt an applicant from
payment of any license tax. Upon a proper showing in the sworn statement that
the imposition of a license tax on all aspects of applicant's business is, or
will be, a direct and substantial burden on the interstate activity of the
applicant, the Finance Director shall issue a license to the applicant without
payment to the city of the license tax required by this chapter.
   (E)   The Finance Director, after giving notice and a reasonable opportunity
for hearing to a licensee, may revoke any license granted pursuant to this
section upon information that the reasons supporting an exemption do not apply
or are invalid and that the licensee is not entitled to the exemption or
reduction previously awarded. The decision of the Finance Director shall be
final.
   (F)   None of the license taxes provided for by this chapter shall be
applied where exempted or adjusted by federal and state laws concerning
service-related disability or other reasons. Upon sufficient showing by the
applicant prior to payment, the Finance Director may adjust or exempt applicant
from payment of the business tax; otherwise, an applicant claiming such an
exemption or adjustment shall so apply to Finance Director or designee as set
forth in this section within six months after payment of the prescribed license
tax. The applicant shall set forth the applicability of any federal or state
law requiring an exemption or adjustment and the percentage of disability or
adjustment claimed, if applicable. Thereafter, the investigation and review
procedure shall be the same as previously set forth in this section.
   (G)   Any person transacting or engaged in the rental or letting of two or
fewer long-term rental units (whether such unit is an apartment house, single-
family dwelling, duplex, triplex, condominium, apartment house or other
residential property rental), is exempt from the payment of a license tax. Such
person, however, remains subject to and shall obtain a business license for
each unit.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04; Am. Ord. 1682, passed 12-16-15)
§ 110.08 EXEMPTION—CHARITABLE AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed or construed to
require the payment of a license tax to conduct, manage, or carry on any
business, occupation, event, or activity from any institution or organization
which is conducted, managed or carried on for the benefit of religious,
charitable, philanthropic or educational purposes; provided that. This
requirement shall be met by a current ruling letter showing that the entity
exempt from federal tax under IRC Section 501(c)(3) and California Revenue &
Taxation Code Section 23701(d) and convincing evidence to the satisfaction of
the Finance Director that the activity conducted is for such exempt purposes
rather than for the generation of unrelated business income.
   (B)   This section shall not be deemed to exempt any such institution or
organization from complying with all other provisions of this chapter or this
code. In other words, the exempt organization only is exempt from the tax, not
from the regulation.
   (C)   The exemption in this section shall not be deemed applicable with
regard to any commercial type revenue-producing rental activity or other
merchandising or business activities directly or indirectly operated on a
regular basis by or on behalf of a religious or charitable institution or
organization.
   (D)   When activities otherwise exempt under the basic rule stated in
division (A) are conducted for and on behalf of an exempt institution or
organization, by a profit-making contractor or concessionaire, or the like,
then the exemption shall be applicable only with regard to the religious or
charitable organization, and shall not be applicable with regard to the
activities, operations or revenues received by the contractor or concessionaire
or the like.
   (E)   No license tax shall be required for the conducting of any temporary
entertainment, concert, exhibition, or lecture by any religious, charitable,
civic, fraternal, educational, military, state, county or local governmental
organization or association, whenever the receipts there from are to be
appropriated for the purposes and objects for which such organization or
association was formed, and from which profit is not derived by any other
persons except those in the business of producing, staging, or otherwise
participating in such events, and, provided, that this exemption shall not
apply to such or any other persons or entities conducting business and deriving
profit, incidentally to producing the receipts as stated.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
§ 110.09 EXEMPTION—DISABLED VETERANS.
   Every honorably discharged soldier, sailor, marine, or airman of the United
States who is physically unable to obtain his livelihood by means of manual
labor and who is a qualified voter of the state shall have the right to hawk,
peddle and vend any goods, wares or merchandise owned by him, except
spirituous, malt, vinous or other intoxicating beverages, without the payment
of a license fee, subject, however, to the restrictions, limitations,
regulations and conditions set forth as follows:
   (A)   Every applicant must comply with the following requirements before a
license may be issued under the provisions of this section:
      (1)   Every applicant must furnish a certificate of physical disability
executed by a qualified surgeon of the United States Army, Navy, Air Force, a
certificate of honorable discharge from the United States Armed Forces, and a
written recommendation from the representative of the local posts of the
American Legion and the Veterans of Foreign Wars.
      (2)   Every applicant must furnish two identification photographs; one to
be attached to the license issued to the applicant, and the other to be
attached to the copy retained by the tax administrator. The applicant must also
sign both copies of the license at the time of the issuance thereof.
   (B)   A license when issued is subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   It is nontransferable and for the exclusive use of the licensee
named.
      (2)   Applicant's identification photograph must be attached to the
license at all times, and failure to comply herewith is grounds for revocation
of the license and for refusing its renewal or the issuance of a new license
thereafter.
      (3)   Should a license be found in the possession of one other than the
licensee named, it shall be surrendered up to the tax administrator and
canceled, and neither the licensee named nor the holder thereof shall
thereafter be entitled to hold a license under the provisions of this section.
      (4)   The licensee named must identify himself by his signature whenever
required to do so by the police officers, or other authorized City officials.
      (5)   Whenever the licensee uses any wagon, cart, tray, basket or other
vehicle or receptacle in vending any such goods, wares, or merchandise, the
license shall be carried in a license holder attached to the vehicle or
receptacle an in plain view.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person other than the licensee named, to use or
have in his possession any license issued pursuant to the provisions of this
section.
   (D)   No person shall purchase or transfer any license issued pursuant to
the provisions of this section, or transfer or convey the certificates
mentioned in division (A), to any other person for the purpose of securing a
license as provided for in this section.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
§ 110.10 MINOR'S EXEMPTION.
   Any person under 16 years of age whose annual gross income from any business
done within the city is less than $800 shall be exempt from the requirements of
this title.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
§ 110.11 EXEMPTION FOR ARTIST AND ART EXHIBITS AND THOSE INDIVIDUALS ON
RETIREMENT PENSION.
   (A)   A business license shall not be required of individual artists for the
exhibition or display of paintings, sculpture, photographs or other fine arts
in public buildings, art galleries, or in any business establishment if the
exhibition or display is incidental to the primary business conducted on the
premises, and is primarily for cultural and educational purposes. Any artist
shall be exempt from the requirements of this title if the sales of his artwork
within the city do not result in annual gross receipts in excess of $1,000.
   (B)   A no-fee business license shall be issued to those individuals on a
retirement system such as social security, private or public pension plan,
making less than $3,000 per year and over the age of 60 years, upon showing
evidence of such.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
§ 110.12 REVOCATION OF EXEMPTION.
   The Finance Director may revoke the exemption from licensing, if in their
opinion the person is not entitled to the exemption. Such a decision may be
appealed to the City Manager, whose decision shall be final.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
§ 110.13 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   All applicants shall comply with the following procedure in order to obtain
a business license, and the Finance Director shall issue no business license to
an applicant who does not complete all of the following:
    (A)   Each applicant shall fill out an application as prescribed by the
Finance Director, in its entirety and pay the initial application tax and
compliance fee as provided by the Finance Director.
   (B)   Payment of the following:
      (1)   First license tax. Prior to issuance of a business license, each
applicant shall make an estimated first payment as set forth in §§
110.14 
      (2)   Initial code compliance fee. Each applicant shall initially pay a
code compliance fee as set by the Finance Director or designee to defray the
costs of processing the application and checking the applicant's compliance
with applicable sections of the Municipal Code.
   (C)   (1)   The Finance Director or designee may give the applicant a notice
that the application process does not constitute a license to do business, and
each applicant shall acknowledge the terms of the notice. The language of the
notice shall be substantially as follows. Notwithstanding, even in the event an
applicant does not receive such notice, it is unlawful to do business in the
City without the required license.
      (2)   Notice to all business license applicants: The attached application
is not a license to do business until the application has been processed and
the license issued by the City of Indio. It is unlawful for any person to
transact and carry on any business, trade, profession, calling or occupation,
without first having procured a license from the City. You will receive your
official business license certificate in the mail, after your application has
been approved, and at which time you may begin doing business. You may request
a temporary business license to be issued, if you are ready to begin doing
business before your official business license certificate is printed and
mailed to you. Your business license receipt does not authorize you to do
business without compliance with all applicable zoning, health, building and
other rules and regulations.
       (3)   Notwithstanding, even in the event an applicant does not receive
such notice, it is unlawful to do business in the City without the required
license.
   (D)   Upon successful completion of the application procedure, and the full
payment of the prescribed license tax and any and all fees, the Finance
Director shall issue a license, which license shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the person to whom the license is issued;
      (2)   The name of the business licensed, and the business mailing address
and street address, if different, as well as the address of any warehouses or
distribution centers;
      (3)   The date of issuance;
      (4)   The business license number;
      (5)    The location(s) where such business is to be transacted and
carried on;
      (6)   The type of business by code;
      (7)   The term and date of expiration of such license; and
      (8)   Such other information as may be necessary or helpful for the
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
§ 110.14 DECLARATION TO DETERMINE AMOUNT OF TAX FOR FIRST LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon a person making application for the first license to be issued
hereunder or for a newly established business, in all cases where the amount of
license tax to be paid is measured by gross receipts, such person shall furnish
to the Finance Director for his guidance in ascertaining the amount of license
tax to be paid by the applicant, a written statement, upon a form provided by
the Finance Director sworn to before a person authorized to administer oaths,
setting forth such information as may be therein required and as may be
necessary to determine the amount of the license tax to be paid by the
applicant.
   (B)   If the amount of the license tax to be paid by the applicant is
measured by gross receipts, he shall estimate the gross receipts for the period
to be covered by the license to be issued. Such estimate, if accepted by the
Finance Director as reasonable, shall be used in determining the amount of
license tax to be paid by the applicant; provided, however, the amount of the
license tax so determined shall be tentative only, and such person shall,
within 30 days after the expiration of the period for which such license was
issued, furnish the Finance Director with a sworn statement, upon a form
furnished by the Finance Director, showing the gross receipts during the period
of such license, and the license tax for such period shall be finally
ascertained and paid in the manner provided by this chapter for the
ascertaining and paying of renewal license taxes for other businesses, after
deducting from the payment found to be due, the amount paid at the time such
first license was issued.
   (C)   The Finance Director shall not issue to any such person another
license for the same or any other business, until such person shall have
furnished to him the written statement and paid the license tax as herein
required.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
§ 110.15 DECLARATION TO DETERMINE AMOUNT OF TAX FOR RENEWAL LICENSES.
   In all cases, the applicant for the renewal of a license shall submit to the
Finance Director for his guidance in ascertaining the amount of the license tax
to be paid by the applicant, a written statement, upon a form to be provided by
the Finance Director, written under penalty of perjury, setting forth such
information concerning the applicant's business during the preceding year as
may be required by the Finance Director to enable him to ascertain the amount
of the license tax to be paid by such applicant pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
§ 110.16 STATEMENTS; CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   No statements shall be conclusive as to the matters set forth therein,
nor shall the filing of the same preclude the city from collecting by
appropriate action such sum as is actually due and payable hereunder. Such
statement and each of the several items therein contained shall be subject to
audit and verification by the Finance Director, his deputies, or authorized
employees of the city. Where an audit/verification of such statement reveals
that the amount of tax paid for any license tax period is less than the amount
actually due pursuant to this chapter, a penalty of 50% of the amount due shall
be assessed, in addition to a flat fee set by resolution of the City Council to
cover the administrative costs of the audit/verification.
   (B)   The information furnished or secured pursuant to this section or §§
110.14 and
110.15 shall be confidential to the extent allowed by law.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
§ 110.17 FAILURE TO FILE STATEMENT OR CORRECTED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   If any person fails to file any required statement within the time
prescribed, or if after demand therefor made by the Finance Director he fails
to file a corrected statement, at the discretion of the Finance Director, the
amount owed for the previous year may automatically rollover and become due for
the current year; otherwise, the Finance Director may determine the amount of
license tax due from such person by means of such information as he may be able
to obtain.
   (B)   When either determination is made, the Finance Director shall give a
notice of the amount so assessed by sending it personally or by depositing it
in the United States Post Office at Indio, California, postage prepaid,
addressed to the person so assessed at his last known address. Such person may,
within 15 days after the mailing or serving of such notice, make application in
writing to the Finance Director for a hearing on the amount of the license tax.
If such application is made, the Finance Director shall cause the matter to be
set for hearing within 15 days before the City Council. The Finance Director
shall give at least ten days' notice to such person of the time and place of
hearing in the manner prescribed for serving notices of assessment. The Council
shall consider all evidence produced, and shall make findings thereon, which
shall be final. Notice of such findings shall be served upon the applicant in
the manner prescribed above for serving notices of assessment.
   (C)   Failure to file required or corrected statements shall also subject a
person to any other penalty as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
§ 110.18 APPROVAL; REVOCATION; DENIAL; APPEAL.
   (A)   All licenses issued under the terms of this chapter are granted and
issued by the city and accepted by the party to whom issued upon the express
understanding that the Finance Director may revoke the same at any time in the
event that
      (1)   Any condition of the license, or any terms of this chapter, or any
law of the city, state or the United States of America governing or regulating
the conduct of the business licensed is being violated by the holder of such
license; or
      (2)   Any condition of the license, or any terms of this chapter, or any
law of the city, state or the United States of America protecting the health,
safety and welfare of the public is being violated by the holder of such
license; or
      (3)   Such license was obtained by false representation.
   (B)   Before any such revocation, a written notification of the time and
place of an informal hearing on the question of revocation shall be given by
the Finance Director in writing to the holder of such license at least five
days before the date of such hearing and the notice shall set forth the time
and place of such hearing and shall specify in general terms the ground upon
which it is proposed to revoke such license, including a description in general
terms of the violation of any law of the city, or of the state, or of the
United States of America, regulating the conduct of the business which it is
alleged is being violated by the licensee.
   (C)   Any applicant aggrieved by any decision of the Finance Director with
respect to the issuance or refusal to issue such license may appeal to the
Council by filing a notice of appeal with the Clerk of the Council within 15
days after receiving the decision of the Finance Director. The Council shall
thereupon fix a time and place within the next 15 days for hearing such appeal.
The Clerk of the Council shall give notice to such person of the time and place
of hearing at least ten days before such hearing by serving it personally or by
depositing it in the United States Post Office at Indio, California, postage
prepaid, addressed to such person at his last known address. The Council shall
have authority to determine de novo all questions raised on such appeal. No
such determination shall conflict with any substantive provision of this
chapter. The City Council shall give notice in writing of its decision within
15 days after the hearing before the Council. Upon the revocation of such
license, no part of the money paid therefore shall be returned, and all such
license taxes and code compliance fees shall be forfeited to the city. Whenever
the license of any person shall have been revoked after hearing by the City
Council, no license shall again be issued to such person to transact, conduct
or carry on any kind of business within the city for a period of six months
from and after the date of revocation.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
§ 110.19 UNPAID FEES.
   (A)   No license for any succeeding, current or unexpired license period
shall knowingly be issued to any person who at the time of making application
for any license, in indebted to the city for any unpaid license fee or tax.
   (B)   No license renewal thereof shall be issued, nor shall one which has
been suspended or revoked be reinstated or reissued, to any person, who at the
time of applying therefore, is indebted to the city for any delinquent license
taxes, unless such person, with the consent of the Finance Director, enters
into a written agreement with the city through the Finance Director, to pay
such delinquent taxes, plus ten percent simple annual interest upon the unpaid
balance, in monthly installments, or oftener, extending over a period of not to
exceed one year.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
§ 110.20 EXTENSION OF TIME FOR FILING REQUIRED STATEMENTS; WAIVER OF PENALTY;
COMPROMISE OF CLAIMS.
   In addition to all other power conferred upon him, the Finance Director
shall have the power, upon a written request signed under penalty of perjury,
for good cause shown, to extend the time for filing any required sworn
statement for a period not exceeding 30 days, and in such case to waive any
penalty that would otherwise have accrued; and shall have the further power,
with the consent of the Council, to compromise any claim as to amount of
license tax due.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
§ 110.21 TRANSFERABILITY AMENDMENT OF CHANGED LOCATION.
   Where a license is issued authorizing a person to transact and carry on a
business at a particular place, such licensee may upon application therefor and
paying a fee established by resolution of the City Council have the license
amended to authorize the transacting and carrying on of such business under
such license at some other location to which the business is or is to be moved.
Upon any sale or transfer of a majority interest in a business, the license may
be transferred to the new owner or operator upon the payment of a transfer fee
as established by resolution of the City Council for the balance of the time
remaining under the original license, provided however, that the transferee
shall meet all applicable provisions of this chapter or other sections of the
Municipal Code.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
§ 110.22 UNEXPIRED LICENSES.
   Where a license has been issued to any business by the city and the tax paid
therefore under the provisions of any ordinance heretofore enacted and the term
of the license has not expired, then the license tax prescribed for such
business by this chapter shall not be payable until the expiration of the term
of such expired license.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
§ 110.23 DUPLICATES.
   A duplicate license may be issued by the Finance Director to replace any
license previously issued hereunder which has been lost or destroyed upon the
licensee filing statement of such fact, the time of filing such statement
paying to the Finance Director a duplicate license fee as established by the
City Council.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
§ 110.24 POSTING AND KEEPING.
   All licenses must be kept and posted in the following manner:
   (A)   Any licensee transacting and carrying on business at a fixed place of
business in the city shall keep the license posted in a conspicuous, public
place upon the premises where such business is carried on;
   (B)   Any licensee transacting and carrying on business but not operating at
a fixed place of business in the city shall keep the license upon his person at
all times while transacting and carrying on such business.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
§ 110.25 INSPECTION FOR BUSINESS LICENSE.
   Any licensee transacting and carrying on business but not operating at a
fixed place of business in the city shall produce such license for inspection
upon demand by a Compliance Officer, Police Officer or Compliance Officer.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
§ 110.26 MISREPRESENTATION.
   Any person who knowingly or intentionally misrepresents to any Compliance
Officer or employee of this city any material fact in procuring the license or
permit herein provided for is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
§ 110.27 INVESTIGATION OF PLACES OF BUSINESS.
   The City Manager, Building Officials or designees, Compliance Officer,
Compliance Officer or any police officer shall have the power and authority to
examine all places of business in the city to ascertain whether the provisions
of this chapter have been fully complied with. They shall have authority to
enter, free of charge, at any reasonable time, any place of business required
to be licensed hereunder, and demand the production of its license certificate.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
§ 110.28 BACKGROUND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   As a part of the City’s processing an application for a license or
renewal thereof, to the extent that the applicant proposes to engage in a
business or use reflected in division (B) of this Section, the Police Chief or
his or her designee shall have the authority and responsibility to conduct any
background investigation deemed necessary and appropriate as a general matter
in order to insure the health, safety and welfare of the community. The
specific purposes of such a background investigation include but are not
limited to:
      (1)   Determination as to the truthfulness and correctness of information
provided by an applicant in completing any application, or providing any other
information to the City in the process of applying for a license pursuant to
this Chapter.
      (2)   (a)   The applicant, if an individual, or any of the directors,
officers or stockholders holding more than five percent (5%) of the stock of
the corporation; or any of the partners, including limited partners, or profit
interest holder, manager or other person principally in charge of existing or
proposed business in the City or a natural person employed or contracted or
leased with to be an operator has not been convicted or pleaded nolo contendere
or guilty within five (5) years prior to his or her application for a permit to
a misdemeanor or felony crime of moral turpitude or drug-related misdemeanor or
felony crime, including but not limited to:
            1.   The sale of a controlled substance specified in California
Health and Safety Code Sections 11054 through 11058;
            2.   The sale, distribution or display of harmful and obscene
matter, or indecent exposure;
            3.   Selling or disposing of lottery tickets;
            4.   Permitting gambling, pool selling or bookmaking; or
            5.   Alcohol or drug-related traffic offenses.
         (b)   The investigating City employee is specifically authorized to
obtain state summary criminal history record information as provided for in
California Penal Code Section 11105. Any complaint for the above-listed charges
pending before a court of law shall cause the application to be considered
pending until adjudication of the complaint.
      (3)   Identification of any other potential detriment to the public
health, safety, or welfare that may be presented by City issuance of the
license or license renewal in question, i.e., harm that may arise from or
relate to applicant's operation or business.
   (B)   Except as otherwise specified in this Code, the only businesses or
uses that may be subject to a background investigation per this Section are
those engaged in, or proposing to engage in activity related to any of the
following:
      (1)   Alarm installation.
      (2)   Alcohol.
      (3)   Firearms.
      (4)   Foreclosure consultation.
      (5)   Pawn shops.
      (6)   Security guard companies and private patrol operators.
      (7)   Vending from a pushcart or vending vehicle.
      (8)   Businesses or uses determined, on a case-by-case basis by the Chief
of Police, Fire Marshall, or either of their designees, potentially detrimental
to the public health, safety and welfare.
   (C)   The applicant shall submit the full names of all of the directors,
officers or stockholders holding more than five percent (5%) of the stock if
the business is a corporation or any of the partners, including limited
partners, or profit interest holders, managers or other persons principally in
charge of existing or proposed business in the City. The applicant shall also
submit the full names of all natural persons employed or contracted or leased
with to be an operator of the business. No one may operate or assist in
operating any business without being named in the business license application.
   (D)   The Police Chief or his/her designee shall have the discretion to
waive the performance of any background investigation authorized by this
section and the fee chargeable hereunder.
   (E)   Any background investigation conducted pursuant to this section shall
be initiated within ten days of an applicant's filing of a business license
application or renewal application, and shall be complete within 45 days of
commencement.
   (F)   In the event that the Chief of Police or his/her designee determines
that due to extraordinary circumstances, completion of a particular background
investigation performed pursuant to this section, in a manner satisfactory to
protect the community, requires more than the 45 days provided by division (D)
hereof, the Police Chief or his/her designee shall provide written notice of
that fact to the business license or renewal applicant in question. That
written notice shall include a succinct explanation of the circumstances that
have caused the delay in the investigation's completion.In issuing any such
written notice, the Police Chief or his/her designee may extend the time
allowed for completion of the investigation in question by not more than 45
additional days.
   (G)    The City Council shall set and from time to time adjust by resolution
a non-refundable fee, due concurrent with an applicant's filing of its/his/her
application for a license per this chapter. Concurrently, the City Council
shall also set any potential supplemental fee for background investigations of
unusually lengthy duration. All such fees and supplemental fees so set shall be
chargeable by the city and payable in full by the applicant in exchange for
background investigation services performed pursuant to this section. The City
Council shall only adopt such fees or supplemental fees in accord with all
applicable law. An applicant's failure and/or refusal to pay any fee or
supplemental fee hereunder shall be a violation of this provision.
(Ord. 1558, passed 5-6-09; Am. Ord. 1652, passed 4-16-14)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 110.35 DUTIES OF FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Finance Director, and he is directed to
enforce each and all of the provisions of this chapter, and the Police Chief or
his designee shall render such assistance in the enforcement thereof as may
from time to time be required by the City Manager or his designee.
   (B)   The Finance Director and/or Chief of Police in the exercise of the
duties imposed upon them, and acting through their deputies or duly authorized
assistants, shall examine or cause to be examined all places of business in the
city to ascertain whether the provisions of this chapter have been followed.
   (C)   The Finance Director and/or Chief of Police and their designees,
Compliance Officer and any police officer shall have the power and authority to
enter, free of charge, and at any reasonable time, any place of business
required to be licensed herein, and demand exhibition of its license
certificate. It is unlawful for any person having such license certificate
theretofore issued in his possession or under his control to willfully fail to
exhibit the same on demand.
   (D)   The Finance Director may make such rules and regulations not
inconsistent with the provisions of this
Chapter 110 as may be necessary or desirable to supplement or clarify such
provisions or aid in their enforcement. Such rules and regulations shall be
known as Business License and Business Tax Rules and Regulations, shall be
placed in written form and numbered consecutively, and shall be approved by the
City Attorney before becoming effective. A copy of each such Business License
and Business Tax Rules and Regulations shall be filed with the City Manager and
with the City Clerk.
('61 Code, § 12.23) (Ord. 586, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1080, passed - - ; Am.
Ord. 1221, passed 11-19-97; Am. Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04; Am. Ord. 1682, passed
12-16-15)
§ 110.36 RIGHT OF CITY COUNCIL TO REFUSE LICENSE.
   On consideration thereof, the Finance Director. On behalf of the City
Council, pursuant to its mandate under Article XI § 7 of the California
Constitution, shall have the right to refuse any such license if it determines
that the granting of the same or the conduct of the business will be contrary
to the preservation of the public peace, health, safety, morals, or welfare of
the city or its inhabitants.
('61 Code, § 12.28) (Ord. 586, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1221, passed 11-19-97; Am.
Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
§ 110.37 PENALTIES.
   In addition to any penalty under §
110.99 hereof, any person in violation of this chapter may be subject to and or
all of the following:
   (A)   A lawsuit filed by the City Attorney for injunctive relief, requesting
shut down of the business or portions of the business at a time deemed
appropriate by the City Attorney, for failure to comply with the licensing
ordinance, and all costs of suit;
   (B)   A lawsuit filed by the city for injunctive relief, fines, damages and
other relief under the Unfair Business Practices Act, Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §§
17000 et seq., and/or any other applicable state or federal statute, and all
costs of suit;
   (C)   Abatement as a public nuisance under any provision of state law or
this code providing for such abatement;
   (D)   Emergency shut down. Where a Compliance Officer has probable cause to
believe that a person is doing business without a license under the meaning of
this section, and such business constitutes an immediate danger to public
health and safety, such as, by way of example and not of limitation, (a)
immediate and obvious fire hazard; (b) contaminated food and/or drink; or (c)
the presence of illegal or dangerous drugs; the Compliance Officer, with the
approval of the Chief of Police, shall immediately submit an declaration to the
Finance Director stating reasons why the business should be immediately closed.
The Finance Director, after conference with the Chief of Police and City
Attorney, shall determine whether the business shall be immediately ordered
closed under this section. If such determination is made, the Finance Director
and City Attorney shall issue an order to the Chief of Police for the closure
of the business.
   (E)   Post judgment lien upon the property of the offending business.
   (F)   Any other remedy as allowed by law.
   (G)   Recovery of all costs of enforcement, as determined by a record kept
by the Finance Director. Upon service of such billing, it shall be due and
payable within ten days and thereafter, if not paid, may be offset from any
funds paid to the city by the business or person owing these costs.
(Ord. 1221, passed 11-19-97; Am. Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
§ 110.38 REFUNDS.
   Refunds shall be subject to Indio Code § 34.90, as it may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
TAXES
§ 110.50 TIME AND METHOD OF PAYMENT.
   Unless otherwise specifically provided, all license taxes under the
provisions of this chapter shall be an annual tax and shall be due and payable
in advance on the first day of operation of such business and annually on the
anniversary date thereafter. Whenever an applicant shall present to the Finance
Director satisfactory proof of extreme hardship, the Finance Director may
permit partial payments of the business license assessment to which will be
added a filing fee in an amount set by resolution. Daily flat rate license
taxes are payable each day in advance.
('61 Code, § 12.19) (Ord. 586, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1221, passed 11-19-97)
§ 110.51 PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO PAY WHEN DUE.
   Any person engaged in a business, trade, profession, calling, or occupation
in the city without the required license pursuant to this chapter shall sustain
a penalty of 25% of the license tax due. Whenever a license fails to pay a
license tax when due, the Finance Director shall add a penalty of ten percent
of the license tax on the last day of each month after the due date thereof,
providing that the amount of such penalty to be added shall in no event exceed
fifty percent of the amount of the license tax due.
(Ord. 1141, passed 6-16-93)
§ 110.52 SCHEDULE.
   Every person, who engages in business within the city shall pay a license
tax based upon the license tax schedule as hereafter adopted, resolution, by
the City Council. The City Council may amend, revise or change such schedule by
resolution.
('61 Code, § 12.21) (Ord. 586, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.53 TAXES TO CONSTITUTE DEBT; ENFORCEMENT.
   The amount of any license tax and penalty imposed by the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed a debt to the city. An action may be commenced in the
name of the city in any court of competent jurisdiction, for the amount of any
delinquent license tax and penalties.
('61 Code, § 12.22) (Ord. 586, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 110.99
CLOSING-OUT SALES
§ 110.65 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall advertise or conduct a closing-out sale or sell or offer for
sale any goods, wares or merchandise at a sale represented to be a closing-out
sale without first obtaining a license to conduct such closing-out sale from
the Director of Finance.
('61 Code, § 12.50) (Ord. 685, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.66 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLOSING-OUT SALE. Any offer to sell to the public, or sale to the public, of
goods, wares or merchandise upon the implied or expressed representation that
such sale is in anticipation of the ceasing, discontinuance or termination of a
business, or that such sale is other than in the ordinary course of business.
Without limiting the generality of the above, a "closing-out sale" includes any
sale advertised or represented, either specifically or in substance, to be:
adjustor's sale, administrator's sale, bankrupt sale, creditor's sale, close-
out sale, executor's sale, end-of-business sale, final sale, forced-out-of-
business sale, insolvent sale, inventory close-out sale, inventory disposal,
last days sale, lease expires sale, liquidation sale, lost lease sale, must
vacate sale, quitting business sale, receiver's sale, inventory liquidation
sale, selling out sale, stock disposal, stock sell out, stock liquidation sale,
termination sale, wind-up sale, or any other term tending to convey to the
public that upon the disposal of the stock of goods on hand the business will
cease and be discontinued.
('61 Code, § 12.51) (Ord. 685, passed - - )
§ 110.67 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Application for license required by this chapter shall be filed with the
Director of Finance by the person conducting the closing-out sale at least ten
days prior to the commencement thereof. The application for license shall be in
writing, signed and verified under oath, by the person who intends to conduct
such sale, and each application shall set forth and contain the following
information:
   (A)   Description and street location of the place at which such sale is to
be held;
   (B)   The nature of the occupancy, whether by ownership or lease or sublease
and if by lease or sublease, the effective date of termination of such tenancy;
   (C)   The means to be employed in publishing such sale, together with the
proposed contents of such advertising;
   (D)   The facts in regard to the insolvency, bankruptcy, assignment,
receivership or other cause for the dissolution of the business;
   (E)   An inventory or statement setting forth the quantity and description
of all goods, wares and merchandise to be sold at such sale. All goods, wares
and merchandise listed upon the inventory or statement shall be so described in
detail by lot, number, brand name and other additional detail so that the
identity of such goods with the inventory listing may be readily determined.
All consignment goods listed upon the inventory or statement shall be so
designated. No consignment goods may be included in the sale unless said
consigned goods have been in the applicant's possession for at least 30 days
prior to the filing of the application as required by this section.
   (F)   In the event that the sale will be conducted at public auction, the
name of the auctioneer who shall conduct the auction sale.
('61 Code, § 12.52) (Ord. 685, passed - - )
§ 110.68 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon filing of the application, the Director of Finance may make, or cause
to be made, an examination or investigation of the statements put forth in such
application or of the applicant and his affairs, in relation to the proposed
closing-out sale. If the Director of Finance finds that the statements in the
application are true, that the advertising to be used is not false, deceptive
or misleading in any respect, and that the proposed methods of conducting the
sale are not such as, in the opinion of the Director of Finance, would work a
fraud or misrepresentation on the purchaser, then the Director of Finance shall
issue a license to conduct such a sale in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter; otherwise the Director of Finance shall deny the application
and refuse such a license. No application for such license shall be accepted by
the Director of Finance unless accompanied by a filing fee of $25, no part of
which shall be refundable. Provided further, that whenever the goods, wares or
merchandise are to be sold at public auction and are a stock of jewelry, then
in that event the application required herein shall be accompanied by the sum
of $100. At the time of delivery of such license, the licensee shall sign the
following agreement, to be witnessed by the Director of Finance: "The above
license is accepted by the undersigned upon the condition that licensee agrees
to comply with, and abide by, all the provisions of
Chapter 110 of the Code of the City of Indio."
('61 Code, § 12.53) (Ord. 685, passed - - )
§ 110.69 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   Any license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall authorize the
conduct and advertising of the one type of sale named therein, and at the
location specified therein, for a period of not more than 60 calendar days.
Provided, however, that the Director of Finance may, upon a verified
application therefor, renew said license for a period of not to exceed 30 days,
upon the payment of a renewal fee of $25. Such verified petition for renewal
shall, upon request of the Director of Finance, include a listing of such
remainder goods, wares or merchandise remaining in stock from the original
inventory and shall not contain any goods, wares or merchandise not named in
the original application. If a sale is to be conducted at two or more
locations, separate licenses must be obtained for each location at which said
sale takes place. The conditions prescribed as precedent to the issuance of a
license for one location shall be the same conditions to be satisfied for any
and all licenses issued for more than one location. Stocks of merchandise in
warehouses not located on the premises for which license is issued, shall be
listed on separate inventories. If sale of merchandise is to be conducted at
the warehouse location, a separate license shall be required. No person who has
not been the owner of record of a business for which such license is sought,
for a period of at least three months, shall be granted a license.
('61 Code, § 12.54) (Ord. 685, passed - - )
§ 110.70 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Any license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be valid only
for the advertising and conducting of sale of the particular goods, wares and
merchandise described in the original application therefor, and during the
particular time, and at the particular location stated therein and by the
particular applicant therefor, and any renewal, replenishment or substitution
of such goods, wares or merchandise, or change of time or place of such sale,
or change of person conducting such sale, shall be unlawful and shall render
such license void. Each and every sale of goods, wares or merchandise as was
not included in the original inventory shall constitute a separate offense
under this chapter.
('61 Code, § 12.55) (Ord. 685, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.71 RECORDS.
   Suitable records of daily sales shall be kept by licensee and shall be made
available on request of the Director of Finance or appointed investigators. The
Director of Finance or appointed investigators shall at all times have access
to such records and shall be permitted to examine all merchandise on the
premises for comparison with such records.
('61 Code, § 12.56) (Ord. 685, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.72 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply in the case of:
   (A)   Sales conducted by order or process or a court of competent
jurisdiction;
   (B)   Sales conducted by public officers such as marshals and sheriffs in
accordance with their powers and duties;
   (C)   Sales made under an assignment for the benefit of creditors generally;
provided that facts of such termination and liquidation be clearly set forth in
the public announcement of such sale.
('61 Code, § 12.57) (Ord. 685, passed - - )
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision, or the failure to comply with any of the
requirements established in this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each
such person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day during
any portion of which any violation of any provision of this chapter is
committed, continued or permitted by such person, and shall be punishable
accordingly. Any person convicted of such violation or such failure shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000, or by imprisonment in the county
jail of Riverside county for a period of not more than six months, or by both
fine and imprisonment.
('61 Code, § 12.58) (Ord. 685, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1374, passed 6-2-04)
CHAPTER 111: BINGO GAMES
Section
   
111.01   Authority
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Bingo and remote caller bingo authorized
   
111.04   Qualified organizations; applications
   
111.05   Conditions of licensure
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted per Section 19 of Article IV of the California
Constitution, as implemented by Cal. Penal Code §§ 326.3 and 326.4, and in
accord with Cal. Penal Code § 326.5. Bingo games are permitted within the city
only per the terms and conditions specified in this chapter. Nothing in this
chapter shall be deemed to limit the applicability of any provision of state
law to any bingo game in the city.
(Ord. 1595, passed 5-18-11)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BINGO GAME.  A game of chance in which prizes are awarded on the basis of
designated numbers or symbols that are marked or covered by the player on a
tangible card in the player's possession and that conform to numbers or
symbols, selected at random and announced by a live caller. For purposes of
this chapter, BINGO GAMES shall include remote caller bingo games.
   BINGO LICENSE. The annual license required by the city to operate a bingo
game, and issued per this chapter.
   CARD-MINDING DEVICE. A device approved, supplied and functioning per state
law that:
      (1)   Is capable of storing in the memory of the device bingo faces of
tangible cards purchased by a player,
      (2)   Provides a means for bingo players to input manually each
individual number or symbol announced by a live caller,
      (3)   Compares the numbers or symbols entered by the player to the bingo
faces previously stored in the memory of the device, and
      (4)   Identifies winning bingo patterns that exist on the stored bingo
faces.
   LICENSE OFFICIAL.  The City Manager or his/her designee.
   REMOTE CALLER BINGO GAME. A bingo game in which the numbers or symbols on
randomly drawn plastic balls are announced by a natural person present at the
site at which the live bingo game is conducted, and an organization conducting
the bingo game uses audio and video technology to link any of its in-state
facilities for the purpose of transmitting the remote calling of a live bingo
game from a single location to multiple locations owned, leased, or rented by
that organization, or in co-sponsorship in a manner consistent with state law.
The audio or video technology used to link the facilities, and the process for
drawing each ball shall be consistent with state law.
(Ord. 1595, passed 5-18-11)
§ 111.03 BINGO AND REMOTE CALLER BINGO AUTHORIZED.
   Bingo games may be lawfully played in the city pursuant to the provisions of
Cal. Penal Code §§ 326.3, 326.4 and 326.5 and this chapter, and not otherwise.
No bingo game shall be played in the city by any player using any electronic
device, with the sole exception of a card-minding device.
(Ord. 1595, passed 5-18-11)
§ 111.04 QUALIFIED ORGANIZATIONS; APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Qualified organizations. The following organizations are qualified to
apply to the license official for an annual bingo license if the receipts of
all games organized are used only for charitable purposes, with the
organization retaining authority to determine the disbursement of the net
receipts of any bingo game.
      (1)   An organization exempt from the payment of the bank and corporation
tax by Cal. Rev. and Tax Code §§ 23701a, 23701b, 23701d, 23701e, 23701f,
23701g, 23701k, 23701l, or 23701w;
      (2)   A mobile home park association of a mobile home park that is
situated in the city;
      (3)   A senior citizens organization operating in, or serving residents
of the city;
      (4)   A charitable organization affiliated with the Desert Sands Unified
School District or the Coachella Valley Unified School District, or a private
school operating in, or serving residents of the city.
   (B)   Application; filing fee. Each application for a bingo license, whether
for a new license or a renewal of a previously existing license, shall be in
writing. Each application shall be filed under penalty of perjury in a form
prescribed by the license official and shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable
filing fee of $50, or such other filing fee as may determined by resolution of
the City Council from time to time. One-half of any filing fee paid shall be
refunded to an applicant if the application for a bingo license upon the denial
of that license. Each application shall include a statement indicating the
purpose and uses for which the proceeds of bingo games are to be used. The
following documentation shall be attached to an application, as applicable.
      (1)   A certificate issued by the Franchise Tax Board certifying that the
applicant is exempt from the payment of the bank and corporation tax pursuant
to Cal. Rev. and Tax Code § 23701d.
      (2)   A report signed by city officials from the Building, Planning and
Fire Departments of stating that inspection of any property proposed as a site
for bingo games has been made, and that such property meets with the fire,
building and safety regulations, and further has adequate off-street parking
for one car for each two potential participant in a bingo game to be held per
the license in question.
      (3)   Such evidence as the license official determines is necessary to
verify that an applicant is a qualified organization per division (A) above in
compliance with this chapter and all applicable state law.
   (C)   Renewal applications; additional statements.  Applications for renewal
of a previously issued bingo license shall comply with division (B) above and
further, shall be submitted together with the following:
      (1)   A written statement succinctly describing the use of the funds
derived from bingo games held during the previous year under the expiring bingo
license.
      (2)   A written statement signed by the officers of the applicant
organization stating that bingo games held were operated in conformance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Review; verification. The license official shall commence the review
of an application for a bingo license within five business days of the city's
receipt of that application in complete form. The license official's review of
a bingo license application shall be complete within 30 days after commencing
that application's review. A bingo license shall not issue until the license
official has verified in writing that the facts stated in the application,
determined that the applicant is qualified for a bingo license per this
chapter, and determined that the issuance of the bingo license in question will
not adversely impact the public health, safety or welfare. Absent such
verification, an application for a bingo license shall be denied. Each bingo
license application and the corresponding verification of the license official
shall be maintained as a public record in compliance with applicable law and
the city's records retention policy.
   (E)   Annual licenses; no vested right. A license issued pursuant to this
chapter shall be valid until the end of the calendar year during which it was
issued, at which time the license shall expire. A new license shall only be
obtained upon filing a new application and payment of the license fee. The fact
that a license has been issued to an applicant during a particular year creates
no vested right on the part of the licensee to continue to offer bingo for
play. The City Council expressly reserves the right to amend or repeal this
chapter at any time. If this chapter is repealed, all licenses issued pursuant
to this chapter shall cease to be effective for any purpose on the effective
date of the repealing ordinance.
(Ord. 1595, passed 5-18-11)
§ 111.05 CONDITIONS OF LICENSURE.
   (A)   Any bingo license issued per to this chapter shall be subject to the
conditions and restrictions contained in Cal. Penal Code §§ 326.3, 326.4 and
326.5. Each bingo licensee in the city shall comply with all requirements of
state law and this chapter in applying for its bingo license, and in organizing
and operating any bingo game in the city.
   (B)   Each license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be subject to the
following additional conditions:
      (1)   Bingo games shall not be conducted by any bingo licensee on more
than two days during any week, except that a licensee may hold a single
additional game, at its election, during each calendar quarter.
      (2)   Each licensed organization is responsible for ensuring compliance
with the conditions of this chapter and Cal. Penal Code §§ 326.3, 326.4 and
326.5 by itself, its officers and members.
(Ord. 1595, passed 5-18-11)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any natural person, partnership, association, corporation, or other
legal entity that willfully engages in any conduct that represents a violation
of this chapter shall be guilty, within the charging discretion of the City
Attorney, of an infraction or a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   This section is intended to be cumulative to, and not in place of,
other rights and remedies available to the city. Above and beyond the
violations and penalties specified herein, the City Attorney and/or the license
official, in order to enforce this chapter, may pursue any other right or
remedy permitted by this code or other applicable authority, including but not
limited to the commencement of a civil action, or an administrative action
based upon a citation issued per
Chapter 12 of this code to any person, partnership, association, corporation,
or other legal entity that engages in any conduct that represents a violation
of this chapter.
   (C)   Administrative penalties for citations arising from a violation of
this chapter shall be punished per the schedule of fines established by the
license official in accord with all applicable law, and maintained as a public
record by the City Clerk. Any person who fails to timely pay an administrative
penalty specified in
Chapter 12 for a violation of this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in § 10.99 of this
code.
   (D)   A violation of any condition or provision of this chapter shall
constitute cause for the license official's revocation and/or denial of a bingo
license. Any such revocation or denial shall be in writing. Appeals regarding
any city decision under this chapter shall be to the City Council per §
30.89 of this code.
(Ord. 1595, passed 5-18-11)
CHAPTER 112: STATE VIDEO FRANCHISE HOLDERS
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Applicable definitions
   
112.03   State franchise required
   
112.04   Administration and regulations
   
112.05   Franchise fee
   
112.06   PEG fee
   
112.07   Payment of fees; examination of business records
   
112.08   Customer service penalties under state video franchises
   
112.09   City response to state video franchise applications
   
112.10   PEG channel capacity
   
112.11   Emergency alert system and emergency overrides
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is designed to regulate video service providers holding
state video franchises and operating within the city. As of January 1, 2007,
the State of California has the sole authority to grant state video franchises
pursuant to the Digital Infrastructure and Video Competition Act of 2006
(DIVCA). Pursuant to DIVCA, the City of Indio may receive a franchise fee and
may receive a fee for public, educational and governmental access (defined in
this chapter as PEG or PEG ACCESS CHANNELS) from all state video franchise
holders operating within the city. Additionally, although DIVCA grants all
authority to adopt customer service standards to the state, the city has the
responsibility to establish and enforce penalties, consistent with state law,
against all state video franchise holders operating within the city for
violations of such customer service standards.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this chapter to implement within the city the
provisions of DIVCA and the rules the California Public Utilities Commission
promulgated thereunder that are applicable to a local franchising entity or a
local entity as defined in DIVCA. Consistent with that purpose, the provisions
of this chapter are to be construed in a manner that is consistent with DIVCA
and the applicable rules of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
(Ord. 1579, passed 11-17-10)
§ 112.02 APPLICABLE DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as established
in:
      (1)   DIVCA, and, if not defined therein;
      (2)   Commission rules implementing DIVCA, and, if not defined therein;
      (3)   Subchapter V-A of Chapter 5 of Title 47 of the United States Code,
and, if not defined therein;
      (4)   Their common and ordinary meaning.
   (B)   References to governmental entities (whether persons or entities)
shall refer to those entities or their successors in authority. If a specific
provision of law referred to in this chapter should be renumbered, then the
reference shall be read to refer to the renumbered provision. References to any
law shall be interpreted broadly to cover government actions, however
nominated, including any law now in force or subsequently enacted or amended.
(Ord. 1579, passed 11-17-10)
§ 112.03 STATE FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as the City Council may authorize by resolution, no person may
construct, operate, maintain or repair a cable system or video service
provider's network in the city without first obtaining a state franchise
therefor.
   (B)   A state franchise shall not convey rights other than as specified in
this chapter or in DIVCA or other applicable law; no rights shall pass by
implication.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided by DIVCA, a state franchise shall not
include, or be a substitute for:
      (1)   Compliance with generally applicable requirements for the privilege
of transacting and carrying on a business within the city, including, but not
limited to, compliance with the conditions that the city may establish before
facilities may be constructed, or for providing non-video services;
      (2)   Any permit or authorization, other than a state franchise, required
in connection with operations on or in public rights-of-way or public property;
and
      (3)   Any permit, agreement or authorization for occupying any other
property of the city or private persons to which access is not specifically
granted by the state franchise.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in DIVCA, a state franchise shall not
relieve a franchisee of its duty to comply with all laws, including laws of the
city, and every state franchisee shall comply with the same. The city reserves
its rights to the lawful exercise of police and other powers the city now has
or may later obtain.
   (E)   The city reserves the right to construct, operate, maintain or repair
its own cable system or video service provider network.
(Ord. 1579, passed 11-17-10)
§ 112.04 ADMINISTRATION AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The city may from time to time adopt rules and regulations to
implement the provisions of this chapter consistent with DIVCA.
   (B)   The City Administrator, or his/her designee, is hereby authorized to
administer this chapter and to provide or cause to be provided any notices
(including noncompliance notices) and to take any action on behalf of the city
that may be required under this chapter, DIVCA, or under applicable law.
   (C)   The failure of the city, upon one or more occasions, to exercise a
right or to require compliance or performance under this chapter or any other
applicable law shall not be deemed to constitute a waiver of such right or a
waiver of compliance or performance, unless such right has been specifically
waived in writing or its exercise by the city is not permitted by DIVCA.
   (D)   The city may designate one or more entities, including itself, to
control and manage the use of PEG access channels, and any PEG facilities and
equipment owned, controlled or used by the city or the designated entity or
entities.
(Ord. 1579, passed 11-17-10)
§ 112.05 FRANCHISE FEE.
   A state video franchise holder operating in the city shall pay to the city a
franchise fee that is equal to 5% of the gross revenues of that state video
franchise holder. The term GROSS REVENUES shall be defined as set forth in Cal.
Pub. Util. Code § 5860.
(Ord. 1579, passed 11-17-10)
§ 112.06 PEG FEE.
   In addition to the franchise fee required pursuant to §
112.05, a state video franchise holder operating in the city shall pay to the
city a fee that is equal to 1% of the gross revenues of that state video
franchise holder which fee shall be used to support PEG channel facilities. The
term GROSS REVENUES shall be defined as set forth in Cal. Pub. Util. Code §
5860.
(Ord. 1579, passed 11-17-10; Am. Ord. 1711, passed 2-23-17; Am. Ord. 1712,
passed 3-22-17; Am. Ord. 1724, passed 11-27-17)
§ 112.07 PAYMENT OF FEES; EXAMINATION OF BUSINESS RECORDS.
   (A) The franchise fee and PEG fee shall be remitted to the city on a
quarterly basis within 45 days after the end of each quarter for that calendar
year. Each payment shall be accompanied by a detailed summary explaining the
basis for the calculation of the franchise fee and PEG fee.
   (B)   If a state video franchise holder fails to pay the fees when due, or
underpays the proper amounts due, the state video franchise holder shall pay a
late payment charge at the annual interest rate equal to the highest prime
lending rate during the period of delinquency, plus 1%. If the state video
franchise holder has overpaid the fees, it may deduct the overpayment from its
next quarterly payment.
   (C)   Not more than once annually, the city may examine the business records
of a state video franchise holder to ensure compliance with all applicable
statutes and regulations related to the computation and payment of franchise
fees.
(Ord. 1579, passed 11-17-10)
§ 112.08 CUSTOMER SERVICE PENALTIES UNDER STATE VIDEO FRANCHISES.
   (A)   The holder of a state video franchise shall comply with Cal. Gov't
Code §§ 53055, 53055.1, 53055.2 and 53088.2; the FCC customer service and
notice standards set forth in 47 C.F.R. §§ 76.309, 76.1602, 76.1603 and
76.1619; Cal. Penal Code § 637.5; the privacy standards of 47 U.S.C. § 551; and
all other applicable state and federal customer service and consumer protection
standards pertaining to the provision of video service, including any such
standards hereafter adopted. In case of a conflict, the stricter standard shall
apply. All customer service and consumer protection standards under this
section shall be interpreted and applied to accommodate newer or different
technologies while meeting or exceeding the goals of the standards.
   (B)   The city shall monitor state video franchise holder's compliance with
state and federal customer service and protection standards. The city will
provide to the state video franchise holder written notice of any material
breaches of applicable customer service and protection standards, and will
allow the state video franchise holder 30 days from receipt of the notice to
remedy the specified material breach. Material breaches not remedied within the
30-day time period are subject to the following monetary penalties to be
imposed by the city in accordance with state law:
      (1)   For the first occurrence of a violation, a monetary penalty of $500
shall be imposed for each day the violation remains in effect, not to exceed
$1500 for each violation.
      (2)   For a second violation of the same nature within a 12-month period,
a monetary penalty of $1,000 shall be imposed for each day the violation
remains in effect, not to exceed $3,000 for each such violation.
      (3)   For a third or further violation of the same nature within a 12-
month period, a monetary penalty of $2,500 shall be imposed for each day the
violation remains in effect, not to exceed $7,500 for each such violation.
   (C)   A state video franchise holder may appeal to the City Council, or a
hearing officer as the City Council may appoint, a monetary penalty assessed by
the city within 60 days after notice of the assessment. After relevant evidence
and testimony as may be received, and staff reports as may be submitted, the
City Council may uphold, vacate, or modify the monetary penalty consistent with
the evidence presented. The decision of the City Council, or hearing officer,
on the imposition of a monetary penalty shall be final.
(Ord. 1579, passed 11-17-10)
§ 112.09 CITY RESPONSE TO STATE VIDEO FRANCHISE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applicants for state video franchises within the boundaries of the
city must concurrently provide to the city complete copies of any application
or amendments to applications filed with the California Public Utilities
Commission. One complete copy must be provided to the City Clerk.
   (B)   The city may provide any appropriate comments to the California Public
Utilities Commission regarding an application or an amendment to an application
for a state video franchise.
(Ord. 1579, passed 11-17-10)
§ 112.10 PEG CHANNEL CAPACITY.
   (A)   A state video franchise holder shall designate sufficient capacity on
its network to enable the carriage of at least three PEG access channels. PEG
access channels shall be for the exclusive use of the city or its designees to
provide public, educational, or governmental programming.
   (B)   A state video franchise holder shall provide additional PEG channels
when the standards set forth in Cal. Pub. Util. Code § 5870 are satisfied by
the city or any entity designated by the city to be responsible for PEG access.
(Ord. 1579, passed 11-17-10)
§ 112.11 EMERGENCY ALERT SYSTEM AND EMERGENCY OVERRIDES.
   A state video franchise holder must comply with the emergency alert system
requirements of the Federal Communications Commission so that emergency
messages may be distributed over its network.
(Ord. 1579, passed 11-17-10)
CHAPTER 113: ENTERTAINMENT PERMITS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Permit required
   
113.03   Permit — exempt activities
   
113.04   Exemption from charges and permit fee obligation
   
113.05   Permit application
   
113.06   Permit — application — investigation and administrative hearing,
notification to City Council
   
113.07   Administrative hearing on permit — notice requirements
   
113.08   Administrative hearing on permit — action by city
   
113.09   Permit — issuance or denial conditions
   
113.10   Appeal procedure
   
113.11   Permit — additional conditions authorized
   
113.12   Permit — suspension or revocation, conditions
   
113.13   Permit — fees and period of validity
   
113.14   Existing entertainment businesses
   
113.15   Dances — security guard requirements
   
113.16   Size of dance floor
   
113.17   Prohibited dancing
   
113.18   Offenses
   
113.19   Administrative citation
   
113.20   Violation — civil remedies available
   
113.21   Permit — nontransferable — posting
   
113.22   Enforcement
   
113.23   Sanitation
   
113.24   Inspection
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the city or his or her designee.
   ENTERTAINMENT. Every form of live ENTERTAINMENT, music, solo band or
orchestra, act, play, burlesque show, fashion show, revue, pantomime, scene,
song or dance act, or song and dance act, or any other act or performance
conducted, presented or participated in by one or more persons for the purpose
of holding the attention of, gaining the attention and interest of, diverting
or amusing attendees, guests or patrons, whether paid or unpaid.
   ENTERTAINMENT SITE. Any place or premises open to the public where any form
of entertainment as defined by this chapter is conducted or presented,
regardless of whether food or beverages are sold, offered for sale or given
away.
   HEARING OFFICER. An official designated by the City Manager or his or her
designee charged with presiding over an appeal as to the Chief of Police's
order/decision upon an application for an entertainment permit or upon an
order/decision suspending or revoking an entertainment permit.
(Ord. 1510, passed 7-18-07)
§ 113.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person or business entity shall operate, conduct or manage or with
regularity engage in a business that may reasonably be described as
entertainment at an entertainment site or at a variety of locations within the
city, without first obtaining an annual permit as hereinafter described in this
chapter. Entertainment permits under this chapter shall be issued in addition
to any other permit(s), license(s) or entitlement(s) required by this code or
state law.
(Ord. 1510, passed 7-18-07) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 PERMIT — EXEMPT ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to require a permit
for the following:
      (1)   For the use of a radio or other electronic playback device in any
establishment, except when utilized by an announcer, master of ceremonies or
disc jockey who at any time provides or facilitates any form of vocal
entertainment, including the announcing of song titles or artists' names in
conjunction therewith;
      (2)   For any entertainment conducted for or presented to members and
their guests at a private club or wedding receptions, provided that admission
is not open to the public;
      (3)   For entertainment conducted in connection with a regularly
established motion picture theater, recreation park, circus or fairground;
      (4)   For entertainment conducted or presented solely on or at any
premises or location which is owned or operated by, or leased by, to or from
the United States, State of California, County of Riverside, the city, or any
agency or subdivision thereof;
      (5)   For the playing of background music by any electronic means or
instrument in conjunction with the service and consumption of food;
      (6)   For entertainment conducted or presented by a bona fide nonprofit
club or organization as a part of the social activities of such club or
organization, solely as a fundraising activity for charitable purposes.
   (B)   However, entertainment events, uses and functions exempt from the
provisions of this chapter shall remain subject to and regulated by any and all
applicable provisions of this code and state law.
(Ord. 1510, passed 7-18-07)
§ 113.04 EXEMPTION FROM CHARGES AND PERMIT FEE OBLIGATION.
   There shall be no charge or fee for investigation payable by an applicant
for an entertainment permit in instances when regular dances or other
entertainment events are proposed to be held by bona fide charitable, memorial,
fraternal, or labor associations, student bodies of schools where such dances
or events do not take place more often than once a month.
(Ord. 1510, passed 7-18-07)
§ 113.05 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Applicants for entertainment permits shall file a written, signed and
verified application with the Chief of Police, under penalty of perjury,
specifying:
   (A)   The name and permanent residential address of the applicant;
   (B)   The proposed and/or current business address, if any, of the
applicant. If the applicant is a corporation or organized as another form of
legally established entity (partnership, limited liability company, and the
like), the corporate/entity name shall appear on the application exactly as set
forth in its articles of incorporation or organizational document/instrument.
Furthermore, the applicant shall delineate the name and residential address of
each of its officers, directors, members, general partners, limited partners
and the like, together with the name and residential address of each
stockholder or other person owning 10% or more of the applicant's corporate
stock or equity;
   (C)   A detailed description of the proposed entertainment, including type
of entertainment, number of persons ordinarily engaged in the entertainment,
and any further information about the entertainment or entertainers as the
Chief of Police may deem necessary and appropriate on a case-by-case basis;
   (D)   The dates, hours and locations where the entertainment is proposed to
be conducted or presented, including but not limited to entertainment at an
entertainment site, and the admission fee, if any, to be charged;
   (E)   The name or names and residential address(es) of any person or persons
responsible for the management or supervision of the applicant's business, and
of any entertainment;
   (F)   A statement of the nature and character of the applicant's business,
if any, to be carried on in conjunction with such entertainment, including
whether or not alcohol will be served as part of such business;
   (G)   Whether or not the applicant or any person(s) responsible for the
management or supervision of the applicant's business has/have been, within the
five year period preceding the application date, convicted (whether by verdict
or plea of guilty or nob contendere) of a felony, any crime constituting theft,
or any crime for which conviction gives rise to an obligation to register as an
offender pursuant to Cal. Penal Code § 290 or Health and Safety Code § 11590.
Together with such information regarding any such conviction, an applicant
shall provide information as to the nature of the criminal offense(s) in
question and the disposition corresponding to any such offense(s), including
but not limited to any sentence imposed or conditions of parole or probation,
if any;
   (H)   Whether or not the applicant has ever had any permit or license issued
in conjunction with the sale of alcohol or provision of entertainment revoked,
including the date thereof and the name of the revoking agency;
   (I)   Such other reasonable information as the Chief of Police may deem
necessary on a case-by-case basis.
(Ord. 1510, passed 7-18-07)
§ 113.06 PERMIT — APPLICATION — INVESTIGATION AND ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING,
NOTIFICATION TO CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   After an application for an entertainment permit has been filed, the
Chief of Police may cause an investigation to be made of such application.
Thereafter, an administrative hearing shall be set and commenced before the
Chief of Police within 45 days of the application's filing, and the city shall
provide the applicant with written notice as to the date, time and location of
the administrative hearing. This administrative hearing shall take place in an
area open to the public. To obtain a renewal entertainment permit, applicants
must submit an application to the Chief of Police no later than 45 days prior
to the expiration of the current entertainment permit in order to facilitate
the renewal process without interruption.
   (B)   Within five days of his or her receipt of any application for an
entertainment permit, the Chief of Police shall provide a copy of same to each
City Council member via the City Manager's staff.
(Ord. 1510, passed 7-18-07)
§ 113.07 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING ON PERMIT — NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   If the Chief of Police has set the consideration of issuance of an
entertainment permit for administrative hearing, notice thereof shall be given
to all property owners within 300 feet of the proposed entertainment site per
the application; if no fixed entertainment site exists, notice shall be given
to all property owners within 300 feet of the applicant's business address, if
any, as reflected on the application.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, notice to property owners shall be
sufficient if given to those property owners who appear as such on the most
recent equalized assessment roll prepared by the County of Riverside.
Additionally, the Chief of Police shall cause a public notice to be posted at
the location where the entertainment is to be provided.
   (C)   All notices provided for in this section shall be in a form and manner
prescribed by the Chief of Police. The applicant, via payment of permit
application processing fees as described below, shall bear all costs and
expenses in mailing, printing and posting such notice, and shall pay such costs
to the city contemporaneously with the filing of an application. Failure to pay
such costs by the applicant shall represent grounds for denial of the
application.
(Ord. 1510, passed 7-18-07)
§ 113.08 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING ON PERMIT — ACTION BY CITY.
   At the time and place set for administrative hearing as to any application,
and as may be adjourned or continued from time to time, the Chief of Police
shall hear and determine all the facts and evidence relevant to the applicant
and supervisory employees, as well as the entertainment proposed, including the
nature and location of the proposed entertainment site, if any.
(Ord. 1510, passed 7-18-07)
§ 113.09 PERMIT—ISSUANCE OR DENIAL CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall issue and deliver written notice to the
applicant, and to each City Council member via the City Manager's staff, of his
or her order/decision granting, conditionally granting, or denying an
application for an entertainment permit. Any such order/decision denying
issuance of an entertainment permit shall contain a concise summary of its
basis. In addition, the Chief of Police shall direct city staff to post a copy
of his or her order/decision at the premises of any entertainment site that is
the subject of the application in question. The Chief of Police will use best
efforts to effect such issuance and delivery, and to file his or her order/
decision as a public record with the City Clerk within five days of the
conclusion of the administrative hearing. The Chief of Police's order/decision
shall be final unless appealed within ten working days of its issuance, in
writing, to the Hearing Officer. Appeals may be made, and shall be governed by
the procedures set forth in §
113.10.
   (B)   The Chief of Police may deny such application if he or she finds and
determines any of the following:
      (1)   The conduct of the establishment or the granting of the application
would be contrary to the public health, safety or welfare; or
      (2)   The premises or establishment is likely to be operated in an
illegal, improper or disorderly manner; or
      (3)   The applicant, or any other person associated with him or her as
principal or partner, or in a position or capacity involving partial or total
control over the conduct of the business for which such permit is sought to be
issued, has been convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction of any offense
involving the presentation, exhibition or performance of any obscene show of
any kind, or of a felony, or has had any approval, permit or license issued in
conjunction with the sale of alcohol or the provision of entertainment revoked
within the preceding five years; or
      (4)   That granting the application would create a public nuisance; or
      (5)   That the normal operation of the premises at an entertainment site
would interfere with the peace and quiet of any surrounding residential
neighborhood; or
      (6)   The applicant has made any false, misleading or fraudulent
statement of material fact in the required application.
(Ord. 1510, passed 7-18-07)
§ 113.10 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A permit applicant who has a legal or equitable interest in the Chief
of Police's order/decision upon an application for an entertainment permit or a
Chief of Police's order/decision suspending or revoking an entertainment
permit, or any other person aggrieved by either type of order/decision, may
appeal said order/decision. The appeal must be in writing and must be filed
with the City Clerk no later than ten days from the date when an applicant
receives notice of an adverse Chief of Police order/decision. Failure to make a
timely appeal per this section represents an absolute waiver of any appellate
rights with respect to the application in question, and the Chief of Police
order/decision shall be deemed final and no longer subject to appeal.
   (B)   Any written appeal as to the Chief of Police's order/decision shall be
legible, filed with the City Clerk accompanied by a non-refundable fee in an
amount set by resolution of the City Council to cover the administrative costs
of the appeal, and state the grounds for such appeal and the specific factual
and/or legal errors committed by the Chief of Police in issuing his or her
order/decision. An appeal shall contain:
      (1)   A specific identification of the entertainment site or explanation
of the entertainment use to occur at multiple locations;
      (2)   The names and addresses of all appellants;
      (3)   A statement of appellant's legal or equitable interest, if any, in
the Chief of Police's order/decision;
      (4)   A statement, in ordinary and concise language, of the specific
order or action protested and the grounds for appeal, together with all
supporting material facts;
      (5)   The date upon which the appeal was prepared and the signature of
each appellant; and
      (6)   A verification by at least one appellant, under penalty of perjury,
as to the truth of the matters stated in the appeal.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall then transmit a copy of the written appeal to the
Police Department for presentation to the Hearing Officer in the context of a
public hearing to be held within 30 days of the appeal's filing.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall mail notice of the time and place of the public
hearing on the appeal to the appellant and to the applicant if not identical to
the appellant, postage prepaid, no later than ten days prior to the date set
for hearing, and shall maintain said notice as a public record of the city. In
addition, the City Clerk or his or her designee shall post a copy of the notice
of hearing on appeal at the premises of any entertainment site that is the
subject of the appeal in question. Said notice of hearing on appeal may also
designate certain records of the appellant or applicant required to be produced
at the time of the hearing.
   (E)   The Police Department's presentation of an appeal to the Hearing
Officer shall include: any records of the administrative hearing, copies of all
papers submitted, review of any records of the appellant produced at the time
of the hearing, copies of any Chief of Police decision/order issued, and a
written report from the Chief of Police stating the factual and legal basis
upon which any order/decision was reached.
   (F)   The Police Department and the appellant may submit any and all
evidence believed relevant to the Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer may
require the presentation of additional evidence from either the appellant or
the Police Department, or from both. Further, the Hearing Officer may continue
the hearing from time to time for the purpose of allowing the presentation of
additional evidence. Upon completion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer may
take any action with respect to its final order decision as evidence may
require. In so doing, the Hearing Officer may approve, reverse or modify, in
whole or in part, the order/decision of the Chief of Police as to the
entertainment permit in question.
   (G)   The City Clerk shall provide written notice of the Hearing Officer's
final order decision to the appellant, and to the applicant if not identical to
the appellant, within ten days of its issuance. The decision of the Hearing
Officer shall be final and conclusive upon all matters in controversy.
   (H)   The filing of an appeal as to a suspension or revocation of an
entertainment permit shall stay its effectiveness pending a Hearing Officer
final order decision as to that appeal. However, during the period of such a
stay, the Police Department may impose such additional terms and conditions as
to any activity pursuant to an entertainment permit as are deemed necessary to
protect the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 1510, passed 7-18-07)
§ 113.11 PERMIT — ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS AUTHORIZED.
   The Chief of Police, in granting any entertainment permit, may also impose
such reasonable conditions with respect to the use and scope of such permit as
may be determined necessary to protect the public health, safety and/or
welfare, and to implement the intent and purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 1510, passed 7-18-07)
§ 113.12 PERMIT — SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION, CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Upon notice and administrative hearing, the Chief of Police may
suspend or revoke any entertainment permit granted pursuant to this chapter if
he or she finds and determines that any entertainment permittee, agent or
employee thereof, or any person connected or associated with said permittee as
a partner, director, officer, general manager, or other person who is
exercising managerial authority of, or on behalf of, the permittee, or any
entertainer acting under the authority of such permit:
      (1)   Made any false, misleading or fraudulent statement of a material
fact in the application for permit, or any report or record required to be
filed pursuant to this chapter; or
      (2)   Violated any provision of this chapter, or of any statute,
ordinance or condition relating to the permitted activity; or
      (3)   Is convicted of a felony; or
      (4)   Violated any rules, regulations or conditions imposed upon the
permittee's business or permit; or
      (5)   Conducted a permitted business in a manner contrary to the peace,
health, safety and general welfare of the public; or
      (6)   Demonstrated a lack of fitness to be trusted with the privileges
granted by such a permit.
   (B)    Any order/decision of the Chief of Police to suspend or revoke an
entertainment permit shall be set forth in writing, inclusive of a clear and
concise summary of the conduct and/or facts underlying the order/decision, and
delivered to the holder of that permit within five days of issuance. Such an
order/decision revoking or suspending an entertainment permit shall be final
unless appealed to the Hearing Officer in accord with the provisions of §
113.10 of this chapter. Absent a timely appeal, an order/decision suspending or
revoking an entertainment permit shall be effective on the eleventh day after
its issuance.
(Ord. 1510, passed 7-18-07)
§ 113.13 PERMIT — FEES AND PERIOD OF VALIDITY.
   The application fee for securing or renewing an entertainment permit, and
the fee for filing an appeal as to the issuance, modification, suspension or
revocation of an entertainment permit shall be specified, from time to time, by
City Council resolution. Each entertainment permit issued or renewed shall be
and remain valid through and including the June 30 subsequent to that permit's
issuance or renewal, with a term not to exceed one year. An entertainment
permit may be renewed annually in accord with §
113.06, within the discretion of the Chief of Police, and shall be effective on
or before July 1 of each year after the original permit is approved. Permit
renewal shall require an application equivalent to that filed in order to
initially secure the original permit. Entertainment permit issuance or renewal
fees shall be in addition to any business license fees as may be required by
this code.
(Ord. 1510, passed 7-18-07)
§ 113.14 EXISTING ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES.
   All persons engaged in conducting and/or presenting entertainment in the
city at the time of this chapter's adoption shall have until October 1, 2007 to
file an application for an entertainment permit with the Chief of Police under
this chapter. Any new entertainment permits issued pursuant to this section
shall have a term that expires June 30, 2008.
(Ord. 1510, passed 7-18-07)
§ 113.15 DANCES — SECURITY GUARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any person conducting or presenting entertainment for which an
entertainment permit is required, where dancing by the public is allowed and
the area where dancing is permitted exceeds 250 square feet, shall, for
purposes of patrons' safety, have present during all hours when such dancing is
permitted, one or more security employees who are readily identifiable as such
by identification badge or nameplate, or one or more state-licensed and
uniformed security guards.
   (B)   The Chief of Police, shall determine whether and how many security
employees and/or security guards shall be provided by the permittee.
   (C)   Conditions pertaining to a permittee's provision of security employees
and security guards shall be included in any entertainment permit issued by the
city.
(Ord. 1510, passed 7-18-07)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.16 SIZE OF DANCE FLOOR.
   It is unlawful for any person to carry on, conduct, maintain, or assist in
carrying on, conducting or maintaining any dance in connection with an
entertainment use subject to this chapter's provisions, where alcoholic
beverages are sold or served, unless the size of the floor space allocated to
dancing is at least 200 square feet.
(Ord. 1510, passed 7-18-07)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.17 PROHIBITED DANCING.
   It is unlawful for any person to dance in any entertainment establishment
that does not then possess a valid unrevoked entertainment permit as required
by this chapter, provided, however, that such person must be first ordered to
refrain from dancing and be advised of the reason for such order by the owner,
lessee, manager or other person in charge of such establishment or by any
police officer.
(Ord. 1510, passed 7-18-07)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.18 OFFENSES.
   No persons conducting any entertainment subject to the provisions of this
chapter shall:
   (A)   Permit or allow any minor under the age of 18 years at or inside an
entertainment site, while entertainment is taking place, unless accompanied by
a parent or guardian;
   (B)   Permit or allow any intoxicated, boisterous or disorderly persons to
enter, occupy, remain in or dance at an entertainment site;
   (C)   Shut or turn off or reduce the intensity of the lighting in the area
used for dancing to such an extent as to provide less lighting or illumination
than is customary for rooms or areas of like dimensions or to a degree to make
it difficult or impossible to clearly see or identify individuals dancing on
the floor provided for dancing;
   (D)   Permit any person to dance or permit any music to be played or
reproduced by any device between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. of any
day;
   (E)   No dancing activity authorized by this chapter shall commence prior to
7:00 p.m. or continue beyond 2:00 a.m. of the following morning.
(Ord. 1510, passed 7-18-07)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.19 ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION.
   In lieu of handling violations of this chapter as a criminal matter, the
city may issue an administrative citation pursuant to
Chapter 12 to any person responsible for committing, causing or maintaining a
violation of the provisions of this chapter. Nothing in this section shall
preclude the city from handling subsequent violations on separate days as a
criminal matter.
(Ord. 1510, passed 7-18-07)
§ 113.20 VIOLATION—CIVIL REMEDIES AVAILABLE.
   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
nuisance and may be abated by the city through civil process in any manner
provided by law as to nuisance abatement.
(Ord. 1510, passed 7-18-07)
§ 113.21 PERMIT — NONTRANSFERABLE — POSTING.
   No entertainment permit shall be sold, transferred, or assigned by any
permittee, or by operation of law, to any other person, group, partnership,
corporation or any other entity. Any such sale, transfer or assignment or
attempt to accomplish same shall be deemed a voluntary surrender of such
permit, and such permit shall be thereafter null and void. A permit held by an
individual in the name of a corporation or partnership is subject to the same
rules of transferability as contained above. A license shall be valid only for
the exact location and/or time(s) specified in the permit. Each entertainment
permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or upon the premises of any
entertainment site for which it is issued, and shall be presented to any city
official or peace officer upon demand.
(Ord. 1510, passed 7-18-07)
§ 113.22 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of every owner, lessee, proprietor, manager or occupant
of any establishment permitted under the provisions of this chapter to have
present at all times, when entertainment and/or dancing is being conducted, a
qualified person or persons whose duty it shall be to see that the provisions
of this chapter are lawfully carried out.
(Ord. 1510, passed 7-18-07)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.23 SANITATION.
   No permit shall be granted under the provisions of this chapter with respect
to an entertainment site unless the physical premises of said site comply with
all applicable provisions of this chapter. The holder of an entertainment
permit shall keep the hallways, stairways, rooms and/or passages, if any,
leading into, through and/or in the immediate vicinity of an entertainment site
in a clean and sanitary condition, adequately lighted and properly ventilated
at all times.
(Ord. 1510, passed 7-18-07)
§ 113.24 INSPECTION.
   Any peace officer of the county or of the state, or any officer of the
United States Government charged with the duty of enforcing the public laws of
the United States Government, shall have access at all times to any
entertainment site in use under the provisions of this chapter for the purpose
of making any inspection.
(Ord. 1510, passed 7-18-07)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, partnership or corporation to
violate any provision or to fail to comply with any of the requirements of this
chapter. Any person, firm, partnership or corporation violating any provision
of this chapter, or failing to comply with any of its requirements, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
by a fine not exceeding $1,000 or by imprisonment in the county jail not
exceeding six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   Each such person, firm, partnership or corporation engaged in a
violation of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each
violation and each and every day, or any portion thereof during which any
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is committed, continued or
permitted by such person, firm, partnership or corporation, and shall be deemed
punishable therefore as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 1510, passed 7-18-07)
CHAPTER 114: SIDEWALK VENDORS AND VENDING VEHICLES
Section
   
114.10   Definitions
   
114.11   Business license required
   
114.12   Vending permit required
   
114.13   Vending permit application
   
114.14   Criteria for approval or denial of vending permit
   
114.15   Permit expiration and renewal
   
114.16   Permit nontransferable
   
114.17   Sidewalk vendor operating requirements
   
114.18   Vending vehicle operating requirements
   
114.19   Regulations for vending on private property
   
114.20   Permit rescission
   
114.21   Administrative citations
   
114.22   Appeals
§ 114.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this Chapter, the following words or phrases shall have the
following meanings:
   CERTIFIED FARMERS' MARKET. A location operated in accordance with Chapter
10.5 of Division 17 of the Cal. Food and Agricultural Code and any regulations
adopted pursuant to that chapter.
   DIRECTOR. The City Manager or his or her designee.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. The City Manager, the Chief of Police, or either of
their designees who is charged with enforcing the Indio Code of Ordinances.
   FOOD or FOOD PRODUCTS. Any item described by Cal. Health and Safety Code §
113781.
   GOODS or MERCHANDISE. Any item that is not food or a food product and can be
sold and immediately obtained from a sidewalk vendor. Items for rent,
subscription plans, and other services shall not be considered goods or
merchandise.
   HEARING OFFICER. A person selected by the City Manager to conduct an
administrative hearing that has no bias or pecuniary interest in the matter to
be heard.
   PERSON. One or more natural persons, groups, businesses, business trusts,
companies, corporations, joint ventures, joint stock companies, partnership,
entities, associations, clubs, or organizations composed of two or more
individuals (or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer, or employee of
any of them), whether engaged in business, nonprofit, or any other activity.
   ROAMING SIDEWALK VENDOR. A sidewalk vendor who moves from place to place and
stops only to complete a transaction.
   SIDEWALK VENDOR. Any person who vends from a vending cart or from one's
person, upon a public sidewalk, parkway, pedestrian path, or other public
right-of-way available to pedestrians.
   STATIONARY SIDEWALK VENDOR. A sidewalk vendor who vends from a fixed
location.
   SWAP MEET. A location operated in accordance with Article 6 of Chapter 9 of
Division 8 of the Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code, and any regulations adopted pursuant
to that article.
   TEMPORARY SPECIAL PERMIT. Any permit issued by the City for the temporary
use of, or encroachment on, the sidewalk or any other public area, including,
but not limited to, an encroachment permit, special event permit, or temporary
use permit, for purposes including, but not limited to, filming, parades,
festivals, or outdoor concerts.
   VEND OR VENDING. To sell, offer for sale, display for sale, or solicit
offers to purchase, food, food products, beverages, goods, or merchandise.
   VENDING CART. Any pushcart, stand, display, pedal-driven cart, wagon,
showcase, rack, or other non-motorized conveyance used for vending, that is not
a vehicle as defined in the Cal. Vehicle Code.
   VENDING VEHICLE. Any self-propelled, motorized device or vehicle that is
used for vending and by which any person or property may be propelled or moved
upon a highway, excepting a vending cart or other device moved exclusively by
human power.
   VENDING VEHICLE OPERATOR. Any person that operates or assists in the
operation of a vending vehicle.
   VENDOR. A person who vends from a vending cart, from one's person, or from a
vending vehicle, including an employee or agent of another.
(Ord. 1767, passed 12-15-21)
§ 114.11 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   All sidewalk vendors and vending vehicle operators desiring to vend in the
City shall obtain and maintain a valid business license issued by the City in
accordance with
Chapter 110 of this Code.
(Ord. 1767, passed 12-15-21)
§ 114.12 VENDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   In addition to procuring a business license, as set forth in §
114.12, all sidewalk vendors and vending vehicle operators desiring to vend in
the City on public or private property shall first obtain a vending permit.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, vending from a vending cart, from
one's person, or from a vending vehicle on any public street, alley, parkway,
sidewalk, or other public property or private property in the City is
prohibited.
(Ord. 1767, passed 12-15-21)
§ 114.13 VENDING PERMIT APPLICATION.
   To apply for a vending permit, a person must file an application with the
Director, accompanied by a nonrefundable processing fee in an amount
established by resolution of the City Council. The application shall be in a
form prescribed by the Director and shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
   (A)   The legal name and current address and telephone number of the
applicant;
   (B)   If the applicant is an agent of an individual, company, partnership,
corporation, or other entity, the name and business address of the principal;
   (C)   A description of the food or merchandise offered for sale;
   (D)   A photograph of the vending vehicle or vending cart. If the applicant
intends to use a vending vehicle, a description of the type of vehicle to be
used, the vehicle's registration and license number, and the applicant's
California driver's license numbers);
   (E)   Whether the applicant intends to operate as a stationary sidewalk
vendor, a roaming sidewalk vendor, or a vending vehicle operator;
   (F)   A description of the streets, rights-of-way, or other locations in
which the applicant intends to vend;
   (G)   A California seller's permit number pursuant to Cal. Revenue and
Taxation Code § 6067;
   (H)   If a vendor of food or food products, certification to completion of a
food handler course and proof of all required approvals from the Riverside
County Department of Environmental Health;
   (I)   Proof of liability insurance in the amount and subject to the terms on
file with the City's Risk Manager. The City's Risk Manager shall promulgate
provisions regarding insurance requirements for sidewalk vendors and vending
vehicles and shall be in an amount which is determined to be sufficient to
adequately protect the City, persons, and property for injuries or damages
which may be caused by activity under this Chapter;
   (J)   Certification by the applicant that the information contained in the
application is true to his or her knowledge and belief;
   (K)   Any other reasonable information regarding the time, place, and manner
of the proposed vending.
(Ord. 1767, passed 12-15-21)
§ 114.14 CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF VENDING PERMIT.
   The Director, or his or her designee, shall approve the issuance of a
vending permit unless he or she determines that:
   (A)   Information contained in the application, or supplemental information
requested from the applicant, is false in any material detail;
   (B)   The applicant has failed to provide a complete application, after
having been notified of the requirement to produce additional information or
documents;
   (C)   The applicant has failed to demonstrate an ability to conform to the
operating standards set forth in this Chapter; or
   (D)   The applicant has failed to pay any previous administrative fines,
complete any community service, and/or complete any other alternative
disposition associated with a previous violation of this Chapter.
If the vending permit is denied, written notice of such denial and the reasons
therefor shall be provided to the applicant.
(Ord. 1767, passed 12-15-21)
§ 114.15 PERMIT EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   A vending permit shall be valid for 12 months from the date of issuance, and
shall expire and become null and void on the anniversary of its issuance. A
person may apply for a permit renewal on a form provided by the City prior to
the expiration of his or her active vending permit.
(Ord. 1767, passed 12-15-21)
§ 114.16 PERMIT NONTRANSFERABLE.
   No vending permit granted pursuant to this chapter shall be transferable.
(Ord. 1767, passed 12-15-21)
§ 114.17 SIDEWALK VENDOR OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   Sidewalk vendors shall comply with the following standards and conditions:
   (A)   Sidewalk vendors shall maintain at all times while vending a valid
vending permit, a valid business license in accordance with
Chapter 110 of this Code, and any other permit(s) or license(s) required by the
City or other governmental agencies. A current, valid business license sticker
shall be affixed in plain view to the vending cart. Vendors of food or food
products shall in addition affix in plain view to the vending cart a current,
valid Riverside County health inspection sticker.
   (B)   No sidewalk vendor shall vend in the following locations:
      (1)   Within ten feet of any street intersection;
      (2)   Within ten feet of any driveway or driveway apron;
      (3)   Upon or within any roadway, median strip, or dividing section;
      (4)   Within 200 feet of a permitted certified farmers' market, a swap
meet, or an area designated for a temporary special permit. This prohibition
shall be limited to the operating hours of the farmers' market or swap meet, or
the limited duration of the temporary special permit;
      (5)   Within 300 feet of the nearest property line of any property on
which a school building is located, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00
p.m., each day that school is in session. This prohibition will not apply if
the school principal gives the pushcart vendor written permission to enter or
park on school property. The sidewalk vendor shall provide a copy of that
authorization to the City within five days of its receipt, and possess a copy
while vending to provide upon request to any Enforcement Official;
      (6)    Within the Major Music Overlay Zone, as defined in the Unified
Development Code, for the duration of any Major Music Festival Event, including
the time periods in which the streets and sidewalks are closed prior to and
after the event;
   (C)   No sidewalk vendor shall vend in a manner that blocks or obstructs the
free movement of pedestrians or vehicles. Sidewalk vendors must at all times
provide a clearance of not less than four feet on all sidewalks or pedestrian
areas so as to enable persons to freely pass while walking, running, or using
mobility assistance devices.
   (D)   No sidewalk vendor shall block or impede access to bicycle racks,
parking meters, required accessibility routes and curb cuts, trash enclosure
areas or trash bins, fire hydrants, fire call boxes, or other emergency
facilities.
   (E)   No sidewalk vendor shall vend within 50 feet of another sidewalk
vendor or a vending vehicle.
   (F)   No sidewalk vendor shall distribute any item from the vending cart in
a manner that causes any person to stand in the street.
   (G)   Sidewalk vendors shall not offer, provide, rent, or sell a service
that is neither defined as merchandise or food.
   (H)   Vending is permitted between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.,
daily, except as follows:
   (I)   In residential areas, vending shall be permitted between the hours of
8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
   (J)   In nonresidential areas, the limit on hours of operation shall not be
more restrictive than the hours of operation of other businesses or uses on the
same street.
   (K)   In City parks, vending shall be permitted only during the open hours
of the park.
   (I)   Stationary sidewalk vendors shall obtain an encroachment permit
pursuant to
Chapter 97, and must operate exclusively from the location and for the time
periods designated by the encroachment permit.
   (J)   Stationary sidewalk vendors shall not vend in areas that are zoned
exclusively residential.
   (K)   Stationary sidewalk vendors shall not vend at any park where the City
or the park operator has signed an agreement for concessions that exclusively
permits the sale of food or merchandise by a concessionaire.
   (L)   Sidewalk vendors shall maintain a clearly designated trash receptacle
in the immediate vicinity of the vending cart, marked with a sign requesting
use by patrons. Prior to leaving any vending location, the vendor shall pick
up, remove, and dispose of all trash generated by the vending operations within
a 25 foot radius of the vending location.
   (M)   Sidewalk vendors shall maintain and possess at all times while vending
proof of liability insurance in the amount required by the City.
   (N)   Sidewalk vendors of food or food products shall possess and display in
plain view on the vending cart a valid health permit from Riverside County
Department of Environmental Health.
   (O)   Sidewalk vendors shall comply with all applicable state and local
laws, including without limitation state food preparation, handling, and
labeling requirements; fire codes and regulations; noise standards; and the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and other disability access standards
(both state and federal).
   (P)   No vending cart shall become a permanent fixture on the vending site
or be considered an improvement to real property.
(Ord. 1767, passed 12-15-21)
§ 114.18 VENDING VEHICLE OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   Vending vehicle operators shall comply with the following standards and
conditions:
   (A)   Vending vehicle operators shall obtain and maintain at all times while
vending a valid vending permit, a valid business license in accordance with
Chapter 110 of this Code, and any other permit(s) or license(s) required by the
City or other governmental agencies. A current, valid business license sticker
shall be affixed to the back of the vending vehicle. Vendors of food or food
products shall in addition affix to the lower left hand side of the windshield
a current, valid Riverside County health inspection sticker.
   (B)   In addition to any other equipment required by law, each vending
vehicle shall be equipped with the following:
      (1)   A convex mirror mounted so that the driver can see the area in
front of the truck that is obscured by the truck's hood; and
      (2)   A back-up alarm audible for a distance of at least 100 feet.
   (C)   Lettering showing the vending vehicle operator or owner's name,
business address, and telephone number shall be permanently affixed to both
sides of the vending vehicle in a conspicuous place. The lettering shall at all
times be visible, shall not be less than four inches in height, and shall be in
contrast to the color of the background upon which it is placed.
   (D)   No vending vehicle operator shall vend in the following locations:
      (1)   Within 100 feet of any street intersection controlled by a
crosswalk, traffic light, or stop sign;
      (2)   Within ten feet of any driveway or driveway apron;
      (3)   Within any publicly-owned or operated parking lot, unless the
vending vehicle operator has written permission of the owner and complies with
the provisions of §
114.18;
      (4)   On any street, alley, or highway with a posted speed limit greater
than 35 miles per hour;
      (5)   Within 200 feet of a permitted certified farmers' market, a swap
meet, or an area designated for a temporary special permit. This prohibition
shall be limited to the operating hours of the farmers' market or swap meet, or
the limited duration of the temporary special permit;
      (6)   Within 300 feet of the nearest property line of any property on
which a school building is located, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00
p.m., each day that school is in session. This prohibition will not apply if
the school principal gives the vending vehicle operator written permission to
enter or park on school property. The vending vehicle operator shall provide a
copy of that authorization to the City within five days of its receipt, and
possess a copy while vending to provide upon request to any Enforcement
Official;
      (7)    Within the Major Music Overlay Zone for the duration of any Major
Music Festival Event, as defined in the Unified Development Code, including the
time-periods in which the streets and sidewalks are closed prior to and after
the event.
   (E)   The vending vehicle shall not obstruct pedestrian or vehicular
traffic.
   (F)   No vending vehicle operator shall vend within 50 feet of another
vending vehicle or a sidewalk vendor.
   (G)   Vending is prohibited on the exposed street or traffic side of the
vending vehicle. No food, food products, goods, or merchandise shall be
distributed from the vending vehicle in a manner so as to cause any customer or
potential customer to stand in that portion of the street that is open to other
vehicles.
   (H)   No part of a vending vehicle or any other equipment or furniture
related to the operation of the vending vehicle shall encroach onto a public
sidewalk.
   (I)   Vending is permitted between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.,
daily, except that in residential areas vending shall only be permitted between
the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
   (J)   Vending vehicle operators shall maintain a clearly designated trash
receptacle in the immediate vicinity of the vending vehicle, marked with a sign
requesting use by patrons. Prior to leaving any vending location, the vendor
shall pick up, remove, and dispose of all trash generated by the vending
operations within a 25 foot radius of the vending location.
   (K)   Vending vehicle operators shall maintain and possess at all times
while vending proof of liability insurance in the amount required by the City.
   (L)   Vending vehicle operators shall comply with all applicable federal,
state, and local laws, including without limitation state food preparation,
handling, and labeling requirements; fire codes and regulations; noise
standards; the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and other disability
access standards; and traffic, parking, and Cal. Vehicle Code provisions.
   (M)   No vending vehicle shall become a permanent fixture on the vending
site or be considered an improvement to real property.
(Ord. 1767, passed 12-15-21)
§ 114.19 REGULATIONS FOR VENDING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   In addition to compliance with the operating requirements set forth in §§
114.16 and
114.17, any vendor operating or conducting business from a vending cart or
vending vehicle on private property shall comply with the following:
   (A)   The vendor shall comply with all applicable zoning regulations and
land use entitlements for the private property.
   (B)   Unless vending is otherwise authorized by the applicable zoning
regulations and/or land use entitlements for the private property or as
otherwise provided for herein, the vendor shall obtain from the Community
Development Director an administrative permit prior to engaging any vending
activity. Any request for such a permit shall require the written consent of
the property owner, which shall be provided to the Community Development
Director. In determining whether to grant the administrative permit, the
Community Development Director shall make the following findings: (i) the
vending is allowed within the applicable underlying zone or is consistent with
the uses permitted in such zone; (ii) the vending will not be detrimental to
the public health, safety and welfare or adversely affect property values or
the present or future development of the surrounding area; and (iii) the
property is physically suitable for the activity. The Community Development
Director shall review and approve the administrative permit application within
ten days of receipt. If the administrative permit is denied, written notice of
such denial and the reasons therefor shall be provided to the applicant.
   (C)   No administrative permit, however, is required under this Section for
the following vending vehicle activities:
      (1)   Vending vehicles that serve active construction sites as long as
the vending vehicle does not vend to the general public during their stop and
the stop at the site is no longer than one hour.
      (2)   Vending vehicles on private property operating solely for private
catering purposes as long as the vehicle is situated entirely on private
property, service is limited to the guests of the catered event only and no
payment transactions occur for individual orders taken by the vending vehicle
operator.
      (3)   The vending vehicle is on private property for no more than one
hour as long as: (a) vending is authorized by the applicable zoning and/or land
use entitlement; and (b) the vendor has the written consent from the property
owner and said consent shall be provided to the City upon request.
(Ord. 1767, passed 12-15-21)
§ 114.20 PERMIT RESCISSION.
   (A)   Sidewalk vendors. The Director may rescind a vending permit issued to
a sidewalk vendor for a fourth violation or any subsequent violation of this
Chapter.
   (B)   Vending vehicle operators. The Director may rescind a vending permit
issued to a vending vehicle operator for a first violation or any subsequent
violation of this Chapter.
   (C)   Should a vending permit be rescinded, the sidewalk vendor or vending
vehicle operator shall be required to cease operation immediately. A sidewalk
vendor or vending vehicle operator whose permit is rescinded may apply for a
new vending permit upon the expiration of the term of the rescinded permit.
(Ord. 1767, passed 12-15-21)
§ 114.21 ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Subsection (B) below, any violation of this
Chapter is punishable by an administrative citation in following amounts:
      (1)   One hundred dollars for a first violation.
      (2)   Two hundred dollars for a second violation within one year of the
first violation.
      (3)   Five hundred dollars for each additional violation within one year
of the first violation.
   (B)   Vending without a valid City-issued vending permit is punishable by an
administrative citation in the following amounts:
      (1)   Two hundred fifty dollars for a first violation.
      (2)   Five hundred dollars for a second violation within one year of the
first violation.
      (3)   One thousand dollars for each additional violation within one year
of the first violation.
      (4)   Upon proof of a valid vending permit, the administrative citations
set forth in this paragraph shall be reduced to amounts set forth in Subsection
(A).
   (C)   A violation of this chapter shall not be punishable as an infraction
or misdemeanor. No person alleged to have violated the provisions herein shall
be subject to arrest except when otherwise permitted by law.
   (D)   Failure to pay an administrative citation issued pursuant to this
section shall not be punishable as an infraction or misdemeanor. Additional
fines, fees, assessments, or any other financial conditions beyond those
authorized herein shall not be assessed.
   (E)   When assessing administrative citations pursuant to this chapter, the
hearing officer shall take into consideration the person's ability to pay the
fine. The City shall provide the person with notice of his or her right to
request an ability-to-pay determination and shall make available instructions
or other materials for requesting an ability-to-pay determination. The person
may request an ability-to-pay determination at adjudication or while the
judgment remains unpaid, including when a case is delinquent or has been
referred to a comprehensive collection program.
   (F)   If the person meets the criteria described in Cal. Gov’t Code § 68632
(a) or (b), the City shall accept, in full satisfaction, 20% of an
administrative citation imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (G)   The hearing officer may allow a person to complete community service
in lieu of paying the total administrative citation, may waive the
administrative citation, or may offer an alternative disposition.
(Ord. 1767, passed 12-15-21)
§ 114.22 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Director to issue, deny
issuance, or rescind a vending permit may file an appeal with the City Clerk
within 14 calendar days from the date of the decision. The permit, if one has
been issued, shall remain in effect while the appeal is being heard by the
Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer shall make his or her decision on the
basis of the preponderance of the credible evidence presented at the appeal
hearing and shall render a decision within ten business days of the hearing to
either affirm, reverse, or modify the action of the Director. The decision
shall be in writing, and shall set forth the findings and reasons for the
decision. The Hearing Officer's decision after such hearing shall be final and
conclusive.
   (B)   Except as otherwise specified herein, appeals of administrative
citations shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures and requirements
Chapter 12  of this Code.
(Ord. 1767, passed 12-15-21)
CHAPTER 115: MASSAGE REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
115.01   Findings
   
115.02   Purpose and intent
   
115.03   Definitions
   
115.04   Location
   
115.05   Permitted establishments
   
115.06   Other applicable requirements
   
115.07   Facility requirements for massage therapy establishments
   
115.08   Prohibitions regarding specific anatomical areas, specified sexual
activities and outcall massage
   
115.09   Minors
   
115.10   Inspections
   
115.11   Remedies
   
115.12   Conducting business as a nuisance
Massage Therapy Establishment Permits
   
115.20   Required
   
115.21   Application for operational permit
   
115.22   Processing the application
   
115.23   Grounds for denial of application
   
115.24   Issuance of permit
   
115.25   Renewal
   
115.26   Suspension and revocation of permit
   
115.27   Appeals
   
115.28   Other remedies
   
115.29   Sale or transfer or change of location
Massage Therapy Permits
   
115.45   Massage therapy permits required
   
115.46   Consent
   
115.47   Permit Administrator's responsibilities
   
115.48   Reciprocal massage therapist permit application
   
115.49   Original massage therapist permit application
   
115.50   Supplemental application for off- premises endorsement
   
115.51   Processing the application
   
115.52   Grounds for denial of application
   
115.53   Issuance of permit
   
115.54   Temporary permits
   
115.55   Keeping application and ordinance current
   
115.56   Renewal of permit
   
115.57   Therapist's dress and identification
   
115.58   Other prohibited activities
   
115.59   Permits issued pursuant to superseded ordinance
   
115.60   Suspension and revocation of permit
   
115.61   Appeals
   
115.62   Other remedies
   
115.63   Exemptions
   
115.64   Transfer of permit
 
   
115.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.01 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The City Council finds that massage therapy is an integral component
of the scope of services sought by residents and tourists when visiting the
Coachella Valley.
      (B)   The City Council finds and determines that licensing standards
pertaining to massage therapy business activities are necessary to protect the
public health and safety and the personal safety of massage therapists.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to ensure the protection of the public
health and safety and the personal safety of massage therapists through the
establishment of certain massage establishments and therapist permit and
licensing standards pertaining to massage therapy business activities within
the Coachella Valley and to recognize massage therapy as a legitimate business
occupation and health enhancement service.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to permit any use, conduct, and/or
activity that violate any federal, state or local law or regulation.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. The individual seeking a permit pursuant to this chapter.
   BATH. Any place offering steam baths, electric light baths, electric tub
baths, shower baths, sponge baths, sunbaths, mineral baths, vapor baths,
Russian, Swedish or Turkish baths or any other type of baths, fomentations,
alcohol rubs or any other types of rubs or giving salt glows or any type of
therapy; or any public bathing place which has in connection therewith a steam
room, dry hot room, plunge, shower bath or sleeping accommodations. Excludes a
massage therapy establishment, as defined below, that provides only shower(s).
   CERTIFIED COPY. A copy of a document that is certified by the issuer as
being a true and accurate copy of the original document or a similar document
bearing an original signature of the issuer.
   CERTIFIED STATEMENT. A written assertion, claim, or declaration bearing the
original signature of the issuer.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager or his or her designated representative.
   COACHELLA VALLEY MODEL MASSAGE ORDINANCE.  Sections
115.45 through and including
115.64 of this chapter, as adopted by this or any other jurisdiction within the
Coachella Valley.
   COMMUNICABLE DISEASE. Tuberculosis, or any disease, which may be transmitted
from a massage therapist to a patron through normal physical contact during the
performance of any massage service.
   COMPLETE APPLICATION. An application, which provides all of the requisite
information required of an applicant pursuant to this chapter.
   CONVICTION.  A conviction shall mean a guilty plea or verdict, or a plea of
nolo contendere upon a criminal charge, excluding minor traffic violations.
   DISQUALIFYING CONDUCT. Any of the following when occurring within five years
of any application made pursuant to this chapter:
      (1)   Pimping or pandering as set forth in Cal. Penal Code § 266h or §
266i respectively;
      (2)   Keeping or residing in a house of ill-fame as set forth in Cal.
Penal Code § 315;
      (3)   Keeping a house for the purpose of assignation or prostitution, or
other disorderly house as set forth in Cal. Penal Code § 316;
      (4)   Prevailing upon a person to visit a place of illegal gambling or
prostitution as set forth in Cal. Penal Code § 318;
      (5)   Lewd conduct as set forth in Cal. Penal Code § 647, subdivision
(a);
      (6)   Prostitution activities as set forth in Cal. Penal Code § 647,
subdivision (b);
      (7)   Any offense committed in any other state which, if committed or
attempted in this state, would have been punishable as one or more of the
offenses set forth in Cal. Penal Code §§ 266h, 266i, 315, 316, 318, or 647,
subdivisions (a) or (b);
      (8)   Any felony offense involving the sale of any controlled substance
specified in Cal. Health and Safety Code §§ 11054,11055,11056,11057, or 11058;
      (9)   Any offense committed in any other state which, if committed or
attempted in this state, would have been punishable as a felony offense
involving the sale of any controlled substance specified in Cal. Health and
Safety Code §§ 11054, 11055, 11056, 11057, or 11058;
      (10)   Any misdemeanor or felony offense which relates directly to the
practice of massage therapy, whether as a massage therapy business owner or
operator, or as a massage therapist; or
      (11)   Any felony the commission of which occurred on the premises of a
massage therapy establishment.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person over 18 years of age, other than a massage therapist,
who renders any service in connection with the operation of a massage business
and receives compensation from the operator of the business or patrons.
   EXPOSES TO PUBLIC VIEW. To expose something or someone to the view of a
person outside the building where the commercial business is located.
   FILING DATE OF APPLICATION. The date on which the Permit Administrator
determines that a complete application pursuant to this chapter has been
submitted to the Permit Administrator by the applicant.
   MANAGER.  The individual who is responsible for the management and/or
supervision of a massage therapy establishment.
   MASSAGE or MASSAGE THERAPY. Any method of pressure on, or friction against,
or stroking, kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating, or stimulating
the external parts of the human body with the hands or with the aid of any
mechanical or electrical apparatus or appliances, with or without supplementary
aids such as creams, ointments, or other similar preparations commonly used in
the practice of massage, under such circumstances that it is reasonably
expected that the person to whom the treatment is provided or some third person
on his or her behalf will pay money or give any other consideration or any
gratuity. MASSAGE and MASSAGE THERAPY shall include such manipulation of the
body or similar procedures described in this paragraph that are performed in
hydrotherapy, spa or similar facilities.
   MASSAGE THERAPIST. An individual who, for any consideration whatsoever,
performs or offers to perform a massage.
   MASSAGE THERAPIST PERMIT. A permit issued to a massage therapist as required
by this chapter.
   MASSAGE THERAPY ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment having a fixed place of
business for the purpose of deriving income or compensation, in whole or in
part, from massage therapy, whether or not massage is performed on the
premises.
   MASSAGE THERAPY ESTABLISHMENT PERMIT. The permit to operate a massage
therapy establishment as required by this chapter.
   MINOR. An individual under the age of 18 years.
   NUDITY. Means any of the following:
      (1)   The appearance or display of an anus, male or female genitalia,
pubic region, or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola, or
      (2)   A state of undress, which less than completely and opaquely covers
an anus, male or female genital, pubic region or a female breast below a point
immediately above the top of the areola.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has an ownership and/or management interest in the
massage therapy establishment or is responsible for any aspect of its day-to-
day operations.
   OFF-PREMISES MASSAGE. A massage performed by a permitted massage therapist
for compensation at a location that is not permitted by the city to operate as
a massage therapy establishment.
   OUTCALL MASSAGE SERVICE. Any business, the function of which is to engage in
or carry on massages at a location designated by the customer or client rather
than at a "massage therapy establishment" as defined in this section.
   ORIGINAL PERMIT. A massage therapist permit issued by the city without
regard to whether or not the applicant holds a massage therapist permit issued
by another jurisdiction.
   PATRON.  Any person who receives a massage in exchange for any form of
consideration including, but not limited to, the payment of money. Patrons may
also be referred to as "clients" or "customers".
   PERMIT. The written permission by the city to engage in the practice of
massage for compensation or to own and operate a massage therapy establishment,
as required by this chapter.
   PERMIT ADMINISTRATOR. The designated official responsible for issuing,
revoking and otherwise administering any provision of this chapter.
   PERMITTEE. The person to whom a permit has been issued pursuant to this
chapter.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, joint
venture, combination of individuals, or any other legal entity.
   PHYSICIAN'S CERTIFICATE.  A certified statement from a physician licensed to
practice medicine in the United States that provides that the applicant has
been, within 60 days prior to the filing date of the application, examined by
said physician and it has been determined that the applicant is free of any
communicable disease, as defined in this chapter.
   POLICE CHIEF. The Chief of the Police Department of the city, or his or her
designated representative.
   RECIPROCAL PERMIT. A permit issued by the city based solely on the fact that
the applicant holds a valid massage therapist permit issued by another
jurisdiction pursuant to this chapter.
   RECOGNIZED SCHOOL OF MASSAGE. Any school or educational institution licensed
or approved by the state in which it is located, whose purpose it is to upgrade
the professionalism of massage therapists and which teaches the theory, ethics,
practice, profession or work of massage and which requires a resident course of
study before the student shall be furnished with a diploma or a certificate of
graduation from such school or institution of learning following the successful
completion of such course of study or learning. Schools offering a
correspondence course not requiring actual attendance shall not be deemed a
recognized school.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREA.  Human genitals, pubic region, anus, or a female
breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of specified anatomical area
(s);
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including, but
not limited to, intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy; or
      (3)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with the fondling
or other erotic touching of specified anatomical area(s); sex acts, normal or
perverted, actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral copulation,
masturbation, or sodomy.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.04 LOCATION.
   (A)   No massage therapy establishment shall be established in the following
locations:
      (1)   In any zone other than commercial zones;
       (2)   Within 1,000 feet of any residential zone;
      (3)   Within 800 feet of any parcel of real property on which is located
any of the following uses or facilities:
         (a)   Church, defined herein as any facility used primarily for
worship of any religion, or used for other religious purposes;
         (b)   City, county, state, federal or other governmental public
buildings, including but not limited to, city halls, libraries, police and fire
stations and post offices;
         (c)   Schools, public or private, which are defined herein as:
            1.    Institutions for teaching minor children (e.g., day schools,
elementary schools, secondary schools, high schools); and
            2.   Institutions of higher learning receiving approved graduates
of preparatory school and offering instructions in arts, letters and science,
leading to the bachelor's degree or master's degree (e.g., colleges and
universities).
      (4)   Within 1,000 feet of any other massage therapy establishment.
    (B)   The measure of reference distance in this section shall be a straight
line from the nearest property line containing the massage therapy
establishment to the nearest property line of an affected use, without regard
to intervening structures.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.05 PERMITTED ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Any establishment not specifically permitted by the provisions of this
chapter shall be prohibited until such time as this chapter may be amended to
permit such establishment.
   (B)   All permitted establishments shall comply with all regulations and
provisions of this chapter except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as permitting any activity otherwise
prohibited by state or local law.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.06 OTHER APPLICABLE REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter governing use and minimum
development standards, and all other applicable requirements set forth in this
chapter, the following additional requirements shall be met by massage therapy
establishments:
   (A)   The establishment shall have a separate business entrance adjacent to
the required parking area and no other non-adult use shall be permitted in the
same building space while used as a massage therapy establishment.
   (B)   Maximum occupancy load, fire exits, aisles and fire equipment shall be
regulated, designed and provided in accordance with the Fire Department and
Building and Safety Division regulations and standards.
   (C)   All building openings, entries, windows and the like shall be located,
covered or screened in such a manner as to prevent a view into the interior
from outside the building.
   (D)   Lighting in parking lots. Lighting shall be required which is designed
to illuminate all off-street parking areas serving such establishment for the
purpose of increasing the personal safety of patrons and reducing the incident
of vandalism and theft.
   (E)   Amplified sound. No loudspeakers or sound equipment shall be used by a
massage therapy establishment for amplification of sound to a level discernible
by the public beyond the walls of the building in which the establishment is
located.
   (F)   The building entrance to the establishment shall be clearly and
legibly posted by a notice indicating that minors are precluded from entering
the premises.
   (G)   Establishments shall not display or exhibit any material in a manner
which exposes to public view photographs or illustrations of specified sexual
activities or one or more naked adults in poses which emphasize or direct the
viewer's attention to the subject's genitals.
   (H)   No alcoholic beverages shall be sold or consumed at a massage therapy
establishment.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.07 FACILITY REQUIREMENTS FOR MASSAGE THERAPY ESTABLISHMENTS.
   No massage therapy establishment permit shall be issued unless an inspection
by the city reveals that the establishment complies with each of the following
minimum requirements:
   (A)   No massage therapy establishment shall be open for business between
the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   (B)   A list of services available, described in readily understandable
language, and the cost of such services shall be posted or distributed in a
conspicuous place on the premises.
   (C)   The massage therapy establishment permit and a copy of each massage
therapist permit shall be displayed in a conspicuous place on the premises.
   (D)   Maintain a record which includes the date and time of each massage,
the name and address of the patron, the name of the person administering such
massage, and the type of massage given. Such records shall be made available,
upon request, for inspection by the City Manager or Police Chief. The
information contained in such records shall be confidential.
   (E)   The premises shall have adequate equipment for disinfecting and
sterilizing non-disposable instruments and materials used in administering
massages. Such non-disposable instruments and materials shall be disinfected
after use on each patron.
   (F)   The physical premises itself shall be open from time-to-time to
periodical inspections, including, but not limited to, the Building Department
and the Fire Department, to determine and insure that the provisions of this
code and all codes adopted by reference are met.
   (G)   All employees, including massage therapists, shall be clean and shall
wear clean, nontransparent outer garments, covering their specified anatomical
areas, the use of which garments is restricted to the massage therapy
establishment. A separate dressing room for each gender must be available on
the premises. Each dressing room must provide individual lockers for each
employee. Doors to such dressing rooms shall open inward and shall be self-
closing.
   (H)   Toilet facilities shall be provided in convenient locations. When
employees and patrons of different genders are on the premises at the same
time, separate toilet facilities shall be provided for each gender. A single
water closet per gender shall be provided for each 20 or more employees or
patrons of that gender on the premises at any one time. Urinals may be
substituted for water closets after one water closet has been provided. Toilets
shall be designated as to the gender accommodated therein.
   (I)   Provide a minimum of one bathtub or shower facility for the patrons.
However, if male and female patrons are to be served simultaneously, separate
facilities for each gender or facilities that may be locked by patrons shall be
provided. Where baths, as defined herein, are provided, and both genders are to
be served simultaneously, separate rooms or baths shall be provided for each
gender. Hot and cold running water under pressure from a potable source shall
be provided to all wash basins, bathtubs, showers and similar facilities. Each
water basin shall be provided with soap or detergent and single service towels
placed in permanently installed dispensers. A trash receptacle shall be
provided in each room where such facilities are located. In addition to the
wash basin provided for patrons, a minimum of one separate wash basin shall be
located within or as close as practicable to each area in which massages are
administered and baths are taken.
   (J)   Maintain lighting intensity of not less than 70 foot candle power at
floor level in any room or enclosure in all public rooms, hallways and within
each room or enclosure where massages are administered.
   (K)   Maintain the premises and facilities in good repair and in a clean and
sanitary condition. The premises shall be thoroughly cleaned at least once each
day the massage therapy establishment is in operation.
   (L)   Provide clean and sanitary towels, sheets and linens for each patron.
No common usage of towels, sheets and linens shall be permitted. Towels, sheets
and linens shall be provided in sufficient quantity and shall not be used by
more than one person unless such towels, sheets and linens have been re-
laundered. Heavy white paper may be substituted for sheets; provided, however,
that such paper is used only for one person and then discarded into a sanitary
receptacle. Separate closed cabinets or containers shall be provided for the
storage of clean and soiled towels, sheets and linens, and such cabinets or
containers shall be plainly marked: "clean linen" and "soiled linen."
   (M)   Cover pad used on massage tables in a workmanlike manner with durable,
washable plastic or other waterproof material.
   (N)   Unlock all exterior doors from interior side during business hours.
   (O)   Provide a separate locker for each patron to be served, which locker
shall be capable of being locked and available to each patron at no extra
charge.
   (P) No massage therapy establishment granted a permit under the provisions
of this chapter shall place, publish or distribute or cause to be placed,
published or distributed any advertisement, picture, or statement which is
known or through the exercise of reasonable care should be known to be false,
deceptive or misleading in order to induce any person to purchase or utilize
any professional massage services.
   (Q) All electrical equipment shall be installed in accordance with the
requirements of the city's Uniform Construction Codes.
   (R)   lt shall be unlawful for any massage to be carried on within any
cubicle, room, booth, or any area within a massage therapy establishment which
is fitted with a door capable of being locked. All doors or doorway coverings
within a massage therapy establishment shall have an unobstructed opening six
inches by six inches in size capable of clear two-way viewing into and out of
all cubicles, rooms, or booths. The opening shall be not less than four and
one-half feet from the floor of the establishment or more than five and one-
half feet from the floor. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to
eliminate other requirements of statute, ordinance or municipal code concerning
the maintenance of premises, or to preclude authorized inspection thereof,
whenever such inspection is deemed necessary by the Police or Health
Departments.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.08 PROHIBITIONS REGARDING SPECIFIC ANATOMICAL AREA, SPECIFIED SEXUAL
ACTIVITIES AND OUTCALL MASSAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any massage therapist or any person on the
premises of a massage therapy establishment to expose to any other person any
"specified anatomical areas," whether his or her own, or those of another, or
to perform or receive any "specified sexual activities."
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, operating or managing a
massage therapy establishment to knowingly cause, allow or permit in or about
such massage therapy establishment any agent, employee or any other person
under his or her control or supervision to perform such acts prohibited in
division (A) of this section.
   (C)   Except as provided by this chapter with respect to off-premises
massage, it shall be unlawful for any permittee under this chapter, to
administer massage on an outcall basis. Such person shall administer massage
solely within an establishment licensed to carry on such business under this
chapter. Any violation of these provisions shall be deemed grounds for
revocation of the permit granted hereunder.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.09 MINORS.
   No holder of a massage therapy establishment permit shall employ any person
under 18 years of age; nor shall massage therapy services be performed on any
patron, customer, or person under 18 years of age, except at the special
instance and request of a parent, guardian, or other person in lawful custody
of the minor upon whose behalf the massage therapist is engaged.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.10 INSPECTIONS.
   The police shall from time to time make inspections of each massage therapy
establishment for the purposes of determining that the provisions of this
chapter are fully complied with. It shall be unlawful for any permittee to fail
to allow such inspection officer access to the premises or to hinder such
officer in any manner.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.11 REMEDIES.
   The provisions of §
115.99 are to be construed as added remedies and not in conflict or derogation
of any other actions or proceedings or remedies otherwise provided by law.
§ 115.12 CONDUCTING BUSINESS AS A NUISANCE.
   Any massage therapy establishment operated, conducted or maintained contrary
to the provisions of this chapter shall be and the same is declared to be
unlawful and a public nuisance, and the City Attorney may, in addition to or in
lieu of prosecuting a criminal action, commence an action or proceeding, or the
abatement, removal or enjoinment thereof, in the manner provided by law; and
shall take such other steps and shall apply to such court as may have
jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate or remove such businesses and
restrain and enjoin any person from operating, conducting or maintaining a
massage therapy establishment contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
MASSAGE THERAPY ESTABLISHMENT PERMITS
§ 115.20 REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct, carry on,
or to permit to be engaged in, conducted, or carried on, in or upon any
premises within the city, the business of a massage therapy establishment
without possessing a permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
for each and every separate establishment.
   (B)   Neither the filing of an application for the permit, nor payment of
any fee required under any other provision of this code, shall authorize the
engaging in, conducting or carrying on of a massage therapy establishment.
   (C)   The application fee for a massage therapy establishment permit shall
be $500. This fee shall be used to defray the cost of investigation, processing
and hearing as set forth herein. The fee is nonrefundable and shall be in
addition to any other permit or license fee required under any other provision
of the code.
   (D)   All massage therapy establishment permits shall expire one year from
the date of issuance. Applications for renewal shall be made 30 calendar days
prior to the expiration date of the permit and shall be subject to a renewal
application processing fee. The renewal application fee of $100 is
nonrefundable and shall be used to defray the cost of investigation and
processing the renewal applications. As necessary to update the information
contained within the last application or renewal thereof, application for
renewal shall be in the same manner as the original application. However, to
the extent that the information previously submitted to the Permit
Administrator remains current, a statement to that effect shall be sufficient
and no further information or documentation shall be required.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.21 APPLICATION FOR OPERATIONAL PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person, as defined herein, desiring to obtain a business license
tax certificate and a permit for a massage therapy establishment shall file an
application, under oath, to the Permit Administrator, upon a form provided,
showing:
      (1)   The name, current permanent residential address and telephone
number of the applicant;
      (2)   The business name, proposed business address of the massage therapy
establishment and its telephone number;
          (a)   If the applicant is a corporation, the name shall be exactly as
set forth in its articles of incorporation and it shall provide a copy of its
articles of incorporation. The applicant shall show the name and residence
address of each of the officers, directors, and each stockholder owning not
less than 10% of the stock of the corporation and the address of the
corporation itself, if different than the address of the massage therapy
establishment;
         (b)   If the applicant is a partnership, the application shall show
the name and residence address of each of the partners including limited
partners and the address of the partnership itself, if different than the
address of the massage therapy establishment;
      (3)   The name and permanent address of the owner of the property upon
which the applicant intends to locate the massage therapy establishment. If the
property owner is a corporation, the name shall be exactly as set forth in its
articles of incorporation and the applicant shall show the name and residence
address of each of the officers, directors and stockholders owning not less
than 10% of the stock of the corporation. If the property owner is a
partnership, the application shall show the name and residence address of each
of its partners, including limited partners;
      (4)   In the event the applicant is not the owner of record of the real
property upon which the massage therapy establishment is or will be located,
the application must be accompanied by a notarized statement from the owner of
record of the real property acknowledging that a massage therapy establishment
is or will be located on the property. In addition, the applicant must furnish
a copy of the lease or rental agreement pertaining to the premises in which the
massage therapy establishment will be located;
      (5)   The date, hours and location where the massage therapy
establishment is proposed to be conducted;
      (6)   The name(s) or person(s) having the management or supervision of
the applicant's business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant has been convicted of a crime, the
nature of such offense, the date of conviction, place convicted and the
sentence received. If the applicant is a corporation, this requirement applies
to each of the officers, directors and/or stockholders owning not less than 10%
of the stock of the corporation. If the applicant is a partnership, this
requirement applies to each of the partners, including limited partners;
      (8)   Whether or not the applicant has ever had any similar license or
permit revoked or suspended, or has had any professional or vocational license
or permit revoked or suspended, and the reasons therefor, and the business
activity or occupation subsequent to such action of suspension or revocation.
If the applicant is a corporation, this requirement applies to each of the
officers, directors, and/or stockholders owning not less than 10% of the stock
of the corporation. If the applicant is a partnership, this requirement applies
to each of the partners, including limited partners;
      (9)   Driver's license or other acceptable identification and social
security number of the applicant. If the applicant is a corporation, this
requirement applies to each of the officers, directors and/or stockholders
owning not less than 10% of the stock of the corporation. If the applicant is a
partnership, this requirement applies to each of the partners, including
limited partners;
      (10)   Acceptable written proof that the applicant is at least 18 years
of age. If the applicant is a corporation, this requirement applies to each of
the officers, directors and/or stockholders owning not less than 10% of the
stock of the corporation. If the applicant is a partnership, this requirement
applies to each of the partners, including limited partners;
      (11)   The height, weight, color of eyes, color of hair and date of birth
of the applicant. If the applicant is a corporation, this requirement applies
to each of the officers, directors and/or stockholders owning not less than 10%
of the stock of the corporation. If the applicant is a partnership, this
requirement applies to each of the partners, including limited partners;
      (12)   The business, occupation or employment history of the applicant
for the last five-year period immediately preceding the date of filing of the
application. If the applicant is a corporation, this requirement applies to
each of the officers, directors and/or stockholders owning not less than 10% of
the stock of the corporation. If the applicant is a partnership, this
requirement applies to each of the partners, including limited partners;
      (13)   Each residence and business address of the applicant for the five-
year period immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application. If
the applicant is a corporation, this requirement applies to each of the
officers, directors and/or stockholders owning not less than 10% of the stock
of the corporation. If the applicant is a partnership, this requirement applies
to each of the partners, including limited partners;
      (14)   One front-face portrait photograph of the applicant at least two
inches by two inches and a complete set of applicant's fingerprints, which
shall be taken by the City Police Department. If the applicant is a
corporation, one front-face portrait photograph at least two inches by two
inches of all officers, directors and stockholders owning not less than 10% of
the stock of said corporation and a complete set of the same officers',
directors' and stockholders' fingerprints, which shall be taken by the City
Police Department. If the applicant is a partnership, one front-face portrait
photograph at least two inches by two inches in size of each partner, including
limited partners in the partnership, and a complete set of each partner or
limited partner's fingerprints which shall be taken by the City Police
Department;
      (15)   The name and address of each massage therapist who is or will be
employed in the establishment;
      (16)   Applicant must furnish a diploma or certificate of graduation from
a recognized school or other institution of learning wherein the method,
profession and work of massage is taught as defined in §
115.03; provided, however, that if the applicant will not personally engage in
the practice of massage, as defined herein, the applicant need not possess such
diploma or certificate;
      (17)   The name and address of any other massage therapy establishment
owned or operated by any person whose name is required to be given in division
(A)(2) of this section;
      (18)   A description of any other business to be operated on the same
premises or on adjoining premises owned or controlled by the applicant. If the
applicant is a corporation, this requirement applies to each of the officers,
directors and/or stockholders owning not less than 10% of the stock of the
corporation. If the applicant is a partnership, this requirement applies to
each of the partners, including limited partners;
      (19)   Authorization for the city, its agents and employees to seek
information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set
forth in the application and the qualifications of the applicant for the
permit;
      (20)   Such other identification and information necessary to discover
the truth of the matters hereinbefore specified as required to be set forth in
the application;
      (21)   The names, current addresses and written statements of at least
three bona fide permanent residents of the United States that the applicant is
of good moral character. If the applicant is able, the statement must first be
furnished from residents of the city, then the county, then the state of
California and, lastly, from the rest of the United States. These references
must be persons other than relatives and business associates. If the applicant
is a corporation, this requirement applies to each of the officers, directors
and/or stockholders owning not less than 10% of the stock of the corporation.
If the applicant is a partnership, this requirement applies to each of the
partners, including limited partners;
      (22)   Applicant must furnish for any person whose name is required to be
given in division (A)(6) the information required by divisions (A)(1), (9)
through (14), (16) (17), (19) through (21) of this section;
   (B)   The holder of the permit for a massage therapy establishment shall
notify the Permit Administrator of each change in any of the data required to
be furnished by this section within ten days after such change occurs.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.22 PROCESSING THE APPLICATION.
   (A)   All massage therapy establishment permit applications under this
chapter shall be submitted to the Permit Administrator.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application and payment of the non-refundable
application fee, the Permit Administrator shall immediately stamp the
application as received on that date. Within 30 days thereafter, the Permit
Administrator shall notify the applicant if the application is deemed
incomplete. Any subsequent submission shall be deemed a new application, but no
additional fee is required.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a completed application, the Permit Administrator
shall cause an investigation to be made by the appropriate individuals or
departments, as determined by the Permit Administrator to be necessary for
review and investigation of the accuracy of the information contained in the
application and compliance with all applicable regulations.
   (D)   Each department or division to which the application is submitted by
the Permit Administrator shall respond in writing to the Permit Administrator.
   (E)    The Permit Administrator shall grant or deny an application for a
massage therapy establishment permit within 60 business days of receipt of a
complete application. The Permit Administrator shall grant or deny a renewal
application within 30 calendar days of receipt of a complete application.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.23 GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a massage therapy establishment permit shall be
denied if the Permit Administrator finds any of the following:
      (1)   The applicant is not 18 years of age or older; or
      (2)   The applicant has made one or more material misstatements in the
application; or
      (3)   The applicant, if an individual; or a stockholder holding more than
10% of the stock of the corporation; any of the officers or directors if the
applicant is a corporation; or any of the partners, including limited partners,
if the applicant is a partnership; or the manager or other person principally
in charge of the operation of the business; or any of the foregoing
individuals, is a person who has engaged in disqualifying conduct, in the past
five years; or
      (4)   Any person to be employed by the applicant has engaged in
disqualifying conduct; or
      (5)   The applicant is required by the California Penal Code to register
as a sex offender; or
      (6)   The applicant has had a permit or license to operate a massage
therapy establishment, denied, revoked or suspended by any entity within five
years prior to the date of the application; or
      (7)   The massage establishment, as proposed by the applicant, if
permitted, would not comply with all the applicable laws, including, but not
limited to, all city building, fire, zoning, and health regulations.
   (B)   If the Permit Administrator denies the application, he or she shall
notify the applicant of the denial in writing and state the reason(s) for the
denial.
   (C)    Any subsequent information submitted to cure the grounds of a denied
application shall be treated as a new application.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.24 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Permit Administrator shall issue the permit if there are no
grounds to deny the permit as set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Except as expressly provided in this chapter, no person shall provide
massage therapy services at any location within the city unless said person has
first obtained a massage therapy establishment permit issued pursuant to this
chapter.
   (C)   Except as to therapists with an off-premises endorsement, the operator
of a massage therapy establishment may only offer massage therapy services
performed by a massage therapist with a valid city permit.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.25 RENEWAL.
   Upon application for a massage therapy establishment renewal permit, the
applicant shall provide all of the information set forth in §
115.21.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.26 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   A massage therapy establishment permit shall be revoked by the Permit
Administrator if he or she receives notice that, after administrative
proceedings conducted in conformity with this code, the city has made any of
the following findings or determinations with respect to the permittee:
   (A)   The massage therapy establishment is conducted in a manner that does
not comply with all applicable laws, including but not limited to this chapter
and the city's building, zoning and health regulations; or
   (B)   The holder of the permit is convicted of any disqualifying conduct or
is required to register as a sex offender as set forth in Cal. Penal Code §
290; or
   (C)   The permittee fails to notify the Permit Administrator of any update
to the information contained in the application that is required to keep the
information current; or
   (D)   Information contained in the approved application is inaccurate;
   (E)   Any patron of the permittee contracts any communicable disease during
the course of any services offered at the massage therapy establishment;
   (F)   The permit holder refuses to allow representatives of the city to
inspect the business records of the permittee, or any premises utilized by the
permittee for massage therapy services;
   (G)   The holder of the permit has ceased to meet any of the requirements
for issuance of the permit.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.27 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Permit Administrator may
file an appeal to the City Council that conforms to the following requirements:
      (1)   All appeals shall be in writing and shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   Name(s) of the person filing the appeal ("appellants");
          (b)   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the
grounds for the appeal; and
         (c)   The signatures of all parties named as appellants and their
mailing addresses.
      (2)   A filing fee for an appeal of $100, or other amount as established
from time to time by City Council resolution, must be paid to the city at or
prior to the time of the filing of the appeal.
      (3)   Any appeal filed that fails to provide all of the information
required by this section and the appropriate filing fee shall be deemed
incomplete.
      (4)   A complete and proper appeal of the denial of a permit application
shall be filed with the City Clerk within ten calendar days of service of the
letter denying the application or within ten calendar days of any other action
that is the subject of appeal.
   (B)   After receiving the written appeal, the City Clerk shall schedule a
public hearing before the City Council at the next regularly scheduled City
Council meeting for which there is sufficient time to have the matter properly
noticed.
   (C)   The decision of the City Council shall be final.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.28 OTHER REMEDIES.
   (A)   Any establishment in violation of the provisions of this chapter is
unlawful and a public nuisance, subject to abatement, removal or enjoinment
thereof in the manner provided by law.
   (B)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute an
infraction violation and the violator shall be subject to the imposition of
criminal penalties and civil fines. For each separate violation of any
provision of this chapter, the person convicted of such infraction shall be
subject to the following fines for each separate violation:
      (1)   A fine in an amount not to exceed $100 for a first conviction of an
offense;
      (2)   A fine in an amount not to exceed $200 for a second conviction of
the same offense within a 12 month period from the date of the first offense;
and
      (3)   A fine in an amount not to exceed $500 for a third conviction of
the same offense within a 12 month period from the date of the first offense.
The fine for a fourth and subsequent convictions of the same offense within a
12 month period of the date from the first offense shall be $500.
   (C)   In lieu of issuing an infraction citation, the city may issue an
administrative citation, and/or assess an administrative fine consistent with
the infraction civil fines set out above, pursuant to any other ordinance
within its municipal code.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall preclude the city from issuing an
infraction or misdemeanor citation upon the occurrence of the same subject
offense on a separate day.
   (E)   The remedies provided herein are not to be construed as exclusive
remedies and, in the event of violation, the city may pursue any proceedings or
remedies otherwise provided by law.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.29 SALE OR TRANSFER OR CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   Upon the sale, transfer, or relocation of a massage therapy establishment
the permit shall be null and void. However, upon the death or incapacity of the
permittee, an heir or devisee of a deceased permittee, or any guardian of an
heir or devisee of a deceased permittee, may continue the massage therapy
establishment for a reasonable period of time not to exceed 60 days to allow
for reapplication of the permit.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
MASSAGE THERAPIST PERMITS
§ 115.45 MASSAGE THERAPIST PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Massage therapist permit. Except as expressly provided in this
chapter, only a person holding a current massage therapist permit issued
pursuant to this chapter shall perform or offer to perform massage therapy at a
massage therapy establishment located within the city. Nothing herein shall
exempt a person from zoning or other applicable requirements set out elsewhere
in this code or in the Zoning Ordinance, and every person shall comply with all
such requirements.
   (B)   Off-premises endorsement to massage therapist permit. Except as
expressly provided in this chapter, no person shall perform or offer to perform
an off-premises massage unless he or she has a valid massage therapist permit,
with an off-premises endorsement, issued to him or her pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter. Nothing herein shall exempt a person from zoning or
other applicable requirements set out elsewhere in this code or in the Zoning
Ordinance, and every person shall comply with all such requirements.
   (C)   Exemptions. Unless specifically exempted by state law, the fact that a
person possesses other types of permits and/or licenses does not exempt him or
her from the requirement of obtaining a permit that is required by this
chapter. The permit requirements of this chapter shall be in addition to the
requirement of a business license set out elsewhere in this code, as well as
any other license, permit or fee required by any local, county, state or
federal law.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.46 CONSENT.
   By applying for a permit under the Coachella Valley Model Massage Ordinance,
the applicant shall be deemed to have consented to the provisions of this
chapter and to the exercise thereunder by the Permit Administrator and the
city's officials, representatives and employees charged with implementing and/
or enforcing the provisions set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.47 PERMIT ADMINISTRATOR'S RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The city shall designate a Permit Administrator who shall be
responsible for granting or denying all permits described in this chapter and
said permits shall only be granted or denied pursuant to the provisions
described herein and all other applicable laws. If no designation is made
pursuant to this section, the City Manager shall be deemed the Permit
Administrator.
   (B)   Where used herein with respect to the Permit Administrator's
responsibilities, words such as "shall" and "must" are not intended by the city
to self-impose liability or a mandatory duty and are instead intended only to
be directory.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.48 RECIPROCAL MASSAGE THERAPIST PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   If an applicant holds a current massage therapist permit issued by any
other jurisdiction pursuant to the Coachella Valley Model Massage Ordinance,
then application for a reciprocal massage therapist permit may be made by
submission, to the Permit Administrator, of all of the following:
      (1)   A certified copy of a current massage therapist permit issued,
pursuant to the Coachella Valley Model Massage Ordinance, by any other
jurisdiction that has adopted its provisions;
      (2)   A certified copy of the original and all renewal applications
related to the massage therapist permit issued by the other jurisdiction
pursuant to the Coachella Valley Model Massage Ordinance; and
      (3)   A non-refundable application fee of $25 to defray the costs of
administering this chapter.
   (B)   If the massage therapy permit submitted in support of an application
for a reciprocal permit includes an off-premises endorsement, the application
shall be deemed an application for a massage therapist permit and an off-
premises endorsement and no further documentation, information or fees shall be
required in order to apply for an off-premises endorsement to the reciprocal
permit.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.49 ORIGINAL MASSAGE THERAPIST PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   If an applicant does not hold a current massage therapist permit
issued by another jurisdiction that has adopted the Coachella Valley Model
Massage Ordinance, application for issuance of a massage therapist permit by
the city shall be made, under oath, on the form set out by the Permit
Administrator. The following information, documents and other requirements
shall be included with the submission of all such applications:
      (1)   The applicant's legal name, any aliases and date of birth;
      (2)   A certified letter of intent to employ from the operator of a
massage therapy establishment lawfully operating within the city. Each such
letter shall verify that the operator of the massage therapy establishment has
reviewed the applicant's qualifications and that the applicant has met the
requirements necessary to perform massage therapy at that facility;
      (3)   The applicant's home and business addresses, corresponding
telephone numbers, and permanent address and telephone number, if different;
      (4)   Written evidence that the applicant is at least 18 years of age;
      (5)   The previous home addresses of applicant for the ten years prior to
the filing date of the application and the dates of residency at each such
address;
      (6)   The names, addresses and descriptions of all current and former
businesses owned, operated or managed by applicant for the ten years prior to
the filing date of the application and the dates applicant owned, operated or
managed each such business;
      (7)   Employment history for the ten years prior to the date of
application, and all massage or similar business history and experience;
      (8)   Two front-face portrait photographs taken within 30 days of the
date of application, at least two inches by two inches in size;
      (9)   Applicant's weight, height, color of hair and eyes, and gender;
      (10)   The applicant's driver's license number or identification number;
      (11)   The applicant's fingerprints taken within the previous 60 days by
an agency approved by the Permit Administrator;
      (12)   The applicant's social security number and/or state or federally
issued tax identification number;
      (13)   Proof, in the form specified here, that applicant is:
         (a)   A graduate of a recognized school of massage; or
             (b)   Certified by the National Certification Board for
Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork. Proof of certification by the National
Certification Board for Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork shall be in the form
of a certified copy of the therapeutic massage and bodywork credential issued
by said Board. Proof of graduation from a recognized school of massage shall
require both of the following:
            1.   Certified copy of the applicant's diploma or certificate of
graduation, or equivalent documentation, establishing that applicant has
successfully completed the course of study for competency as a massage
therapist offered by the recognized school of massage; and
            2.   Certified transcript from a recognized school of massage
verifying applicant has successfully completed a course of study requiring at
least 700 hours of massage therapy training. If the application is submitted
concurrently with an application for an off-premises endorsement, the minimum
hours of training shall be as set out below for an off-premises endorsement
application;
      (14)   A certified statement from a physician licensed to practice
medicine in the United States that provides that the applicant has, within 60
days prior to the filing date of the application, been examined by said
physician and it has been determined that the applicant is free of any
communicable disease as defined in this chapter;
      (15)   A list of all of applicant's convictions of crimes, excluding
traffic violations;
      (16)   Whether or not the applicant has ever been convicted of any
disqualifying conduct;
      (17)   Whether or not the applicant is required to register as a sex
offender pursuant to the Cal. Penal Code § 290;
      (18)   Whether or not applicant has had a previous permit, license or
other authority for massage services denied, suspended or revoked by any
entity. If so, the date, location and reasons for the denial, suspension or
revocation;
      (19)   Whether or not the applicant has been a sole proprietor, general
partner, officer, director, member or employee of any massage therapy business
that has had a permit, license or authority to operate a massage business
denied, suspended or revoked by any entity. If so, the applicant shall provide
the name and location of the massage therapy establishment or business for
which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked, the date of the denial,
suspension or revocation, and the reason(s) for the denial, suspension or
revocation; and
      (20)   The applicant shall provide the Permit Administrator with the
authorization to conduct the necessary background investigations to determine
the truthfulness and correctness of the information provided by applicant and
whether the applicant is qualified pursuant to this chapter to receive the
requested massage therapist permit.
   (B)   The applicant shall date and sign the application and declare under
penalty of perjury that the information contained in the application is true
and correct.
   (C)   The applicant shall pay a non-refundable application fee of $150 at
the time of filing an application to defray the costs of administering this
chapter.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
   § 115.50 SUPPLEMENTAL APPLICATION FOR OFF- PREMISES ENDORSEMENT.
   (A)   If an applicant does not hold a current permit with an off-premises
endorsement issued by another jurisdiction pursuant to the Coachella Valley
Model Massage Ordinance, application for an off-premises endorsement to a
massage therapist permit issued by the city shall be made, under oath, on the
form set out by the Permit Administrator. The following information, documents
and other requirements shall be included with the submission of all such
applications:
      (1)   The applicant's legal name;
      (2)   A copy of applicant's massage therapist permit issued pursuant to
this chapter, or reciprocal permit, if application therefor is not submitted
concurrently;
      (3)   Proof, in the form specified here, that applicant is:
         (a)   A graduate of a recognized school of massage; or
         (b)   Certified by the National Certification Board for Therapeutic
Massage and Bodywork. Proof of certification by the National Certification
Board for Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork shall be in the form of a certified
copy of the therapeutic massage and bodywork credential issued by said Board.
Proof of graduation from a recognized school of massage shall require both of
the following:
            1.   Certified copy of the applicant's diploma or certificate of
graduation, or equivalent documentation, establishing that applicant has
successfully completed the course of study for competency as a massage
therapist offered by the recognized school of massage; and
                2.   Certified transcript from a recognized school of massage
verifying applicant has successfully completed a course of study requiring at
least 700 hours of massage therapy training.
      (4)   The applicant shall provide the Permit Administrator with the
authorization to conduct the necessary background investigations to determine
the truthfulness and correctness of the information provided by applicant and
whether the applicant is qualified pursuant to this chapter to receive the
requested off-premises endorsement.
   (B)   The applicant shall date and sign the application, declaring under
penalty of perjury that the information contained in the application is true
and correct.
   (C)   The applicant shall pay a non-refundable application deposit fee of
$50 at the time of filing an application for an off-premises endorsement to
defray the cost of administering this chapter, which fee shall be in addition
to any other permit application fees.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.51 PROCESSING THE APPLICATION.
   (A)   All massage therapist permit applications shall be submitted to the
Permit Administrator.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application and payment of the non-refundable
application fee, the Permit Administrator shall immediately stamp the
application as received on that date. Within 30 days thereafter, the Permit
Administrator shall notify the applicant if the application is deemed
incomplete. Any subsequent submission shall be deemed a new application.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a completed application, the Permit Administrator
shall cause an investigation to be made by the appropriate individuals or
departments as determined by the Permit Administrator to be necessary for
review and investigation of the accuracy of the information contained in the
application and compliance with all applicable regulations.
   (D)   Each department or division to which the application is submitted by
the Permit Administrator shall respond in writing to the Permit Administrator.
   (E)   The Permit Administrator shall grant or deny an application for an
original permit within 60 business days of receipt of a complete application.
The Permit Administrator shall grant or deny a reciprocal permit or a renewal
application within 30 calendar days of receipt of a complete application
therefor.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.52 GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a massage therapy permit shall be denied if the
Permit Administrator finds that, and in the case of an application for a
reciprocal permit, the massage therapy permit or off-premises endorsement that
the applicant alleges to have been issued by another jurisdiction pursuant to
the Coachella Valley Model Massage Ordinance is not valid and/or current. In
all other cases, the application shall be denied if the Permit Administrator
finds any of the following:
      (1)   The applicant is not 18 years of age or older;
      (2)   The application contains false information;
      (3)   The applicant did not submit either:
         (a)    A diploma or certificate of graduation or equivalent
documentation from a recognized school of massage that verifies that he or she
has obtained the requisite number of hours of massage therapy training; or
         (b)   Therapeutic massage and bodywork credentials issued by the
National Certification Board for Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork;
      (4)   The applicant has been convicted of disqualifying conduct;
      (5)   The applicant is required by the California Penal Code to register
as a sex offender;
      (6)   The applicant has had a massage therapist permit, or a permit or
license to operate a massage therapy establishment, denied, revoked or
suspended by any entity within five years prior to the date of the application;
or
      (7)   The application is incomplete or any required information or
document has not been provided with the application.
   (B)   If the Permit Administrator denies the application, he or she shall
notify the applicant of the denial in writing and state the reason(s) for the
denial.
   (C)    Any subsequent information submitted to cure the grounds of a denied
application shall be treated as a new application.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.53 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Permit Administrator shall issue the permit if there are no
grounds to deny the permit as set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Except as expressly provided in this chapter, no person shall perform
or offer to perform massage therapy at any location within the city unless said
person has first obtained a massage therapist permit issued pursuant to this
chapter.
   (C)   Except as to therapists with an off-premises endorsement, the operator
of a massage therapy establishment may only offer massage therapy services
performed by a massage therapist to whom a massage therapist permit has been
issued by the Permit Administrator.
   (D)   A massage therapist permittee shall not perform or offer to perform
massage therapy services at any site other than a lawfully operating massage
therapy establishment unless the permittee's massage therapist permit includes
an off-premises endorsement.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.54 TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   (A)   Upon a finding of good cause therefor, the Permit Administrator may
issue a temporary permit to any person who possess a valid permit issued by any
other governmental entity pursuant to requirements that are similar to those
set out in this chapter, including the training, physical clearance,
fingerprinting and background investigation requirements.
   (B)   Application for a temporary permit shall be made by written request
that includes a statement, under penalty of perjury, of the justification for a
temporary permit. Said request shall be submitted to the Permit Administrator,
together with the following:
      (1)   A certified copy of a valid permit issued by any other
jurisdiction;
      (2)   A certified copy of the provisions of the ordinance or other local
law pursuant to which the permit was issued by said other jurisdiction;
      (3)   Proof of identification; and
      (4)   A non-refundable application fee of $25.
   (C)   All temporary permits shall automatically expire 30 days after the
date of issuance of the subject temporary permit. The Permit Administrator
shall have the discretion to extend the term of any temporary permit an
additional 30 days provided that the entire term of the subject temporary
permit does not exceed a total period of 90 days.
   (D)   The Permit Administrator may condition the issuance of a temporary
permit on any additional requirements that he or she deems necessary to assure
the purpose and policy of this chapter is met.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.55 KEEPING APPLICATION AND ORDINANCE CURRENT.
   (A)   During the effective duration of the permit, the permittee shall
promptly update, correct or supplement the information contained in the
application therefor on file with the Permit Administrator when necessary to
keep the information contained therein current and accurate.
   (B)   Where reference is made herein to any statute or other law, said
reference shall include any subsequent amendment or superseding provision
thereto.
   (C)   The fees and fines and other sums set forth in this chapter shall be
in effect until the City Council or, if authority hereunder has been delegated
to another agency, the governing body thereof, shall, by resolution, fix some
other rate based upon a cost factor.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.56 RENEWAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   All permits shall expire one year from the date they are issued,
except that an off-premises endorsement shall expire concurrently with the
corresponding massage therapist permit.
   (B)   Applications for renewal of a permit shall be made 30 calendar days
prior to the expiration date of the permit. As necessary to update the
information contained within the last application or renewal thereof,
application for renewal shall be in the same manner as the original
application. However, to the extent that the information previously submitted
to the Permit Administrator remains current, a statement to that effect shall
be sufficient and no further information or documentation shall be required
except as follows:
      (1)   Renewal of a reciprocal permit.
         (a)   Where the applicant seeks to renew a reciprocal permit,
application for renewal shall include evidence that the underlying massage
therapist permit has been renewed by the issuing jurisdiction and that it
remains valid and current.
         (b)   For renewal of a reciprocal permit, the permittee shall pay a
non-refundable renewal application fee of $10 to help defray the expense of
administering this chapter.
         (c)   A reciprocal permit shall not be renewed if the underlying
massage therapist permit has expired and has not been renewed, or the
underlying permit has been revoked, or is otherwise no longer valid. If renewal
of a reciprocal permit is denied because the underlying permit is no longer
valid, permittee shall submit a complete, original application and comply with
all submission requirements set out above for application for an original
massage therapist permit. All such applications shall include an explanation of
the reason that the reciprocal permit is no longer valid.
      (2)   Renewal of original permits.
         (a)   For renewal of an original massage therapist permit, permittee
shall include a current physician's certificate, as described above, with his
or her renewal application.
         (b)   For renewal of an original massage therapist permit, permittee
shall also pay a non- refundable renewal application deposit fee of $100 at the
time of filing the renewal application to help defray the expense of
administering this chapter.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.57 THERAPIST'S DRESS AND IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   During all times that he or she is performing or offering to perform
massage therapy services, every massage therapist shall wear a badge that
identifies his or her first or last name. Upon receipt of a request or
complaint by a patron, the massage therapist shall advise the patron of the
full name of the massage therapy establishment through which the massage
therapy services were arranged, and the identity of the Permit Administrator
through whom the therapist was issued his or her qualifying massage therapist
permit.
   (B)   All massage therapists shall have in their possession a valid permit
issued pursuant to the Coachella Valley Model Massage Ordinance as well as
valid identification at all times that he or she is performing or offering to
perform massage therapy services within the city.
   (C)   All massage therapists shall wear non- transparent outer garments
covering all specified anatomical areas while performing or offering to perform
any massage therapy services.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.58 OTHER PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any massage therapist, any patron, or any other
person present where massage therapy services are being offered or performed,
to expose or touch any specified anatomical areas, whether his or her own, or
those of another person.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any massage therapist, any patron, or any other
person present where massage therapy services are being offered or performed,
to be in a state of nudity.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any massage therapist, any patron, or any other
person present where massage therapy services are being offered or performed,
to engage in any specified sexual activities.
   (D)   No person shall provide or offer to provide any massage therapy
services to a minor unless written permission is provided by the minor's parent
or legal guardian.
   (E)   No permittee shall provide or offer to provide massage therapy
services under any name not specified in the qualifying permit.
   (F)   No permittee shall provide or offer any alcoholic beverage to a patron
during the course of providing or offering to provide any massage therapy
service.
   (G)   No permittee shall transfer or assign any permit issued pursuant to
this chapter to another person or entity. Any attempted transfer shall result
in the automatic termination of said permit.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.59 PERMITS ISSUED PURSUANT TO SUPERCEDED ORDINANCE.
   Provided the massage therapist held a permit validly issued by the city
prior to the effective date of this chapter, and was in compliance with all
requirements of the city with respect thereto, said permit holders shall have
until the expiration date of said permit, or one year from the effective date
of this chapter, whichever date is earlier, to obtain a permit issued pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.60 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   A massage therapist permit and any off-premises endorsement issued pursuant
to the Coachella Valley Model Massage Ordinance, or any predecessor ordinance,
shall be revoked by the Permit Administrator whom has issued the permit if he
or she receives notice that, after administrative proceedings conducted in
conformity with this code, the city has made any of the following findings or
determinations with respect to the permittee:
   (A)   The massage therapy business or service is conducted in a manner that
does not comply with all applicable laws, including but not limited to this
chapter and the city's building, zoning and health regulations;
   (B)   The holder of the permit is convicted of any disqualifying conduct or
is required to register as a sex offender as set forth in Cal. Penal Code §
290;
   (C)   The permittee fails to notify the Permit Administrator of any update
to the information contained in the application that is required to keep the
information current;
   (D)   Information contained in the approved application is inaccurate;
   (E)   Any patron of the permittee contracts any communicable disease during
the course of any services offered by the permittee;
   (F)   The holder of the permit, or any applicant therefor, refuses to allow
representatives of the city or Permit Administrator to inspect business records
of the permittee, or any premises utilized by the permittee for massage therapy
services;
   (G)   The permittee fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter; or
   (H)   The holder of the permit has ceased to meet any of the requirements
for issuance of the permit.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.61 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Permit Administrator may
file an appeal to the City Council that conforms to the following requirements:
      (1)   All appeals shall be in writing and shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   Name(s) of the person filing the appeal ("appellants");
          (b)   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the
grounds for the appeal; and
         (c)   The signatures of all parties named as appellants and their
mailing addresses.
      (2)   A filing fee for an appeal of $100, or other amount as established
from time to time by City Council resolution, must be paid to the city at or
prior to the time of the filing of the appeal.
      (3)   Any appeal filed that fails to provide all of the information
required by this section and the appropriate filing fee shall be deemed
incomplete.
      (4)   A complete and proper appeal of the denial of a permit application
shall be filed with the City Clerk within ten calendar days of service of the
letter denying the application or within ten calendar days of any other action
that is the subject of appeal.
   (B)   After receiving the written appeal, the City Clerk shall schedule a
public hearing before the City Council at the next regularly scheduled City
Council meeting for which there is sufficient time to have the matter properly
noticed.
   (C)   The decision of the City Council shall be final.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.62 OTHER REMEDIES.
   (A)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter is unlawful and a
public nuisance, subject to abatement, removal or enjoinment thereof in the
manner provided by law.
   (B)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute an
infraction violation and the violator shall be subject to the imposition of
criminal penalties and civil fines. For each separate violation of any
provision of this chapter, the person convicted of such infraction shall be
subject to the following fines for each separate violation:
      (1)   A fine in an amount not to exceed $250 for a first conviction of an
offense;
      (2)   A fine in an amount not to exceed $500 for a second conviction of
the same offense within a 12 month period from the date of the first offense;
and
      (3)   A fine in an amount not to exceed $750 for a third conviction of
the same offense within a 12 month period from the date of the first offense.
The fine for a fourth and subsequent convictions of the same offense within a
12 month period of the date from the first offense shall be $1,000.
   (C)   In lieu of issuing an infraction citation, the city may issue an
administrative citation, and/or assess an administrative fine consistent with
the infraction civil fines set out above, pursuant to any other ordinance
within its municipal code.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall preclude the city from issuing an
infraction or misdemeanor citation upon the occurrence of the same subject
offense on a separate day.
   (E)   The remedies provided herein are not to be construed as exclusive
remedies and, in the event of violation, the city may pursue any proceedings or
remedies otherwise provided by law.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.63 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any of the following:
   (A)   Any physician, surgeon, chiropractor, osteopath, or acupuncturist duly
licensed to practice their respective professions in the state, or any nurse or
physical therapist working under the supervision thereof, when engaging in any
massage therapy practice or activity within the scope of said license.
Practical nurses or other persons without qualifications as massage therapists
or other persons not duly licensed by the state to practice pursuant to the
Medical Practice Act, whether or not employed by a physician, surgeon,
chiropractor, osteopath, or acupuncturist, may not perform or offer to perform
massage therapy without first obtaining a massage therapist permit pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any treatment administered in good faith in any course of the practice
of any healing art or profession by any person licensed to practice any such
art or profession under the Business and Professions Code of the state or any
other laws of the state.
   (C)   Barbers, beauticians, manicurists, and pedicurists who are duly
licensed under the laws of the state, except that this exemption shall apply
solely to the massaging of the scalp, face, neck, arms, hands, or feet of the
customer or client for cosmetic or beautifying purposes.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.64 TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
   No massage therapist permit or off-premises endorsement shall be
transferable and any attempted transfer shall render the permit null and void.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the city may determine
that any person violating any of the provisions, or failing to comply with any
of the requirements, of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000, or by
imprisonment in the county jail for a period of not more than six months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment. Each day a violation is committed or permitted
to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1453, passed 12-7-05)
CHAPTER 116: PSYCHIC ACTIVITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
116.01   Fortunetelling
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   Posting of prices
   
116.04   Exception for entertainment
   
116.05   Exception for religious practice
   
116.06   Nuisance declared
Permits
   
116.15   Fees
   
116.16   Application
   
116.17   Contents of application
   
116.18   Investigation
   
116.19   Hearing and decision by City Finance Director
   
116.20   Granting of permit
   
116.21   Appeal
   
116.22   Issuance
   
116.23   Term
   
116.24   Revocation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 116.01 FORTUNETELLING.
   No person shall conduct, engage in, carry on, participate in, or practice
fortunetelling or cause the same to be done for pay without having first
obtained a permit therefor and without having posted and maintained in full
force and effect a surety bond as required by this chapter.
('61 Code, §15C.1) (Ord. 935, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 967, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOR PAY. For a fee, reward, donation, loan or receipt of anything of value.
   FORTUNETELLING. Includes telling of fortunes, forecasting of future events
or furnishing of any information not otherwise obtainable by the ordinary
process of knowledge, by means of any occult or psychic power, faculty or
force, including, but not limited to clairvoyance, clairaudience, cartomancy,
phrenology, spirits, tea leaves or other such reading, mediumship, seership,
prophecy, augury, astrology, palmistry, necromancy, mind-reading, telepathy, or
other craft, art, science, cards, talisman, charm, potion, magnetism,
magnetized article or substance, crystal gazing, oriental mysteries or magic of
any kind or nature or other similar means or act.
('61 Code, § 15C.2) (Ord. 935, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 967, passed - - )
§ 116.03 POSTING OF PRICES.
   Prices for any and all services offered by an individual engaged in
fortunetelling and psychic activities shall be prominently displayed within the
area where the normal activities of the business are conducted.
   (A)   All letters, figures or numerals on each sign required by this
section, however, affixed, marked, imprinted, placed or embossed shall be at
least one and one-quarter inches in height and all lines or mark used in the
making or forming of all such letters, figures or numerals which are a part of
the sign shall be at least one-eighth-inch in width.
   (B)   All letters, figures or numerals which are a part of each such sign
shall be plainly legible, and of like color or tint and such color or tint
shall contrast with the background and other parts of the sign.
('61 Code, § 15C.12) (Ord. 935, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 967, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 116.04 EXCEPTION FOR ENTERTAINMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any person engaged solely
in the business of entertaining the public by demonstrations of mind- reading,
mental telepathy, thought conveyance, the giving of horoscopic readings or
similar activities at public places and in the presence of and within the
hearing of all other persons in attendance, and at which no questions are
answered as part of such entertainment except in a manner to permit all persons
present at such public place to hear such answers.
('61 Code, § 15C.13) (Ord. 935, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 967, passed - - )
§ 116.05 EXCEPTION FOR RELIGIOUS PRACTICE.
   No person shall be required to pay any fee or take out any permit for
conducting or participating in any religious ceremony or service when such
person holds a certificate of ordination as a minister, missionary, medium,
healer, or clairvoyant (hereinafter collectively referred to as minister) from
any bona fide church or religious association maintaining a church and holding
regular services and having a creed or set of religious principles that is
recognized by all churches of like faith; provided that:
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, the fees,
gratuities, emoluments and profits thereof shall be regularly accounted for and
paid solely to or for the benefit of the bona fide church or religious
association, as herein defined.
   (B)   The minister holding a certificate of ordination from such bona fide
church or religious association shall file with the Finance Director, a
declaration under penalty of perjury which states the minister's name, age,
street, address and telephone number in this city where the activity set forth
herein is to be conducted.
   (C)   Such bona fide church or religious association, as defined in this
section may pay to its ministers a salary or compensation based upon a
percentage basis, pursuant to an agreement between the church and the minister
which is embodied in a resolution and transcribed in the minutes of such church
or religious association.
('61 Code, § 15C.14) (Ord. 935, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 967, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 116.06 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   The City Council hereby declares a violation of this chapter to be a public
nuisance.
('61 Code, § 15C.16) (Ord. 935, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 967, passed - - )
PERMITS
§ 116.15 FEES.
   The application, investigation and permit fees shall be as from time to time
set by resolution of the City Council.
('61 Code, § 15C.3) (Ord. 935, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 967, passed - - )
§ 116.16 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to obtain a permit to operate or engage in any
fortunetelling business shall make application to the City Finance Director. A
nonrefundable fee shall be paid to the city to defray, in part, the cost of
investigation and report required by this chapter.
   (B)   The application for permit does not authorize operation or engagement
in the fortunetelling business.
('61 Code, § 15C.4) (Ord. 935, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 967, passed - - )
§ 116.17 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.
   Each application for a fortunetelling permit shall contain the following
information:
   (A)   The full, true name and any other names used by the applicant;
   (B)   The present residential address and telephone number of the applicant;
   (C)   The address of the location at which the business is to be conducted;
   (D)   The previous business and residential addresses and telephone numbers
of the applicant, if any, for a period of five years immediately prior to the
date of the application and the dates at each;
   (E)   The applicant's height, weight, color of eyes and hair, date and place
of birth, and sex;
   (F)   Two photographs of the applicant at least two inches by two inches
taken within the last six months and fingerprints of the applicant on a form
provided by the Police Department;
   (G)   Business, occupation or employment history of the applicant for the
five years immediately preceding the date of application;
   (H)   If the applicant, in this or any other city, state, or territory has
ever had license or permit of any kind, revoked or suspended, or the applicant
has ever been subject to disciplinary action by the issuer of such license or
permit, the reason therefor, and the business activity or occupation subsequent
to such action of suspension or revocation;
   (I)   All convictions within the last five years of any crime involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or moral turpitude;
   (J)   Such other identification and information as the Finance Director may
reasonably require in order to discover the truth of the matters required to be
set forth in the application;
   (K)   If the applicant is a corporation, the name of the corporation shall
be set forth exactly as shown in its articles of incorporation, together with
the place and date of incorporation, and the names and addresses of each of its
current officers and directors, and each stockholder holding more than 5% of
the stock in the corporation. If the applicant is a partnership, the applicant
shall set forth the name, residence address and dates of birth of the partners,
including limited partners. If the applicant is a limited partnership, it shall
furnish a copy of its certificate of limited partnership filed with the County
Clerk. If one or more of the partners is a corporation, the provisions of this
division pertaining to corporations shall apply. The applicant corporation or
partnership shall designate one of its officers or general partners to act as
its responsible managing officer. Such designated persons shall complete and
sign all application forms required of an individual applicant under this
chapter, but only one application fee shall be charged;
   (L)   Any individual who will perform fortunetelling for an applicant's
business, as an employee, independent contractor or volunteer, shall complete
and sign all application forms in the same manner as an applicant, and a
separate fee shall be charged for each such individual.
('61 Code, § 15C.5) (Ord. 935, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 967, passed - - )
§ 116.18 INVESTIGATION.
   Upon the filing of the application, it shall be referred to the Police
Department for investigation, report and recommendation. The investigation
shall be conducted to verify the facts contained in the application and any
supporting data. The investigation shall be completed and a report and
recommendation made in writing to the finance director within 30 days after the
filing of the application, unless the applicant requests or consents to an
extension of the time period. If the report recommends denial of the permit to
the applicant, the grounds for the recommended denial shall be set forth
therein. At the time of the filing of the report and recommendation with the
Finance Director, a copy thereof shall be mailed to the applicant, accompanied
by a notice that the applicant may request to be heard when the Finance
Director considers the application and report. The notice shall state the date,
time and place where applicant may appear before the Finance Director.
('61 Code, § 15C.6) (Ord. 935, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 967, passed - - )
§ 116.19 HEARING AND DECISION BY CITY FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   The Finance Director shall consider the application and the report and
recommendation at a hearing held on or before the seventh day after the filing
of the report and recommendation. Notice of the time and place of the hearing
shall be given to all parties by the Finance Director at least three days prior
to the hearing. The applicant for the permit may attend the hearing. Any
interested party shall be heard upon a reasonable request. The decision of the
Finance Director to grant or deny the permit or conditionally grant the permit
shall be in writing, and if adverse to the applicant, shall contain findings of
fact and a determination of the issues presented. Unless the applicant agrees
in writing to an extension of time, the Finance Director shall make his order
denying or granting or conditionally granting the permit within 24 hours after
completion of the hearing on the application for a permit and shall notify the
applicant of his action by personal service or certified mail.
('61 Code, § 15C.7) (Ord. 935, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 967, passed - - )
§ 116.20 GRANTING OF PERMIT.
   The Finance Director shall grant the permit if all the requirements for the
permit have been met and it has been found that:
   (A)   All the information contained in the application and supporting data
is true;
   (B)   The applicant has not, within the previous two years, been convicted
of any violation of this chapter or any law relating to fraud or moral
turpitude;
   (C)   The applicant agrees to abide by and comply with all conditions of the
permit and applicable laws.
('61 Code, § 15C.8) (Ord. 935, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 967, passed - - )
§ 116.21 APPEAL.
   Any applicant who is dissatisfied with the decision of the Finance Director
may appeal that decision to the City Council pursuant to the provisions of §
110.13.
('61 Code, § 15C.9) (Ord. 935, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 967, passed - - )
§ 116.22 ISSUANCE.
   If the Finance Director grants the permit, he shall thereafter issue the
permit only after the applicant has paid the permit fee and has posted with the
City Clerk a good and sufficient surety bond in the principal amount of $15,000
executed as surety by a corporate surety in the state and as a principal by the
applicant. The form of the bond shall have been approved by the City Attorney
and shall have been given to insure good faith and fair dealing on the part of
the applicant and as a guarantee of indemnity for any and all loss, damage,
theft or other unfair dealings suffered by any patron or customer of the
applicant within the city during the term of the permit. The permit fee and
term of bond shall be prorated between date of issuance and date of expiration.
('61 Code, § 15C.10) (Ord. 935, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 967, passed - - )
§ 116.23 TERM.
   The term of the permit shall be the same as the term of a regular business
license. A renewal application shall be filed not later than 30 days prior to
the expiration of the permit and shall be processed in the same manner as new
application.
('61 Code, § 15C.11) (Ord. 935, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 967, passed - - )
§ 116.24 REVOCATION.
   A psychic activities permit, issued by the Finance Director shall be revoked
or suspended where it is found that the permittee has been convicted of any
offense which would be cause for denial of a permit upon an original
application, has made a false statement on an application for a permit, or has
committed an act in violation of this chapter or upon termination of the bond
required herein. Revocation proceedings shall be conducted as prescribed by §
116.04.
('61 Code, § 15C.15) (Ord. 935, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 967, passed - - )
CHAPTER 117: SOLICITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
117.01   Definitions
Religious and Noncommercial
   
117.15   Permit required
   
117.16   Applications
   
117.17   Information required
   
117.18   Issuance of permit
   
117.19   Transfer prohibited
Commercial
   
117.30   Permit required
   
117.31   Exemptions
   
117.32   Application for permit
   
117.33   Application investigation and permit issuance
   
117.34   Revocation
   
117.35   Right of appeal
   
117.36   Issuance and exhibition of permit card
   
117.37   Form of notices
   
117.38   Prohibited acts
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHARITABLE SOLICITOR. Any person or employee or agent of such person who
goes from house to house or from place to place, or in or along any highways,
streets or sidewalks within the city, selling and making immediate delivery, or
offering for sale and immediate delivery to person other than manufacturers,
wholesale, jobbers or retailers of such commodities, any goods, wares,
merchandise, or other things of value, in possession of such person, or who
offers to such persons services to be performed immediately.
   PEDDLER. Any person or employee or agent of such person who goes from house
to house or from place to place, or in or along any highways, streets or
sidewalks within the city, selling and making immediate delivery, or offering
for sale and immediate delivery to person other than manufacturers, wholesale,
jobbers or retailers of such commodities, any goods, wares, merchandise, or
other things of value, in possession of such person, or who offers to such
persons services to be performed immediately.
   PERSON. Any natural person, business, firm, corporation, association, club,
partnership, society, or other entity or organization.
   SOLICITOR. Any person or employee or agent of such person who goes from
house to house or from place to place, or in or along the highways, streets or
sidewalks within the city, soliciting orders from persons other than
manufacturers, wholesale, sale or retailers of such commodities, for any goods,
wares, merchandise, or other things of value, for future delivery, or who
solicits orders from any person for services to be performed in the future, or
who solicits funds, money or contributions.
('61 Code, §§ 15A.2; 15B.2) (Ord. 990, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 967, passed - - ;
Am. Ord. 1767, passed 12-15-21)
RELIGIOUS AND NONCOMMERCIAL
§ 117.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall, within the city, conduct or allow to be con ducted on such
person's behalf, the solicitation of funds for charitable purposes unless the
person holds a valid charitable solicitor permit issued pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 15A.1) (Ord. 990, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 5-6-09; Am.
Ord. 1767, passed 12-15-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.16 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for charitable solicitor permits shall be made to the
Management Services Director upon forms prescribed by the city. The application
shall be declared under penalty of per jury and filed with the Management
Services Director. No fee will be required for a charitable solicitation
permit.
('61 Code, § 15A.3) (Ord. 990, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 5-6-09)
§ 117.17 INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   An application for a charitable solicitor permit or a renewal thereof shall
be filed under penalty of perjury, and shall contain or be accompanied by the
following information:
   (A)   Documentation from the United States Internal Revenue Service, the
California Franchise Tax Board, or such other authority or agency as the
Management Services Director may reasonably deem acceptable, that the applicant
for the charitable solicitor permit in question is a tax exempt or not-for-
profit organization under federal or state income tax laws.
   (B)   The full name, address and telephone number of the applicant.
   (C)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of each person or persons
proposed to solicit funds under the charitable solicitor permit.
   (D)   The length of time during which the solicitation will occur.
   (E)   A covenant that all solicitation taking place under the requested
permit shall be for charitable purposes.
   (F)   A statement indicating whether or not the applicant or any person(s)
affiliated with the applicant that will engage in charitable solicitation under
the requested permit has/have been, within the five- year period preceding the
application date, convicted (whether by verdict or plea of guilty or nolo
contendere) of a felony, any crime constituting theft, or any crime for which
conviction gives rise to an obligation to register as an offender pursuant to
Cal. Penal Code § 290 or Cal. Health and Safety Code § 11590. Together with
such information regarding any such conviction, an applicant shall provide
information as to the nature of the criminal offense(s) in question and the
disposition corresponding to any such offense(s), including but not limited to
any sentence imposed or conditions of parole or probation.
   (G)   A statement indicating whether or not the applicant or any person(s)
affiliated with the applicant that will engage in charitable solicitation under
the requested permit has/have suffered or been subject to the revocation or
limitation of a permit or license to engage in charitable solicitation or any
business activity.
   (H)   Such other reasonable information as the Management Services Director
may deem necessary on a case-by-case basis.
('61 Code, § 15A.4) (Ord. 990, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 5-6-09)
§ 117.18 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   Provided that the Management Services Director deems all information
provided on the application complete and reliable, and subject to the
satisfactory completion of any investigation per §
117.33, the Management Services Director shall issue the charitable solicitor
permit, or renewal thereof in question as soon as practicable after the
application is filed, but in no event more than ten days after filing or
completion of any investigation. The permit, whether for charitable
solicitation or commercial solicitation under this chapter, shall be valid for
the time stated in the permit application but in no event longer than six
months. The permit, if issued, shall include the name of the permit holder,
date of expiration, purpose of the solicitation and a permit number assigned by
the Management Services director.
('61 Code, § 15A.5) (Ord. 990, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 5-6-09)
§ 117.19 TRANSFER PROHIBITED.
   No charitable solicitor permit issued under this subchapter may be
transferred or assigned. Any attempt to assign such permit shall render such
permit void.
('61 Code, § 15A.6) (Ord. 990, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 5-6-09)
COMMERCIAL
§ 117.30 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of peddler, as
defined in §
117.01, within the city limits without first obtaining a permit therefor as
provided herein.
('61 Code, § 15B.1) (Ord. 967, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.31 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Any person distributing milk or food products or other commodities
from house to house where a license has been issued for an established route;
   (B)   The delivery of goods, wares or merchandise, products or provisions or
anything of value or to the rendering of services, or to the taking of orders
or by the solicitation therefor, by a person engaged in such business at a
fixed place of business in the city, but this exemption shall not relieve any
person from complying with the provisions of this subchapter merely by reason
of associating temporarily with any local dealer, trader, merchant or by
conducting such transient business in connection with a part of, or in the name
of any local dealer, trader or merchant;
   (C)   Any person entering in or upon any property or the purpose of
obtaining satisfaction of a lawful obligation theretofore incurred by the
occupant or occupants thereof;
   (D)   Commercial agent or salesperson for wholesale houses or firms selling
goods, wares or merchandise, or any commodity or service to, or soliciting
orders therefor from retail or wholesale dealers or from manufacturers, or to
contractors;
   (E)   Any person selling tickets of admission or entertainments, lectures or
events to be held for religious or charitable or educational purposes;
   (F)   Any person requesting donations for a candidate for political office
or recognized political party or organization;
   (G)   Any charitable organization as defined in §
117.15;
   (H)   Every honorably discharged or honorably relieved soldier, sailor, or
marine of the United States or Confederate States who served in the Civil War,
Indian War, the Spanish- American War, any Philippine Insurrection, the Chinese
Relief Expedition, the World War of 1914 and years following, or World War II,
who is physically unable to obtain a livelihood by manual labor, and who is a
voter of this state, may distribute circulars, and hawk, peddle and vend any
goods, wares or merchandise owned by him, except spirituous, malt, vinous or
other intoxicating liquor, without payment of any license, tax or fee
whatsoever, and the City Council shall issue to such soldier, sailor or mariner
without cost, license therefor;
   (I)   Any person for which the requirement of a license tax amounts to an
undue burden upon interstate commerce pursuant to Section §
110.07 of this code shall be entitled to an exemption from or a reduction of
the license tax as determined by the provisions of §
110.07;
   (J)   A sidewalk vendor or vending vehicle operator as defined in §
114.10.
('61 Code, § 15B.3) (Ord. 967, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1037, passed - - ; Am.
Ord. 1056, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1767, passed 12-15-21)
§ 117.32 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Applicant for a permit under this subchapter must file, with the Management
Services Director, a verified application in duplicate on a form to be supplied
by the Management Services Director which shall contain or be accompanied by
the following:
   (A)   Applicant's finger and thumb prints taken by the Police Department of
the city;
   (B)   Full identification of the applicant and all persons to be directly or
indirectly interested in the permit, if granted;
   (C)   The residence and business addresses and telephone numbers of the
applicant;
   (D)   The exact nature of the proposed business;
   (E)   If an employee or agent, a full identification of employer or
principal;
   (F)   Location or places of transacting business and residence for past two
years;
   (G)   Prior convictions of a crime, misdemeanor or violation of any
ordinance, the nature, place and date of such offense and disposition of same;
   (H)   In the event the proposed activity involves the sale of any food
products or substances for human consumption which can be contaminated by
handling, a statement by a reputable physician in the county, dated not more
than ten days prior to submission of the application, certifying the applicant
to be free of contagious, infectious or communicable disease;
   (I)   A statement as to whether any city or licensing authority has ever
refused to issue or renew or has revoked a license for the conduct of the
business for which the permit and license is sought, together with an accurate
statement of the reasons therefor;
   (J)   A receipt from the Management Services Director showing payment of the
fee established by resolution of the City Council to cover cost of investi
gation of the facts to be stated in such application form;
   (K)   A photograph of applicant taken within the past 60 days;
   (L)   Such other information as the Management Services Director or his/her
designee may deem reasonably necessary for the protection of the public safety
and general welfare of the community.
('61 Code, § 15B.4) (Ord. 967, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 5-6-09)
§ 117.33 APPLICATION INVESTIGATION AND PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Investigation. Upon filing with the Management Services Director or
his/her designee, one copy of each application for a charitable solicitor
permit or a permit to engage in the business of a peddler shall be forwarded to
Chief of Police or his/her designee for a background investigation. The Chief
of Police shall conduct or waive the background investigation in accordance
with §
110.28. Fees for any background investigation as to a permit to engage in the
business of a peddler shall be paid in accord with §
110.28(F). Notwithstanding language to the contrary in §
110.28(F), there shall be no fee for a background investigation as to an
application for a charitable solicitor permit. Within five days of completing
any background investigation performed hereunder, the Chief of Police or his/
her designee shall report his/her findings upon investigation to the Management
Services Director.
   (B)   (1)   Management Services Director determination on issuance of
permit. The Management Services Director shall approve a charitable solicitor
permit or a permit to engage in the business of a peddler pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter unless the Management Services Director makes one or
more the following stated findings:
         (a)   The application has not been fully completed;
         (b)   False information has been reported in the application; and
         (c)   The Chief of Police or his/her designee has reported that a
background investigation indicates that the permit should be denied.
      (2)   If the permit application is denied, the Management Services
Director shall promptly give the applicant notice of that fact, and a succinct
explanation of the reason for such denial per division (B) of this section.
   (C)   Term of permit.  The term of any permit granted per this chapter shall
be determined by the Management Services Director but in no event be longer
than six months.
('61 Code, § 15B.5) (Ord. 967, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 5-6-09)
§ 117.34 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Every permit issued under this subchapter is subject to the right,
which is hereby expressly reserved and consented to by applicant, to revoke the
same for any of the causes hereinafter mentioned.
   (B)   Any such permit may be summarily revoked by the Management Services
Director or by the City Council for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application;
      (2)   Any violation of this subchapter or any ordinance of the city or
any other laws relating to the permitted business;
      (3)   Conviction of the permittee of felony or of a misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude;
      (4)   Refusal or failure to make available to the Chief of Police or
Management Services Director, upon demand, any records relating to the
permitted business which are deemed necessary for the enforcement of this
subchapter;
      (5)   Conducting the business permitted under this subchapter in any
unlawful manner or in such manner as is inimical to the health, safety or
general welfare of the public;
      (6)   Upon a determination by the Chief of Police or his/her designee
that the holder of a permit issued under this chapter presents a danger to the
health, safety or welfare of the community;
      (7)   If there is any other good and sufficient reason therefor.
('61 Code, § 15B.6) (Ord. 967, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 5-6-09)
§ 117.35 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Any applicant aggrieved by the action of the Management Services
Director in refusing to issue any permit, or in summarily revoking any permit
already issued, shall have the right of appeal to the City Council. Such appeal
shall be taken by filing with the Management Services Director, within ten days
after notice of such action, a verified written statement, in triplicate,
setting forth fully the grounds of appeal, and accompanied by a filing fee as
established by resolu tion of the City Council; otherwise the action of the
Management Services Director shall be final.
   (B)   Any applicant or licensee aggrieved by the action of the City Council,
in summarily revoking any permit already issued, shall have the right to
request a review and reconsideration of such action upon filing with the
Management Services Director, within ten days after notice of such action, a
verified written statement, in triplicate, setting forth fully the reasons why
the decision of the City Council should be reconsidered and reversed, which
statement must be accompanied by a filing fee as established by resolution of
the City Council; otherwise the action of the City Council shall be final.
   (C)   The City Council shall set a time and place for the hearing and notice
of such hearing on appeal or review shall be given at least five days prior to
the date of hearing. At such hearing, the applicant or licensee and his or its
attorney may present and submit evidence. The decision and order of the City
Council at or after such hearing shall be final and conclusive.
('61 Code, § 15B.7) (Ord. 967, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 5-6-09)
§ 117.36 ISSUANCE AND EXHIBITION OF PERMIT CARD.
   (A)   If the application is granted and filed with the City Clerk, and the
license fee paid, the Management Services Director shall issue to the applicant
a permit card which shall contain the name and address, and description of
applicant, and the kind of business permitted, date of issue and length of time
the same shall operate and other pertinent identifying description.
   (B)   Such identification card shall be worn constantly by the permittee on
the front of his coat or hat or clothing in such a way as to be conspicuous
during such time as the permittee is engaged in the actual activity of peddling
or soliciting.
('61 Code, § 15B.8) (Ord. 967, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 5-6-09)
§ 117.37 FORM OF NOTICES.
   All notices issued or given in compliance with this subchapter shall be in
writing and mailed, postage prepaid, to the person affected or entitled
thereto, to the address for such purpose specified in the application for
general permit. Deposit of such notice in the United States mail constitutes
legal service thereof on the date of such deposit.
('61 Code, § 15B.9) (Ord. 967, passed - - )
§ 117.38 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to peddle or solicit before the hour of
8:00 a.m. of any day or after the hour of 7:00 p.m. of any day.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any peddler, or any person pretending to be a
peddler, for the purpose of peddling or soliciting, or to pretending to peddle
or solicit, to ring the bell or knock at or on any building or entrance thereto
whereon there is painted, affixed, or otherwise displayed to the public view
any visible sign containing any or all of the words “NO PEDDLERS PERMITTED,”
“NO SOLICITORS PERMITTED,” “NO AGENTS PERMITTED,” or words which otherwise
propose to prohibit or indicate objection of occupant to peddling or soliciting
on the premises, or to attempt to gain admittance thereto.
('61 Code, § 15B.10) (Ord. 967, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 118: TAXICABS AND VEHICLES FOR HIRE
Section
General Provisions
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Maintenance and inspection of vehicles
   
118.03   Insurance required
   
118.04   Scope and limits of insurance policy
   
118.05   Cancellation of insurance policy
   
118.06   Operation of vehicles while awaiting employment
   
118.07   Refusal to carry passengers
Taxicab Stands
   
118.20   Establishment and marking
   
118.21   Consent of ground floor property owners and occupants required
   
118.22   Contents of permit
   
118.23   Use by unauthorized persons; no loitering near occupied stand
   
118.24   Revocation
Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity
   
118.35   Required
   
118.36   Application
   
118.37   Hearing
   
118.38   Publication of notice
   
118.39   Investigation of necessity
   
118.40   Issuance
   
118.41   Retroactivity
   
118.42   Prima facie evidence of public convenience and necessity
   
118.43   Cancellation upon discontinuance of business
   
118.44   Right to obtain new certificate upon sale and the like, of vehicles
   
118.45   Issuance of new certificate upon transfer of ownership in company
   
118.46   Suspension and revocation
   
118.47   Grounds for denial of application and suspension or revocation
   
118.48   Insurance coverage
   
118.49   Bond required to insure installation and removal of bus stops
   
118.50   Driver for passenger carriers
   
118.51   City Manager to promulgate additional rules and regulations
Driver's Permit
   
118.60   Required
   
118.61   Application to be filed with Chief of Police; deposit to cover cost of
badge; transferability of badge
   
118.62   Qualifications for permit
   
118.63   Fingerprinting of applicant; issuance of permit
   
118.64   Posting and contents
   
118.65   Effect of change in employment
   
118.66   Period of validity; renewal
   
118.67   Revocation; appeal; reinstatement
Fares
   
118.80   Taximeters required; general meter requirements
   
118.81   Flag to indicate when taxicab is in use
   
118.82   Changes within city on meter basis
   
118.83   Taximeter dial to be visible to passengers
   
118.84   Rates
   
118.85   Direct route to be used
   
118.86   Receipt for fare
   
118.87   Determination of fare disputes; failure to comply
   
118.88   Failure to pay fare
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER. Every person in charge of or operating, any taxicab, as herein
defined, either as agent, employee or otherwise under the direction of the
owner, or as owner, as herein defined.
   OWNER. Every person having use or control of any taxicab as herein defined,
whether as owner, lessee or otherwise.
   STAND. A place designated for the use, while awaiting employment, of the
particular motor-propelled passenger-carrying vehicles authorized to utilize
the same.
   STREET. Any place commonly used for the purpose of public travel.
   TAXICAB. Every automobile or motor-propelled vehicle operated at rates per
mile, or for wait-time, or for both, and equipped with a taximeter, used for
the transportation of passengers for hire over the public streets of the city
and not over a defined route and irrespective of whether the operations extend
beyond the boundary limits of the city, and when such vehicle is routed as to
destination under the direction of such passenger or passengers, or of such
persons hiring the same.
   TAXIMETER. Any mechanical instrument, appliance, device or machine by which
the charge for hire of a calculated, either for distance traveled or time
consumed, or both, and upon such instrument, appliance, device or machine such
charge is indicated by figures.
('61 Code, § 21.1) (Ord. 271, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1016, passed - - )
§ 118.02 MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION OF VEHICLES.
   All public passenger vehicles for hire shall be under the supervision and
control of the Chief of Police, and the Chief of Police shall not permit any
driver to operate any vehicle in the city, while same or any equipment used
thereon, or therewith, shall be in an unsafe, defective or unsanitary
condition, and every vehicle shall be at all times subject to the inspection of
any police officer of the city.
('61 Code, § 21.2) (Ord. 271, passed - - )
§ 118.03 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or operator to drive or operate a taxicab
or cause the same to be driven or operated in the city, and no license for the
operation thereof shall be granted unless there is on file with the City Clerk
and in full force and effect at all times while such taxicab is being operated,
a policy of insurance approved by the City Attorney, with a solvent and
responsible company authorized to do business in the state, insuring the owner
of such taxicab (giving the manufacture number and state license number)
against loss by reason of injury or damage that may result to persons or
property from the negligent or defective construction of such taxicab, or for
any other cause.
('61 Code, § 21.3) (Ord. 271, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1016, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 118.04 SCOPE AND LIMITS OF INSURANCE POLICY.
   The policy of insurance required by §
118.03 shall guarantee the payment to any and all persons suffering injury or
damage to person or property, of any final judgment rendered against such owner
or driver, within the limits mentioned in this section irrespective of the
financial condition or any acts or omissions of such owner or driver, and shall
enure to the benefit of such persons. Such policy shall be in the amount of
$1,000,000 combined single limit.
('61 Code, § 21.4) (Ord. 271, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 469, passed - - ; Am. Ord.
986, passed - - )
§ 118.05 CANCELLATION OF INSURANCE POLICY.
   If, at any time, such policy of insurance is canceled by the company issuing
the same, or the authority of the company to do business in the state shall be
revoked, the City Clerk shall require the owner to replace such policy with
another policy satisfactory to the City Attorney and in default thereof the
owner's license to operate shall be revoked.
('61 Code, § 21.5) (Ord. 271, passed - - )
§ 118.06 OPERATION OF VEHICLES WHILE AWAITING EMPLOYMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for a taxicab, while awaiting employment, to stand on
any street or place other than upon a designated stand, nor shall any operator
of a taxicab, while awaiting employment, drive so as to interfere with
vehicular traffic.
('61 Code, § 21.11) (Ord. 271, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1016, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 118.07 REFUSAL TO CARRY PASSENGERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any driver, operating under a permit issued
pursuant to the terms of this chapter to refuse, when the vehicle is in service
and not otherwise engaged, to transport any person who presents himself for
carriage in a sober and orderly manner and for a lawful purpose.
('61 Code, § 21.12) (Ord. 271, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
TAXICAB STANDS
§ 118.20 ESTABLISHMENT AND MARKING.
   The Chief of Police shall designate, in writing, stands upon public streets
to be occupied by taxicabs after the permits required by this chapter have been
issued. Such stands shall appropriately be designated or marked, “Taxis Only,”
as the Chief of Police may determine.
('61 Code, § 21.6) (Ord. 271, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1016, passed - - )
§ 118.21 CONSENT OF GROUND FLOOR PROPERTY OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS REQUIRED.
   Before any designation of stands is made, the written consent must be
obtained of the tenant of the ground floor fronting the space where such stand
is to be located. In the event the ground floor is not occupied, the written
consent of the owner must be first obtained.
('61 Code, § 21.7) (Ord. 271, passed - - )
§ 118.22 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   The stand permit shall specify the name and address of the permittee and the
number of vehicles authorized thereunder.
('61 Code, § 21.8) (Ord. 271, passed - - )
§ 118.23 USE BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS; NO LOITERING NEAR OCCUPIED STAND.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any vehicle for hire,
other than the permittee, to use any stand designated under
§ 118.20 and when such stand is occupied, no other vehicle shall loiter or wait
nearby.
('61 Code, § 21.9) (Ord. 271, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 118.24 REVOCATION.
   Any stand designated by the Chief of Police, as herein provided, may be
revoked by the Chief of Police and it shall be unlawful for any taxicab to
occupy the stand after such revocation.
('61 Code, § 21.10) (Ord. 271, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1016, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
CERTIFICATE OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY
§ 118.35 REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of operating any taxicab or any other
company supplying public bus transportation to various points within the city
without having first obtained from the City Council a certificate of public
convenience and necessity.
('61 Code, § 21.13) (Ord. 271, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 538, passed - - ; Am. Ord.
1016, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 118.36 APPLICATION.
   All persons applying for a certificate required by §
118.35 shall file with the City Council a verified application which shall set
forth:
   (A)   The name and address of the person making application;
   (B)   If, at the same time of making application such person is actually
operating a passenger carrier company the name of the company and the area
which it services;
   (C)   The area for which a certificate of public convenience and necessity
is desired;
   (D)   A description of the proposed service and proposed charges and rates
for the services;
   (E)   Such other information as the City Council may require.
('61 Code, § 21.14) (Ord. 271, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 538, passed - - )
§ 118.37 HEARING.
   Upon filing of the fully completed application for the certificate of public
convenience and necessity, the City Clerk shall fix the time for a public
hearing thereon before the City Council for the purpose of determining whether
the public convenience and necessity require the proposed service. No
certificate shall be granted until the City Council shall, after hearing,
declare by resolution that the public convenience and necessity require the
proposed service.
('61 Code, § 21.15) (Ord. 271, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 538, passed - - )
§ 118.38 PUBLICATION OF NOTICE.
   Notice of the time and place of the public hearing before the City Council
shall be published once in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, and
the cost of the publication shall be at the expense of the applicant.
('61 Code, § 21.16) (Ord. 271, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 538, passed - - )
§ 118.39 INVESTIGATION OF NECESSITY.
   In determining whether public convenience and necessity require the proposed
service for which the application is made, the City Council shall investigate
and consider:
   (A)   The demand of the public for the requested service;
   (B)   The adequacy of the existing service;
   (C)   The financial responsibility and experience of the applicant;
   (D)   The effect which the service may have upon existing service.
('61 Code, § 21.17) (Ord. 271, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 538, passed - - )
§ 118.40 ISSUANCE.
   If the City Council shall, by resolution, declare that public convenience
and necessity require the service, a certificate to that effect shall be issued
to the persons entitled thereto; provided the City Council may in its
discretion determine the area of service and limitations on the granting of
such permit and any change in the area of service shall require new application
and approval; provided further that no certificate authorized hereunder shall
be issued to any person who shall not have fully complied with all of the
necessary requirements of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 21.18) (Ord. 271, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1016, passed - - )
§ 118.41 RETROACTIVITY.
   Sections
118.35 through
118.46 shall not affect the number of taxicabs operating with valid permits on
the effective date of this section.
('61 Code, § 21.19) (Ord. 271, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1016, passed - - )
§ 118.42 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY.
   Every owner operating a taxicab under permission of the City Council prior
to the effective date of this chapter shall be presumed to have established
prima facie evidence of public convenience and necessity for the licensing of
his taxicabs actually in operation, and the City Council, upon written
application received by it not later than 15 days after the effective date of
this chapter shall grant a certificate to such owner for such taxicabs.
('61 Code, § 21.20) (Ord. 271, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1016, passed - - )
§ 118.43 CANCELLATION UPON DISCONTINUANCE OF BUSINESS.
   If the service permitted hereunder is for any reason discontinued for a
period of 30 days. the certificate granted shall be automatically canceled, and
shall be restored only in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 21.21) (Ord. 271, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 538, passed - - )
§ 118.44 RIGHT TO OBTAIN NEW CERTIFICATE UPON SALE AND THE LIKE, OF VEHICLES.
   If an owner sells or transfers title to a vehicle for which a certificate
has been issued, or in the event a taxicab for which a certificate has been
issued, has been destroyed, he is entitled, as a matter of right, upon written
application to the City Council made within 15 days after such sale, transfer
or destruction, to have a new certificate issued, but for no greater number
than sold, transferred or destroyed, and provided such owner has complied with
all the provisions of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 21.22) (Ord. 271, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1016, passed - - )
§ 118.45 ISSUANCE OF NEW CERTIFICATE UPON TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP IN COMPANY.
   If the owner sells or transfers title to the transportation company, or if
more than 25% of the stock in the company is transferred in any one-year period
a new certificate must be issued provided such new owners have complied with
all of the provisions of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 21.22-1) (Ord. 538, passed - - )
§ 118.46 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Council may at any time revoke or suspend the certificate
granted pursuant to this subchapter:
      (1)   If the company's record is unsatisfactory;
      (2)   If the company fails to operate the service in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   If the company discontinues or suspends operation of service for a
period of 30 days without permission first had and obtained from the City
Council.
   (B)   All certificates which shall have been surrendered or revoked by the
City Council shall be surrendered to the City Clerk, and the operation covered
by such certificates shall cease and be unlawful.
('61 Code, § 21.23) (Ord. 271, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 538, passed - - )
§ 118.47 GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OF APPLICATION AND SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Council shall act on the company's application for a
certificate of public convenience and necessity by resolution and may deny any
such application, if in its sound discretion, it determines that:
      (1)   There is a reasonable cause rendering the proposed operation
undesirable or inadequate to this city or the financial condition of the
company appears to the City Council to be unstable or inadequate to perform the
conditions which may be reasonably imposed;
      (2)   There is insufficient public need or demand for the proposed
service;
      (3)   The applicant's operation is inadequate or unsafe or applicant
fails to meet reasonable issuance requirements established by the city.
   (B)   The City Council may, by resolution, and after five days written
notice to the company, suspend or revoke a company's certificate of necessity
for any of the grounds for which it may deny an application and, in addition
thereto, it may suspend or revoke any company's certificate of necessity, for a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 21.24) (Ord. 271, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 538, passed - - )
§ 118.48 INSURANCE COVERAGE.
   Prior to the issuance of a certificate of public convenience and necessity,
the applicant therefor must show proof of coverage and shall, during the
existence of the certificate of public convenience and necessity, maintain
public liability insurance in a minimum amount of $1,000,000 combined single
limit and such policy shall carry an endorsement protecting the city against
any claims or demands as a result of persons injured or killed or property
damaged as a result of the operation of the passenger carrier by the applicant
and a copy of such policy or policies shall be deposited with the City Clerk
together with an endorsement thereon requiring the insurance carrier to notify
the city ten days in advance of any intended cancellation or material change in
such coverage.
('61 Code, § 21.24-1) (Ord. 538, passed - - )
§ 118.49 BOND REQUIRED TO INSURE INSTALLATION AND REMOVAL OF BUS STOPS.
   Prior to the issuance of such certificate of public convenience and
necessity the applicant shall deposit with the Department of Public Works the
cost estimated by the Department of Public Works for the installation and
signing of all bus stops proposed to be used by the applicant together with a
bond assuring that upon the termination of bus service or upon failure of the
company, for any reason, the bus stops may be removed without cost to the city.
Such bonds shall be in an amount determined by the Department of Public Works.
('61 Code, § 21.24-2) (Ord. 538, passed - - )
§ 118.50 DRIVER FOR PASSENGER CARRIERS.
   Any driver of a passenger carrier operating under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity under the terms of this subchapter shall comply with
all rules and regulations set forth in §§
91.55 through
91.60 of the Code relating to ambulance drivers.
('61 Code, § 21.24-3) (Ord. 538, passed - - )
§ 118.51 CITY MANAGER TO PROMULGATE ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Manager may promulgate a set of rules and regulations describing
the duties and procedures to be observed and complied with by drivers of
passenger carrier or by the owner of a certificate of public convenience and
necessity hereunder, which rules and regulations and any amendments thereto
shall be subject to approval by the City Council. Such rules, regulations and
amendments, when approved by the City Council by resolution and filed with the
City Clerk, shall constitute enforceable provisions of this chapter and
violations thereof shall be subject to the penalties provided by this chapter.
Copies of such rules, regulations and any amendments thereto, shall be
delivered to each owner of such certificate of public convenience and necessity
at the time such certificate is granted.
('61 Code, § 21.24-4) (Ord. 538, passed - - )
DRIVER'S PERMIT
§ 118.60 REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or drive a taxicab in the
city without having first obtained written permission to do so from the Chief
of Police.
('61 Code, § 21.25) (Ord. 271, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1016, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 118.61 APPLICATION TO BE FILED WITH CHIEF OF POLICE; DEPOSIT TO COVER COST OF
BADGE; TRANSFERABILITY OF BADGE.
   To secure such permission as required by this subchapter, a written
application must be filed with the Chief of Police and accompanied by a deposit
in an amount established by resolution of the City Council to cover the cost of
a badge to be issued to and conspicuously worn by the permittee during all
working hours. Such badge shall not be transferable.
('61 Code, § 21.26) (Ord. 271, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 665, passed - - )
§ 118.62 QUALIFICATIONS FOR PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police shall not issuance a permit and must revoke a permit
therefore granted for any one of the following reasons:
   (A)   If the applicant is under 21 years of age;
   (B)   If the applicant has not resided in the county 30 days immediately
prior to filing his application;
   (C)   If the applicant does not possess a valid chauffeur's license issued
by the state;
   (D)   If the applicant is a reckless driver or has been convicted within
five years preceding the application, of reckless driving or driving while
under the influence of intoxicating liquors or narcotics or has been convicted
two or more times regardless of time of occurrence of any of the above
offenses;
   (E)   If the applicant is guilty or has been convicted of a felony or crime
involving moral turpitude;
   (F)   If the applicant is not a fit and proper person to drive a taxicab;
   (G)   If the owner or driver uses a vehicle license hereunder for
transporting persons for immoral purposes or is otherwise engaged in an
unlawful activity;
   (H)   If the applicant violates any provisions of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 21.27) (Ord. 271, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 475, passed - - ; Am. Ord.
1016, passed - - )
§ 118.63 FINGERPRINTING OF APPLICANT; ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   Upon satisfying the requirements of this chapter, the applicant for a
driver's permit shall be fingerprinted, and his record filed in the office of
the Police Department, and thereupon a permit shall be issued.
('61 Code, § 21.28) (Ord. 271, passed - - )
§ 118.64 POSTING AND CONTENTS.
   The permit required by this subchapter shall be fixed in a conspicuous place
in the taxicab, so as to be seen from the passenger's compartment, and such
permit shall set forth the name, address and telephone number of the owner of
the taxicab.
('61 Code, § 21.29) (Ord. 271, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1016, passed - - )
§ 118.65 EFFECT OF CHANGE IN EMPLOYMENT.
   If a driver changes his employment to a different owner, he shall, within 24
hours thereafter, notify the Chief of Police for the purpose of having his
driver's certificate changed so as to properly designate the name of the new
employer.
('61 Code, § 21.30) (Ord. 271, passed - - )
§ 118.66 PERIOD OF VALIDITY; RENEWAL.
   When issued, the driver's permit shall be valid for one year from the date
of issuance, unless the same has been revoked for any of the causes herein set
forth. The driver, in making application for a renewal of his permit, shall
follow the same procedure as set forth in making his original application,
except he shall not be required to pay the badge deposit, be fingerprinted or
furnish photographs. He shall pay the fee of $1 for the issuance of the renewal
permit.
('61 Code, § 21.31) (Ord. 271, passed - - )
§ 118.67 REVOCATION; APPEAL; REINSTATEMENT.
   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed to revoke and cancel,
without previous notice, any permit granted pursuant to this chapter, whenever
an owner or driver violates any of the provisions of this chapter. The owner of
the permit thus revoked may, within ten days thereafter, appeal from such order
of revocation to the City Council, who shall, after due notice to the owner,
hear and determine the matter and their decision therein, shall thereupon
become final. Any person whose permit is thus revoked shall not be eligible to
apply for another for a period of one-year from the date of such revocation.
('61 Code, § 21.32) (Ord. 271, passed - - )
FARES
§ 118.80 TAXIMETERS REQUIRED; GENERAL METER REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or driver to operate any taxicab in the
city unless and until such vehicle is equipped with a taximeter of such type,
style and design as may be approved by the Chief of Police. It shall be the
duty of every owner operating a taxicab to maintain such taximeter in perfect
condition so that it will at all times correctly and accurately indicate the
correct charge for the distance travelled and waiting time; and such taximeter
shall be at all times subject to inspection by the Chief of Police and the
Chief of Police is hereby authorized at his instance or upon complaint of any
person to investigate or cause the taximeter to be investigated, and upon
discovery of any inaccuracy in the taximeter, to remove or cause the same to be
removed, and not be used until it shall have been correctly adjusted. Taxicabs
not equipped with meters operating in the city at the effective date of this
chapter shall be equipped as soon as delivery can be obtained.
('61 Code, § 21.33) (Ord. 271, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 118.81 FLAG TO INDICATE WHEN TAXICAB IS IN USE.
   It shall be unlawful for a taxicab driver while carrying passengers to
display the flag or the device attached to the taximeter in such a position as
to denote that the vehicle is for hire or to cause the taximeter to record when
the vehicle is not actually employed or to fail to cause the device on the
taximeter to be placed in a nonrecording position at the termination of each
and every service.
('61 Code, § 21.34) (Ord. 271, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 118.82 CHANGES WITHIN CITY ON METER BASIS.
   Every taximeter shall be equipped so as to register the cost of
transportation of passengers in the city. It shall be unlawful for any owner,
driver or operator of a taxicab in the city to charge any sum in excess of the
amount shown on the dial for conveyance in such taxicab.
('61 Code, § 21.35) (Ord. 271, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 118.83 TAXIMETER DIAL TO BE VISIBLE TO PASSENGERS.
   The taximeter shall be so placed in the taxicab that the reading dial
showing the amount to be charged may be readily seen by the passengers in the
taxicab.
('61 Code, § 21.36) (Ord. 271, passed - - )
§ 118.84 RATES.
   It is unlawful for the owner or driver of any taxicab in the city to fix,
charge or collect for service a rate more or less than that set forth by
resolution of the City Council.
('61 Code, § 21.37) (Ord. 271, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 513, passed - - ; Am. Ord.
659, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 757, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 118.85 DIRECT ROUTE TO BE USED.
   Any driver employed to transport passengers to a definite point shall take
the most direct route that will take the passengers to their destination safely
and expeditiously.
('61 Code, § 21.38) (Ord. 271, passed - - )
§ 118.86 RECEIPT FOR FARE.
   If requested, every driver shall give a receipt upon payment of the correct
fare.
('61 Code, § 21.39) (Ord. 271, passed - - )
§ 118.87 DETERMINATION OF FARE DISPUTES; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   In case of a dispute concerning payment of any fare the matter shall be
determined by the officer in charge at the police station. Failure to comply
with such determination shall subject the offending party to a charge of
misdemeanor.
('61 Code, § 21.40) (Ord. 271, passed - - )
§ 118.88 FAILURE TO PAY FARE.
   It is unlawful for any person, except where credit is extended, to refuse to
pay the lawful fare, as fixed herein, for the use of any taxicab or rent car
after hiring the same.
('61 Code, § 21.41) (Ord. 271, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 119: PARKING AND BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT
Section
   
119.01   Finding; determination; declaration
   
119.02   Establishment of area
   
119.03   Description of area
   
119.04   Improvements and activities
   
119.05   Assessments; determination; rate
   
119.06   Assessments; collection
   
119.07   Voluntary contribution
   
119.08   Fund
   
119.09   Audits
   
119.10   Amendments
   
119.11   Area advisory board
Cross-reference:
   See also
Ch. 161, Old Town Indio Business Improvement District
§ 119.01 FINDING; DETERMINATION; DECLARATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to Section 36500, et seq, of the Streets & Highways Code of
the State of California, the City Council adopted, on September 18, 1991, that
certain Resolution No. 5588, entitled “A Resolution of the City Council of the
City of Indio, California, Declaring its Intention to Form a Parking and
Business Improvement Area Pursuant to the Parking and Business Improvement Area
Law of 1989”, and caused the Resolution to be duly published and mailed as
proved by law; and
   (B)   A public hearing concerning the establishment of said parking and
business improvement area (hereinafter "District") was held on October 17,
1991, at the hour of 4:00 p.m., in the City Council Chamber of the City Hall of
the City of Indio, at 150 Civic Center Mall, Indio, California; and
   (C)   At said hearing all written and oral protests made or filed were duly
heard, evidence for and against the proposed actIon was received, and a full,
fair and complete hearing was granted and held; and
   (D)   All protests, both written and oral, are hereby overruled and it was
determined by the Council that there was no majority protest within the meaning
of Section 36525 of the Streets & Highways; and
   (E)   The public interest, convenience and necessity require the
establishment of the proposed District; and
   (F)   The businesses and property included within the proposed District will
be benefitted by the improvements and activities funded by the assessments
proposed to be levied as contemplated by the section 36500, et seq, of the
Streets & Highways Code.
(Ord. 1101, passed 11-6-91)
§ 119.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF AREA.
   A parking and business improvement area to be designated as "INDIO BUSINESS
IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT NO. 1" is hereby created and established.
(Ord. 1101, passed 11-6-91)
§ 119.03 DESCRIPTION OF AREA.
   The geographic boundaries of the District shall be a described in a map
entitled “BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT BOUNDARIES”, on file in the Office of
the City Clerk, which is incorporated herein by this reference. The businesses
to be included in, and subject to the assessments of the District include only
automobile dealerships, that is, those businesses operating within the District
boundaries with the primary function of the sale of new automobiles.
(Ord. 1101, passed 11-6-91)
§ 119.04 IMPROVEMENTS AND ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   The improvements and activities to be provided In the District are as
follows:
      (1)   The general promotion of business activities in the District.
      (2)   Promotion of public events which benefit businesses in the District
and which are to take place on or in public places in the District.
      (3)   Decoration of any public place in the District.
      (4)   Furnishing of music in any public place In the District.
      (5)   Acquisition, construction, installation or maintenance of any
tangible property with an estimated useful life of five years or more, for the
benefit of the District.
      (6)   Other activities which benefit businesses located and operating in
the District.
   (B)   The foregoing improvements and actIvities will be funded by the levy
of the assessments. The revenue from the levy of assessments within the
District shall not be used to provide improvements or activities outside the
District.
(Ord. 1101, passed 11-6-91)
§ 119.05 ASSESSMENTS; DETERMINATION; RATE.
   Assessments shall be levied on each business licensed in the District of
which the primary function is the sale of new automobiles. The assessment shall
consist of two parts: (1) an assessment per dealership, and (2) an assessment
for each vehicle sold. Until and unless changed by resolution of the City
Council, the assessment shall be at the rate of $500.00 per month per
dealership, and $20.00 per vehicle sold. “Vehicle Sold”, as used in this
section includes new and used cars and trucks, excepting those sold to federal,
state or local agencies which are exempt from state sales tax, excise tax and
state vehicle license fees, and further (excepting vehicles sold at or through
the wholesale vehicle auction).
(Ord. 1101, passed 11-6-91)
§ 119.06 ASSESSMENTS; COLLECTION.
   Assessments shall be collected by the same officer and in the sane manner as
business license taxes are collected by the City under the provisions of
Chapter 12 of the Indio City Code. The person charged with the duty of
collecting the assessments shall have the discretion to collect the same
annually, semi-annually, quarterly or monthly, and shall consider the
recommendation of the advisory board in determining the period for collection.
Failure or refusal to make timely payment of the assessments shall be subject
to the same interest and penalties, civil and criminal, as are provided for the
failure or refusal to pay business license taxes.
(Ord. 1101, passed 11-6-91)
§ 119.07 VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTION.
   Any business whether or not subject to the levy of assessments within this
District, may make voluntary contributions to said District for the purposes
provided in this Ordinance.
(Ord. 1101, passed 11-6-91)
§ 119.08 FUND.
   There is created a special fund designated as “Indio Business Improvement
District No. 1 Fund” into which all revenues derived from assessments and
contributions under this chapter shall be placed, and such funds shall be sued
only for the purposes specified in this chapter.
(Ord. 1101, passed 11-6-91)
§ 119.09 AUDITS.
   The City of Indio may authorize, at any time, an audit of the books and
records or other materials of any business subject to assessments - in the
District, relevant to the collection of assessments as provided in this
Ordinance.
(Ord. 1101, passed 11-6-91)
§ 119.10 AMENDMENTS.
   Businesses in the District established by this chapter shall be subject to
any amendments to this chapter or to the Parking and Business Improvement Area
Law of 1989.
(Ord. 1101, passed 11-6-91)
§ 119.11 AREA ADVISORY BOARD.
   There is hereby established an “Indio Business Improvement District Advisory
Board” which shall consist of five members appointed by the City Council. The
number of members may be increased to seven by Minute Order or Resolution of
the City Council, acting on its own motion or upon recommendation of the
Advisory Board. Each of such members shall be appointed to three year terms,
provided, however, that initially one member shall be appointed to a one year
term, two members to a two year term, and two members to a three year term. All
terms shall begin July 1 of the year of appointment except that the persons
initially appointed shall serve from the date of appointment, and their terms
shall be measured as if they had begun July 1, 1992. Appointments to the Board
shall be limited to owners or representatives of owners of businesses subject
to assessment within the District. In making appointments to such Advisory
Board, the Council shall seek recommendations from District members, based upon
nomination and election from among District members.
(Ord. 1101, passed 11-6-91)
CHAPTER 120: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
120.01   Purpose and intent
   
120.02   Definitions
   
120.03   Permit required; application process
   
120.04   Investigation and application
   
120.05   Issuance of permit
   
120.06   Annual permit fee
   
120.07   Inspection
   
120.08   Expiration of permit
   
120.09   Suspension of permit
   
120.10   Revocation of permit
   
120.11   Administrative judicial review of permit denial, suspension of
revocation
   
120.12   Transfer of permit
   
120.13   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films or
videos in video booths
   
120.14   Prohibitions regarding minors and sexually oriented business
   
120.15   Advertising regulations
   
120.16   Hours of operation
   
120.17   Location of sexually oriented businesses
   
120.18   Measurement of distance
   
120.19   Prohibition of distribution of sexually deviant devices
   
120.20   Public nudity at sexually oriented businesses is prohibited
   
120.21   Criminal prohibitions for the operation of a sexually oriented
business without a valid permit
   
120.22   Exemptions
   
120.23   Criminal penalties and additional legal, equitable, and injunctive
relief
   
120.24   Immunity from prosecution
   
120.25   Public nuisance, abatement
   
120.26   Implementation schedule
   
120.27   Regulations governing existing sexually oriented businesses
Editor’s Note:
   Ordinance No. 1456, passed 2-1-06, imposed a moratorium on the approval of
sexually oriented businesses pursuant to California Government Code Section
65858, for a period of 45 days unless extended. Ordinance No. 1460, passed 3-
15-06, extended Ord. 1456 for a period of ten months and 15 days.
§ 120.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented
businesses to promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens
of the city and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent any
deleterious effects of sexually oriented businesses within the city. The
provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a
limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative materials,
including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor
effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually
oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent or effect of this chapter to in any
way condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene material or material
harmful to minors.
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
§ 120.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES. Those businesses defined as follows:
      (1)   ADULT ARCADE. An establishment where, for any form of
consideration, one or more still or motion picture projectors, slide
projectors, or similar machines, or other image producing machines, for viewing
by five or fewer persons each, are regularly available or used to show films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions
which are characterized by the depiction or description of SPECIFIED SEXUAL
ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. means a
commercial establishment which (1) has as a significant or substantial portion
of its stock-in-trade or (2) derives a significant or substantial portion of
its revenues or (3) devotes a significant or substantial portion of its
interior floor or display space or (4) devotes a significant or substantial
portion of its business activities or employees' time, or advertising, to the
sale, rental or viewing for any form of consideration, of any one or more of
the following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other visual
representations which are characterized by the depiction or description of
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS;
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for
use in connection with SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
         (c)   An establishment may have other significant or substantial
business purposes that do not involve the offering for sale rental or viewing
of materials, depicting or describing SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED
ANATOMICAL AREAS, and still be categorized as adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, or adult video store. Such other business purposes will not serve to
exempt such establishments from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult
novelty store or adult video store so long as one of its significant or
substantial business purposes is offering for sale or rental, for some form of
consideration, the specified materials which depict or describe SPECIFIED
ANATOMICAL AREAS or SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (3)   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant “bottle shop,” or
similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, which features: (a) persons who appear nude or in a state of nudity or
semi-nude; (b) live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS or by SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES, or (c) films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions
which are characterized by the depiction or description of SPECIFIED SEXUAL
ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (4)   ADULT MOTEL. A motel, hotel or similar commercial establishment
which: (a) offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration, and
which regularly provides or makes available to patrons with closed-circuit
television transmissions, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or
other photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS and
which advertises the availability of this sexually  oriented type of material
by means of a sign visible from the public right-of-way, or by means of any
off-premises advertising including but not limited to, newspapers, magazines,
pamphlets or leaflets, radio or television, or (b) offers a sleeping room for
rent for a period of time less than ten hours; or (c) allows a tenant or
occupant to rent or sub-rent the sleeping room for a time period of less than
ten hours.
      (5)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar photographic
reproductions depicting or describing SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED
ANATOMICAL AREAS are regularly shown for any form of consideration.
      (6)   ADULT THEATRE. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment which, for any form or consideration, regularly
features persons who appear in a state of nudity or live performances which are
characterized by exposure of SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS or by SPECIFIED SEXUAL
ACTIVITIES.
      (7)   ESCORT. A person who, for any form of consideration, agrees or
offers to act as a companion, guide, or date for another person, for sexual
purpose, or who agrees or offers to privately model lingerie or to privately
perform a striptease for another person.
      (8)   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes,
offers to furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary
business purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
      (9)   MASSAGE PARLOR. Any place where, for any form of consideration or
gratuity, massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentations, electric or
magnetic treatments, or any other treatment manipulation of the human body
which occur as a part of or in connection with SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES, or
where any person providing such treatment, manipulation, or service related
thereto, exposes SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. The definition of sexually
oriented businesses shall not include the practice of massage in any licensed
hospital, nor by a licensed hospital, nor by a licensed physician, surgeon,
chiropractor or osteopath, nor by any nurse or technician working under the
supervision of a licensed physician, surgeon, chiropractor or osteopath, nor by
trainers for any amateur, semiprofessional or professional athlete or athletic
team or school athletic program.
      (10)   SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person, who appears in a
state of semi-nudity or displays SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS is provided for
money or any form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons. The
definition of SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES shall not include an establishment
where a medical practitioner, psychologist, psychiatrist, or similar
professional person licensed by the state engages in medically approved and
recognized sexual therapy.
      (11)   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT. A business or commercial
establishment, that as one of its important business purposes, offers for any
form of consideration, a place where two or more persons may congregate,
associate, or consort for the purpose of SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or the
exposure of SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS or activities when one or more of the
persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
      (12)   SIGNIFICANT OR SUBSTANTIAL PORTION. A percentage of its
activities, space allocation, revenues, advertising targeting, stock in trade,
floor or display space, business receipts, revenues, or other business
undertakings as to indicate to a reasonable person that the sexually oriented
portion of the business is one of its important activities, though not
necessarily its only or even primary activity; for this purpose, evidence that
33% or more of its revenues are derived from such sexually oriented activities
or materials, or that 33% or more of its interior floor space or display space
is devoted to such sexually oriented activities or materials, or that 33% or
more of its actual stock in trade regularly displayed and immediately available
for use, rental, purchase, viewing or perusal is comprised of such sexually
oriented materials, all as defined in the divisions (a) and (b) of division (2)
of this definition, shall be evidence that a SIGNIFICANT OR SUBSTANTIAL PORTION
of the business is devoted to such uses.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who works or performs in and/or for a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or
other compensation by the operator of said business.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any such business as a new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any of the sexually oriented businesses defined in this
chapter;
      (3)   The addition of any of the sexually oriented businesses defined in
this chapter to any other existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any such sexually oriented business; or
      (5)   The substantial enlargement of any such sexually oriented business.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY.
      (1)   The appearance or display of human bare buttock, anus, male
genitals, female genitals, or the areola or nipple of the female breast; or
      (2)   A state of dress which fails to opaquely and fully cover a human
buttocks, anus, male or female genitals, pubic region or areola or nipple of
the female breast.
   OPERATOR. The owner, permit holder, custodian, manager, operator or person
in charge of any permitted or licensed premises.
   PERMITTED or LICENSED PREMISES. Any premises that requires a license and/or
permit and that is classified as a sexually oriented business.
   PERMITTEE and/or LICENSEE. A person in whose name a permit and/or license to
operate a sexually oriented business has been issued, as well as the individual
listed as an applicant on the application for a permit and/or license.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. Any building owned, leased or held by the United States,
the state, the county, the city, any special district, school district, or any
other agency or political subdivision of the state or the United States.
   PUBLIC PARK or RECREATION AREA. Public land which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including but not limited to a  park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, open space, wilderness areas, or similar public land within
the city which is under the control, operation, or management of the city park
and recreation authorities.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building
which is used primarily for religious worship and related religious activities.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. An area zoned for single family homes, duplexes,
townhomes, multiple family residences, mobilehome parks or subdivisions, and
recreational vehicle parks, as defined in the Indio City Zoning Ordinance.
   SCHOOL. Any public or private educational facility including but not limited
to child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens,
elementary schools, primary schools, intermediate schools, junior high schools,
middle schools, high schools, vocational schools, secondary schools,
continuation schools, special education schools, junior colleges, and
universities. School includes the school grounds, but does not include the
facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally as a
school.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, and areolae of the female breast, as well as portions
of the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
shop, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture
theatre, adult theatre, massage parlor, sexual encounter establishment, escort
agency or nude model studio.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts below a point immediately above the
top of the areolae; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTS. Acts which are sexual crimes against children,
sexual abuse, rape or crimes connected with another sexually oriented business
included but not limited to distribution of obscenity or material harmful to
minors, prostitution or pandering.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other intentional touching of human genitals for
purpose of sexual arousal, or fondling or other intentional touching of human
genitals, pubic region, anus, or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
      (4)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or
tumescence;
      (5)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (4) of this definition.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An increase in the
floor areas occupied by the business by more than 15%, as the floor areas
existed on August 17, 1994.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any of the
following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means;
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal devise
which transfers ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of a person possessing the
ownership of control.
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
§ 120.03 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   No sexually oriented business shall be permitted to operate without a
valid sexually oriented business permit issued by the city for the particular
type of business. It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if
he/she operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business without
said permit.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if he/she
transfers, or attempts to transfer, ownership or control of a sexually oriented
business without the transferee first having filed and obtained approval of a
license hereunder.
   (C)   (1)   The city's designee is responsible for granting, denying,
revoking, renewing, suspending, and canceling sexually oriented business
permits for proposed or existing sexually oriented businesses. The city or
designee is also responsible for ascertaining whether a proposed sexually
oriented business for which a permit is being applied for complies with all
locational requirements of §
120.17. All applicable zoning laws and/or regulations now in effect or as
amended or enacted subsequent to August 17, 1994.
      (2)   The city's designee is responsible for inspecting a proposed,
permitted or non-permitted sexually oriented business in order to ascertain
whether it is in compliance with applicable statutes and ordinances.
   (D)   An application for a permit must be made on a form provided by the
city. Any person desiring to operate a sexually oriented business shall file
with the city an original and two copies of a sworn permit application on the
standard application form supplied by the city or designee.
   (E)   The completed application shall contain the following information and
shall be accompanied by the following documents:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his/her legal name and
any aliases and submit satisfactory proof that he/she is 18 years of age;
         (b)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name,
and the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited,
and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
         (c)   A corporation. The corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of California, the names and capacity of all officers,
directors and principal stockholders, and the name of the registered corporate
agent and the address of the registered office for service of process.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant; he must state (1) the sexually
oriented business's fictitious name and (2) submit the required California
registration documents.
      (3)   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed
pursuant to division (E) has, within the two or five year period as specified
in §
120.05(C)(1)(j) immediately preceding the date of the application, been
convicted of a specified criminal act, and, if so, the specified criminal act
involved, the date of conviction and the place of conviction.
      (4)   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed
pursuant to division (E) has had a previous permit under this chapter or other
similar sexually oriented business ordinances from this city or another city or
county denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and location of the
sexually oriented business for which the permit was denied, suspended or
revoked, as well as the date of the denial, suspension or revocation, and
whether the applicant or any other individuals listed pursuant to division (E)
has been a partner in a partnership or an officer, director or principal
stockholder of a corporation that is permitted under this chapter whose permit
has previously been denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and
location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit was denied,
suspended or revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension or revocation.
      (5)   Whether the applicant or any other individual listed pursuant to
division (E) holds or has any legal interest in any other permits and/or
licenses under this chapter or other similar sexually oriented business
ordinance from another city or county and, if so, the names and locations of
such other permitted businesses.
      (6)   The single classification of permit for which the applicant is
filing.
      (7)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address, and telephone number(s),
if any.
      (8)   The applicant's mailing addresses and residential address.
      (9)   A recent photograph of the applicant.
      (10)   The applicant's driver's permit number, Social Security number,
and or his/her state or federally issued tax identification number.
      (11)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
      (12)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within 30
days prior to application by a California registered land surveyor depicting
the property lines and the structures containing any established existing uses
regulated by this chapter within 500 feet of the property to be certified; the
property lines of any established religious institution/synagogue, school, or
public park or recreation area or public building within 1,000 feet of the
property to be certified; the property lines of any business involving an on-
premises sale of liquor or alcoholic beverages within 250 feet of the property
to be certified; the property lines of any residentially zoned area or
residential property within 1,000 feet of the property to be certified; and the
property lines of any area zoned other than a residential zone or IP
(Industrial Park) zone within 250 feet of the property to be certified. For
purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing or established if
it is in existence at the time an application is submitted.
      (13)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
an individual, he/she must sign the application for a permit as applicant. If a
person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a 10% or greater interest in the business
must sign the application for a permit as applicant. If a corporation is listed
as owner of a sexually oriented business or as the entity which wishes to
operate such a business, each individual having a 10% or greater interest in
the corporation must sign the application for a permit as applicant.
      (14)   If a person wishes to operate a sexually oriented business which
shall exhibit on the premises films, video cassettes, or other video
reproductions-which depict specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, then said person shall comply with the application requirements stated
in §
120.13.
   (F)   Applicants for a permit under this section shall have a continuing
duty to promptly supplement application information required by this section in
the event that said information changes in any way from what is stated on the
application. The failure to comply with said continuing duty within 30 days
from the date of such change, by supplementing the application on file with the
city's designee, shall be grounds for suspension of a permit.
   (G)   Notwithstanding the “receipt” or “filing” of an application pursuant
to §
120.04, in the event that the city or its designee determines or learns at any
time that the applicant has improperly completed the application for a proposed
sexually oriented business, he/she shall promptly notify the applicant of such
fact and allow the applicant ten days to properly complete the application.
(The time period for granting or denying a permit shall be stayed during the
period in which the applicant is allowed an opportunity to properly complete
the application.)
   (H)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
health, fire and building codes and laws.
   (I)   The applicant shall be required to pay a non-refundable application
fee of $100 at the time of filing an application under this section.
   (J)   Prior to obtaining any permit or license occupational license to
operate any business defined in this chapter, and as part of any application
for a permit under this section, the applicant shall obtain from the city or
its designee a certification that the proposed location of such business
complies with the locational requirements of §
120.17.
   (K)   The fact that a person possesses other types of state or city permits
and/or licenses does not exempt him/her from the requirement of obtaining a
sexually oriented business permit.
   (L)   By applying for a permit under this chapter, the applicant shall be
deemed to have consented to the provisions of this chapter and to the exercise
by the city or its designee, the Chief of Police's office and all other city
agencies charged with enforcing the laws, ordinances and codes applicable in
the city of their respective responsibilities under this chapter.
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
§ 120.04 INVESTIGATION AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application properly filed with the city and upon
payment of the non-refundable application fee, the city or its designee, shall
immediately stamp the application as received subject to the provisions of §
120.03(G). The person receiving the application shall immediately thereafter
send photocopies of the application to the Chief of Police's Office and any
other city agencies responsible for enforcement of health, fire and building
codes and laws. Each department or agency shall promptly conduct an
investigation of the applicant, application and the proposed sexually oriented
business in accordance with its responsibilities under law and as set forth in
this chapter. The investigation shall be completed within 20 days of receipt of
the application by the city or its designee. At the conclusion of its
investigation, each department or agency shall indicate on the photocopy of the
application its approval or disapproval of the application, date it, sign it,
and, in the event it disapproves, state the reasons therefor. The Chief of
Police's Office shall only be required to check local and state summary
criminal history information, including NCIC, and certify whether disqualifying
criminal history has been discovered. The Chief of Police's Office shall not be
required to approve or disapprove applications. For this purpose, the Chief of
Police is specifically authorized by the City Council pursuant to Cal. Penal
Code §§ 11105 and 13300 to obtain such information as relates to disqualifying
criminal convictions for licensing purposes, as specified in §
 120.05(C)(1)(j) and to disclose so much of the information obtained to the
city's designee as directly relates to such disqualifying criminal history, for
such appropriate action as is required based upon such specified criminal
conduct applicable to the subject applicant. No information shall be relayed
relating to a criminal arrest not resulting in conviction, or to a criminal
arrest for which pretrial or post-trial diversion has been ordered.
   (B)   A department or agency shall disapprove an application if it finds
that the proposed sexually oriented business will be in violation of any
provision of any statute, code, ordinance, regulation or other law in effect in
the city. After its indication of approval or disapproval, each department or
agency shall immediately return the photocopy of the application to the city or
its designee.
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
§ 120.05 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The city or its designee shall grant or deny an application for a
permit within 30 days from the date of its proper filing. Upon the expiration
of the 30 days, unless the applicant requests and is granted a reasonable
extension of time, the applicant shall be permitted to begin operating the
business for which the permit is sought, unless and until the city or its
designee, notifies the applicant of a denial of the application and states the
reason(s) for that denial.
   (B)   Grant of Application for Permit.
      (1)   The city or its designee shall grant the application unless one or
more of the criteria set forth in division (C) below is present.
      (2)   The permit, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address
of the sexually oriented business. The permit shall also indicate that the
sexually oriented business whether permitted or not may be subject to
prohibitions against public nudity and indecency pursuant to applicable
California statutes. The permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or
near the entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it can be easily
read at any time.
   (C)   Denial of Application for Permit.
      (1)   The city or its designee shall deny the application for any of the
following reasons:
         (a)   An applicant is under 18 years of age.
         (b)   An applicant or an applicant's spouse is overdue on his/her
payment to the city of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against him/
her or imposed upon him/her in relation to a sexually oriented business.
         (c)   An applicant is residing with a person who has been denied a
permit by the city to operate a sexually oriented business within the preceding
12 months, or residing with a person whose permit to operate a sexually
oriented business has been revoked within the preceding 12 months.
         (d)   An applicant has failed to provide information required by this
section or permit application for the issuance of the permit or has falsely
answered a question or request for information on the application form.
         (e)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business have
not been approved as being in compliance with health, fire and building codes
by the department or agency responsible under law for investigating said
compliance.
         (f)   The application or permit fees required by this chapter have not
been paid.
         (g)   An applicant of the proposed business is in violation of, or is
not in compliance with, any of the provisions of this chapter including but not
limited to the locational requirements for a sexually oriented business under §
120.17.
         (h)   The granting of the application would violate a statute,
ordinance, or court order.
         (i)   The applicant has a permit under this chapter which has been
suspended or revoked.
         (j)   An applicant has been convicted of a “specified criminal” act
for which:
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is of a misdemeanor offense for the “specified criminal” acts which
are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape or crimes connected with
another sexually oriented business including but not limited to distribution of
obscenity, “harmful to minors” violations, prostitution, pandering, or tax
violations;
            2.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is of a felony offense; for the “specified criminal” acts which are
crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape or crimes connected with another
sexually oriented business including but not limited to distribution of
obscenity, “harmful to minors” violations, prostitution, pandering, or tax
violations;
            3.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
convictions are of two or more misdemeanor for the, “specified criminal” acts
which are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape or crimes
connected with another sexually oriented business including but not limited to
distribution of obscenity, harmful to minors violations, prostitution,
pandering or tax violations; offenses occurring within any 24 month period;
            4.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on disqualification of the applicant;
            5.   An applicant who has been convicted of the above described
“specified criminal acts” may qualify for a sexually oriented business permit
only when the time period required above in this section has elapsed.
      (2)   If the city or its designee, denies the application, he/she shall
notify the applicant of the denial and state the reason(s) for the denial.
      (3)   If a person applies for a permit for a particular location within a
period of 12 months from the date of denial of a previous application for a
permit at the location, and there has not been an intervening change in the
circumstances which could reasonably be expected to lead to a different
decision regarding the former reasons for denial, the application shall be
denied.
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
§ 120.06 ANNUAL PERMIT FEE.
   The annual fee for a sexually oriented business permit is $850, to partially
offset the costs of monitoring and policing the operations of the business
entities involved. The City Council hereby determines that the actual cost of
monitoring and policing each such business is at least that amount.
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
§ 120.07 INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant or permittee shall permit representatives of the City
Chief of Police's Offices, the County Health Department, and the Fire
Department to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business for the
purpose of insuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open
for business.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a person who operates a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said
business under this chapter, or his/her agent or employee commits a misdemeanor
if he/she refuses to permit such lawful inspection of the premises at any time
that it is occupied or open for business.
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
§ 120.08 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Each permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in §
120.03 (for renewals, filing of original survey shall be sufficient) of this
chapter. Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 30 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the permit will not be affected.
   (B)   When the city or its designee, denies renewal of the permit, the
applicant shall not be issued a permit under this chapter for one year from the
date of denial. If, subsequent to denial, the city or its designee, finds that
the basis for denial of the renewal of the permit has been corrected, the
applicant shall be granted a permit if at least 90 days have elapsed since the
date denial became final.
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
§ 120.09 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The city or its designee, shall suspend a permit for a period not to
exceed 30 days if he/she determines that a permittee, or an employee of a
permittee, has:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
or
      (2)   Engaged in excessive use of alcoholic beverages while on the
sexually oriented business premises; or
      (3)   Refused to allow an inspection of sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter; or
      (4)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually oriented
business premises; or
      (5)   Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of a building,
fire, health, or zoning statute, code, ordinance or regulation, whether
federal, state or local, said determination being based on investigation by the
division, department or agency charged with enforcing said rules or laws. In
the event of such statute, code, ordinance or regulation violation, the city or
its designee, shall promptly notify the permittee of the violation and shall
allow the permittee a seven day period in which to correct the violation. If
the permittee fails to correct the violation before the expiration of the seven
day period, the city or its designee, shall forthwith suspend the permit and
shall notify the permittee of the suspension; or
      (6)   Engaged in permit transfer contrary to §
120.03(B). In the event that the city or its designee, suspends a permit on the
ground that a permittee engaged in a permit transfer contrary to §
120.03(B), the city or its designee shall forthwith notify the permittee of the
suspension. The suspension shall remain in effect until the applicable section
of this chapter has been satisfied; or
      (7)   Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of the hours
of operation in §
120.16.
      (8)   Been convicted of an act for which initial denial of a license
would have been required pursuant to §
120.05(C)(1)(j).
   (B)   The suspension shall remain in effect until the violation of the
statute, code, ordinance or regulation in question has been corrected.
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
§ 120.10 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The city or its designee shall revoke a permit if a cause of
suspension in §
120.09 occurs and the permit had been suspended within the preceding 12 months.
   (B)   The city or its designee, shall revoke a permit upon determining that:
      (1)   A permittee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process that tended to enhance the applicant's
opportunity for obtaining a permit; or
      (2)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use or
sale of controlled substances on the premises; or
      (3)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on
the premises; or
      (4)   A permittee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the permittee's permit was suspended; or
      (5)   A permittee has been convicted of a “specified criminal act” for
which the time period required in §
120.05(C)(1)(j) has not elapsed; or
      (6)   On two or more occasions within a 12 month period, a person or
persons committed an offense, occurring in or on the permitted premises,
constituting a specified criminal act for which a conviction has been obtained,
and the person or persons were employees of the sexually oriented business at
the time the offenses were committed. The fact that a conviction is being
appealed shall have no effect on the revocation of the permit; or
      (7)   A permittee is delinquent in payment to the city or state for any
taxes or fees past due; or
      (8)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or any other specified
sexual activities to occur in or on the permitted premises.
      (9)   Operating more than one sexually oriented business under a single
roof.
   (C)   When the city or its designee, revokes a permit, the revocation shall
continue for one year and the permittee shall not be issued a sexually oriented
business permit for one year from the date revocation became effective. If,
subsequent to revocation, the city or its designee finds that the basis for
revocation under §
120.10(B) has been corrected, the applicant shall be granted a permit if at
least 90 days have elapsed since the date revocation became effective. If the
permit was revoked under §
120.10(B) of this chapter, an applicant may not be granted another permit until
the number of years required under §
120.05(C) have elapsed.
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
§ 120.11 ADMINISTRATIVE JUDICIAL REVIEW OF PERMIT DENIAL, SUSPENSION OF
REVOCATION.
   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an application, or
suspension or revocation of a permit, the applicant or permittee may seek
prompt judicial review of such administrative action through the City Council.
Any denial to the City Council shall be heard within 30 day, unless a longer
time therefor is consented to by the appellant. If the denial of the
application is affirmed upon review, the administrative action is subject to
prompt review by the Superior Court for the State of California, in and for the
County of Riverside, Indio Branch, pursuant to Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 1094.5 et
seq.
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
§ 120.12 TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A permittee shall not operate sexually oriented business under the
authority of a permit at any place other than the address designated in the
application for permit.
   (B)   A permittee shall not transfer his/her permit to another person unless
and until such other person satisfies the following requirements:
      (1)   Obtains an amendment to the permit from the city or its designee,
which provides that he/she is now the permittee, which amendment may be
obtained only if he/she has completed and properly filed an application with
the city or its designee, setting forth the information called for under §
120.03 in the application; and
      (2)   Pays a transfer fee of 50% of the annual permit fee set by this
chapter.
   (C)   No permit may be transferred during the pendency of administrative
procedures following notice by the city or its designee to the permittee that
suspension or revocation proceedings have been or will be brought against the
permittee, until such proceedings have been completed, withdrawn or otherwise
canceled.
   (D)   A permittee shall not transfer his permit to another location.
   (E)   Any attempt to transfer a permit either directly or indirectly in
violation of this section is hereby declared void and the permit shall be
considered abandoned and shall automatically revert to the city.
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
§ 120.13 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR
VIDEOS IN VIDEO BOOTHS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than a sexually oriented motel/hotel and regardless of whether
or not a permit has been issued to said business under this chapter, which
exhibits on the premises in a viewing room of less than 150 square feet of
floor space, a film, video cassette or other video reproduction which depicts
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with
the following requirements:
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business permit, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager's stations, the location
of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the premises
in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not exceed 32
square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place at which
this permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally prepared
diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's blueprint shall not be
required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to some
designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale with
marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimension of all
areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches. The city or its designee, may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal
applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted
and certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been altered since
it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the prior approval of the city or its designee.
      (4)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to insure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated at each manager's station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager's stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations. The view required in
this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the manager's station.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises to insure that
the view area specified in division (5) remains unobstructed by any doors,
walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times and to insure
that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises which has been
designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in the application
filed pursuant to division (1) of this section.
      (7)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any one
time.
      (8)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access and an illumination of not less than 7.5 foot candle as measured at the
floor level.
      (9)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises to insure that
the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present on the premises.
      (10)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and every person
in charge of the business premises, and the duty of any agents and employees
present on the premises, to maintain the walls or partitions between booths in
good repair at all times, with no holes between any two booths such as would
allow viewing from one booth into another or such as to allow physical contact
of any kind between the occupants of any two such booths; provided, however,
that if the configuration approved by the city or its designee permits an
opening between the floor and the bottom portion of any such wall or partition,
it shall be sufficient compliance if the entire wall or partition, as approved
by the city, is maintained in good condition and repair, without holes or other
openings in such wall or partition which would permit viewing or physical
contact between occupants of adjacent booths.
      (11)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and of every
person in charge of the business premises, and the duty of any agents and
employees, to prevent customers or visitors from loitering, standing idly by in
the vicinity of any such video booths, or from remaining in the common area of
such business, other than the restrooms, who are not then actively engaged in
shopping for or viewing the products available on display for purchase or
viewing; all much owners, operators, persons in charge, and their agents and
employees shall have the duty to have posted and keep posted in prominent
places in and near the video booths, signs prohibiting loitering, and shall be
responsible for enforcement of such prohibitions.
      (12)   The owners, operator and every person in charge of the business
premises shall be responsible for maintaining the floors, seats, walls and
other interior portions of all video booths clean and free from waste and
bodily secretions. Presence of human excrement, urine, semen or saliva in any
such booth shall be evidence of improper maintenance and inadequate sanitary
controls; repeated instances of such conditions may justify suspension or
revocation of the owners' and operator's license to conduct the sexually
oriented business.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a person having a duty under §
120.13(A) commits a misdemeanor if he/she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
§ 120.14 PROHIBITIONS REGARDING MINORS AND SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if he/she operates
or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or
not a permit has been issued for said business under this chapter, and
knowingly, or with reasonable cause to know, permits, suffers, or allows:
   (A)   Admittance of a person under 18 years of age to the business premises;
   (B)   A person under 18 years of age to remain at the business premises;
   (C)   A person under 18 years of age to purchase a goods or services at the
business premises; or
   (D)   A person who is under 18 years of age to work at the business premises
as an employee; or
   (E)   The interior of the premises to be visible to a minor, wherein any
matter harmful to minors is displayed or visible, unless all such materials so
visible to minors are covered by blinder racks or devices in front of the
material, so that the lower two-thirds of all such material is not exposed to
view; a privacy curtain at the entrance obscuring the view of minors from
outside the premises shall be erected upon request of the Chief of Police, if
the building design or structural layout does not otherwise protect curious
minors from viewing such material. References to blinder racks shall be
interpreted in accordance with Cal. Penal Code § 313.1(d).
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
§ 120.15 ADVERTISING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if he/she
operates or causes to be operated sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under this chapter,
and advertises the presentation of any activity prohibited by any applicable
state statute or local ordinance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if he/she
operates or causes to be operated sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under this chapter,
and displays or otherwise exhibits the materials and/or performances at such
sexually oriented business in any advertising. This prohibition shall not
extend to advertising of the existence or location of such sexually oriented
business. No window displays of sexually oriented material shall be permitted
unless the material is covered by a blinder rack as specified in §
120.14(E).
   (C)   All off-street parking area and premise entries of the sexually
oriented business shall be illuminated from dusk to closing hours of operation
with a lighting system which provides an average maintained horizontal
illumination of one foot candle of light on the parking surface and/or
walkways. The required lighting level is established in order to provide
sufficient illumination of the parking areas and walkways serving the sexually
oriented business for the personal safety of patrons and employees and to
reduce the incidence of vandalism and criminal conduct. The lighting shall be
shown on the required sketch or diagram of the premises.
   (D)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall relieve the operator(s) of a
sexually oriented business from complying with the requirements of the Zoning
Ordinance of the city, as it may be amended from time to time, or any
subsequently enacted city ordinances or regulations.
   (E)   No window display of sexually oriented material shall be permitted in
any area where minors are likely to be present, as for instance, within 20 feet
of a public sidewalk, or within 20 feet of a private walkway in a shopping area
open to the general public.
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
§ 120.16 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if he/she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under this chapter,
and allows such business to remain open for business, or to permit any employee
to engage in a performance, solicit a performance, make a sale, solicit a sale,
provide a service, or solicit a service, between the hours of 1:00 A.M. and 9:
00 A.M. of any particular day.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if, working as
an employee of a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a
permit has been issued for said business under this chapter, the employee
engages in a performance, solicits a performance, makes a sale, solicits a
sale, provides a service, or solicits a service between the hours of 1:00 A.M.
and 9:00 A.M. of any particular day.
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
§ 120.17 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   No person shall cause or permit the establishment of any sexually
oriented business within:
      (1)   500 feet of another sexually oriented business; or
      (2)   1,000 feet of any religious institution, school, boys club, girls
club, or similar existing youth organization, or public park or public
building; or
      (3)   250 feet of any business involving an on-premises sale of liquor or
alcoholic beverages; or
      (4)   1,000 feet of any property zoned for residential use or used for
residential purposes; or
      (5)   250 feet of any zone other than the IP (Industrial Park) zone.
   (B)   Sexually oriented business shall be permitted only in the IP
(Industrial Park) zone.
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
§ 120.18 MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCE.
   Distance between any two sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures, from the closest
exterior structural wall of each business. The distance between any sexually
oriented business and any religious institution, school, boys club, girls club,
or similar existing youth organization, or public park or public building, or
business engaged in sale of liquor or any properties zoned for residential use
or used for residential purposes or any zone other than IP zone shall also be
measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or
objects from the nearest property line of the premises where the sexually
oriented business is conducted to the nearest property line of the premises of
a religious institution, public or private elementary or secondary school, boys
club, girls club, or similar existing youth organization, or public park or
public building or business engaged in sale of liquor or the nearest boundary
of an affected residential zone or residential lot or any zone other than an IP
zone.
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
§ 120.19 PROHIBITION OF DISTRIBUTION OF SEXUALLY DEVIANT DEVICES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for anyone to distribute, sell or offer for sale any
device, instrument or paraphernalia designed or marketed primarily for sexual
stimulation or for sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others.
   (B)   Such devices, instruments or paraphernalia include but are not limited
to; phallic shaped vibrators, dildos, muzzles, whips, chains, bather
restraints, racks, non-medical enema kits, body piercing implements (excluding
earrings or other decorative jewelry) or other tools of sadomasochistic abuse.
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
§ 120.20 PUBLIC NUDITY AT SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES IS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Public nudity is prohibited at sexually oriented businesses, whether
or not alcoholic beverages are sold, served or consumed on the premises. Any
sexually oriented business found to have violated this section shall have its
permit suspended or revoked pursuant to §§
120.09 and
120.10.
   (B)   It is hereby further declared that California Penal Code § 314,
relating to lewd public nudity specifically applies to sexually oriented
businesses (regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued to said
businesses under this chapter), including said businesses even if no alcoholic
beverages are sold, served or consumed at the premises of said businesses,
pursuant to Cal. Penal Code §§ 318.5 and 318.6. Prosecution for violations
shall be maintained under the Penal Code by the appropriate enforcement
officials.
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
§ 120.21 CRIMINAL PROHIBITIONS FOR THE OPERATION OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED
BUSINESS WITHOUT A VALID PERMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if he/she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business in violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if he/she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under this chapter,
and said person knows or should know that:
      (1)   The business does not have a sexually oriented business permit
under this chapter for any applicable classification;
      (2)   The business has a permit which is under suspension;
      (3)   The business has a permit which has been revoked; or
      (4)   The business has a permit which has expired.
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
§ 120.22 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It is a defense to prosecution for any violation of this chapter that
a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
      (1)   By a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing; and
         (b)   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class; and
         (c)   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution for a violation of this chapter that an
employee of a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not it is
permitted under this chapter, exposed any specified anatomical area during the
employee's bona fide use of a restroom, or during the employees bona fide use
of a dressing room which is accessible only to employees.
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
§ 120.23 CRIMINAL PENALTIES AND ADDITIONAL LEGAL, EQUITABLE, AND INJUNCTIVE
RELIEF.
   (A)   If any person fails or refuses to obey or comply with or violates any
of the criminal provisions of this chapter, such person upon conviction of such
offense, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not
to exceed $500 or by imprisonment not to exceed 60 days in the County jail, or
both, in the discretion of the Court. Each violation or noncompliance shall be
considered a separate and distinct offense. Further, each day of continued
violation or noncompliance shall be considered as a separate offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent or restrict the city from
taking such other lawful actions in any court of competent jurisdiction as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation or noncompliance. Such other
lawful actions shall include, but shall not be limited to, an equitable action
for injunctive relief or an action at law for damages.
   (C)   All remedies and penalties provided for in this section shall be
cumulative and independently available to the city and the city shall be
authorized to pursue any and all remedies set forth in this section to the full
extent allowed by law.
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
§ 120.24 IMMUNITY FROM PROSECUTION.
   The city and its designee, the Chief of Police's office and all other
departments and agencies, and all other city officers, agents and employees,
charged with enforcement of state and local laws and codes shall be immune from
prosecution, civil or criminal, for reasonable, good faith trespass upon a
sexually oriented business while acting within the scope of authority conferred
by this chapter.
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
§ 120.25 PUBLIC NUISANCE, ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Any establishment operated in violation of the chapter is a public
nuisance, abatable pursuant to §
120.14.
   (B)   In any action to abate any such public nuisance, the city shall be
entitled to recover all enforcement costs, including staff costs and attorney
fees.
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
§ 120.26 IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Applications. All present operators of any business which is a
sexually oriented business as defined in this chapter shall file an application
for a license hereunder within 30 days after its effective date, which license
shall be processed without unnecessary delay by the city or its designee under
the provisions, and subject to the time requirements of §§
120.04 and
120.05. Any person desiring to commence operation of a sexually oriented
business after August 17, 1994 shall file a proper application for the required
license under the provisions of §
120.03.
   (B)   Required Physical Modifications to Premises. All present operators of
any business which is a sexually oriented business exhibiting sexually explicit
films or videos in video booths as defined in this chapter shall be permitted a
reasonable period of time to make modifications to the business premises if
such modifications are made necessary by implementation of the provisions of
this chapter before the provisions of §
120.13 shall be effective as to that business. The reasonable period of time
shall normally be 30 days from August 17, 1994, to file the appropriate plans
and designs, and up to 90 days thereafter for completion of the modifications.
Should modifications be so extensive as to reasonably require a longer period
of time, the city or its designee may grant a longer period of time for
completion of such modifications, in consultation with the “City's Building
Official.”
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
§ 120.27 REGULATIONS GOVERNING EXISTING SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Any sexually oriented businesses lawfully operating on August 17, 1994
that is in violation of §§
120.03,
120.13,
120.14,
120.15, or
120.17 shall be deemed a non-conforming use. A non-conforming use will be
permitted to continue for a period of one year, with a possible extension to be
granted by the Planning Commission only upon a convincing showing of extreme
financial hardship which is defined as the recovery of the initial financial
investment in the nonconforming use, unless sooner terminated for any reason or
voluntarily discontinued for a period of 30 days or more. Such nonconforming
uses shall not be increased, enlarged or altered except that the use may be
changed to a conforming use. If two or more sexually oriented businesses are
within 500 feet of one another and otherwise in a permissible location, the
sexually oriented business which was first established and continually
operating at the particular location is the conforming use and the later
established business(es) is/are nonconforming.
   (B)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of a sexually oriented business permit and/or license, within 500 feet;
or a church, public or private elementary or secondary church, public or
private elementary or secondary school, public park, public building,
residential zone, or residential lot within 1,000 feet; or a business involving
the on-premises sale of liquor or any zone other than IP zone within 250 feet
of the sexually oriented business. This provision applies only to the renewal
of a valid permit and/or license and does not apply when an application for a
permit and/or license is submitted after a permit and/or license has expired or
has been revoked.
(Ord. 1161, passed 8-17-94)
CHAPTER 121: RESTAURANT GRADING SYSTEM
Section
   
121.01   Adoption by reference
§ 121.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The City Council does hereby adopt as its own ordinance, Ordinance No. 492.7
of the County of Riverside, relating to the regulation of food establishments
and food facilities, in the form attached hereto and made a part hereof as
though fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 1180, passed 10-18-95)
CHAPTER 122: GARAGE SALE PERMITS
Section
   
122.01   Definition
   
122.02   Commercial sales prohibited
   
122.03   Garage sale permits
   
122.04   Garage sale permit application
   
122.05   Conditions and restrictions of permit
   
122.06   Advertising by signs
   
122.07   Violation; penalties
§ 122.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALES.  
      (1)   Includes garage sales, yard sales, patio sales, rummage sales,
estate sales and any other similar event sales in residential zones conducted
for the purpose of offering for sale household or personal goods of the
occupant of premises where such sale is permitted.
      (2)   Garage sales do not include the occasional sale of used personal
property in residential zones, where no signs advertising such sale are placed
at the location of the sale and where all prospective buyers are invited by or
have made an appointment with the seller prior to inspecting, purchasing or
taking delivery of said personal property. Said personal property must be
stored away from public view.
(Ord. 1199, passed 9-4-96)
§ 122.02 COMMERCIAL SALES PROHIBITED.
   The commercial sale of goods at garage sales is prohibited. Commercial sales
include goods purchased elsewhere for the purpose of resale at garage sales, or
products manufactured, assembled or grown for the sole purpose of sale at
garage sales.
(Ord. 1199, passed 9-4-96)
§ 122.03 GARAGE SALE PERMITS.
   No person shall conduct a garage sale within a residential district without
having procured a permit from the Indio Fire Department Administrative Office.
(Ord. 1199, passed 9-4-96)
§ 122.04 GARAGE SALE PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   An applicant for a garage sale permit shall submit the following
information, on a form provided by the India Fire Department:
      (1)   Full name, address and phone number of applicant;
      (2)   Address where garage sale will be conducted;
      (3)   Dates and hours of sale;
      (4)   General description of property to be sold.
   (B)   An application for a garage sale permit must be accompanied by an
application fee in an amount set forth by resolution of the City Council. A
bona fide nonprofit organization shall be exempt from the application fee
provided that proof of its nonprofit status is submitted with the application.
Documentation from the Internal Revenue Service or Franchise Tax Board shall
constitute acceptable proof of the organization's nonprofit status.
(Ord. 1199, passed 9-4-96)
§ 122.05 CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A maximum of four garage sale permits may be issued each calendar year
for any one house or apartment complex.
   (B)   No garage sale permit shall be issued within 90 days of any other
garage sale permit issued at the same location.
   (C)   Each garage sale permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for
two consecutive days or three consecutive days on extended national holidays.
   (D)   Garage sales shall be limited to the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
   (E)   The display of personal property and related sales activities shall be
conducted by the permittee only on the residential real property identified in
the permit. The display of personal property and related sales activities are
prohibited on public sidewalks, streets, parkways, alleys and any other public
rights-of-way.
   (F)   The original or a copy of the garage sale permit shall be posted or
otherwise displayed by the permittee in a conspicuous place at the sale
location during the hours of the sale.
(Ord. 1199, passed 9-4-96)
§ 122.06 ADVERTISING BY SIGNS.
   (A)   A maximum of two signs be used by the permittee to advertise the
garage sale. One sign may be placed on the property at the authorized location
of the sale, and one sign may be placed at the nearest corner.
   (B)   No sign shall be placed on off-site property without obtaining
permission from the property owner, and no sign shall be placed on any public
property or in the public right-of-way.
   (C)   The use of flags, banners, pennants and other similar items to
advertise the garage sale is prohibited.
   (D)   Any sign used to advertise garage sales shall be furnished by the
city. The city shall furnish a maximum of two signs to each permittee that pays
a $25 refundable deposit.
   (E)   The refundable deposit shall be returned to the permittee only if the
signs are returned to the city in good condition within 72 hours after the
garage sale.
   (F)   Any sign used to advertise garage sales shall be removed by 8:00 p.m.
on the day in which the sale is concluded.
(Ord. 1199, passed 9-4-96)
§ 122.07 VIOLATION; PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of an infraction.
   (B)   The City Manager or his/her designee may revoke a garage sale permit
at any time if it is determined that any provision of this chapter has been
violated, or the garage sale jeopardizes public health and safety, unduly
interferes with traffic or pedestrian movement, or unduly interferes with the
public peace or rights of nearby property owners.
(Ord. 1199, passed 9-4-96)
CHAPTER 123: CANNABIS BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
Section
   
123.01   Title
   
123.02   Purpose and intent
   
123.03   Legal authority
   
123.04   Commercial cannabis activities prohibited unless specifically
authorized by this chapter
   
123.05   Compliance with state and local laws and regulations
   
123.06   Definitions
   
123.07   Cannabis business permit required to engage in cannabis business
activity
   
123.08   Cannabis owners criminal background
   
123.09   Persons prohibited from holding a permit
   
123.10   Maximum number and type of authorized cannabis businesses permitted
   
123.11   Community benefits
   
123.12   City's reservation of rights
   
123.13   Procedure guidelines and review criteria to evaluate cannabis business
permit applications
   
123.14   Exercise of a cannabis business permit
   
123.15   Abandonment of permit
   
123.16   Reapplying for a cannabis business permit
   
123.17   Term of a cannabis business permit
   
123.18   Renewal of cannabis business permits
   
123.19   Suspension, revocation, or modification of permits
   
123.20   Effect of state license suspension
   
123.21   Effect of state license revocation or termination
   
123.22   Appeals
   
123.23   Appeals and contents of appeal
   
123.24   Appointment and scope of hearing officer or body
   
123.25   Appeal hearing process and proceedings
   
123.26   Change in location; updated application form
   
123.27   Transfer of cannabis business permit
   
123.28   City business license
   
123.29   Building permits and inspection
   
123.30   Authorization from the Community Development Director
   
123.31   Right to occupy and to use property
   
123.32   Location and design of cannabis businesses
   
123.33   Limitations on city's liability
   
123.34   Records and recordkeeping
   
123.35   Security measures
   
123.36   Fees and charges
   
123.37   General operating requirements
   
123.38   Operating requirements for store front retail facilities
   
123.39   Operating requirements for non-store front retail (delivery-only)
facilities
   
123.40   Store front and non-store front retail delivery requirements
   
123.41   Operating requirements for out-of-city delivery services
   
123.42   Permissible delivery locations and customers
   
123.43   Promulgation of regulations, standards and other legal duties
   
123.44   Community relations
   
123.45   Fees deemed debt to the city
   
123.46   Permit holder responsible for violations
   
123.47   Inspection and enforcement
   
123.48   Violations declared a public nuisance
   
123.49   No vested rights
§ 123.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Cannabis Activities Ordinance of the City
of Indio.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to implement the provisions of
the Medicinal and Adult Use Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act ("MAUCRSA") to
accommodate the needs of medically-ill persons in need of cannabis for
medicinal purposes as recommended by their health care provider(s), and to
provide access to same. It is also the purpose and intent of this chapter to
provide access to adult-use cannabis for persons aged 21 and over as authorized
by the MAUCRSA, while imposing sensible regulations on the use of land to
protect the city's residents, neighborhoods, and businesses from
disproportionately negative impacts. It is the purpose and intent of this
chapter to regulate the commercial sale and delivery of cannabis and cannabis
products in a responsible manner to protect the health, safety, and welfare of
the residents of the city and to enforce rules and regulations consistent with
state law.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.03 LEGAL AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted to the city by
Section 7 of Article XI of the California Constitution, Title 4, Division 19 of
the California Code of Regulations, and the provisions of the MAUCRSA.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.04 COMMERCIAL CANNABIS ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED UNLESS SPECIFICALLY
AUTHORIZED BY THIS CHAPTER.
   Except as specifically authorized by this chapter, the commercial
cultivation, manufacture, processing, storing, laboratory testing, labeling,
sale, delivery, distribution, or transportation, of cannabis or cannabis
products is expressly prohibited in the city.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.05 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND LOCAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   It is the responsibility of the owners and/or operators of any commercial
cannabis business within the city limits to ensure that they operate in a
manner compliant with this chapter, all applicable state and local laws, and
any regulations promulgated thereunder, including but not limited to the
MAUCRSA.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.06 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A person or entity that submits an application for a cannabis
business permit under this chapter.
   CANNABIS. Shall have the same meaning as that appearing in Business and
Professions Code Section 26001(e).
   CANNABIS PRODUCTS. Shall have the same meaning as that appearing in Business
and Professions Code Section 26001(h).
   CITY. The City of Indio, California.
   CITY MANAGER. The City of Indio City Manager or his or her designee.
   COMMERCIAL CANNABIS BUSINESS OR CANNABIS BUSINESS. Any business or operation
which engages in medicinal or adult-use commercial cannabis activity authorized
by this chapter.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMIT. A regulatory permit issued by the city pursuant to
this chapter, to a commercial cannabis business and is required before any
commercial cannabis activity may be conducted in the city. The initial permit
and annual renewal of a permit is made expressly contingent upon the business'
ongoing compliance with all of the requirements of this chapter and any
regulations adopted by the city governing the commercial cannabis activity at
issue.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMITTEE OR PERMITTEE. A person or entity that has
received a cannabis business permit from the city as authorized under this
chapter
   DELIVERY. Shall have the same meaning as that appearing in Business and
Professions Code Section 26001(o).
   DISPENSING. Any activity involving the retail sale of cannabis or cannabis
products from a retailer.
   LIMITED-ACCESS AREA. An area in which cannabis is stored or held and is only
accessible to a permittee and authorized personnel.
   MEDICINAL CANNABIS OR MEDICINAL CANNABIS PRODUCT. Shall have the same
meaning as that appearing in Business and Professions Code Section 26001(ai).
   NON-STOREFRONT RETAILER. A subset of RETAILER and is a permitted retail
business that is closed to the public and provides product to customers solely
by means of a delivery service which the retailer owns and controls.
   OWNER. Any of the following:
      (1)   A person with an aggregate ownership interest of 10% or more in the
commercial cannabis business, unless the interest is solely a security, lien or
encumbrance.
      (2)   An individual who manages, directs, or controls the operations of
the commercial cannabis business, including but not limited to:
         (a)   A member of the board of directors of a nonprofit.
         (b)   A general partner of a commercial cannabis business that is
organized as a partnership.
         (c)   A non-member manager or manager of a commercial cannabis
business that is organized as a limited liability company.
         (d)   The trustee(s) and all persons who have control of the trust
and/or the commercial cannabis business that is held in trust.
         (e)   An individual with the authority to provide strategic direction
and oversight for the overall operations of the commercial cannabis business,
such as the chief executive officer, president or their equivalent, or an
officer, director, vice president, general manager or their equivalent.
         (f)   An individual with the authority to execute contracts on behalf
of the commercial cannabis business.
         (g)   When an entity is an owner in a commercial cannabis business,
all entities and individuals with a financial interest in the entity shall be
disclosed to the city and may be considered owners of the commercial cannabis
business. For example, this includes all entities in a multilayer business
structure, as well as the chief executive officer, members of the board of
directors, partners, trustees and all persons who have control of a trust and
managing members or non-member managers of the entity. Each entity disclosed as
having a financial interest must disclose the identities of persons holding
financial interests until only individuals remain.
   PACKAGE. Any container or receptacle used for holding cannabis or cannabis
products.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation, limited liability company, estate, trust, business trust,
receiver, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit.
   PHYSICIAN'S RECOMMENDATION. Shall have the same meaning as that appearing in
Business and Professions Code Section 26001(ap).
   PREMISES. All have the same meaning as that appearing in Business and
Professions Code Section 26001(aq).
   RETAILER OR STOREFRONT RETAILER. Shall have the same meaning as that
contained in Section 26070(a)(1) of the California Business and Professions
Code.
   STATE LICENSE. A permit or license issued by the State of California, or one
of its departments or divisions, under the MAUCRSA and any subsequent related
State of California legislation, to engage in cannabis activity. A state
license alone will not authorize the holder to operate a cannabis business, as
state law also requires a license or other authorization issued by a local
jurisdiction.
   YOUTH CENTER. Any:
      (1)   Public or private facility that is primarily used to host
recreation or social activities for minors, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Private youth membership organizations or clubs,
         (b)   Social service teenage club facilities,
         (c)   Video arcades where ten or more video games or game machines or
devices are operated, and where minors are legally permitted to conduct
business, or
         (d)   Similar amusement park facilities, and
         (e)   Must be used for youth activities at least 60% of the time in a
calendar year.
      (2)   It shall also include a park, playground or recreational area
specifically designed to be used by children which has play equipment
installed, including public grounds designed for athletic activities such as
baseball, softball, soccer, or basketball or any similar facility located on a
public or private school grounds, or on city, county, or state parks.
      (3)   This definition shall not include any private martial arts, yoga,
ballet, music, art studio or similar studio of this nature nor shall it include
any private gym, athletic training facility, pizza parlor, dentist office,
doctor's office primarily serving children or a location which is primarily
utilized as an administrative office or facility for youth programs or
organizations.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.07 CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMIT REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CANNABIS BUSINESS
ACTIVITY.
   No person may engage in any cannabis business within the city, including
cultivation, manufacture, processing, laboratory testing, distributing,
dispensing, or sale of cannabis or a cannabis product, unless the person meets
all of the following requirements:
   (A)   Possess a valid cannabis business permit from the city;
   (B)   Possess a valid business license from the city;
   (C)   Possess a valid State of California Seller's Permit; and
   (D)   Is currently in compliance with all applicable state and local laws
and regulations pertaining to the cannabis business and the cannabis
activities, including the duty to obtain any required state licenses.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.08 CANNABIS OWNERS CRIMINAL BACKGROUND.
   (A)   Any person who is an owner of a cannabis business must be legally
authorized to do so under applicable state law.
   (B)   Cannabis business owners shall be required to submit to a criminal
background check for themselves. Business owners shall be required to complete
a criminal background check prior to issuance or transfer of a cannabis
business permit.
   (C)   The city shall conduct criminal background checks which must, at a
minimum, identify the following:
      (1)   Whether the owner has ever been convicted of a violent felony as
defined by California Penal Code 667.5 or equivalent offense in other states;
      (2)   Whether the owner has ever been convicted of a serious felony, as
defined by California Penal Code 1192.7 or equivalent offense in other states;
      (3)   Whether the owner has ever been convicted of a felony for hiring,
employing, or using a minor in transporting, carrying, selling, giving away,
preparing for sale, or peddling, any controlled substance to a minor; or
selling, offering to sell, furnishing, offering to furnish, administering, or
giving any controlled substance to a minor;
      (4)   Whether the owner has ever been convicted of a felony for drug
trafficking with enhancements pursuant to Section 11370.4 or 11379.8 of the
Health and Safety Code; or
      (5)   Whether the owner has ever been convicted of a felony involving
fraud, deceit, or embezzlement.
   (D)   Evidence of a conviction of any the offenses enumerated in division
(C) of this section shall be grounds for denial or revocation of a cannabis
business permit.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.09 PERSONS PROHIBITED FROM HOLDING A PERMIT.
   A person is prohibited from holding or maintaining a cannabis business
permit if any of the following apply:
   (A)   The applicant has been denied a cannabis license or permit, or has had
a cannabis license or permit suspended or revoked by any city, county, city and
county or any other state cannabis licensing authority;
   (B)   The applicant was notified by the state, county, or city that it was
conducting cannabis activity in violation of state law or city ordinances,
codes, and requirements, and failed to cure the violation in a timely manner;
and
   (C)   Evidence that the applicant is delinquent in payment of federal,
state, or local taxes and/or fees, and took no steps to cure the delinquency
when notified by the appropriate agencies.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.10 MAXIMUM NUMBER AND TYPE OF AUTHORIZED CANNABIS BUSINESSES PERMITTED.
   This section is intended to create a maximum number and types of cannabis
businesses that may be issued permits to operate in the city.
   (A)   The following cannabis license types are authorized to operate in the
City of Indio.
      (1)   Cannabis storefront retailer.
      (2)   Cannabis non-storefront retailer.
   (B)   Cannabis license types not identified in division (A) of this section
are prohibited from obtaining a cannabis business permit in the City of Indio.
   (C)   The number of each type of cannabis business that shall be permitted
to operate in the city shall be established by resolution by the City Council.
   (D)   Notwithstanding division (C) of this section, the total number of
allowable cannabis storefront retail permits established by City Council
resolution shall be no more than one permit for every 15,000 residents in the
City of Indio, and no less than one permit for every 25,000 residents in the
City of Indio. The population of the City of Indio shall be based on the
official census population estimate, as periodically updated by the U.S.
Department of Commerce, Census Bureau.
   (E)   Each year following the city's initial award of permits, if any, or at
any time in the City Council's discretion, the City Council may reassess the
number of cannabis business permits which are authorized for issuance and make
any changes by resolution.
   (F)   The City Council, at its sole discretion, may determine that the
number and/or types of cannabis business permits should remain the same or be
modified.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.11 COMMUNITY BENEFITS.
   (A)   The application procedure guidelines and review criteria, set forth in
§
123.13, shall include a component on community benefits.
   (B)   Any community benefits that a cannabis business agrees to provide
shall be incorporated into the terms and conditions under which the cannabis
business will operate with the city's approval, if and when a cannabis business
permit is issued. Such terms and conditions shall be in addition to the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.12 CITY'S RESERVATION OF RIGHTS.
   The city reserves the right to reject any or all applications for a cannabis
business permit. Prior to permit issuance, the city may modify, postpone, or
cancel any request for applications, at any time without liability, obligation,
or commitment to any party, firm, or organization, to the extent permitted
under California law. Persons submitting applications assume the risk that all
or any part of the cannabis business permit program, or any particular category
of permit potentially authorized under this chapter, may be cancelled at any
time prior to permit issuance. The city further reserves the right to request
and obtain additional information from any candidate submitting an application.
In addition to a failure to comply with other requirements in this chapter, an
application may be rejected for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   The application was received after the designated time and date of the
deadline.
   (B)   The application did not contain the required elements, exhibits, or
was not organized in the required format.
   (C)   The application was considered not fully responsive to the request for
a permit application, i.e. was substantially incomplete.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.13 PROCEDURE GUIDELINES AND REVIEW CRITERIA TO EVALUATE CANNABIS BUSINESS
PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   By resolution, the City Council shall adopt procedure guidelines and
review criteria for the city's evaluation of cannabis business permit
applications and subsequent issuance.
   (B)   The procedure guidelines shall provide the process for soliciting
applications including time frames, limitations, requirements, forms, and rules
for completing applications.
   (C)   The review criteria shall include detailed instructions on the
methodology to be used to evaluate applications on a point, or other evaluation
system, tied to particular sets of criteria.
   (D)   The review criteria shall be used to determine which candidates will
be eligible to proceed to the final selection process as determined by City
Council resolution.
   (E)   The City Manager shall be authorized to prepare any necessary forms
and adopt any necessary rules to implement the procedure guidelines and review
criteria.
   (F)   At the time of filing, each applicant shall pay an application fee
established by resolution of the City Council to cover all costs incurred by
the city in the application process.
   (G)   For applicants with ten or more employees, the applicant shall attest
that the applicant will enter into a labor peace agreement as defined in
Business and Professions Code Section 26001(y) and will abide by the terms of
the agreement, and the applicant shall provide a copy thereof to the city. For
applicants that have not yet entered into a labor peace agreement, the
applicant shall provide a notarized statement indicating that within 30-days of
cannabis permit from the city, the applicant will enter into and abide by the
labor peace agreement.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.14 EXERCISE OF A CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMIT.
   (A)   A cannabis business permit shall be exercised within 12 months of the
final selection process, as defined by the procedure guideline and review
criteria. A cannabis business permit shall be considered exercised when any of
the following occur:
      (1)   A certificate of occupancy has been issued,
      (2)   The permitted use(s) has commenced on the site, and
      (3)   A city building permit or grading permit is secured, and
construction lawfully commenced.
   (B)   Failure to exercise a cannabis business permit within the timeframe
established in division (A) of this section shall result in denial of the
application.
   (C)   The City Manager, in his/her sole discretion, may extend the timeframe
established in division (A) of this section, if he/she determines that the
applicant has made a good faith effort to exercise the cannabis business permit
within the defined timeframe.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.15 ABANDONMENT OF PERMIT.
   If the cannabis business has not been in regular and continuous operation in
the preceding four months at the permitted location, the cannabis business
permit shall be considered abandoned, unless mitigating circumstance occur
which was beyond the control of the permittee and an extension has been
authorized by the City Manager.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.16 REAPPLYING FOR A CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMIT.
   If an applicant is denied a permit due to a disqualifying factor including,
but not limited to, failing a background check or not complying with any state,
or local jurisdictions regulatory requirements in which legal or administrative
action has been taken, a new application may not be filed by the applicant for
one year from the date of the denial. This section shall not apply to an
approved applicant not awarded a permit resulting from the city not selecting
them for one of the permits in the application process.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.17 TERM OF A CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMIT.
   All permits issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be effective
for a period not to exceed one year from the date of issuance. The City Manager
may renew a permit through the procedures identified in §
123.18.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.18 RENEWAL OF CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMITS.
   (A)   An application for renewal of a cannabis business permit shall be
filed by the cannabis business permittee at least 60 calendar days prior to the
expiration date of the current permit.
   (B)   The renewal application shall contain all the information required for
new applications.
   (C)   The applicant shall pay a fee in an amount to be set by the City
Council to cover the costs of processing the renewal permit application,
together with any costs incurred by the city to administer the program created
under this chapter.
   (D)   An application for renewal of a cannabis business permit may be
rejected if any of the following exists:
      (1)   The application is filed less than 60 days before its expiration or
a shorter time period which shall be at the discretion of the City Manager.
      (2)   The cannabis business permit is suspended or revoked at the time of
the application.
      (3)   The cannabis business has not been in regular and continuous
operation in the four months prior to the renewal application or the approved
extension of the deadline from the City Manager.
      (4)   The cannabis business has failed to conform to the requirements of
the cannabis business permit or this chapter or any regulations adopted
pursuant to this chapter.
      (5)   The permittee fails or is unable to renew its State of California
license.
      (6)   If the state has determined, based on substantial evidence, that
the permittee or applicant is in violation of the requirements of the state
rules and regulations and the state has determined that the violation is
grounds for termination or revocation of the cannabis business permit.
      (7)   Violation of §
123.08.
   (E)   The City Manager is authorized to make all decisions concerning the
issuance of a renewal permit. In making the decision, the City Manager is
authorized to impose additional conditions to a renewal permit, if it is
determined to be necessary to ensure compliance with state or local laws and
regulations or to preserve the public health, safety, or welfare. Appeals from
the decision of the City Manager shall be handled pursuant to this chapter.
   (F)   If a renewal application is denied, a person may file a new
application pursuant to this chapter not sooner than one year from the date of
the denial.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.19 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OR MODIFICATION OF PERMITS.
   Cannabis business permits may be suspended, revoked or modified for any
violation of this chapter, any state or local laws, rules, and/or any
standards, policies, procedures, or regulations adopted pursuant to this
chapter relating to cannabis businesses. A decision of the city to suspend,
revoke or modify a cannabis permit is appealable as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.20 EFFECT OF STATE LICENSE SUSPENSION.
   Suspension of a license issued by the State of California, or by any of its
departments or divisions, shall immediately suspend the cannabis business
permit of the cannabis business. If the State of California or its respective
department or division reinstates or reissues the state license, the cannabis
business may seek reinstatement of its cannabis business permit if the business
can demonstrate that the grounds for revocation of the license by the state no
longer exist or that the underlying deficiency has otherwise been cured. Any
cannabis business permittee shall inform the city of any suspension of a state
license.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.21 EFFECT OF STATE LICENSE REVOCATION OR TERMINATION.
   Revocation or termination of a license issued by the State of California, or
by any of its departments or divisions, shall immediately revoke or terminate
the cannabis business permit of the cannabis business. Any cannabis business
permittee shall inform the city of any revocation or termination of a state
license.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.22 APPEALS.
   Appeals relating to denial of an application; to revoke, suspend or modify a
permit; to deny renewal of an application for a permit; or to add conditions to
a permit shall be conducted as prescribed in this chapter.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.23 APPEALS AND CONTENTS OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Within ten calendar days after service of the notice of the decision
of the city to deny advancement to the final selection process; to revoke,
suspend or modify a permit; to deny a renewed application for a permit; or to
add conditions to a permit, an applicant or permittee may appeal such action by
filing a written appeal with the City Clerk setting forth the reason why the
decision was not proper. For appeals of a denial of an application prior to the
final decision process, reasons shall be stated with specificity and shall
address the issues outlined in §
123.24(A). Date of service shall mean the date when a notice or written
decision was personally delivered to the applicant or permittee or the date
when the notice was caused to be delivered by certified, first class mail. In
cases in which the city can verify delivery of a notice to an applicant or in
which an applicant is documented as refusing delivery, lack of receipt of the
notice cannot form the basis for an appeal.
   (B)   The notice of appeal shall be in writing and signed by the person
making the appeal ("appellant"), or their legal representative, and shall
contain the following:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of the appellant.
      (2)   Specify decisions, actions, or a particular part thereof, made that
are the subject of the appeal.
      (3)   Include a true and correct copy of the notice issued by the City
Manager for which the appellant is appealing.
      (4)   State with specificity the reasons and grounds for making the
appeal, including, but not limited to, a statement of facts upon which the
appeal is based in sufficient detail to enable the City Council, or any
appointed hearing officer, to understand the nature of the controversy, the
basis of the appeal, and the relief requested.
      (5)   All documents or other evidence pertinent to the appeal that the
appellant requests the hearing officer or body to consider at the hearing.
      (6)   An appeal fee as established by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   Failure of the City Clerk to receive a timely appeal constitutes a
waiver of the right to appeal the notice issued by the City Manager. In this
event, the City Manager's notice of revocation, nonrenewal, or suspension shall
be final.
   (D)   In the event a written notice of appeal is timely filed, the
nonrenewal, suspension, or revocation shall not become effective until a final
decision has been rendered and issued by the City Council or appointed hearing
officer. Notices of appeal not served in a timely manner or served by non-
operational business shall not serve to allow such business to operate pending
appeal.
   (E)   If no appeal is timely filed in the event of a decision of nonrenewal,
the cannabis businesses permit shall expire at the conclusion of the term of
the permit. If no appeal is timely filed in the event of a decision supporting
suspension or revocation, the suspension or revocation shall become effective
upon the expiration of the period for filing a written notice of appeal.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.24 APPOINTMENT AND SCOPE OF HEARING OFFICER OR BODY.
   (A)   Denial of application prior to final decision process. The City
Manager, or an appointed hearing officer, as set forth by City Council
resolution, will hear appeals that address the following issues:
      (1)   Any deviation from the city's published procedure guidelines and
review criteria that adversely affected the applicant by altering the outcome
of the city's decision on the application. Examples of appealable deviations
include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Failure on the part of the city to provide appropriate
notification regarding changes to the application process via website postings
and/or email to the applicant prior to the time the application was submitted;
         (b)   Failure on the part of the city to provide an applicant an equal
opportunity to modify an application where that opportunity was provided to
other applicants;
         (c)   Failure on the part of the city to correctly apply the review
criteria, as established by City Council resolution, in reviewing the
application;
      (2)   Any appeal based upon this section must be supported by a
preponderance of the evidence that the applicant presented the relevant
information with completeness and in the appropriate section of the
application. Information presented in the application that is incomplete in
nature or that is relevant to a question posed by the city on the application
form but appears in the incorrect section, even if complete, may be grounds for
the dismissal of the appeal.
   (B)   All other appeals. The City Council, or an appointed hearing officer
or body, as set forth by City Council resolution, shall hear appeals relating
the denial of a renewed application, revocation, suspension or modification a
permit, or addition of conditions to a permit.
   (C)   Notwithstanding division (A)(1) of this section, an applicant that is
eligible to participate in the final selection process, as set forth in the
procedure guidelines and review criteria, but is not selected during the final
selection process, shall not be eligible to appeal the outcome of the process.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.25 APPEAL HEARING PROCESS AND PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Review by City Council, City Manager, appointed hearing officer or
body.
      (1)   Appellants who file a timely written notice of appeal will be
entitled to an administrative hearing before the City Council, City Manager,
hearing officer or body, as set forth by the City Council by resolution.
      (2)   Upon receipt by the City Clerk of a timely-filed notice of appeal,
the City Clerk shall forward such appeal to the hearing officer who shall
schedule a hearing within 30 days. In the event such hearing cannot be heard
within that time period or a mutually agreed upon time with the appellant, then
the City Clerk shall schedule the appeal to be heard within 45 days or as
reasonably possible.
      (3)   The appellant(s) listed on the written notice of appeal shall be
notified in writing of the date, time, and location of the hearing at least ten
days before the date of the hearing ("notice of appeal hearing").
      (4)   A request by an appellant or by the city to continue a hearing must
be submitted to the City Clerk in writing no later than three business days
before the date scheduled for the hearing. The City Council, City Manager,
appointed hearing officer or body may continue a hearing for good cause or on
its own motion; however, in no event may the hearing be continued for more than
30 calendar days, unless there is a stipulation by all parties to do so.
   (B)   At the date, time and location set forth in the notice of appeal
hearing, the City Council, City Manager, appointed hearing officer or body
shall hear and consider the testimony of the appellant(s), city staff, and/or
their witnesses, as well as any documentary evidence properly submitted for
consideration.
   (C)   The following rules shall apply at the appeal hearing:
      (1)   Appeal hearings are informal, and formal rules of evidence and
discovery do not apply. However, rules of privilege shall be applicable to the
extent they are permitted by law, and irrelevant, collateral, undue, and
repetitious testimony may be excluded.
      (2)   The city bears the burden of proof to establish the grounds for
nonrenewal, suspension, revocation, modification of the permit, or adding
conditions to the permit by a preponderance of evidence. Appellant(s) bear the
burden of proof regarding denial of an application or denial of advancement to
the final selection process established by the City Council.
      (3)   The issuance of the city's notice constitutes prima facie evidence
of grounds for the denial, nonrenewal, suspension or revocation.
      (4)   The hearing officer or body may accept and consider late evidence
not submitted initially with the notice of appeal upon a showing by the
appellant of good cause. The hearing officer or body shall determine whether a
particular fact or set of facts amount to good cause on a case-by-case basis.
      (5)   The appellant may bring a language interpreter to the hearing at
their sole expense.
      (6)   The city may, at its discretion, record the hearing by stenographer
or court reporter, audio recording, or video recording. If the appellant
requests from the city that a court reporter, stenographer, or videographer be
used, appellant shall bear the costs of same and shall deposit such fees prior
to commencement of the administrative hearing.
   (D)   If the appellant, or their legal representative, fails to appear at
the appeal hearing, the City Council, City Manager, appointed hearing officer
or body, may cancel the appeal hearing and send a notice thereof to the
appellant by certified, first class mail to the address(es) stated on the
notice of appeal. A cancellation of a hearing due to non-appearance of the
appellant shall constitute the appellant's waiver of the right to appeal and a
failure to exhaust all administrative remedies. In such instances, the city's
notice of decision is final and binding.
   (E)   Final decision. Following the conclusion of the hearing, the City
Council, City Manager, appointed hearing officer or body shall issue a written
decision within 20 days which (i) determines if the action appealed from is
affirmed or overturned and (ii) specifies the reasons for the decision.
   (F)   The written decision of the City Council, City Manager, appointed
hearing officer or body shall provide that it is final and conclusive and is
subject to the time limits set forth in California Code of Civil Procedure
Section 1094.6 for judicial review.
   (G)   A copy of the written decision shall be served by certified, first
class mail on the appellant. If the appellant is not the owner of the real
property in which the cannabis business is located, or proposed to be located,
a copy of the final decision may also be served on the property owner by first
class mail to the address shown on the last equalized assessment roll. Failure
of a person to receive a properly addressed final decision shall not invalidate
any action or proceeding by the city pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.26 CHANGE IN LOCATION; UPDATED APPLICATION FORM.
   (A)   Any time the business location specified in the regulatory permit is
changed, the permittee shall submit an updated application form to the City
Manager for approval prior to the change in location. The process and the fees
for the processing of the application form shall be the same as the process and
fees set forth in §§
123.18 and
123.27.
   (B)   Within 15 calendar days of any other change in the information
provided in the updated application form or any change in status of compliance
with the provisions of this chapter, including any change in the cannabis
business ownership or management members, the applicant shall file an updated
application form with the City Manager for review along with an application
amendment fee.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.27 TRANSFER OF CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMIT.
   (A)   The owner of a cannabis business permit shall not transfer ownership
or control of the permit to another person or entity unless and until the
transferee obtains an amendment to the permit from the City Manager stating
that the transferee is now the permittee. Such an amendment may be obtained
only if the transferee files an application with the City Manager in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter (as though the transferee were applying for
an original cannabis business permit). The proposed transferee's application
shall be accompanied by a transfer fee in an amount set by resolution of the
City Council (or if not set, shall be the same amount as the application fee).
The transferee's application will be treated as a new application, and will be
evaluated according to procedures adopted by the City Manager, pursuant to §
123.43.
   (B)   Cannabis business permits issued through the grant of a transfer by
the City Manager shall be valid for a period of one year beginning on the day
the City Manager approves the transfer of the permit. Before the transferee's
permit expires, the transferee shall apply for a renewal permit and pay the
appropriate fee in the manner required by this chapter.
   (C)   A cannabis business permit shall not be transferred when the city has
notified the permittee in writing that the permit has been or may be suspended
or revoked.
   (D)   Any attempt to transfer a cannabis business permit either directly or
indirectly in violation of this section is hereby declared a violation of the
permit and this chapter. Such a purported transfer shall be deemed a ground for
revocation of the permit.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.28 CITY BUSINESS LICENSE.
   Prior to commencing operations, a cannabis business shall obtain a City of
Indio business license.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.29 BUILDING PERMITS AND INSPECTION.
   Prior to commencing operations, a cannabis business permittee shall be
subject to a mandatory building inspection and must obtain all required permits
and approvals which would otherwise be required for any business of the same
size and intensity operating in that zone. This includes but is not limited to
obtaining any required building permit(s), Fire Department approvals, Police
Department approval, Code Enforcement, Planning, and County Health Department
approvals, and any other applicable zoning and land use permit(s) and
approvals.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.30 AUTHORIZATION FROM THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR.
   Prior to commencing operations, a cannabis business must obtain
authorization from the Community Development Director certifying that the
business is located on a site that meets all of the requirements of §§
123.29,
123.31 and
123.32.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.31 RIGHT TO OCCUPY AND TO USE PROPERTY.
   Prior to the city's issuance of a cannabis business permit pursuant to this
chapter, any person intending to open and to operate a cannabis business shall
first provide sufficient evidence of the legal right to occupy and to use the
proposed location. If the proposed location will be leased from the property
owner, the applicant shall be required to provide a signed and notarized
statement from the owner of the property, acknowledging that the property owner
has read this chapter and consents to the operation of the cannabis business on
the owner's property.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.32 LOCATION AND DESIGN OF CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A cannabis business must meet land use and building standards pursuant
to Title 15 of this Code, including:
      (1)   Conform with the city's general plan, any applicable specific plan,
master plan, and design requirements.
      (2)   Comply with all applicable zoning and related development
standards.
      (3)   Be constructed in a manner that minimizes odors to surrounding
uses, and promotes quality design and construction, and consistency with the
surrounding properties.
   (B)   A cannabis business must meet the following rules relating to
proximity to sensitive uses:
      (1)   Shall be no closer than 600 feet from any zoned parcel in the city
designated as a sensitive use under division (B)(2) of this section or 250 feet
from any church located in a residential zone, that is in existence at the time
the permit is issued. The distance shall be determined by the horizontal
distance measured in a straight line from the closest property line of the
sensitive use to the closest property line of the lot on which the cannabis
business is to be located, without regard to intervening structures.
      (2)   Sensitive uses include:
         (a)   A school providing instruction in kindergarten or any grades 1
through 12, (whether public, private, or charter, including pre-school,
transitional kindergarten, and K-12).
         (b)   A commercial daycare center licensed by the state, county or
city.
         (c)   A youth center.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.33 LIMITATIONS ON CITY'S LIABILITY.
   To the fullest extent permitted by law, the City of Indio shall not assume
any liability whatsoever with respect to having issued a cannabis business
permit pursuant to this chapter or otherwise approving the operation of any
cannabis business. As a condition to the approval of any cannabis business
permit, the applicant shall be required to meet all of the following conditions
prior to receiving the cannabis business permit:
   (A)   Execute an agreement, in a form approved by the City Attorney,
agreeing to indemnify, defend (at applicant's sole cost and expense), and hold
the City of Indio, and its officers, officials, employees, representatives, and
agents, harmless, from any and all claims, losses, damages, injuries,
liabilities or losses which arise out of, or which are in any way related to,
the city's issuance of the cannabis business permit, the city's decision to
approve the operation of the cannabis business or activity, the process used by
the city in making its decision, or the alleged violation of any federal, state
or local laws by the cannabis business or any of its officers, employees or
agents.
   (B)   Maintain insurance at coverage limits, and with conditions thereon
determined necessary and appropriate from time to time by the city's Risk
Manager.
   (C)   Reimburse the city for all costs and expenses, including but not
limited to legal fees and court costs, which the city may be required to pay as
a result of any legal challenge related to the city's approval of the
applicant's cannabis business permit or related to the city 's approval of a
cannabis activity. The city, at its sole discretion, may participate at its own
expense in the defense of any such action, but such participation shall not
relieve the applicant of any of the obligations imposed hereunder.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.34 RECORDS AND RECORDKEEPING.
   (A)   Each owner and operator of a cannabis business shall maintain accurate
books and records in an electronic format, detailing all of the revenues and
expenses of the business, and all of its assets and liabilities for a period
not less than seven years. On no less than an annual basis (at or before the
time of the renewal of a cannabis business permit issued pursuant to this
chapter), or at any time upon reasonable request of the city, each cannabis
business shall file a sworn statement detailing the number and amount of sales
by the cannabis business during the previous 12-month period (or shorter period
based upon the timing of the request), provided on a per-month basis. The
statement shall also include gross sales for each month, and all applicable
taxes and/or fees paid or due to be paid. On an annual basis, each owner and
operator shall submit to the city a financial audit of the business's
operations conducted by an independent certified public accountant. Each
permittee shall be subject to a regulatory compliance review and a gross
receipts financial audit, where applicable, as determined by the city.
   (B)   Each owner and operator of a cannabis business shall maintain a
current register of the names and the contact information (including the name,
address, and telephone number) of anyone owning or holding an interest in the
cannabis business, and separately of all the officers, managers, employees,
agents, and volunteers currently employed or otherwise engaged by the cannabis
business. The register required by this division (B) shall be provided to the
City Manager upon request.
   (C)   All cannabis businesses shall maintain an inventory control and
reporting system that accurately documents the present location, amounts, and
descriptions of all cannabis and cannabis products for all stages of the
growing and production or manufacturing, laboratory testing processes until
purchase as set forth in the MAUCRSA.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.35 SECURITY MEASURES.
   (A)   A cannabis business permittee shall implement sufficient security
measures to deter and prevent the unauthorized entrance into areas containing
cannabis or cannabis products and to deter and prevent the theft of cannabis or
cannabis products at the cannabis business. Except as may otherwise be
determined by the City Manager, these security measures shall include, but
shall not be limited to, all of the following:
      (1)   Perimeter fencing and exterior lighting systems (including motion
sensors) for after-hours security as approved by the Chief of Police and/or the
Community Development Director were applicable.
      (2)   Preventing individuals from remaining on the premises of the
cannabis business if they are not engaging in an activity directly related to
the permitted operations of the cannabis business. In cases in which the
individual will not voluntarily leave the premises, the cannabis employee shall
contact the Police Department.
      (3)   Establishing limited access areas accessible only to authorized
cannabis business personnel.
      (4)   Installing 24-hour security surveillance cameras of at least high-
definition (HD) quality to monitor all entrances and exits to and from the
premises, all interior spaces within the cannabis business which are open and
accessible to the public, all interior spaces where cannabis, cash, or
currency, is being stored for any period of time on a regular basis and all
interior spaces where diversion of cannabis could reasonably occur. All cameras
shall record in color. All exterior cameras shall be in weather-proof
enclosures, shall be located so as to minimize the possibility of vandalism,
and shall have the capability to automatically switch to black and white in low
light conditions. The cannabis business shall be responsible for ensuring that
the security surveillance camera's footage is remotely accessible by the City
Manager, and that it is compatible with the city's software and hardware. In
addition, if required, remote and real-time, live access to the video footage
from the cameras shall be provided to the Chief of Police at the expense of the
permittee. Video recordings shall be maintained for a minimum of 90 days and
shall be made available to the Chief of Police upon request. Video shall be of
sufficient quality for effective prosecution of any crime found to have
occurred on the site of the cannabis business and shall be capable of
enlargement via projection or other means. Internet protocol address
information shall be provided to the Police Department by the cannabis
business, to facilitate remote monitoring of security cameras by the Department
or its designee. Each business shall have network security protocols that are
certified by Underwriters Laboratories.
      (5)   Sensors shall be installed to detect entry and exit from all secure
areas and shall be monitored in real time by a security company licensed by the
State of California Bureau of Security and Investigative Services.
      (6)   Panic buttons shall be installed in all cannabis businesses with
direct notification to the Police Department dispatch and shall be configured
to immediately alert dispatch for the Police Department.
      (7)   Having a professionally installed, maintained, and monitored real-
time alarm system by a security company licensed by the State of California
Bureau of Security and Investigative Services. The permittee shall be required
to obtain an alarm permit from the Police Department.
      (8)   Any security measures, such as bars, installed on the windows or
the doors of the cannabis business shall be installed only on the interior of
the building.
      (9)   Security personnel shall be on-site 24 hours a day or alternative
security as authorized by the City Manager and must have a security patrol when
closed. Security personnel must be licensed by the State of California Bureau
of Security and Investigative Services personnel and shall be subject to the
prior review and approval of the City Manager, with such approval not to be
unreasonably withheld.
      (10)   Each cannabis business shall have the capability to remain secure
during a power outage and shall ensure that all access doors are not solely
controlled by an electronic access panel to ensure that locks are not released
during a power outage.
      (11)   Each cannabis business shall have an accounting software system in
place to provide point of sale data as well as audit trails of both product and
cash, where applicable.
      (12)   Each cannabis business shall demonstrate to the Chief of Police,
City Manager or their designees, compliance with the state's track and trace
system for cannabis and cannabis products.
      (13)   Each cannabis business shall have a professionally installed video
surveillance system, access control and intrusion alarm systems designed to
protect the inventory, facility, and employees. Each business shall have
network security protocols that are certified by Underwriters Laboratories.
      (14)   Exterior vegetation shall be planted, altered and maintained in a
fashion that precludes its use as a hiding place for persons on the premises.
      (15)   Emergency access and emergency evacuation plans that are in
compliance with state and local fire safety standards.
   (B)   Each cannabis business shall identify a designated security
representative/liaison to the city, who shall be reasonably available to meet
with the City Manager regarding any security related measures and/or
operational issues. The designated security representative/liaison shall, on
behalf of the cannabis business, annually maintain a copy of the current
security plan on the premises of the business, to present to the City Manager
upon request that meets the following requirements:
      (1)   Confirms that a designated manager will be on duty during business
hours and will be responsible for monitoring the behavior of employees.
      (2)   Identifies all managers of the cannabis business and their contact
phone numbers.
      (3)   Confirms that first aid supplies and operational fire extinguishers
are located in the service areas and the manager's office.
      (4)   Confirms that burglar, fire, and panic alarms are operational and
monitored by a licensed security company 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and
provides contact information for each licensed security company.
      (5)   Identifies a sufficient number of licensed, interior, and exterior
security personnel who will monitor individuals inside and outside the cannabis
business, the parking lot, any adjacent property under the business' control,
and ensure that the parking lot is cleared of employees and their vehicles one-
half hour after closing.
   (C)   As part of the application and licensing process each cannabis
business shall have a storage and transportation plan, which describes in
detail the procedures for safely and securely storing and transporting all
cannabis, cannabis products, any hazardous materials that may be used by the
business, and any currency.
   (D)   The cannabis business shall cooperate with the city whenever the City
Manager makes a request, with or without prior notice, to inspect or audit the
effectiveness of any security plan or of any other requirement of this chapter.
   (E)   A cannabis business shall notify the City Manager within 24 hours
after discovering any of the following:
      (1)   Significant discrepancies identified during inventory. The level of
significance shall be determined by the regulations promulgated by the City
Manager.
      (2)   Diversion, theft, loss, or any criminal activity involving the
cannabis business or any agent or employee of the cannabis business.
         (a)   The loss or unauthorized alteration of records related to
cannabis, customers or employees or agents of the cannabis business.
         (b)   Any other breach of security.
   (F)   Compliance with the foregoing requirements shall be verified by the
City Manager prior to commencing business operations. The City Manager may
supplement these security requirements once operations begin, subject to review
by the City Manager if requested by the business owner.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.36 FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   No person may commence or continue any cannabis activity in the city,
without timely paying in full all fees and charges required for the operation
of a cannabis business. Fees and charges associated with the operation of a
cannabis activity shall be established by resolution of the City Council which
may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   All cannabis businesses authorized to operate under this chapter shall
pay all sales, use, business and other applicable taxes, and all license,
permit, registration, and other fees required under federal, state, and local
law. Each cannabis business shall cooperate with the city with respect to any
request to audit the cannabis business' books and records for the purpose of
verifying compliance with this section, including but not limited to a
verification of the amount of taxes or fees required to be paid during any
period.
   (C)   Prior to operating in the city and as a condition of issuance of a
permit, the operator of each cannabis facility shall enter into an operational
and/or community benefit agreement with the city setting forth the terms and
conditions under which the cannabis facility will operate that are in addition
to the requirements of this chapter, including, but not limited to, public
outreach and education, community service, payment of fees and other charges as
mutually agreed, and such other terms and conditions that will protect and
promote the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.37 GENERAL OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Cannabis businesses may operate only during the hours specified in the
cannabis business permit issued by the city.
   (B)   Restriction on sales and consumption. No person shall cause or permit
the sale, dispensing, or consumption of alcoholic beverages or tobacco on or
about the premises of the cannabis business.
   (C)   No cannabis or cannabis products or graphics depicting cannabis or
cannabis products shall be visible from the exterior of any property issued a
cannabis business permit, or on any of the vehicles owned or used as part of
the cannabis business. No outdoor storage of cannabis or cannabis products is
permitted at any time.
   (D)   Reporting and tracking of product and of gross sales. Each cannabis
business shall have in place a point-of-sale or management inventory tracking
system to track and report on all aspects of the cannabis business including,
but not limited to, such matters as cannabis tracking, inventory data, gross
sales (by weight and by sale) and other information which may be deemed
necessary by the city. The cannabis business shall ensure that such information
is compatible with the city's record-keeping systems. In addition, the system
must have the capability to produce historical transactional data for review.
Furthermore, any system selected must be approved and authorized by the City
Manager prior to being used by the permittee.
   (E)   All cannabis and cannabis products sold, distributed, or manufactured
shall be cultivated, manufactured, and transported by state licensed facilities
that maintain operations in full conformance with the state and local
regulations.
   (F)   Emergency contact. Each cannabis business shall provide the City
Manager with the name, telephone number (both land line and mobile, if
available) of an on-site employee or owner to whom emergency notice can be
provided at any hour of the day.
   (G)   Signage and notices.
      (1)    In addition to the requirements otherwise set forth in this
section, business identification signage for a cannabis business shall conform
to the requirements of the Unified Development Code, including, but not limited
to, seeking the issuance of a city sign permit.
      (2)   No signs placed on the premises of a cannabis business shall
obstruct any entrance or exit to the building or any window.
      (3)   Each entrance to a cannabis business shall be visibly posted with a
clear and legible notice indicating that smoking, ingesting, or otherwise
consuming cannabis on the premises or in the areas adjacent to the cannabis
business is prohibited.
      (4)   Business identification signage shall be limited to that needed for
identification only and shall not contain any logos or information that
identifies, advertises, or lists the services or the products offered. No
cannabis business shall advertise by having a person holding a sign and
advertising the business to passersby, whether such person is on the premises
of the cannabis business or elsewhere including, but not limited to, the public
right-of-way.
      (5)   Signage shall not depict any image of cannabis or cannabis
products. No banners, flags, snipe signs, billboards, or other prohibited signs
may be used at any time.
      (6)   In accordance with state law and regulations or as stipulated in
the city's cannabis business permit, holders of a cannabis business permit
shall agree that, as an express and ongoing condition of permit issuance and
subsequent renewal, the holder of the permit shall be prohibited from
advertising any cannabis business located in the city limits utilizing a
billboard (fixed or mobile), bus shelter, placard, aircraft, or other similar
forms of advertising. This division is not intended to place limitations on the
ability of a cannabis business to advertise in other legally authorized forms,
including on the internet, in magazines, or in other similar ways.
   (H)   Minors.
      (1)   Persons under the age of 21 years shall not be allowed on the
premises of a cannabis business and shall not be allowed to serve as a driver
for a mobile delivery service. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this
chapter for any person to employ any person at a cannabis business who is not
at least 21 years of age.
      (2)   The entrance to the cannabis business shall be clearly and legibly
posted with a notice that no person under the age of 21 years of age is
permitted to enter upon the premises of the cannabis business.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (H)(1) of this section, persons aged 18 to
20 years shall be allowed on the premises of a cannabis business if they can
produce a physician's recommendation. In that event, such persons can lawfully
purchase cannabis for the sole purpose of addressing the medical need that is
the subject of the physician's recommendation.
   (I)   Odor control. Odor control devices and techniques shall be
incorporated in all cannabis businesses to ensure that odors from cannabis are
not detectable off-site. Cannabis businesses shall provide a sufficient odor
absorbing ventilation and exhaust system so that odor generated inside the
cannabis Business that is distinctive to its operation is not detected outside
of the facility, anywhere on adjacent property or public rights-of-way, on or
about the exterior or interior common area walkways, hallways, breezeways,
foyers, lobby areas, or any other areas available for use by common tenants or
the visiting public, or within any other unit located inside the same building
as the cannabis business. As such, cannabis businesses must install and
maintain the following equipment, or any other equipment which the Community
Development Director or his/her designee(s) determine is a more effective
method or technology:
      (1)   An exhaust air filtration system with odor control that prevents
internal odors from being emitted externally;
      (2)   An air system that creates negative air pressure between the
cannabis business's interior and exterior, so that the odors generated inside
the cannabis business are not detectable on the outside of the cannabis
business.
   (J)   Display of permit and city business license. The original copy of the
cannabis business permit issued by the city pursuant to this chapter and the
city issued business license shall be posted inside the cannabis business in a
location readily visible to the public.
   (K)   Background check. Pursuant to California Penal Code Sections 11105(b)
(11) and 13300(b)(11), which authorizes city authorities to access state and
local summary criminal history information for cannabis employment, licensing,
or certification purposes and authorizes access to federal level criminal
history information by transmitting fingerprint images and related information
to the Department of Justice to be transmitted to the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, every person listed as an owner must submit fingerprints and
other information deemed necessary by the Chief of Police or his/her designee
(s) for a background check by the City of Indio Police Department. Pursuant to
California Penal Code Sections 11105(b)(11) and 13300(b)(11), which requires
that there be a requirement or exclusion from cannabis employment, licensing or
certification based on specific criminal conduct on the part of the subject of
the record, no person shall be issued a permit to operate a cannabis business
unless they have first cleared the background check, as determined by the Chief
of Police or his/her designee(s), as required by this section. A fee for the
cost of the background investigation, which shall be the actual cost to the
City of Indio to conduct the background investigation as it deems necessary and
appropriate, shall be paid at the time the application for a cannabis business
permit is submitted. Evidence of a conviction of any of the offenses enumerated
in Business and Professions Code Section 26057(b)(4), absent a certificate of
rehabilitation, shall be grounds for immediate disqualification of the
applicant.
   (L)   Loitering. The owner and/or operator of a cannabis business shall
prohibit loitering by persons outside the facility both on the premises and
within 50 feet of the premises. The cannabis business shall notify the Police
Department if anyone continues to loiter around the building or premises after
all reasonable action has been taken to remove the individual(s) and the action
has failed to do so in a timely manner.
   (M)   Permits and other approvals. Prior to the establishment of any
cannabis business or the operation of any such business, the person intending
to establish a cannabis business must first obtain all applicable planning,
zoning, building, and other applicable permits from the relevant governmental
agency which may be applicable to the zoning district in which such cannabis
business intends to establish and to operate pursuant to §
123.32 and all applicable requirements in this chapter.
   (N)   Each cannabis operator shall establish minimum training standards for
all employees. The City Manager shall have the discretion to require other
training for the business operations should the city identify deficiencies or
non-compliance issues with city or state requirements.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.38 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR STORE FRONT RETAIL FACILITIES.
   (A)   No more than the number of cannabis retailers adopted by Council
resolution may operate within the city at any one time and shall be issued a
permit by the city.
   (B)   Retailers shall verify the age and all necessary documentation of each
individual to ensure the customer is not under the age of 18 years. If the
potential customer is 18 to 20 years old, retailer shall confirm the customer's
possession of a valid doctor's recommendation and/or Health and Safety Code
Section 11362.71 identification card (Medical Marijuana Card). For adult-use
purchases, retailers shall verify that all customers are 21 years of age or
older for the purchase of cannabis or cannabis products.
   (C)   Individuals must show their government-issued identification, and, in
the case of medical cannabis facilities, their physician's recommendation, or a
cannabis card issued pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section 11362.71 in
order to gain access into the retailer. The government-issued identification
and, if applicable, doctor's recommendation or cannabis card must also be shown
at the point-of-sale station at the time of purchase. Doctor recommendations
are not to be obtained or provided at the retail location.
   (D)   Uniformed licensed security personnel shall be employed to monitor
site activity, control loitering and site access, and to serve as a visual
deterrent to unlawful activities. Security personnel may be allowed to carry
firearms if authorized by the Chief of Police.
   (E)   Retailers may have only that quantity of cannabis and cannabis
products to meet the daily demand readily available for sale on-site in the
retail sales area of the retailer. Additional product may be stored in a
secured, locked area to which customers, vendors, and visitors shall not have
access.
   (F)   All restroom facilities shall remain locked and under the control of
management.
   (G)   Permitted store front retailers are authorized to conduct cannabis
sales by delivery, pursuant to the requirements set forth in §
123.40.
   (H)   Retailers authorized to conduct retail activities shall only serve
customers who are within the permitted premises, or at a delivery address that
meets the requirements of this division.
      (1)   The sale and delivery of cannabis goods shall not occur through a
pass-through window or a slide-out tray to the exterior of the premises.
      (2)   Retailers shall not operate as or with a drive-in or drive-through
at which cannabis goods are sold to persons within or about a motor vehicle.
      (3)   No cannabis goods shall be sold and/or delivered by any means or
method to any person within a motor vehicle.
      (4)   All cannabis goods sold by a retail business shall be contained in
child resistant packaging.
      (5)   Retailers shall record point-of-sale areas and areas where cannabis
goods are displayed for sale on the video surveillance system. At each point-
of-sale location, camera placement must allow for the recording of the facial
features of any person purchasing or selling cannabis goods, or any person in
the retail area, with sufficient clarity to determine identity.
      (6)   A retail permittee who is engaged in retail sale shall hire or
contract for security personnel who are at least 21 years of age to provide
security services for the permitted retail premises. All security personnel
hired or contracted for by the permittee shall be licensed by the Bureau of
Security and Investigative Services and shall comply with Division 3 of the
Business and Professions Code.
   (I)   Access to retailer premises.
      (1)   Access to the premises of a retail permittee shall be limited to
individuals who are at least 21 years of age.
      (2)   Notwithstanding §
123.37(H)(1), individuals who are at least 18 years of age and in possession of
a valid physician's recommendation shall be granted access to the premises of a
retail permittee for the sole purpose of purchasing medicinal cannabis
consistent with the physician's recommendation.
   (J)   Authorized sales. A retailer shall only sell adult-use cannabis and
adult-use cannabis products to individuals who are at least 21 years of age. A
retailer shall only sell medicinal cannabis or medicinal cannabis products to
individuals who are at least 18 years of age, but not yet 21, if those
individuals are in possession of a valid physician's recommendation. Medicinal
cannabis sales to individuals 21 years of age and older are unrestricted.
   (K)   Limited access areas. A retailer shall establish limited-access areas
and permit only authorized individuals to enter the limited-access areas.
Authorized individuals include individuals employed by the retailer as well as
any outside vendors, contractors, or other individuals conducting business that
requires access to the limited access area. All individuals granted access to
the limited access area shall be at least 21 years of age, and if not employed
by the retailer, shall be escorted at all times by an employee of the
permittee. A retailer shall maintain a log of all individuals who are not
employees who are granted access to the limited access area. These logs shall
be made available to the City Manager, Chief of Police, or their designees upon
request.
   (L)   Operating hours of the store front retailer permit shall be limited to
the hours of 6:00 a.m. through 10:00 p.m., seven days a week.
   (M)   Store front/retail security requirements. All provisions incorporated
within §
123.35 (Security Measures), are directly applicable to and binding on all
cannabis businesses, including all store front/retail businesses.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.39 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR NON-STORE FRONT RETAIL (DELIVERY-ONLY)
FACILITIES.
   (A)   No more than the number of non-store front retailers adopted by
Council resolution may operate within the city at any one time and shall be
issued a permit by the city.
   (B)   A non-store front retailer permittee shall be authorized to conduct
retail sales exclusively by delivery. The permitted premises of a non-
storefront retailer permittee shall be closed to the public.
   (C)   A non-store front retailer permittee shall comply with all the
requirements applicable to retailer permittees, except for those provisions
related to public access to the permitted premises and the retail area.
   (D)   Operating hours of the non-store front retailer permit shall be
limited to the hours of 9:00 a.m. through 9:00 p.m., seven days a week.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.40 STORE FRONT AND NON-STORE FRONT RETAIL DELIVERY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to providing cannabis goods to a delivery customer, operators
are required to verify the age and the necessary documentation of each
customer. They must ensure that medical customers are at least 18 years of age
and verify that the customer has a valid doctor's recommendation. In the case
of adult-use customers, they must verify that the customer is at least 21 years
of age. Sales shall only be made to persons matching these criteria.
   (B)   Retail delivery services shall be limited to the hours of 9:00 a.m.
through 9:00 p.m., seven days a week.
   (C)   Prior to commencing delivery operations, a cannabis retailer and
cannabis non-store front retailer shall provide the following information to
the city:
      (1)   Proof of ownership of the vehicle or a valid lease for any and all
vehicles that will be used to deliver cannabis or cannabis products.
      (2)   The year, make, model, color, license plate number, and numerical
Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) for any and all vehicles that will be used
to deliver cannabis goods.
      (3)   Proof of insurance as required in §
123.33(B) for any and all vehicles being used to deliver cannabis goods.
      (4)   The permittee shall provide the city with the information required
by this section in writing for any new vehicle that will be used to deliver
cannabis goods prior to using the vehicle to deliver cannabis goods.
      (5)   The permittee shall provide the city with any changes to the
information required by this section in writing within 30 calendar days.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.41 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR OUT-OF-CITY DELIVERY SERVICES.
   (A)   All cannabis businesses which conduct deliveries into or within the
City of Indio shall be required to obtain a permit from the City of Indio in
order to conduct retail sales regardless of whether they are located in the
city or another local jurisdiction.
   (B)   Prior to commencing operations, a cannabis out-of-city delivery
service shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   Obtain from the city a permit authorizing the delivery of cannabis
and cannabis products within the city limits. A copy of this permit shall be
retained by all drivers.
      (2)   The retail business operating the delivery service shall provide
the City Manager with evidence of a valid state and local license for a
cannabis business on whose authorization the delivery service is performing the
delivery function.
      (3)   The retail business operating the delivery service shall furnish to
the City Manager the year, make, model, license plate number, and numerical
Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) for any and all vehicles that will be used
to deliver cannabis goods.
   (C)   Operating hours of the out-of-city delivery service shall be limited
to the hours of 9:00 a.m. through 9:00 p.m., seven days a week.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.42 PERMISSIBLE DELIVERY LOCATIONS AND CUSTOMERS.
   Cannabis delivery businesses permitted to engage in delivery of cannabis and
cannabis products inside the City of Indio are subject to the following
requirements:
   (A)   A permitted cannabis business shall not deliver cannabis goods to an
address located on publicly owned land or any address on land or in a building
leased by a public agency.
   (B)   A permitted cannabis business shall comply with all requirements of
state and local law pertaining to the cannabis business permit and all
subsequent policies, procedures and regulations which may be amended by the
City Manager from time to time in order to enforce this chapter.
   (C)   Any kiosk, i-Pad, tablet, smartphone, fixed location or technology
platform, whether manned or unmanned, other than a retail location permitted by
the city, that facilitates, directs, or assists the retail sale or delivery of
cannabis or cannabis products is prohibited and shall be a violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.43 PROMULGATION OF REGULATIONS, STANDARDS AND OTHER LEGAL DUTIES.
   (A)   In addition to any regulations adopted by the City Council, the City
Manager is authorized to establish administratively any additional rules,
regulations and standards governing the issuance, denial or renewal of cannabis
business permits, the ongoing operation of cannabis businesses and the city's
oversight, or concerning any other subject determined to be necessary to carry
out the purposes of this chapter.
   (B)   Regulations shall be published on the city's website.
   (C)   Regulations promulgated by the City Manager shall become effective
upon date of publication. Cannabis businesses shall be required to comply with
all state and local laws and regulations, including but not limited to any
rules, regulations or standards adopted by the City Manager.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.44 COMMUNITY RELATIONS.
   (A)   Each cannabis business shall provide the name, telephone number, and
email address of a community relations contact to whom notice of problems
associated with the cannabis business can be provided. Each cannabis business
shall also provide the above information to all businesses and residences
located within 100 feet of the cannabis business.
   (B)   During the first year of operation pursuant to this chapter, the
owner, manager, and community relations representative from each cannabis
business holding a permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall attend meetings
with the City Manager, and other interested parties as deemed appropriate by
the City Manager, to discuss costs, benefits, and other community issues
arising as a result of implementation of this chapter. After the first year of
operation, the owner, manager, and community relations representative from each
such cannabis business shall meet with the City Manager when and as requested
by the City Manager.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.45 FEES DEEMED DEBT TO THE CITY.
   The amount of any fee, cost or charge imposed pursuant to this chapter shall
be deemed a debt to the city that is recoverable via an authorized
administrative process as set forth in the city ordinance or in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.46 PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBLE FOR VIOLATIONS.
   The person to whom a permit is issued pursuant to this chapter shall be
responsible for all violations of the laws of the State of California or of the
regulations and/or the ordinances of the city, whether committed by the
permittee or any employee or agent of the permittee, which violations occur in
or about the premises of the cannabis business whether or not said violations
occur within the permit holder's presence.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.47 INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The City Manager, or designee charged with enforcing the provisions of
the City of Indio Municipal Code, or any provision thereof, may enter the
location of a cannabis business at any time, without notice, and inspect the
location of any cannabis business as well as any recordings and records
required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter or under applicable
provisions of state law.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person having responsibility over the operation
of a cannabis business, to impede, obstruct, interfere with, or otherwise not
to allow, the city to conduct an inspection, review or copy records, recordings
or other documents required to be maintained by a cannabis business under this
chapter or under state or local law. It is also unlawful for a person to
conceal, destroy, deface, damage, or falsify any records, recordings or other
documents required to be maintained by a cannabis business under this chapter
or under state or local law.
   (C)   The City Manager, or designee charged with enforcing the provisions of
this chapter may enter the location of a cannabis business at any time during
the hours of operation and without notice to obtain samples of the cannabis to
test for public safety purposes. Any samples obtained by the City of Indio
shall be logged, recorded, and maintained in accordance with established
procedures by the City Manager or these regulations.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.48 VIOLATIONS DECLARED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Each and every violation of the provisions of this chapter constitutes a
misdemeanor and is hereby deemed unlawful and a public nuisance. The city
reserves the right to pursue any available legal remedy to address violations
of this chapter.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
§ 123.49 NO VESTED RIGHTS.
   No person(s) (including any applicant, owner, and/or permittee) shall have
any vested rights to any permit, right, and/or interest under this chapter,
regardless of whether such person(s) sold, distributed, and/or otherwise
engaged in acts related to the use of cannabis prior to the adoption of the
ordinance codified in this chapter.
(Ord. 1780, passed 6-1-22)
CHAPTER 124: PERMITTING OF TOBACCO RETAILERS
Section
   
124.01   Adoption by reference
   
124.02   Definitions
   
   
124.99   Penalties
§ 124.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided in this Chapter, Chapter 5.68 of Title
5, Business Licenses and Regulations, of the Riverside County Code of
Ordinances, as amended and in effect on January 19, 2022, is hereby adopted by
reference as the "Permitting of Tobacco Retailers Ordinance" of the City of
Indio and may be cited as such.
   (B)   A copy of Chapter 5.68 of Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations,
of the Riverside County Code of Ordinances, in effect on January 19, 2022 has
been deposited in the Office of the City Clerk and shall at all times be
maintained by the City Clerk for use and examination by the public.
   (C)   In the event of any conflict between provisions of Chapter 5.68 of the
Riverside County Code and any amendment thereto contained in the Indio
Municipal Code, the provision contained in the later listed document shall
control.
(Ord. 1772, passed 2-16-22)
§ 124.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
92.01, the following words and phrases used in the Animal Control Ordinance are
defined as follows:
   (A)   County of Riverside shall mean the City of Indio, except where the
County of Riverside is the correct notation due to circumstances.
   (B)   Department shall mean the County of Riverside Department of
Environmental Health.
(Ord. 1772, passed 2-16-22)
§ 124.99 PENALTIES.
   The remedies provided by this chapter are cumulative and in addition to any
other remedies available at law or in equity.
   (A)   Violators who operate without the necessary tobacco retailer's permit
shall be subject to closure of the tobacco retail facility.
   (B)   Whenever evidence of a violation of this chapter is obtained in part
through the participation of a person under the age of 21 years old, such a
person shall not be required to appear or give testimony in any civil or
administrative process brought to enforce this chapter and the alleged
violation shall be adjudicated based upon the sufficiency and persuasiveness of
the evidence presented.
   (C)   Violations of this chapter are subject to a civil action brought by
the district attorney or county counsel, punishable by:
      (1)   A fine not less than $250 and not exceeding $1,000 for a first
violation in any 60-month period; or
      (2)   A fine not less than $1,500 and not exceeding $2,500 for a second
violation in any 60-month period; or
      (3)   A fine not less than $3,000 and not exceeding $10,000 for a third
or subsequent violation in any 60-month period.
   (D)   Violations of this chapter may, in the discretion of the district
attorney or county counsel, be prosecuted as infractions or misdemeanors.
   (E)   Causing, permitting, aiding, abetting, or concealing a violation of
any provision of this chapter shall constitute a violation.
   (F)   Violations of this chapter are hereby declared to be public nuisances.
   (G)   In addition to other remedies provided by this chapter or by other
law, any violation of this chapter may be remedied by a civil action brought by
the county counsel, including, but not limited to, administrative or judicial
nuisance abatement proceedings, civil or criminal code enforcement proceedings,
and suits for injunctive relief.
   (H)   Administrative citations and penalties. In addition to the remedies
and penalties contained in this chapter, and in accordance with Cal. Gov’t Code
§ 53069.4, an enforcement officer may issue an administrative citation for any
violation of this chapter. The following procedures shall govern the
imposition, enforcement, collection and administrative review of administrative
citations and penalties.
   (I)   Content of citation. The administrative citation shall be issued on a
form approved by county counsel and shall at a minimum contain the following
information:
      (1)   Date, location and approximate time the violation was observed.
      (2)   The ordinance violated and a brief description of the violation.
      (3)   The amount of the administrative penalty imposed for the violation.
      (4)   Instructions for the payment of the penalty, and the time period by
which it shall be paid and the consequences of failure to pay the penalty
within this time period.
      (5)   Instructions on how to appeal the citation.
      (6)   The signature of the enforcement officer.
      (7)   The failure of the citation to set forth all required contents
shall not affect the validity of the proceedings.
   (J)   Service of citation.
      (1)   If the proprietor, owner, employee, agent, occupant or other person
who has violated the ordinance is present at the scene of the violation, the
enforcement officer shall attempt to obtain their signature on the
administrative citation and shall deliver a copy of the administrative citation
to them.
      (2)   If the proprietor, owner, employee, agent, occupant or other person
who has violated the ordinance is a business, and the business owner is on the
premises, the enforcement officer shall attempt to deliver the administrative
citation to them. If the enforcement officer is unable to serve the business
owner on the premises, the administrative citation may be left with the manager
or employee of the business. If left with the manager or employee of the
business, a copy of the administrative citation shall also be mailed to the
business owner by certified mail, return receipt requested.
      (3)   If no one can be located at the property, then the administrative
citation shall be posted in a conspicuous place on or near the property and a
copy mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested to the owner, occupant
or other person who has violated the ordinance. The citation shall be mailed to
the property address and/or the address listed for the owner on the last county
equalized assessment roll.
      (4)   The failure of any interested person to receive the citation shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings.
   (K)   Administrative penalties.
      (1)   The penalties assessed for each violation shall not exceed the
following amounts:
         (a)   One hundred dollars for a first violation;
         (b)   Two hundred dollars for a second violation of this chapter
within one year; and
         (c)   Five hundred dollars for each additional violation of this
chapter within one year.
      (2)   If the violation is not corrected, additional administrative
citations may be issued for the same violation. The amount of the penalty shall
increase at the rate specified above.
      (3)   Payment of the penalty shall not excuse the failure to correct the
violation nor shall it bar further enforcement action.
      (4)   The penalties assessed shall be payable to the County of Riverside.
   (L)   Administrative appeal.
      (1)   Notice of appeal. The recipient of an administrative citation may
appeal the citation by filing a written notice of appeal with the department.
The written notice of appeal must be filed within 20 days of the service of the
administrative citation as set forth in § 5.68.090.H.2. of the Riverside County
Code of Ordinances. Failure to file a written notice of appeal within this time
period shall constitute a waiver of the right to appeal the administrative
citation. The notice of appeal shall be submitted on the administrative
citation appeal forms and shall be accompanied by payment of the full penalty
assessment, and shall contain the following information:
         (a)   A brief statement setting forth the appellants interest in the
proceedings;
         (b)   A brief statement of the material facts which the appellant
claims supports their contention that no administrative penalty should be
imposed or that an administrative penalty of a different amount is warranted;
         (c)   An address at which the appellant agrees notice of any
additional proceeding or an order relating to the imposition of the
administrative penalty may be received by mail.
         (d)   The notice of appeal must be signed by the appellant.
      (2)   Administrative hearing. Upon a timely written request by the
recipient of the administrative citation, an administrative hearing shall be
held as follows:
         (a)   Notice of hearing. Notice of the administrative hearing shall be
given at least ten days before the hearing to the person requesting the
hearing. The notice may be delivered to the person or may be mailed to the
address listed in the notice of appeal.
         (b)   Hearing officer. The administrative hearing shall be held before
the director of department of environmental health or their designee. The
hearing officer shall not be the enforcement officer who issued the
administrative citation or said enforcement officer's immediate supervisor. The
director may contract with a qualified provider to conduct administrative
hearings or to process administrative citations.
         (c)   Conduct of the hearing. The enforcement officer who issued the
administrative citation shall not be required to, but may, participate in the
administrative hearing. The contents of the enforcement officer's file in the
case shall be admitted as prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein. The
hearing officer shall not be limited by the technical rules of evidence. If the
person requesting the appeal fails to appear at the administrative hearing, the
hearing officer shall make his or her determination based on the information
contained in the notice of appeal.
         (d)   Hearing officer's decision. The hearing officer, based upon the
evidence submitted, shall either dismiss or uphold the citation. The citation
recipient shall receive a refund of the full penalty assessment if the citation
is dismissed. The hearing officer's decision following the administrative
hearing shall be personally delivered to the person requesting the hearing or
sent by first class mail. The hearing officer may allow payment of the
administrative penalty in installments, if the person provides evidence
satisfactory to the hearing officer of an inability to pay the penalty in full.
The hearing officer's decision shall contain instructions for obtaining review
of the decision by the superior court.
   (M)   Review of administrative hearing officer's decision.
      (1)   Notice of appeal. Within 20 days of the date of the delivery or
mailing of the hearing officer's decision, a person may contest that decision
by filing an appeal to be heard by the superior court. The failure to file the
written appeal and to pay the court filing fee within this period shall
constitute a waiver of the right to an appeal and the decision shall be deemed
confirmed. A copy of the notice of appeal shall be served in person or by first
class mail upon the issuing agency by the contestant.
      (2)   Conduct of hearing. The conduct of the appeal is a subordinate
judicial duty and may be performed by traffic trial commissioners and other
subordinate judicial officials at the direction of the presiding judge of the
court. The appeal shall be heard de novo, except that the contents of the
issuing agency's file in the case shall be received in evidence. A copy of the
document or instrument of the issuing agency providing notice of the violation
and imposition of the administrative penalty shall be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein. The court shall request that
the issuing agency's file on the case be forwarded to the court, to be received
within 15 days of the request.
      (3)   Judgment. The court shall retain the court's filing fee regardless
of the outcome of the appeal. If the court finds in favor of the contestant,
the amount of the fine or penalty shall be reimbursed to the contestant by the
local agency. Any deposit of the fine or penalty shall be refunded by the
issuing agency in accordance with the judgment of the court. If the fine or
penalty has not been deposited and the decision of the court is against the
contestant, the issuing agency may proceed to collect the penalty pursuant to
the procedures set forth in this chapter, or in any other manner provided by
law.
(Ord. 1772, passed 2-16-22)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS OR PROPERTY
         
131.   REGULATION OF ALARM SYSTEMS
         
132.   NARCOTICS AND GANG-RELATED CRIME EVICTION PROGRAM
         
133.   UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF A CATALYTIC CONVERTER
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS OR PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
130.001   Curfew; exceptions
   
130.002   Distribution of handbills
   
130.003   Keeping a riotous or disorderly house
   
130.004   Public drinking and liquor possession
   
130.005   Loitering
   
130.006   Hitting golf balls
   
130.007   Human waste elimination unlawful
Camping
   
130.020   Camping prohibited
   
130.021   Reserved
   
130.022   Special events
Drug Paraphernalia
   
130.050   Definitions
   
130.051   Display of drug paraphernalia
   
130.052   Proprietor not to allow entry of minors
   
130.053   Minors not to enter
   
130.054   Sale of drug paraphernalia to minors
   
130.055   Evidentiary considerations
   
130.056   Exclusion
   
130.057   Civil abatement of nuisances
Electrical Devices
   
130.065   Devices interfering with radio reception
   
130.066   Refusal to permit construction installation and the like of
electrical apparatus not properly equipped
   
130.067   Inspection of electrical apparatus after notice of interference
received
   
130.068   Order to make necessary corrections to electrical apparatus; period
in which corrections must be made
Firearms
   
130.080   Discharge within city
   
130.081   Exceptions
   
130.082   Confiscation and destruction
   
130.083   Parent or guardian to permit use of firearms by minor in a hazardous
manner
   
130.084   Application for the discharge of firearms in conjunction with
depredation permits
Gambling
   
130.095   Prohibited
   
130.096   Permitting premises to be used for gambling
   
130.097   Visiting or remaining in room where gambling carried on
Picketing
   
130.110   Lawful when peaceful and for betterment of a labor condition
   
130.111   Unlawful acts
   
130.112   Number of pickets allowable
Smoking
   
130.125   Purpose prohibition
   
130.126   Definitions
   
130.127   Elevation
   
130.128   Hospitals, health care and child care facilities
   
130.129   Public meeting rooms
   
130.130   Theaters and auditoriums
   
130.131   Eating establishments
   
130.132   Department stores
   
130.133   Workplaces
   
130.134   Posting of signs
   
130.135   Other agency cooperation
   
130.136   Structural modifications
   
130.137   Exemptions
Obscene Material
   
130.145   Harmful Material
Graffiti
   
130.155   Purpose
   
130.156   Definitions
   
130.157   Graffiti as a public nuisance
   
130.158   Graffiti prohibited
   
130.159   Possession by minors
   
130.160   Possession in designated public places
   
130.161   Possession with intent to deface, mark or damage property
   
130.162   Parental liability
   
130.163   Accessibility to certain graffiti implements
   
130.164   Graffiti removal
   
130.165   Cost recovery
   
130.166   Appeal to City Council
   
130.167   Rewards and reimbursements
Social Host Responsibility and Loud  or Unruly Events
   
130.180   Purpose
   
130.181   Declaration of public nuisance
   
130.182   Definitions
   
130.183   Social host obligations
   
130.183A   Social host obligations - dangerous fireworks
   
130.184   Loud or unruly events - first police response
   
130.185   Loud or unruly events - subsequent police response
   
130.186   Attorneys’ fees
   
130.187   Enforcement
   
130.188   Procedures not substantive
 
   
130.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.001 CURFEW; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any minor the age of 17 and under to loiter on or
about any place open to the public, including, but not limited to, streets,
avenues, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other grounds, places, buildings, places
of amusement, eating establishments, public or private vacant lots or any
unsupervised place, including apartment complexes where the minor does not
reside, between the hours of 10:00 P.M. and 5:00 A.M. of the following day on
Sundays through Thursdays, and between the hours of 11:00 P.M. and 5:00 A.M. of
the following day on Fridays and Saturdays, provided that the provisions of
this section do not apply when: (1) the minor is accompanied by his or her
parents, guardian, adult spouse or other adult person having the care and
custody of the minor; or (2) when the minor is responding to an emergency as
directed by his or her parent or guardian or other adult person having the care
and custody of the minor; or (3) when the minor is returning directly home from
“an” educational or recreational activity with the consent of his/her parents,
guardian, adult spouse or other adult person having the care and custody of the
minor.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the word LOITER is defined to mean to
idle, linger, wander, stroll, walk, drive, or ride aimlessly about.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any minor under the age of 18 years, who is subject
to compulsory education or to compulsory continuation education pursuant to the
Education Code to loiter, idle, wander, or be in or upon the public streets,
highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds, or other public grounds, public
places, vacant lots or any unsupervised place during the hours of 7:30 a.m. and
2:10 p.m. on days when school is in session. This section does not apply:
      (1)   When the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or
other authorized adult person having the care or custody of the minor;
      (2)   When the minor is on an emergency errand directed by his or her
parent or guardian or other adult person having care or custody of the minor;
      (3)   When the minor is going directly from or to their place of gainful
employment or to or from a medical appointment;
      (4)   To students who have permission to leave school campus for school
related activity, illness, or authorized to leave school early and have in
their possession a valid, school issued, off-campus permit;
      (5)   When student body is excused for minimum class schedule or
scheduled day off, i.e., holiday, staff in-service day, summer vacation;
      (6)   When the minor is an "emancipated minor" as that term is defined in
Family Code § 7002.
   (D)   Each violation of the provisions of this section shall constitute a
separate offense.
('61 Code, § 15.1) (Ord. 123, §1, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1158, passed 8-3-94;
Am. Ord. 1187, passed 12-20-95)
§ 130.002 DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute or throw or procure anyone
to distribute or throw upon any private yard, lawn, driveway, sidewalk or steps
of any residences or upon or in any part of any structure or upon any vacant
property or in or upon any motor vehicle or other vehicle in the city any
advertising sample, handbill, dodger, circular, booklet or other notice of
commercial advertising; provided, that nothing in this section shall prevent
the distribution or delivery of any newspaper which is capable of being, or is
handled as second class matter under the provisions of the United States Post
Office Regulation of March 3, 1879, and other United States Statutes.
('61 Code, § 15.18) (Ord. 20, § 1, passed - - )
§ 130.003 KEEPING A RIOTOUS OR DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   No person shall keep a riotous house, permit any riotous or disorderly
conduct in any house, yard or premises connected therewith and owned or
occupied by such person or be guilty of any riotous or disorderly conduct in
any house. yard or premises whereby the peace, quiet or decency of any person
in the neighborhood of such house is disturbed.
('61 Code, § 15.19) (Ord. 17, § 2, passed - - )
§ 130.004 PUBLIC DRINKING AND LIQUOR POSSESSION.
   (A)   No person shall drink, use or consume any alcoholic beverage as
defined in Cal. Bus. & Prof. § 23004 (and related sections) upon any public
street, sidewalk, highway, road, lane or alley, or in or upon any other
publicly owned property which is open to the use or the business of the public
at the time, but which place is not licensed for the consumption of such
beverage on the premises. The provisions hereof shall not apply however, to the
park and recreation areas regulated under Chapter 96, Parks.
   (B)   No person shall, in or upon any of the places listed in division (A)
above, have in possession any alcoholic beverage defined as in division (A)
above, contained in any bottle, can or other receptacle, which has been opened,
or a seal broken, or the contents of which have been partially removed,
provided that this division (B) shall not apply when the beverage is in
possession at the time strictly for the purpose of transporting the same, along
with other items, briefly and temporarily and directly though a place listed in
division (A) above, the standing point and destination point both being places
other than those listed in division (A) above. Further, this division (B) shall
not apply to the park and recreation areas regulated under
Chapter 96, Parks.
   (C)   No person shall do or commit any act prohibited in divisions (A) or
(B) above when such person is upon privately owned property rather than
publicly owned property, which privately owned property is open to the use or
patronage of the general public at the time, unless such person doing or
committing said act has the express or implied permission or invitation so to
do from the owner or lessee or other person in charge of the private property
or business premises involved.
   (D)   Divisions (A) and (B) above shall not apply to consumption or
possession of alcoholic beverages on city owned property pursuant to any
permit, entitlement or other permission issued or given by the City Manager or
City Council in connection with the holding of a special event on or at the
place or premises where such consumption or possession would otherwise be
prohibited, nor shall such divisions apply with respect to public property
owned and controlled by a public entity other than the city if such other
public entity has given its express or implied permission or invitation
allowing use of the premises for purposes otherwise prohibited in divisions (A)
or (B) above.
('61 Code, § 15.30) (Ord. 688, § 1, passed - - )
§ 130.005 LOITERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do the following:
   (A)   Remain upon any private property or business premises after being
notified by the owner or lessee or other person in charge thereof to remove
therefrom;
   (B)   Enter without permission upon property or business premises after
having been notified by the owner or lessee or other person in charge thereof
to keep off or keep away therefrom.
('61 Code, § 15.31) (Ord. 804, § 1, passed - - )
§ 130.006 HITTING GOLF BALLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do the following: to hit, strike or
swing at golf balls in an area designated as a park or other public place
except in those areas designated as golf courses or golf driving ranges.
('61 Code, § 15.32) (Ord. 805, § 1, passed - - )
§ 130.007 HUMAN WASTE ELIMINATION UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or evacuate his or her
bowels on private property in an area exposed to public view or on any public
street, sidewalk, alley, park or other public place except in a public restroom
"in an appropriate toilet or urinal."
   (B)   First time violations of this section shall be punishable as an
infraction with a fine not to exceed $500. Second and subsequent violations
shall be punishable as a misdemeanor or infraction at the discretion of the
city.
(Ord. 1229, passed 10-21-98)
CAMPING
§ 130.020 CAMPING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is intended to protect the public health,
welfare, and safety by reserving open spaces and facilities within the city
limits for their intended purposes. Public property within the city should be
readily accessible and available to residents and the general public at large.
Use of public property for camping or storage of personal property interferes
with the rights of others to make use of such shared public spaces for their
intended purposes and causes blight, pollution, and damage to public property.
This section is intended to avoid unsafe and potentially disorderly conditions,
unsanitary and unhealthful conditions, and the degradation or destruction of
open spaces and facilities within the city, and preserve such open spaces and
natural resources.
   (B)   Definitions. The following words and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the below meanings unless it is readily apparent from the
context that another meaning is intended.
      CAMP OR CAMPING. The conduct of more than one of the following
activities, when it reasonably appears, in light of all circumstances, that a
person is using such location for living accommodation purposes:
         (a)   Sleeping or preparing to sleep (including the laying down of
bedding for the purpose of sleeping), including undertaking such activities in
a vehicle (including any motorhome, camp trailer, camper, coach, fifth wheel
travel trailer, house car, recreational vehicle, mobile home), or obscuring
some or all of the vehicle's windows;
         (b)   Erecting or using any tent, camp facilities, or building any
other form of shelter;
         (c)   Unattended storage of personal belongings (including but not
limited to clothing, sleeping bags, bedrolls, blankets, sheets, luggage,
backpacks, kitchen utensils, cookware) or camp paraphernalia;
         (d)   Making or using any fire, for purpose of heating or cooking, or
using any flame, grill, portable stove, or similar flame producing device for
cooking of meals on public property, except for in city parks with designated
barbeque and cooking areas while using city-provided cooking facilities
designed for such purposes; or
         (e)   Doing any digging or earth breaking activities for purpose of
creating or improving a shelter.
         (f)   CAMPING shall be deemed to occur regardless of whether a full
night is actually spent occupying any specific location.
      CAMP FACILITIES. Include, but are not limited to, tents, huts, or similar
temporary shelters consisting of any material with a top or roof or any other
upper covering or that is otherwise enclosed by sides that is of sufficient
size for a person to fit underneath or inside while sitting or lying down and
includes the use of a tarp or other material tied or affixed to a structure or
bush to create an enclosed area.
      CAMP PARAPHERNALIA. Includes, but is not limited to, tarpaulins, cots,
beds, sleeping bags, hammocks, or non-city designated cooking or heating
equipment.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any publicly owned property in the city, whether
improved or unimproved, including, but not limited to, any of the following:
public alleyways; public parking lots; public passageways; public streets;
public rights-of-way; park playgrounds; state highways; publicly owned,
maintained, or operated parks; publicly owned, maintained, or operated
landscaped areas or greenbelts; publicly owned fences, trees, light poles, or
equipment boxes; publicly owned, maintained, or operated open spaces including,
but not limited to, public facilities or buildings of any kind; public
sidewalks, curbs, and gutters; public educational institutions; or other
government owned, maintained, or operated properties located within the city.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property or land, including all buildings,
structures, and improvements thereon, that is owned, leased, or otherwise
lawfully occupied or controlled by a private individual, partnership,
corporation, organization, or entity. This definition includes, but is not
limited to: (i) Residential property: Any property designated or used for
residential purposes, including single-family homes, multi-family homes,
apartment complexes, condominiums, townhouses, and mobile homes; (ii)
Commercial property: Any property designated or used for commercial or business
purposes, including retail stores, offices, warehouses, industrial facilities,
shopping centers, and mixed-use developments; (iii) Vacant land: Any
undeveloped or unoccupied land that is privately owned; (iv) Common areas: Any
areas within private residential or commercial properties that are intended for
use by multiple tenants or owners, including but not limited to parking lots,
courtyards, lobbies, hallways, and recreational facilities; (v) Private
easements: Any easements or rights-of-way that are designated for private use,
including driveways, private roads, and alleys.
   (C)   Camping on public property prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to camp on any public property within the city, except as otherwise
provided herein.
   (D)   Storage of personal property on public property prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store any personal property,
including camp facilities and camp paraphernalia, on any public property within
the city, except as otherwise provided herein.
      (2)   Before removing any personal property, the enforcement officer, or
their designee, shall attempt to provide any readily apparent owners with
notice of the intent to remove the personal property and a reasonable
opportunity to remove the personal property from public property. If there is
no readily apparent owner, or if the readily apparent owner refuses to remove
the personal property from public property, then the enforcement officer, or
their designee, may cause the personal property to be removed from public
property. The enforcement officer, or their designee, shall post a notice on or
near the personal property so as to reasonably communicate the notice to the
owner the following information:
         (a)   The location of where the personal property was located;
         (b)   The date and time notice was served or posted;
         (c)   A statement that the storage of personal property violates this
section;
         (d)   An advisement that the city has impounded the personal property
for at least 30 days, the location where the personal property is impounded,
and that the personal property will be discarded after 30 days if not claimed;
         (e)   The address, phone number, and operating hours of the location
where the personal property will be stored and may be retrieved, and that the
city will charge no fee for storage or retrieval; and
         (f)   Information about any housing or shelter and homeless services
available for the owners of the personal property, the phone number and address
to contact in order to obtain the housing or shelter or other health and human
services.
      (3)   The enforcement officer, or their designee, may immediately
discard, without impounding or retaining for 30 days, any items which
constitute an immediate threat to the health or safety of the public or items
that constitute evidence of a crime or contraband that may be seized, as
permitted by law.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of divisions (C) and (D) of this section
shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   In the event of a declared state of emergency;
      (2)   Nor to events sponsored and conducted by and under the direction
and control of the Desert Recreation District;
      (3)   Nor to any persons participating in an event subject to a permit
issued in conformity with this code (including but not limited to any event
authorized under §
130.022 of this code);
      (4)   Nor to camping in public accommodations that are properly zoned,
legally established and designated for camping purposes.
   (F)   Camping on private property prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to camp on any private property
within the city, except as authorized herein.
      (2)   Camping shall be authorized on private property for the property
owner, tenant in possession, lineal relative to the property owner or tenant in
possession, or a person that holds in immediate possession a written consent
issued by the property owner or tenant in possession. Such person shall present
the written consent for examination upon the demand of any peace officer
enforcing the provisions of this chapter. No camping on private property shall
exceed 14 consecutive days or be permitted more than once within any 90-day
period of time.
      (3)   The exception authorized by division (F)(2) above shall not apply
during any temporary use or special event, attended by 10,000 people or more,
and incorporated permitted camping.
   (G)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Any person causing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering or
concealing a violation of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and
may, in the discretion of the City Attorney, be prosecuted as a misdemeanor and
upon conviction be subject to a fine not to exceed $1,000 or imprisonment in
the city or county jail for a period of not more than six months, or by both
such fine and imprisonment.
      (2)   The City Attorney, in his or her sound discretion, may prosecute a
violation of this section as an infraction, rather than a misdemeanor, or
reduce or agree to the reduction of a previously filed misdemeanor to an
infraction. Any person convicted of an infraction under this section shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding $100 for the first violation, a fine not
exceeding $200 for a second violation within one year, and a fine not exceeding
$500 for a third violation within one year. A fourth violation of this section
within one year shall be charged as a misdemeanor and may not be reduced to an
infraction.
      (3)   This section may be enforced by injunction issued by the superior
court upon a suit brought by the City Attorney.
('61 Code, § 5B.1) (Ord. 1039, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1590, passed 3-16-11; Am.
Ord. 1591, passed 4-6-11; Am. Ord. 1687, passed 2-3-16; Am. Ord. 1816, passed
8-21-24)
§ 130.021 RESERVED.
§ 130.022 SPECIAL EVENTS.
   The Council, by resolution, may authorize overnight camping on city-owned
property as a special event sponsored by a nonprofit community service
organization. Any organization seeking such authority from the Council shall
file with the City Manager a written request setting forth detailed information
concerning the proposed event. The City Manager may require certain additional
information, in writing, as deemed necessary or appropriate for the evaluation
of the request. When complete information has been submitted, the City Manager,
or his designated representative, shall prepare and submit to the Council a
report with his recommendations for approval, conditional approval or denial of
the request.
('61 Code, §5B.3) (Ord. 1039, passed - - )
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
§ 130.050 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products and materials of any kind
which are used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing into the human body a controlled substance. DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
includes, but is not limited to, all of the following:
      (1)   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
      (2)   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing controlled
substances;
      (3)   Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or designed for use
in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled
substance;
      (4)   Testing equipment used, intended for use, or designed for use in
identifying, or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
controlled substances;
      (5)   Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances;
      (6)   Diluents or adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose, and lactose, wed, intended for use, or designed for use in
cutting controlled substances;
      (7)   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use, or designed for
use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining,
marijuana;
      (8)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
      (9)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used, intended
for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of controlled
substances;
      (10)   Containers and other objects used, intended for use, or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
      (11)   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended for
use, or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances into
the human body;
      (12)   Objects used, intended for use, or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish or hashish oil
into the human body, such as:
         (a)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured metal
bowls;
         (b)   Water pipes;
         (c)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         (d)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         (e)   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning materials,
such as a marijuana cigarette that has become too small or too short to be held
in the hand;
         (f)   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
         (g)   Chamber pipes;
         (h)   Carburetor pipes;
         (i)   Electric pipes;
         (j)   Air-driven pipes;
         (k)   Chillums;
         (l)   Bongs;
         (m)   Ice pipes or chillers.
('61 Code, § 15.54) (Ord. 836, passed - - )
§ 130.051 DISPLAY OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   No person shall maintain or operate any place of business in which drug
paraphernalia is kept, displayed or offered in any manner, sold, furnished,
transferred or given away unless such drug paraphernalia are completely and
wholly kept, displayed or offered within a separate room or enclosure to which
persons under the age of 18 not accompanied by a parent or legal guardian are
excluded. Each entrance to such a room or enclosure shall be sign-posted in
reasonably visible and legible words to the effect that drug paraphernalia are
kept, displayed or offered in such room or enclosure and that minors, unless
accompanied by parent or legal guardian, are excluded.
('61 Code, § 15.50) (Ord. 836, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.052 PROPRIETOR NOT TO ALLOW ENTRY TO MINORS.
   No owner, manager, proprietor or other person in charge of any room or
enclosure, within any place of business, in which drug paraphernalia is kept,
displayed or offered in any manner, sold, furnished, transferred or given away,
shall permit or allow any person under the age of 18 years to enter, be in,
remain in or visit such room or enclosure unless such minor is accompanied by
one of his or her parents, or by his or her legal guardian.
('61 Code, § 15.51) (Ord. 836, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.053 MINORS NOT TO ENTER.
   No person under the age of 18 years shall enter, be in, remain in or visit
any room or enclosure in any place of business in which drug paraphernalia are
kept, displayed or offered in any manner, sold, furnished, transferred or given
away unless accompanied by one of his or her parents or by his or her legal
guardian.
('61 Code, § 15.52) (Ord. 836, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.054 SALE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA TO MINORS.
   No person who maintains or operates any place of business in which drug
paraphernalia is kept, displayed or offered in any manner shall sell, furnish,
transfer or give any drug paraphernalia to any person under the age of 18
years.
('61 Code, § 15.53) (Ord. 836, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.055 EVIDENTIARY CONSIDERATION.
   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, a court or other
authority may consider, in addition to all other logically relevant factors,
the following:
   (A)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
   (B)   Prior convictions, if any, of any owner, or of anyone in control of
the object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled
substance;
   (C)   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct violation
of this subchapter;
   (D)   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
   (E)   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the object;
   (F)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he knows, or
should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a violation of
this subchapter. The innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of the
object, as to a direct violation of this subchapter shall not prevent a finding
that the object is intended for use, or designed for use, as drug
paraphernalia;
   (G)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning its
use;
   (H)   Descriptive materials, accompanying the object which explain or depict
its use;
   (I)   National and local advertising concerning its use;
   (J)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
   (K)   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a legitimate
supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a licensed
distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
   (L)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the object
or objects to the total sales of the business enterprise;
   (M)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community;
   (N)   Expert testimony concerning its use.
('61 Code, § 15.55) (Ord. 836, passed - - )
§ 130.056 EXCLUSIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to any of the following:
   (A)   Any pharmacist or other authorized person who sells or furnishes drug
paraphernalia described in §
130.054 upon the prescription of a physician, dentist, podiatrist or
veterinarian;
   (B)   Any physician, dentist, podiatrist or veterinarian who furnishes or
prescribes drug paraphernalia as described in §
130.054 to his or her patients;
   (C)   Any manufacturer, wholesaler or retailer licensed by the Board of
Pharmacy to sell or transfer drug paraphernalia described in §
130.054.
('61 Code, § 15.56) (Ord. 836, passed - - )
§ 130.057 CIVIL ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   The distribution or possession for the purpose of sale, the exhibition, or
the display of any drug paraphernalia as defined in §
130.054 in any place of business from which minors are not excluded as set
forth in this subchapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and may be
abated pursuant to the provisions of Cal. Civ. Proc. § 731. This remedy is in
addition to any other remedy provided by law, including but not limited to the
misdemeanor penalty provisions applicable for violation of the terms and
provisions of this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 15.58) (Ord. 836, § 1, passed - - )
ELECTRICAL DEVICES
§ 130.065 DEVICES INTERFERING WITH RADIO RECEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, within the city, any device
or apparatus, other than a motor vehicle licensed to operate in the state, the
operation of which will cause interference with the reception of radio,
television or wireless communication.
('61 Code, § 15.4) (Ord. 269, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.066 REFUSAL TO PERMIT CONSTRUCTION INSTALLATION AND THE LIKE OF
ELECTRICAL APPARATUS NOT PROPERLY EQUIPPED.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to refuse a construction or
installation permit for the construction, alteration, installation or
reinstallation of any electrical or electrically operated or installed device
or apparatus not properly equipped with suppressors or condensers to eliminate
the cause of interference with the reception of radio, television or wireless
communication.
('61 Code, § 15.5) (Ord. 269, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.067 INSPECTION OF ELECTRICAL APPARATUS AFTER NOTICE OF INTERFERENCE
RECEIVED.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector, upon receipt of knowledge or
information that the operation of any device or apparatus named in §
130.066 has been installed, or is being operated in such a manner so as to
cause interference with the reception of radio, television or wireless
communication, to make an inspection of the device or apparatus allegedly
causing such interference.
('61 Code, § 15.6) (Ord. 269, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.068 ORDER TO MAKE NECESSARY CORRECTIONS TO ELECTRICAL APPARATUS; PERIOD
IN WHICH CORRECTIONS MUST BE MADE.
   Upon determination by the Building Inspector that any such device or
apparatus named in §
130.065 is installed or being operated in a manner prohibited by this Code, the
Building Inspector shall notify the owner or operator of any such device or
apparatus to make the necessary corrections to bring abut the compliance with
this code of ordinances or any other ordinance of the city. Such notice shall
be written and may be delivered by first class mail or by personal delivery to
the owner or operator of such device or apparatus. Such notice shall provide
that the necessary corrections shall be made within a period of time not to
exceed ten days from the time of delivery of such notice.
('61 Code, § 15.7) (Ord. 269, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 130.999
FIREARMS
§ 130.080 DISCHARGE WITHIN CITY.
   (A)   No person shall fire or discharge any revolver or pistol of any
description, or any shotgun or rifle which may be used for the explosion of
cartridges or use or operate any air gun, “B-B” gun, gas operated gun, spring
gun, slingshot, bows and arrows or any other instrument projecting missiles,
whether called by any of these names or by any other name.
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and each such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense
for each and every day or portion thereof during which any violation of this
section is committed, continued or permitted.
('61 Code, § 15.8) (Ord. 250, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 866, passed - - ; Am. Ord.
1080, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.081 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of §
130.080 shall not apply in the following instances:
   (A)   The discharge of weapons in the defense of life and property;
   (B)   The discharge of firearms by duly constituted law enforcement officers
in the discharge of their duties;
   (C)   The use of firearms in established shooting areas or archery ranges,
in areas authorized by the Chief of Police.
   (D)   The use of firearms in accordance with the terms and conditions of a
depredation permit for the shooting of coot issued by the United States Fish
and Wild Life Service of the Department of Interior pursuant to the Migratory
Bird Treaty Act and in compliance with §
130.084.
('61 Code, § 15.9) (Ord. 250, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 866, passed - - ; Am. Ord.
1621, passed 12-5-12)
§ 130.082 CONFISCATION AND DESTRUCTION OF WEAPONS.
   Every police officer taking a weapon used in violation of this subchapter
shall deliver the same to the Chief of Police to be held by him until the final
determination of the prosecution for such offense; and upon the finding of
guilt it shall then be the duty of the chief of police, on a first offense, to
return the weapon to the owner and, on a second offense, to confiscate and
destroy it.
('61 Code, § 15.10) (Ord. 250, passed - - )
§ 130.083 PARENT OR GUARDIAN NOT TO PERMIT USE OF FIREARMS BY MINOR IN A
HAZARDOUS MANNER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or custodian of any
minor person under the age of 18 years to knowingly permit the use of the
instruments named in §
130.080 by the minor in such a manner as may be hazardous or injurious to the
property or person of another.
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and each such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense
for each and every day or portion thereof during which any violation of this
section is committed, continued or permitted.
('61 Code, § 15.11) (Ord. 250, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1080, passed - - )
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.084 APPLICATION FOR THE DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS IN CONJUNCTION WITH
DEPREDATION PERMITS.
   (A)   Prior to the use of a depredation permit as described in §
130.081(D), the holder shall submit to the Chief of Police an “Application for
the Discharge of Firearms in Conjunction with a Depredation Permit” along with
the application fee in an amount established by City Council Resolution and an
executed indemnification form in the form approved by the City Attorney at
least twenty days prior to the discharge of firearms.
   (B)   The application shall be on a form approved by the Chief of Police but
shall at a minimum include the following: a copy of the depredation permit; a
scaled diagram showing the location of the shoot and the location of all
improvements and buildings within 300 yards of the proposed shoot; the specific
location from where the firing will take place; and the persons and/or company
that will conduct the proposed shoot.
   (C)   Within ten days of receipt of a completed application, the Chief of
Police shall approve the application unless the Chief of Police finds that the
activity will unnecessarily jeopardize the public peace, health or safety. The
Chief of Police may condition the permit as necessary to ensure the public
peace, health and safety, including but not limited to setting the days, times
and frequency of the shoot.
   (D)   The applicant must comply with all conditions and terms of the permit
issued by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 1621, passed 12-5-12)
GAMBLING
§ 130.095 PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person within the city to play
at any game whatsoever for money, property or any article of value; provided,
that nothing shall be deemed to be included in this section that is included in
or win conflict with any of the provisions of Cal. Penal Code tit. IX, ch. X,
part 1.
('61 Code, § 15.15) (Ord. 120, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.096 PERMITTING PREMISES TO BE USED FOR GAMBLING.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person to permit any game, the
playing of which is prohibited by the preceding section, to be played,
conducted, dealt or carried on in any house or room within the city owned or
rented by such person, in whole or in part, or under his control; provided,
that nothing shall be deemed to be included in this section that is included in
or will conflict with any of the provisions of Cal. Penal Code tit. IX, ch. X,
part 1.
('61 Code, § 15.16) (Ord. 120, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.097 VISITING OR REMAINING IN ROOM WHERE GAMBLING CARRIED ON.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person to visit or remain in
any room or place in the city where any game prohibited by §
130.095 is being carried on.
('61 Code, § 15.17) (Ord. 120, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 130.999
PICKETING
§ 130.110 LAWFUL WHEN PEACEFUL AND FOR BETTERMENT OF LABOR CONDITION.
   Workers, either individually or in lawful combine, shall have the right to
picket any business or businesses in the city; provided, the object sought to
be accomplished thereby has a reasonable relationship to the betterment of
labor conditions and that such workers are acting peaceably and honestly and
subject to the conditions of §
130.112.
('61 Code, § 15.22) (Ord. 295, passed - - )
§ 130.111 UNLAWFUL WHEN PEACEFUL AND FOR BETTERMENT OF LABOR CONDITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do, allow or permit any of the
following acts during any picketing:
   (A)   Using any more pickets than the number allowed and permitted by §
130.112.
   (B)   To use or threaten to use any physical violence to prevent any person
from entering the place of business which is being picketed.
   (C)   To park motor or other vehicles in and about the business being
picketed in such manner as to prevent the ingress and egress of third persons
to and from the picketed business, excepting that the persons lawfully
picketing such business shall have the right to park their vehicles in front of
or adjacent to the picketed business providing such parking shall not violate
any of the parking ordinances of the city.
   (D)   To use loud, boisterous, offensive or obscene language, or to engage
in loud or boisterous conduct towards or against any persons entering and
leaving the picketed business or in and around the picketed business.
   (E)   To wilfully publicize by means of signs. banners or word of mouth any
statement known to be false in connection with the labor controversy involved.
('61 Code, § 15.23) (Ord. 295, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.112 NUMBER OF PICKETS ALLOWABLE.
    So many pickets may be used at each individual place of business in the
city which is being picketed which does not impair free ingress and egress to
each entrance or exit to any building in which the picketed business is being
conducted.
('61 Code, § 15.24) (Ord. 295, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 130.999
SMOKING
§ 130.125 PURPOSE; PROHIBITION.
   The smoking of tobacco or any other weed or plant is a positive danger to
health and a material annoyance, inconvenience, discomfort and a health hazard
to those who are present in confined spaces, and in order to serve public
health, safety and welfare, the declared purpose of this subchapter is to
protect nonsmokers to the maximum extent possible from second-hand smoke in
public places and places of employment, as stated and required in this
subchapter.
('61 Code, § 15.59) (Ord. 930, passed - - )
§ 130.126 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BAR. An area which is devoted to serving of alcoholic beverages and in which
the service of food is only incidental to the consumption of such beverages.
   EATING ESTABLISHMENT. Every publicly or privately owned eating place,
including every coffee shop, cafeteria, short-order cafe, luncheonette,
sandwich shop, soda fountain and restaurant.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who is employed by an employer for direct or indirect
monetary wages or profit.
   EMPLOYER. Any person who employs the services of an individual person.
   ENCLOSED. Closed in by a roof and four walls with appropriate openings for
ingress and egress, but does not include areas commonly described as public
lobbies.
   MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Any theater engaged in the business of exhibiting
motion pictures.
   SMOKING. The combustion of any cigar, cigarette, pipe or any similar
articles using any form of tobacco or other combustible substance in any form.
   WORKPLACE. Any enclosed area of a structure or portion thereof intended for
occupancy by business entities which will provide primarily clerical,
professional or business services to other business entities or to the public,
at that location. WORKPLACE includes, but is not limited to, office spaces in
office buildings, medical office waiting rooms, libraries, museums, hospitals
and nursing homes.
('61 Code, § 15.60) (Ord. 930, passed - - )
§ 130.127 ELEVATORS.
   Smoking is prohibited and is unlawful in elevators.
('61 Code, § 15.61) (Ord. 930, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.128 HOSPITALS, HEALTH CARE AND CHILD CARE FACILITIES.
   (A)   In public areas of health care facilities and hospitals, as defined in
Cal. Health & Safety Code § 1250, including waiting rooms, public hallways and
lobbies, smoking is prohibited, except in specially designated smoking areas,
which may be all or part of a public area.
   (B)   Every publicly or privately owned health care facility, including
hospitals, shall make a reasonable effort to determine preference and to assign
patients placed in rooms occupied by two or more patients according to the
patient's individual nonsmoking or smoking preference. Where a nonsmoker is
placed in a room with a smoker, the rights of the nonsmoker shall be given
precedence.
   (C)   In rooms and areas occupied by patients smoking shall be prohibited
for hospital staff, visitors and the general public. “STAFF AND VISITOR SMOKING
PROHIBITED” signs and/or the international logo sign for no-smoking shall be
conspicuously posted in each patient room.
   (D)   In child care facilities, including those in private homes, during
operating hours in rooms where children are present, smoking is prohibited.
('61 Code, § 15.62) (Ord. 930, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.129 PUBLIC MEETING ROOMS.
   Smoking is prohibited and is unlawful in hearing rooms conference rooms,
chambers and places of public assembly in which public business is conducted,
when the public business requires or provides direct participation or
observation by the general public.
('61 Code, § 15.63) (Ord. 930, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.130 THEATERS AND AUDITORIUMS.
   Smoking is prohibited and is unlawful in every publicly or privately owned
theater. auditorium or other enclosed facility which is open to the public for
the primary purpose of exhibiting any motion picture stage drama, musical
recital, athletic events or any other performance or event in all areas except
either in that area commonly known as the lobby, or in areas not open to the
public, except athletic events where smoking shall be permitted in specially
designated areas. Every owner and/or manager of such theater auditorium or
other enclosed facility used for the purposes stated herein, shall post signs
conspicuously in the lobby stating that smoking is prohibited within the
theater, auditorium or facility, and in the case of motion picture theaters,
such information shall be shown upon the screen for at least five seconds
before showing feature motion pictures.
('61 Code, § 15.64) (Ord. 930, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.131 EATING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   Smoking is prohibited and is unlawful in all indoor eating establishments
serving food whose occupancy capacity is 50 or more persons. This prohibition
shall not apply to any such establishment maintaining a contiguous no-smoking
area of at least one-half of the seating capacity. This prohibition shall not
apply to any rooms which are being used for establishment purposes for private
functions. If a smoking area is maintained, the preference of the patron is to
be determined by the management and the patron shall be seated according to
preference if possible. Any portion of an indoor eating establishment used for
bar purposes is excluded from the restrictions of this section.
('61 Code, § 15.65) (Ord. 930, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.132 DEPARTMENT STORES.
   Smoking is prohibited and is unlawful in public areas of every department
store which sells dry goods. clothing or utensils, excluding areas outdoors.
('61 Code, § 15.66) (Ord. 930, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.133 WORKPLACES.
   (A)   Within 90 days of the effective date of this subchapter or within 90
days of having first engaged the services of an employee, for employers who are
not in operation on the effective date of this subchapter, each employer shall
adopt implement and maintain a reasonable written smoking policy which should
contain, at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   Prohibition of smoking in employer conference and meeting rooms
classrooms. auditoriums, restrooms, medical facilities, hallways and elevators.
      (2)   Provision and maintenance of a contiguous no-smoking area of not
less than one-half of the seating capacity and floor space in cafeterias,
lunchrooms and employee lounges.
      (3)   Any employee in the workplace shall be given the right to designate
his or her immediate work area as a nonsmoking area and to post it with
appropriate sign or signs. The policy adopted by the employer shall include a
definition of the term “immediate work area” which gives preferential
consideration to nonsmokers.
   (B)   In any dispute arising under the smoking policy, the rights of the
nonsmoker shall be given precedence.
   (C)   Except where other signs are required, whenever smoking is prohibited,
conspicuous signs shall be posted so stating, containing all capital lettering
not less than one inch in height, on a contrasting background. In lieu of such
signs, the international no-smoking logo may be prominently displayed.
   (D)   The smoking policy shall be communicated to all employees within two
weeks of its adoption.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) of this section, every
employer shall have the right to designate any working place as a nonsmoking
area.
   (F)   This section is not intended to regulate smoking in the following
places and under the following conditions:
      (1)   A private home which may serve as a workplace except as required
pursuant to §
130.128(D).
      (2)   Any property owned or leased by other governmental agencies.
      (3)   A private, enclosed workplace occupied exclusively by smokers, even
though such a workplace may be visited by nonsmokers, excepting places in which
smoking is prohibited by the Fire Marshal or by other law, ordinance or
regulation.
   (G)   An employer who in good faith develops and promulgates reasonable
written policy regarding smoking and no-smoking in the workplace shall be
deemed to be in compliance with this chapter provided that a policy which
designates an entire workplace as a smoking area shall not be deemed a
reasonable policy.
('61 Code, § 15.67) (Ord. 930, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.134 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (A)   Except where other signs are required, whenever in this subchapter
smoking is prohibited, conspicuous signs shall be posted so stating, containing
all capital lettering not less than one-inch in height and/or the international
no-smoking logo, on a contrasting background. It is the duty of the owner,
operator, manager or other persons having control of such room, building or
other place where smoking is prohibited, to post such signs or to cause such
signs to be posted.
   (B)   It is unlawful to wilfully mutilate or destroy any signs required by
this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 15.68) (Ord. 930, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.135 OTHER AGENCY COOPERATION.
   Federal state school and special district officials are urged to enact and
enforce provisions similar to the provisions contained herein.
('61 Code, § 15.69) (Ord. 930, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.136 STRUCTURAL MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of employers to provide smoke-free
areas for nonsmokers within existing facilities to the maximum extent possible,
but employers are not required to incur any expense to make structural or other
physical modifications in providing these areas.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall require the owner, operator or
manager of any theater auditorium, health care facility or any building,
facility, structure or business to incur any expense to make structural or
other physical modifications to any area or workplace.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall relieve any person from the duty to post
signs or adopt policies as required by this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 15.70) (Ord. 930, passed - - )
§ 130.137 EXEMPTIONS.
   Any owner or manager of a business or other establishment subject to this
subchapter may apply to the individual, department or agency designated by the
City Council for all exemption or modification to any provisions of this
subchapter due to unusual circumstances or conditions.
   (A)   Such exemption shall be granted only if the designated individual
department or agency designated by the City Council finds from the evidence
presented by the applicant for exemption at a public hearing either that:
      (1)   The applicant cannot comply with the provisions of this subchapter
for which an exemption is required without incurring expenses for structural or
other physical modifications, other than posting signs, to buildings and
structures.
      (2)   Due to such unusual circumstances, the failure to comply with the
provision for which the exemption is requested will not result in a danger to
health or annoyance, inconvenience or discomfort.
   (B)   The applicant for an exemption shall pay the fee prescribed by the
City Council's resolution with the application to cover cost of the hearing and
noticing of the hearing.
('61 Code, § 15.72) (Ord. 930, passed - - )
OBSCENE MATERIAL
§ 130.145 HARMFUL MATERIAL.
   (A)   Any newspaper, magazine, or similar publication which displays
material which is harmful to minors, as defined in section 313 of the Penal
Code of the State of California, in a public place, other than a public place
from which minors are excluded, shall have the placement of devices commonly
known as blinder racks in front of the material so that the lower two-thirds of
the material is not exposed to view. “Blinder rack” is defined as an opaque
cover, blocking from view the lower two-thirds of the material.
   (B)   Every person is guilty of a misdemeanor who causes, permits, procures,
counsels, or assists in an offer of sale of any newspaper, magazine, or similar
publication in violation of this section.
   (C)   Any newspaper, magazine, or similar publication offered for sale in
violation of this section constitutes a public nuisance.
(Ord. 1099, passed 9-18-91)
GRAFFITI
§ 130.155 PURPOSE.
   Through this chapter, the City Council intends to provide additional
enforcement tools to protect public and private property from graffiti and
similar acts of vandalism and defacement. The remedies contained in this
chapter are intended to supplement the nuisance abatement procedures already
established. The city may in its discretion pursue any lawful remedies to
remove graffiti in the city and to recover any removal costs so incurred.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 130.156 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions contained in Chapter 95 shall also govern this chapter. In
addition, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINER. Any aerosol container which is adapted or made for
the purpose of spraying paint or other substances capable of defacing property.
   FELT TIP MARKER. Any indelible marker or similar implement with a tip which
at its broadest width is 1/8 inch or greater, containing an ink that is not
water-soluble.
   GLASS CUTTERS. Any tools or instruments designed to cut or etch glass
surfaces.
   GRAFFITI. Any inscription, word, figure or design that is marked, etched,
pasted, or otherwise placed on property without the advance approval of the
property owner or person in lawful possession of the property.
   GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT. Any implement capable of marking a surface to create
graffiti including, but not limited to, any aerosol paint container, paint
stick, felt tip marker, marking pen, gum label, marking instrument, drill bit,
grinding stone, scribe, glass cutter, or etching tool, or other implements
capable of scarring glass, metal, concrete or wood.
   GRAFFITI REMOVAL COSTS. All costs that would be considered abatement costs
in the context of a nuisance abatement proceeding under
Chapter 95A. In addition, such costs expressly include, but are not limited to,
all city staff time, police investigative time, City Attorney time and fees,
and any courts costs incurred in connection with the civil prosecution of any
claim for damages.
   GUM LABEL. Any sheet of paper, fabric, plastic or other substance with an
adhesive backing which, when placed on a surface, is not easily removed.
   MINOR. A person under 18 years of age.
   PAINT or GRAFFITI STICK. A device containing a solid form of paint, chalk,
wax, epoxy or other similar substance capable of being applied to a surface by
pressure and, upon application, leaving a mark at least 1/8 of an inch in
width, visible from a distance of 20 feet, and not water-soluble.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any party made liable pursuant to this chapter or Chapter
95 for the city's costs of removing graffiti in the city. Such removal costs
include, but are not limited to, all city staff time, police investigative
time, City Attorney time and fees, and court costs. Responsible parties
include, but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Any person who creates graffiti;
      (2)   Any owner or person legally in possession of real property on which
graffiti exists; and
      (3)   In the case of a minor who creates graffiti, any parent or legal
guardian of such minor.
   The city may, in the discretion of the City Attorney and City Manager, or
their designee, pursue any judicial or administrative remedies against any
responsible party to recover the city's costs of graffiti removal.
   SPRAY ACTUATOR. An object, such as a spray tip, nozzle, or button, which is
capable of being attached to an aerosol paint container for the purpose of
spraying, the substance contained therein.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 130.157 GRAFFITI AS A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The City Council reaffirms any previous declarations that graffiti is a
public nuisance which may be abated pursuant to the abatement procedures in
Chapter 95 of this Code.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 130.158 GRAFFITI PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mark, apply, or etch graffiti on any
structure located on public or private real property within the city.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 130.159 POSSESSION BY MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor to possess any aerosol paint
container, spray actuator, felt tip marker, paint or graffiti stick, gum label,
or glass cutter while on public or private property without the consent of the
property owner or the person in lawful possession of the property. Any law
enforcement officer who observes a violation of this section may take immediate
possession of the aforementioned graffiti implements.
   (B)   The foregoing provision shall not apply while the person is attending
or travelling to or from a school at which the person is enrolled, if the
person is participating in a class at said school which has, as a written
requirement of said class, the need to use an aerosol paint container, spray
actuator, felt tip marker, paint or graffiti stick, gum label, or glass cutter.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 130.160 POSSESSION IN DESIGNATED PUBLIC PLACES.
   Except as may be authorized by the City Manager or his or her designee, no
person shall have in his or her possession any aerosol paint container, spray
actuator, felt tip marker, paint or graffiti stick, gum label, or glass cutter
while on any property owned by the city, including any city-owned park,
playground, swimming pool, or recreational facility. Nor shall any person have
in his or her possession any aerosol paint container, spray actuator, felt tip
marker, paint or graffiti stick, gum label, or glass cutter while loitering in
or near an underpass, bridge abutment, storm drain, or similar types of
infrastructure located within the city. City employees and employees of other
state and local government entities shall be exempt from this provision while
engaged in the course and scope of their employment.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 130.161 POSSESSION WITH INTENT TO DEFACE, MARK OR DAMAGE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess any graffiti implement for
the purpose of defacing, marking, or damaging any public or private property
without the express consent of the property owner or the person in lawful
possession of the property.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 130.162 PARENTAL LIABILITY.
   Any parent or other legal guardian of a minor shall be personally liable for
any and all graffiti removal costs associated with graffiti caused by the
minor. This section shall in no way limit the amount of recovery against the
parent or other legal guardian for their own common law negligence.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 130.163 ACCESSIBILITY TO CERTAIN GRAFFITI IMPLEMENTS.
   (A)   Furnishing to Minors Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
to sell, give, or otherwise furnish any aerosol paint container, felt tip
marker or graffiti stick to any minor without the consent of the minor's parent
or legal guardian. Evidence that a person, his or her employee, or agent,
demanded and was shown bona fide evidence of majority and acted upon such
evidence of majority in a transaction or sale shall be a defense to any
criminal prosecution thereof.
   (B)   Signs required. Any person engaged in the retail sale of any aerosol
paint container, spray actuator, felt tip marker, paint or graffiti stick, gum
label, or glass cutter within the city must display at the location of retail
sale a sign clearly visible and legible to employees and customers in letters
at least 3/8 of an inch high stating:
“It is unlawful for any person to sell or give to any individual under the age
of 18 years any aerosol paint container, spray actuator, felt tip marker, paint
or graffiti stick, gum label, or glass cutter without obtaining prior written
consent from the parent or legal guardian. Any person who creates graffiti or
otherwise defaces property within the City of Indio violates state and local
laws, which are punishable by a fine, imprisonment, or both.”
   (C)   Wrongful Display for Sale. No person, firm or entity engaged in
commercial enterprise shall display for sale, trade or exchange, any aerosol
paint container, spray actuator, felt tip marker, paint or graffiti stick, gum
label or glass cutter except in an area to which public access shall be
securely prevented without employee assistance. Two such acceptable methods for
displaying such merchandise for sale shall be by containment in (1) a
completely enclosed cabinet or other storage device which shall be affixed to a
building or building structure and which shall remain locked at all times
except during access by authorized representatives; or (2) an enclosed area
behind a sales or service counter into which the public is prevented from
entering.
   (D)   Liability for Wrongful Display. Any seller who displays any aerosol
paint container, spray actuator, felt tip marker, paint or graffiti stick, gum
label, or glass cutter in violation of this chapter shall be personally liable
for any and all graffiti removal costs associated with removing graffiti caused
by such merchandise.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 130.164 GRAFFITI REMOVAL.
   If the City Manager, or his or her designee, determines that graffiti exists
on public or private property in the city, the City Manager, or his or her
designee, may use city funds to remove the graffiti. Prior to such removal, the
city shall seek the written consent of the property owner or person in lawful
possession of the property. Such consent shall be obtained on a form approved
by the City Attorney. The city's removal of graffiti by painting or repair
shall not involve the painting or repair of a more extensive area than that
area where the graffiti is located.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 130.165 COST RECOVERY.
   The city may in its sole discretion recover its graffiti removal costs from
any and all responsible parties.
   (A)   Notice to Responsible Parties. When the City Manager or his or her
designee determines who is or are the parties responsible for graffiti on
property within the city, and the cost of removing the graffiti, the city shall
send any or all of the responsible parties a notice indicating at a minimum all
of the following:
      (1)   The name(s) of the responsible party(ies);
      (2)   A statement notifying the recipient of the Notice that he or she
has been determined by the city to be liable for the city's graffiti removal
costs associated with removing particular graffiti, indicating the particular
provision of this chapter upon which such liability is founded;
      (3)   The amount of the city's graffiti removal costs and the date by
which such costs must be paid to the city;
      (4)   The location and description of said graffiti;
      (5)   A statement notifying the responsible party of his or her right to
request an administrative hearing regarding liability or the amount of removal
costs;
      (6)   A statement notifying the responsible party that if he or she does
not request such a hearing within ten days of the date of receipt of the
notice, then all appeal rights are deemed waived and the city's determination
regarding liability and costs will become final; and
      (7)   A statement notifying the responsible party that if he or she does
not request a hearing or pay the amount of costs owing by the dates indicated,
then the amount will be assessed and recorded against his or her real property
by the city as a lien.
      (8)   The form of the notice shall be approved by the City Attorney. The
notice shall be served as provided for in
Chapter 95A.
   (B)   Hearing Regarding Costs or Liability. Upon timely request of a hearing
by a responsible party regarding the liability of the responsible party or the
amount of the city's costs incurred in removing graffiti, the Fire Chief shall
schedule a hearing before the Community Preservation Committee. Such hearing
shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures prescribed by Chapter 95
of the Indio City Code.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94; Am. Ord. 1173, passed 3-16-95)
§ 130.166 APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL.
   Any party aggrieved by a decision of the Community Preservation Committee
may appeal that decision to the City Council. Such appeals shall be governed
generally by the procedures provided by Chapter 95 for the appeal of decisions
of the Community Preservation Committee.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94; Am. Ord. 1173, passed 3-16-95)
§ 130.167 REWARDS AND REIMBURSEMENTS.
   (A)   A reward is hereby authorized, offered and may be paid by the city to
any person who provides information leading to the determination of the
identity of, and the apprehension of, any person who violates this chapter.
   (B)   The exact amount of the reward to be paid by the city shall be
determined by the City Council after receipt of a report from the City Manager
indicating that information was received leading to the determination of the
identity of, and the apprehension of, a person who violated this chapter, and
indicating the final disposition of such matter. No law enforcement officer,
municipal officer, official or employee of the city shall be eligible for such
reward.
   (C)   The city may reimburse to any person reporting by means of a
telephone, including mobile or cellular phones, an act of graffiti or the
existence of graffiti within the city limits in the amount of the direct phone
charge exclusive of taxes.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
SOCIAL HOST RESPONSIBILITY AND LOUD OR UNRULY EVENTS
§ 130.180 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Chapter is to protect public health, safety, and general
welfare in two ways. First, this Chapter enhances the ability of law
enforcement to deter alcohol and controlled substance consumption by minors.
Second, this Chapter serves to preserve the quiet enjoyment of property by
reducing the costs of providing law enforcement services to loud or unruly
events.
(Ord. 1654, passed 5-15-14)
§ 130.181 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any violation of any provision of this subsection of
Chapter 130 constitutes a public nuisance.
(Ord. 1654, passed 5-15-14)
§ 130.182 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases have the meaning
set forth below:
   ALCOHOL.  Shall have the same meaning as in Business and Professions Code
Section 23003 or any successor statute.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.  Shall have the same meaning as in Business and
Professions Code Section 23004 or any successor statute.
   CONSUME OR CONSUMPTION.  To use, eat, drink, absorb, smoke or ingest.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.  Any drug or substance, including marijuana, whose
possession and/or use are regulated under the California Uniform Controlled
Substances Act codified at Health and Safety Code Section 11000 et seq., or any
successor statute, or illegal under the laws of the State of California as
defined under the Penal Code and any related statutes. Such term shall not
include any drug or substance otherwise legally possessed or consumed.
   DANGEROUS FIREWORKS. Has the same meaning ascribed to it in California
Health and Safety Code § 12505, and § 101.02 of this code, as presently adopted
or further amended from time to time.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.  The Chief of Police and any employee or agent of the
city so designated by them and charged with enforcing any provision of the City
of Indio Municipal Code.
   EVENT.  A party, gathering, or event where a group of two (2) or more
persons have assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or for a social
activity at a residence or other private property or public place property.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN.  Either of the following: (i) a person who, under court
order, is the guardian of the person of a minor; or (ii) a public or private
agency with whom a minor has been placed by the court.
   LOUD OR UNRULY EVENT.  Loud or unruly conduct arising from an Event. Such
loud or unruly conduct includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Excessive noise;
      (2)   Excessive traffic or gridlock;
      (3)   Obstruction of public streets or crowds that have spilled into
public streets;
      (4)   Public drunkenness or unlawful public consumption of alcoholic
beverages or controlled substances;
      (5)   Service to, or consumption of alcoholic beverages or controlled
substances by any minor except as permitted by law;
      (6)   Assaults, batteries, fights, domestic violence or other
disturbances of the peace;
      (7)   Vandalism;
      (8)   Litter;
      (9)   Lewd acts;
      (10)   Dangerous fireworks; or
      (11)   Any conduct which constitutes a threat to public health, safety,
quiet enjoyment of property or general welfare.
   MINOR.  Any person under twenty-one (21) years of age.
   PARENT.  A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent
of a minor.
   PERSON(S) RESPONSIBLE.  Means and includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   The person who owns, rents, leases or otherwise has control of the
premises where the loud or unruly event occurs;
      (2)   The person or persons in charge or purportedly in charge of the
premises where the loud or unruly event occurs;
      (3)   The person or persons authorizing the use of the premises for the
loud or unruly event;
      (4)   The person or persons who organized the loud or unruly event; or
      (5)   The person who the enforcement officer believes is causing,
performing or permitting to exist or otherwise maintaining the loud or unruly
as a public nuisance, including but not limited to any other person in real or
apparent charge or control of the property such as a landlord, management
company or resident.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Any place in which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access, including but limited to, streets, highways, parks, common
area developments and common areas inside of country clubs and gated
communities.
   RESIDENCE OR OTHER PRIVATE PROPERTY.  A home, yard, apartment, condominium,
hotel or motel room, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting room, whether
occupied on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling,
party or other social function, and whether owned, leased, rented, or used with
or without compensation.
   SUBSEQUENT POLICE RESPONSE.  Any police response to the location of a loud
or unruly event made within three (3) months after the issuance or posting of a
written warning for a previous loud and unruly event at that location or within
three (3) months after a prior subsequent police response.
(Ord. 1654, passed 5-15-14; Am. Ord. 1787, 11-2-22)
§ 130.183 SOCIAL HOST OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Except as permitted by Article 1, Section 4, of the California
Constitution, it is unlawful for any person(s) to conduct, permit, allow, or
host an event at his or her place of residence or other private property or
host an event at a public place under his or her control where alcoholic
beverages or controlled substances are being consumed or have been consumed by
a minor, when said person either knows or reasonably should know that a minor
has consumed an alcoholic beverage, or controlled substance. Whenever such
person is present during such an event where alcoholic beverages or controlled
substances are being served to, possessed by or consumed by a minor, it shall
be a rebuttable presumption that the person has actual or constructive
knowledge that a minor has consumed an alcoholic beverage or controlled
substance if the person has not taken all reasonable steps necessary to prevent
such consumption, as set forth in division (B) below.
   (B)   It is the duty of any person who permits, allows or hosts an event at
his or her place of residence or other private property or hosts an event at a
public place under his or her control, where minors will be present, to take
all reasonable steps to prevent the illegal consumption by minors of alcoholic
beverages and controlled substances. Reasonable steps shall, at a minimum,
include all of the following:
      (1)   Verifying the age of persons attending the event by inspecting
driver licenses or other government-issued identification cards;
      (2)   Controlling access to alcoholic beverages or controlled substances
present at the event;
      (3)   Controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages present at the
event;
      (4)   Prohibiting the possession and/or use of marijuana or other
controlled substances at the event; and
      (5)   Supervising the activities of minors at the event.
   (C)    A person who permits, allows or hosts an event shall not be in
violation of this Section if he or she seeks immediate assistance from the
Indio Police Department to remove any person(s) who refuses to abide by the
hosts duty to abide by this chapter from the event provided that the person has
taken all reasonable steps to necessary to prevent the illegal consumption of
alcohol or controlled substances.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to conduct involving the use of alcoholic
beverages, which occurs exclusively between a minor and his or her parent or
legal guardian.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to any premises regulated by the
California Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control.
(Ord. 1654, passed 5-15-14)
§ 130.183A SOCIAL HOST OBLIGATIONS - DANGEROUS FIREWORKS.
   It is unlawful for any person(s) to conduct. permit. allow, or host an event
at his or her place of residence or other private property or host an event at
a public place under his or her control where dangerous fireworks are being
sold, offered for sale, discharged, used or manufactured.
(Ord. 1787, 11-2-22)
§ 130.184 LOUD OR UNRULY EVENT - FIRST POLICE RESPONSE.
   (A)   Written Warning - Issuance. For the first police response to a loud or
unruly event, the enforcement officer who responds to the scene shall leave a
written warning with a person responsible for the loud or unruly event. If the
person responsible for the loud and unruly event cannot be located, the
enforcement officer shall post the written warning on the front door of the
primary entrance to the loud and unruly event, or at a location which is
visible from the street and which is close to the front door or primary
entrance to the loud and unruly event as is reasonably possible.
   (B)   Written Warning - Contents. The written warning issued pursuant to
this section shall:
      (1)   Identify the date, time and location of the enforcement officer's
response;
      (2)   Include an explanation of why the gathering qualifies as a "loud or
unruly event" under this chapter;
      (3)   Include a general explanation of the consequences of a subsequent
police response, including the fact that a citation and/or administrative fines
and fees may be issued on each person responsible and that all persons
responsible will be charged for the costs associated with a subsequent City
response; and
      (4)   Order all persons responsible to take immediate actions to
terminate the loud or unruly event.
   (C)   The written warning provided or posted pursuant to this chapter shall
constitute constructive notice to a person responsible for a loud or unruly
event regardless of actual receipt of the written warning, and such notice
shall be imputed to all persons responsible for the loud and unruly event.
(Ord. 1654, passed 5-15-14)
§ 130.185 LOUD OR UNRULY EVENT - SUBSEQUENT POLICE RESPONSE.
   (A)   Any person responsible for a loud and unruly event to which a
subsequent police response is required shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   In addition to other remedies, whenever an enforcement officer makes a
subsequent police response to a loud or unruly event, all costs associated with
the response, including costs for abatement, may be recovered from any or all
persons responsible for the event through procedures set forth in
Chapter 95A of the Indio Municipal Code. All persons responsible shall be
jointly and severally liable for such costs. The city may also recover unpaid
costs or penalties by initiation of a judicial action or collection process, as
it deems appropriate.
   (C)   Whenever an enforcement officer makes a subsequent police response to
a loud or unruly event, the enforcement officer may issue an administrative
citation and fine, pursuant to procedures set forth in
Chapter 12 of this Code, to each person responsible for the event.
   (D)   Appeals. A person against whom subsequent police costs and/or
penalties are imposed may appeal the costs and/or penalties pursuant to
Chapter 95A of the Code.
(Ord. 1654, passed 5-15-14)
§ 130.186 ATTORNEYS' FEES.
   In any administrative proceeding or special proceeding to abate a public
nuisance relating to a violation of this chapter, the prevailing party may
recover all of its incurred attorneys' fees, provided that the City elected, at
the initiation of such action or proceeding, to recover its own attorneys'
fees. In no judicial action or administrative proceeding shall an award of
attorneys' fees exceed the amount of reasonable attorneys' fees incurred by the
City in the action or proceeding. A judicial action includes, but is not
limited to, any civil or criminal action, inspection or abatement warrant,
issuance of City's costs and recovery therefrom, or appeal from an
administrative proceeding or citation.
(Ord. 1654, passed 5-15-14)
§ 130.187 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any violation of this Chapter may be enforced by the City by criminal
prosecution, civil action for restraining order or injunctive relief,
administrative action or any other means authorized by law. These and all other
remedies available by law are intended to be cumulative and not exclusive and
may be pursued by the city individually, consecutively, or in conjunction with
each other.
(Ord. 1654, passed 5-15-14)
§ 130.188 PROCEDURES NOT SUBSTANTIVE.
   Failure of the City to strictly apply any procedure, fine or penalty
provided by this Chapter or in parts of the Indio Municipal Code referenced by
this Chapter, either in whole or in part, shall not invalidate any enforcement
procedure or action commenced or concluded by the City, whether under this
Chapter or otherwise.
(Ord. 1654, passed 5-15-14)
§ 130.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not already herein provided, shall be subject to the penalty
provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any provisions of §§
130.020 through
130.022 shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99.
('61 Code, § 5B.4)
      (2)   Subsequent offenses within 48 hours. Notwithstanding the provisions
of §
10.99, any person violating any provision of §§
130.020 through
130.022, and who is cited for such violation, and who, within 48 hours after
receiving such citation, again violates the same section, is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
('61 Code, § 5B.5)
(Ord. 1039, passed - - )
   (C)   Violation of any provision of §§
130.050 through
130.056 shall be a misdemeanor.
('61 Code, § 15.57) (Ord. 836, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1080, passed - - )
   (D)   Violation of any provision or failure to comply with any requirement
of §§
130.125 through
130.137 is an infraction.
('61 Code, § 15.72) (Ord. 930, passed - - )
   (E)   (1)   Misdemeanor Prosecution. Any violation of §§
130.155 -
130.167 may be prosecuted as a misdemeanor in the discretion of the City
Attorney. When prosecuted as a misdemeanor, any violation of §§
130.155 -
130.167 shall be punishable by either six months in jail, a $1,000 fine, or
both.
      (2)   Restitution and Community Service. Any person convicted of
violating §§
130.155 -
130.167 may be required by a court to pay the city's costs of removing or
repairing damage to property caused by graffiti or, where such removal and
repair costs have been borne by the property owner, to provide restitution to
the property owner in the amount of pecuniary damage caused by the graffiti.
The court may also require the violator to perform up to 80 hours of community
service. Such restitution and community service may be required in addition to
any other penalties imposed by a court. In the case of a minor, “conviction”
shall include finding by a juvenile court that the minor violated a provision
of §§
130.155 -
130.167 or any provision of state law regarding graffiti. Nothing in this
section shall preclude the city from pursuing civil remedies, including
judicial or administrative recovery off its removal costs pursuant to §§
130.155 -
130.167.
      (3)   Driving Privilege Suspension. For each conviction of a person for
any offense specified in §§
130.155 -
130.167 that would also violate Section 594 of the Penal Code if so prosecuted,
the city hereby authorizes and requests that the court suspend or delay
issuance of the violator's driving privileges for one year pursuant to Vehicle
Code, Section 13202.6. In the case of a minor, “conviction” shall include a
finding by a juvenile court that the minor violated a provision of §§
130.155 -
130.167 or any provision of state law regarding graffiti.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
   (F)   (1)   Dangerous fireworks - criminal misdemeanor penalty. Any person
violating any provisions of §
130.183A of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall
be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000 or by imprisonment in the city or
county jail not exceeding six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalties provided by law, whenever the
enforcement official, as that term is defined in § 11.02, determines that a
violation of §
130.183A has occurred, the enforcement official shall have the authority to
issue an administrative citation with administrative civil penalties to any
responsible person, as that term is defined in § 11.02, pursuant to the
procedures set forth in
Chapter 12 (Enforcement of Code) of Title 1 (General Provisions). With respect
to dangerous fireworks, the imposition of administrative fines and penalties
under this section is limited to persons who possess, use, sell and/or display,
and/or the seizure of, 25 pounds or less of dangerous fireworks.
         (a)   Use of the administrative citation procedure in
Chapter 12 with respect to such violations of §
130.183A shall be at the sole discretion of the city.
         (b)   The amount of the administrative civil penalties imposed for
administrative citations issued for such violations of §
130.183A shall be established by resolution of the City Council.
      (3)   A person is guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or
portion thereof during which he or she commits, continues, or permits a
violation of §
130.183A.
      (4)   Nothing in this chapter limits any of the penalties provided in the
California Health and Safety Code or California Penal Code with regard to the
unlawful transportation, use, discharge, possession, storage or sale of
dangerous fireworks.
      (5)   The provisions of this subsection are in addition to any other
penalty set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 1787, 11-2-22)
CHAPTER 131: REGULATION OF ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
131.001   Purpose
   
131.002   Definitions
   
131.003   Alarm permit required
   
131.004   Alarm permit duration and renewal
   
131.005   Duties of the alarm user
   
131.006   Duties of alarm installation company and monitoring company
   
131.007   Notification of installation of an alarm system
   
131.008   Registration and license
   
131.009   Prohibited alarm systems
   
131.010   False alarm citation
   
131.011   Suspension of response
   
131.012   Reinstatement
   
131.013   Enforcement and penalties
   
131.014   Limitation of liability
   
131.015   Rules and regulations
§ 131.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to encourage alarm users to properly use and
maintain their alarm systems and to reduce or eliminate false alarms.
(Ord. 1608, passed 4-4-12)
§ 131.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM ADMINISTRATOR. A person or third party designated by the City of Indio
authority to administer, control and review false alarm reduction efforts and
administer the provisions of this chapter.
   ALARM INSTALLATION COMPANY. A person in the business of selling, providing,
maintaining, servicing, repairing, altering, replacing, moving or installing an
alarm system in an alarm site. However, an ALARM INSTALLATION COMPANY does not
include persons doing installation or repair work where such work is performed
without compensation of any kind (i.e., “do-it-yourselfers”).
   ALARM PERMIT. Authorization granted by the Alarm Administrator to an alarm
user to operate an alarm system.
   ALARM SITE. A single fixed premises or location served by an alarm system or
systems. Each unit, if served by a separate alarm system in a multi-unit
building or complex, shall be considered a separate alarm site.
   ALARM SYSTEM. A device or series of devices, including, but not limited to,
hardwired systems and systems interconnected with a radio frequency method such
as cellular or private radio signals, which emit or transmit a remote or local
audible, visual or electronic signal indicating an alarm condition and intended
to summon law enforcement response, including local alarm system. An alarm
system does not include an alarm installed in a vehicle or on someone’s person
unless the vehicle or the personal alarm is permanently located at a site.
   ALARM USER. Any person, who has contracted for monitoring, repair,
installation or maintenance service from an alarm installation company or
monitoring company for an alarm system, or who owns or operates an alarm system
which is not monitored, maintained or repaired under contract.
   ANSI/SIA CONTROL PANEL STANDARD CP-01. The ANSI - American National Standard
Institute approved Security Industry Association - SIA CP-01 Control Panel
Standard, as may be updated from time to time, that details recommended design
features for security system control panels and their associated arming and
disarming devices to reduce the incidence of false alarms. Control panels built
and tested to this standard by Underwriters Laboratory (UL), or other
nationally recognized testing organizations, will be marked to state: “Design
evaluated in accordance with SIA CP-01 Control Panel Standard Features for
False Alarm Reduction.”
   AUTOMATIC VOICE DIALER. Any electrical, electronic, mechanical, or other
device capable of being programmed to send a prerecorded voice message, when
activated, over a telephone line, radio or other communication system, to a law
enforcement, public safety or emergency services agency requesting dispatch.
   CONVERSION. The transaction or process by which one alarm installation
company or monitoring company begins the servicing and/or monitoring of a
previously unmonitored alarm system or an alarm system previously serviced and/
or monitored by another alarm company.
   DURESS ALARM. A silent alarm system signal generated by the entry of a
designated code into an arming station in order to signal that the alarm user
is being forced to turn off the system and requires law enforcement response.
   FALSE ALARM. The activation of an alarm system through mechanical failure,
accident, misoperation, malfunction, misuse, improper activation or negligence,
which does not require police service other than deactivation of the alarm.
FALSE ALARMS shall not  include alarms caused by acts of God or other causes
which are beyond the control of the alarm user or alarm installation company or
monitoring company.
   HEARING OFFICER. A person selected by the City Manager to conduct an
administrative hearing that that has no bias or pecuniary interest in the
matter to be heard.
   HOLDUP ALARM. A silent alarm signal generated by the manual activation of a
device intended to signal a robbery in progress or immediately after it has
occurred.
   LOCAL ALARM SYSTEM. Any alarm system, which is not monitored, that
annunciates an alarm only at the alarm site.
   MONITORING. The process by which a monitoring company receives signals from
an alarm system and relays an alarm dispatch request to the municipality for
the purpose of summoning law enforcement to the alarm site.
   MONITORING COMPANY. A person or entity in the business of providing
monitoring services.
   ONE PLUS DURESS ALARM. The manual activation of a silent alarm signal by
entering a code at an arming station that adds one to the last digit of the
normal arm/disarm code (e.g., normal code = 1234, One Plus Duress Code = 1235).
   PANIC ALARM. An audible alarm system signal generated by the manual
activation of a device intended to signal a life threatening or emergency
situation requiring law enforcement response.
   RESPONDER. An individual capable of reaching and having access to the alarm
site, the code to the alarm system, and the authority to approve repairs to the
alarm system.
   TAKEOVER. The transaction or process by which an alarm user takes over
control of an existing alarm  system, which was previously controlled by
another alarm user.
(Ord. 1608, passed 4-4-12)
§ 131.003 ALARM PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No alarm user shall operate, or cause to be operated an alarm system
at its alarm site without an alarm permit issued in accordance with the
provisions of this section. A separate alarm permit is required for each alarm
site.
   (B)   Any person wishing to obtain an alarm permit shall apply on a form
provided by the Alarm Administrator and shall be accompanied by an application
fee in the amount established from time to time by resolution of the City
Council. Each alarm permit application must include the following information:
      (1)   The name, complete address, and telephone numbers of the person who
will be the permit holder and be responsible for the proper maintenance and
operation of the alarm system and payment of fees assessed under this chapter;
      (2)   The classification of the alarm site as either residential
(includes apartment, condo, mobile home, etc.) or commercial;
      (3)   For each alarm system located at the alarm site, the classification
of the alarm system (i.e., burglary, holdup, duress, panic alarms or other) and
for each classification whether such alarm is audible or silent;
      (4)   Mailing address, if different from the address of the alarm site;
      (5)   Any dangerous or special conditions present at the alarm site;
      (6)   Names and telephone numbers of at least two individuals who are
able and have agreed to:
         (a)   Receive notification of an alarm system activation at any time;
         (b)   Respond to the alarm site within 45 minutes at any time; and
         (c)   Upon request can grant access to the alarm site and deactivate
the alarm system if necessary;
      (7)   Type of business conducted at a commercial alarm site;
      (8)   Signed certification from the alarm user stating the following:
         (a)   The date of installation, conversion or takeover of the alarm
system, whichever is applicable;
         (b)   The name, address, and telephone number of the alarm
installation company or companies performing the alarm system installation,
conversion or takeover and of the alarm installation company responsible for
providing repair service to the alarm system;
         (c)   The name, address, and telephone number of the monitoring
company if different from the alarm installation company;
         (d)   That a set of written operating instructions for the alarm
system, including written guidelines on how to avoid false alarms, have been
left with the applicant by the alarm installation company; and
         (e)   That the alarm installation company has trained the applicant in
proper use of the alarm system, including instructions on how to avoid false
alarms.
      (9)   Any additional information requested by the Alarm Administrator.
   (C)   An application for an alarm permit shall be processed by the Alarm
Administrator within 30 days of receipt. The permit may be denied by the Alarm
Administrator on any one of the following grounds:
      (1)   The applicant fails to provide the information required by §
131.003(B);
      (2)   The applicant or the applicant’s agent has knowingly made any
false, misleading or fraudulent statement of a material fact in the application
for a permit;
      (3)   The applicant has failed to pay a fine or fee assessed under this
chapter; or
      (4)   The applicant has had an alarm permit for the alarm site suspended
or revoked, and the violation causing the suspension or revocation has not been
corrected.
   (D)   Revocation of permit.
      (1)   The Alarm Administrator may revoke an alarm permit issued pursuant
to this section if, after investigation, the Alarm Administrator determines
that the applicant has:
         (a)   Made any false statement or given any false information in
connection with an application for an alarm user permit; or
         (b)   Violated any of the provisions of this chapter, including but
not limited to, the permittee’s failure to pay any false alarm fines.
      (2)   In the event the Alarm Administrator determines that it is
necessary to suspend or revoke a permit, the Alarm Administrator shall send a
notice of intent to suspend or revoke the permit to the permittee informing him
that the permit shall be suspended or revoked 14 business days following the
date of such notice of intent. The notice shall include the reason for
suspension or revocation and a statement of the right to appeal the decision of
the Alarm Administrator to the Hearing Officer. The suspension or revocation
shall be effective 14 calendar days from and after the service of the notice.
During that 14-day period, the permittee may appeal the decision of the Alarm
Administrator to the Hearing Officer as provided in §
131.003(E).
   (E)   Appeal to Hearing Officer. Any person, whose permit is suspended or
revoked, may file an appeal with the City Clerk within 14 calendar days from
the date of the mailing of notice of revocation. The permit shall remain in
effect while the appeal is being processed and heard by the Hearing Officer.
The Hearing Officer shall make his or her decision on the basis of the
preponderance of the credible evidence presented at the appeal hearing and
shall render a decision within ten business days of the hearing to either
affirm, reverse, or modify the action of the Alarm Administrator. Notice of
this decision shall be sent to the permittee. The Hearing Officer’s decision
after such hearing shall be final and conclusive. If a permit is revoked under
this section, the permittee may be issued a new permit if the reason for the
revocation is removed, the Alarm Administrator is notified in writing of such
removal, and the former permittee follows the procedure set forth herein for
applying for an alarm Permit.
   (F)   Any alarm user who knowingly operates or causes a false alarm to occur
after his or her alarm permit has been suspended or revoked shall be subject to
civil and or criminal penalties.
   (G)   An alarm permit cannot be transferred to another person or alarm site.
An alarm user shall inform the Alarm Administrator of any change that alters
any of the information listed on the alarm permit application within five
business days of such change.
   (H)   All fines and fees owed by an applicant must be paid before an alarm
permit may be issued or renewed.
   (I)   An alarm user with an installed alarm system on the effective date of
the ordinance adopting this chapter shall apply for a permit as required herein
within 90 days of such effective date.
(Ord. 1608, passed 4-4-12)
§ 131.004 ALARM PERMIT DURATION AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   An Alarm Permit shall be issued for a one year period. It shall be the
responsibility of the Alarm User to renew the Alarm Permit annually by
submitting a renewal form and updating the information on the application
previously provided to the City and submitting the renewal fee established from
time to time by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   Persons sixty-five (65) years of age or over applying for an Alarm
Permit for a residential alarm system shall be exempt from paying for the Alarm
Permit and the Alarm Permit renewal fee, but are still required to apply for
and renew their Alarm Permit annually and update their information on the
application previously provided to the City as provided in §
131.004(A).
(Ord. 1608, passed 4-4-12; Am. Ord. 1630, passed 5-1-13)
§ 131.005 DUTIES OF THE ALARM USER.
   (A)   An alarm user shall:
      (1)   Obtain an alarm permit for the alarm system as required in §
131.003;
      (2)   Maintain the alarm site and the alarm system in a manner that will
minimize or eliminate false alarms;
      (3)    Make every reasonable effort to have a responder to the alarm
system’s location within 45 minutes when requested by the law enforcement
agency in order to:
         (a)   Deactivate an alarm system;
         (b)   Provide access to the alarm site; and/or
         (c)   Provide alternative security for the alarm site; and
      (4)   Not activate an alarm system for any reason other than an
occurrence of an event that the alarm system was intended to report.
   (B)   An alarm user shall adjust the mechanism or cause the mechanism to be
adjusted so that an alarm signal audible on the exterior of an alarm site will
sound for no longer than ten minutes after being activated.
   (C)   An alarm user shall have a licensed alarm installation company inspect
the alarm system after two false alarms in a one-year period. The Alarm
Administrator may waive a required inspection if it determines that a false
alarm(s) could not have been related to a defect or malfunction in the alarm
system. After four false alarms within a one-year period, the alarm user must
have a licensed alarm installation company modify the alarm system to be more
false alarm resistant and provide additional user training as appropriate.
   (D)   An alarm user shall not use automatic voice dialers.
   (E)   An alarm user shall maintain at each alarm site, a set of written
operating instructions for each alarm system.
   (F)   This section applies to all individuals and firms, who have installed
and/or monitor their own alarm system.
(Ord. 1608, passed 4-4-12)
§ 131.006 DUTIES OF ALARM INSTALLATION COMPANY AND MONITORING COMPANY.
   (A)   The alarm installation company shall provide written and oral
instructions to each of its alarm users in the proper use and operation of
their alarm systems. Such instructions will specifically include all
instructions necessary to turn the alarm system on and off and to avoid false
alarms.
   (B)   Upon the effective date of the ordinance adopting this chapter, alarm
installation companies shall not program alarm systems so that they are capable
of sending One Plus Duress Alarms. The alarm installation company shall remove
the One Plus Duress Alarm feature from alarm systems whenever an alarm
technician is at the alarm site or otherwise accessing the panel for
reprogramming purposes.
   (C)   Upon the effective date of the ordinance adopting this chapter, alarm
installation companies shall not install a device to activate a holdup alarm,
which is a single action, non-recessed button.
   (D)   Upon the effective date of the ordinance adopting this chapter, the
alarm installation companies shall use only ANSI/SIA CP-01 listed alarm control
panels on all new installations and panel replacements or upgrades.
   (E)   An alarm installation or monitoring company shall not use automatic
voice dialers.
   (F)   After completion of the installation of an alarm system, an alarm
installation company employee shall provide and review with the alarm user a
checklist for the prevention of false alarms in the form approved by the City's
Alarm Administrator.
   (G)   The alarm installation or monitoring company shall not make an alarm
dispatch request of a law enforcement agency in response to a burglar alarm
signal, excluding panic, duress and holdup signals, during the first seven days
following an alarm system installation. The Alarm Administrator may grant an
alarm user’s request for an exemption from this waiting period based upon a
determination that special circumstances substantiate the need for the
exemption.
   (H)   A monitoring company shall:
      (1)   Report alarm signals by using telephone numbers designated by the
Alarm Administrator.
      (2)   Verify every alarm signal, except a duress, panic or holdup alarm
activation, before initiating an alarm dispatch request.
      (3)   Communicate alarm dispatch requests to the city in a manner and
form determined by the Alarm Administrator.
      (4)   Communicate alarm cancellations to the city in a manner and form
determined by the Alarm Administrator.
      (5)   Ensure that all alarm users of alarm systems equipped with a
duress, holdup or panic alarm are given adequate training as to the proper use
of the duress, holdup or panic alarm.
      (6)   Communicate any available information (north, south, front, back,
floor, etc.) about the location on all alarm signals related to the alarm
dispatch request.
      (7)   Communicate nature of alarm (i.e., burglary, robbery, panic,
duress, silent, audible, interior or perimeter).
      (8)   After an alarm dispatch request, promptly advise the Police
Department if the alarm installation or monitoring company knows that the alarm
user or other responder is on the way to the alarm site.
      (9)   Attempt to contact the alarm user or other responder within 24
hours via mail, fax, telephone or other electronic means when an alarm dispatch
request is made.
      (10)   Within 90 days of the effective date of the ordinance adopting
this chapter, the alarm installation or monitoring company (whichever is
applicable) must maintain for a period of at least one year from the date of
the alarm dispatch request, records relating to alarm dispatch requests.
Records must include the name, address and telephone number of the alarm user,
the alarm system zone(s) activated, the time of alarm dispatch request and
evidence of an attempt to verify that the alarm was legitimate. The Alarm
Administrator may request copies of such records for individually named alarm
users. If the request is made within 60 days of an alarm dispatch request, the
monitoring company shall furnish requested records within three business days
of receiving the request. If the records are requested between 60 days to one
year after an alarm dispatch request, the monitoring company shall furnish the
requested records within 30 days of receiving the request.
   (I)   An alarm installation company and/or monitoring company that purchases
alarm system accounts from another person or company shall notify the Alarm
Administrator of such purchase and provide details as may be reasonably
requested by the Alarm Administrator.
   (J)   Each alarm installing company and alarm monitoring company must
designate one individual as the Alarm Response Manager (ARM) for the company
who will manage alarm related issues and act as the point of contact for the
Alarm Administrator. The appointed individual must be knowledgeable of the
general provisions of this chapter, as well as have the knowledge and authority
to deal with false alarm issues and respond to requests from the Alarm
Administrator. The name, phone number, and email address of the designated ARM
must be provided to the Alarm Administrator.
   (K)   An alarm installation company and/or monitoring company shall provide
the Alarm Administrator with a customer list in a format acceptable to the
Alarm Administrator, upon request, to assist the Alarm Administrator with
creating law enforcement tracking data. The city shall endeavor to maintain
this customer information as confidential subject to the limitations set forth
in the California Public Records Act.
   (L)   A monitoring company may not process alarm dispatch requests to an
alarm site after notification by the Alarm Administrator that the alarm permit
for the alarm site has been suspended or revoked.
   (M)   If an inspection is required at an alarm site, no employee or
contractor of the alarm installation company shall knowingly make a false
statement concerning the inspection of an alarm site or the performance of an
alarm system.
(Ord. 1608, passed 4-4-12)
§ 131.007 NOTIFICATION OF INSTALLATION OF AN ALARM SYSTEM.
   (A)   Each time an alarm installation company sells and installs a new alarm
or takes over an existing alarm system within the City of Indio, the alarm
installation company shall complete and submit the initial alarm permit
application on behalf of the alarm user, which shall be signed by the alarm
user and the alarm installation company, along with the applicable fee, within
ten business days of the completion of the installation.
   (B)   If an alarm user self installs an alarm system it shall be the
responsibility of the alarm user to complete the alarm permit application.
(Ord. 1608, passed 4-4-12)
§ 131.008 REGISTRATION AND LICENSE.
   All alarm installation companies and monitoring companies shall register
with the Alarm Administrator by filing a copy of their registration card issued
to them by the State of California. In addition all alarm installation
companies and monitoring companies shall obtain a city business license.
(Ord. 1608, passed 4-4-12)
§ 131.009 PROHIBITED ALARM SYSTEMS.
   No alarm user shall permit the installation or use of and no alarm company
shall install an alarm system with a direct dial to the City of Indio Police
Department.
(Ord. 1608, passed 4-4-12)
§ 131.010 FALSE ALARM CITATION.
   (A)   If, within a 12-month period at a single site, any alarm user causes
more than one false alarm to be transmitted to the Police Department, the alarm
user shall be issued an administrative citation pursuant to
Chapter 12 of this code and shall pay the citation amount as established from
time to time by the City Council by resolution.
   (B)   If cancellation of an alarm dispatch request occurs prior to law
enforcement arriving at the scene, no administrative citation will issue.
(Ord. 1608, passed 4-4-12)
§ 131.011 SUSPENSION OF RESPONSE.
   (A)   The Alarm Administrator may suspend law enforcement response to an
alarm site by suspending or revoking the alarm permit if it is determined that:
      (1)   The alarm user has four or more false alarms in a 30-day period;
      (2)   There is a statement of a material fact known to be false in the
application for a registration; or
      (3)   The alarm user has failed to make timely payment of a fine or fee
assessed under this chapter.
   (B)   A person is in violation of this chapter if he or she operates an
alarm system during the period in which the alarm permit is suspended or
revoked.
   (C)   If the alarm permit is reinstated pursuant to this chapter, the Alarm
Administrator may again suspend law enforcement response to the alarm site by
again revoking the alarm permit if it is determined that four or more false
alarms have occurred within 30 days after the reinstatement date.
(Ord. 1608, passed 4-4-12)
§ 131.012 REINSTATEMENT.
   (A)   A person whose alarm permit has been suspended or revoked may, at the
discretion of the Alarm Administrator, have the alarm permit reinstated if the
person:
      (1)   Pays a reinstatement fee in the amount established from time to
time by City Council resolution;
      (2)   Pays, or otherwise resolves, all outstanding citations and fines;
and
      (3)   Provides satisfactory evidence to the Alarm Administrator that the
alarm system has been inspected and repaired (if necessary) by the alarm
installation company; and/or that additional training in the proper use of the
alarm system was provided by the alarm installing company for all alarm users.
   (B)   In addition, the Alarm Administrator may require one or more of the
following as a condition to reinstatement:
      (1)   Proof that an employee of the alarm installation company or
monitoring company caused the false alarm;
      (2)   A certificate showing that the alarm user has successfully
completed the alarm user awareness class, if such class is available;
      (3)   A written statement from an independent inspector that the alarm
system has been inspected and is in good working order;
      (4)   Confirmation that all motion detectors are “dual technology” type;
      (5)   Confirmation that the monitoring company will not make an alarm
dispatch request unless the need for law enforcement is confirmed by audio or
video verification;
      (6)   Confirmation that the monitoring company will not make an alarm
dispatch request unless the need for law enforcement is confirmed by a person
at the alarm site.
(Ord. 1608, passed 4-4-12)
§ 131.013 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who fails to comply with or is in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless in
the discretion of the City Attorney, is charged and prosecuted as an infraction
in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code. Alternatively, any person who fails to comply with or is in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter may be subject to
administrative citations issued in accordance with
Chapter 12 of this code.
   (B)   Suspension or revocation of a permit shall not be a defense against
prosecution.
   (C)   The criminal conviction of any person for a violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall not release such person from paying the city
any fines, fees or other costs established by this code and/or any City Council
resolution.
   (D)   The city may use any or all legal remedies available, including
criminal, civil and/or administrative remedies, to secure compliance with the
provisions of this code and multiple legal remedies may be used to achieve
compliance with respect to persons who commit continuing violations. Repeating
the act constituting a violation or allowing a condition or circumstance
constituting a violation to exist for more than 24 hours shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 1608, passed 4-4-12)
§ 131.014 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to impose any liability on the
part of the city as to any alarm user or to any other person or entity, as a
result of any defect in an alarm system, failure of the city to receive an
alarm, suspension of revocation of an alarm permit, or failure of the city or
its Police Department to respond to any alarm regulated by this chapter,
whether false or not. The City Council declares that it shall be entirely
within the discretion of each police officer receiving a report of an alarm
activation, as to whether or not to respond to such alarm, and that the city
assumes no duty to respond to any alarm as a result of the enactment of this
chapter or prior decisions to respond to alarms.
   (B)   The city’s issuance of an alarm permit pursuant to this chapter shall
not create any contract, duty or obligation, either expressed or implied, of
police response. Any liability and damages, whether arising from or relating to
damage or destruction of property or injury to any person including death,
alleged to result, directly or indirectly from an alleged response failure, or
timely response failure, is hereby disclaimed, and governmental immunity as
provided by law is retained.
(Ord. 1608, passed 4-4-12)
§ 131.015 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Council authorizes the Chief of Police or his or her designee to
promulgate rules and regulations to implement the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1608, passed 4-4-12)
CHAPTER 132: NARCOTICS AND GANG-RELATED CRIME EVICTION PROGRAM
Section
   
132.01   Definitions
   
132.02   Duties of the landlord
   
132.03   Administrative procedures
   
132.04   Recovery of possession by landlord
   
132.05   Enforcement
   
132.06   Lien authorized
   
132.07   Violations; penalties
§ 132.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any drug, substance, or immediate precursor, as listed
in the Uniform Controlled Substances Act, Cal. Health & Safety Code §§ 11000 et
seq.
   DRUG-RELATED NUISANCE. Any activity related to the possession, sale, use or
manufacture of a controlled substance that creates an unreasonable interference
with the comfortable enjoyment of life, property and/or safety of residents of
the premises. Such activity includes, but is not limited to, any activity
commonly associated with illegal drug dealing, such as noise, steady traffic,
day and night, to a particular unit, barricaded units, the display or
observance of weapons, drug loitering as defined in Cal. Health & Safety Code §
11532, or other drug-related occurrences which, taken as a whole, tend to
substantially affect or interference with any tenant's beneficial use and
enjoyment of any rented property.
   GANG-RELATED CRIME. Any crime in which the perpetrator is a known member of
a gang, or any crime motivated by gang membership in which the victim or the
intended victim of the crime is a known member of a gang.
   ILLEGAL DRUG ACTIVITY. A violation of any of the provisions of the Cal.
Health & Safety Code Ch. 6, §§ 11350 et seq. or Chapter 6.5, §§ 11400 et seq.,
or any successor provisions thereto.
   LANDLORD. Any owner of record, lessor, or sublessor, (including any person,
firm, corporation, partnership or other entity) who receives or is entitled to
receive rent for the use of any rental unit, or the agent, representative or
successor of any of the foregoing.
   PREMISES. Any rental unit and the land on which it and any other buildings
of a complex are located and common areas, including but not limited to, garage
facilities, streets, alleyways, stairwells, elevators, and, as the context
permits or requires, any public or private property which is immediately
adjacent to any of such areas.
   RENTAL UNIT. Any dwelling leased or rented, including, but not limited to,
any single and multi-family residence, duplex, apartment, apartment hotel,
apartment house and/or condominium in the city. This term shall also include
any mobile home, whether rent is paid for the mobile home, the land upon which
the mobile home is located, or both. It shall also mean any recreational
vehicle, as defined in Cal. Civ. Code § 799.24, if located in a mobile home
park or recreational vehicle park, whether rent is paid for the recreational
vehicle, the land upon which it is located, or both.
   TENANT. Any tenant, subtenant, lessee, sublessee or any person entitled to
use or occupancy of a rental unit, or any other person residing in the rental
unit.
(Ord. 1275, passed 5-17-00)
§ 132.02 DUTIES OF THE LANDLORD.
   A landlord shall not cause or knowingly permit:
   (A)   Any premises under his or her control to be used or maintained for any
illegal drug activity, gang-related crime, or in such manner as to constitute a
drug related nuisance; or
   (B)   Any tenant to use or occupy premises under the landlord's control, if
the tenant commits, permits, maintains or is involved in any illegal drug
activity, gang-related crime, or drug-related nuisance on the premises.
(Ord. 1275, passed 5-17-00)
§ 132.03 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   The City Manager, or his or her designee, may promulgate such administrative
procedures as may be necessary to implement the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1275, passed 5-17-00)
§ 132.04 RECOVERY OF POSSESSION BY LANDLORD.
   (A)   Grounds for Eviction. Notwithstanding any provision of this code to
the contrary, a landlord may bring an action to recover possession of a rental
unit upon any of the following grounds:
      (1)   The tenant is committing or permitting to exist any illegal drug
activity, gang-related crime, or drug-related nuisance on the premises; or
      (2)   The tenant has been convicted of a crime wherein the underlying
offense involves illegal drug activity, drug-related nuisance activity or a
gang-related crime on the premises.
(Ord. 1275, passed 5-17-00)
§ 132.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Provided the owner of record or agent thereof, and any known manager,
of a premises have been served with a written notice by certified mail, return
receipt requested, advising that the Chief of Police has determined that the
landlord is in violation of §
132.02, and has failed to comply with the provisions of that section within ten
business days of the date of service of such notice, or to file an appeal
within such period as provided herein, then the city may file an action for
injunctive relief or utilize any other remedy provided by law to compel
compliance, including but not limited to, all remedies available to abate a
nuisance.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the written notice shall also identify
the offending tenant(s), unit number if applicable, and the specific violation
(s), and shall state the date(s) and time(s) of any observed criminal activity
and any resulting arrest(s), and shall further state that as to such tenant(s)
the landlord is required to serve and diligently prosecute either a three day
notice to quit or a 30 day notice to vacate. The term DILIGENTLY PROSECUTE
means such prosecution by the landlord as is necessary to cause the subject
rental unit to be completely vacated by all occupants. No such vacated rental
unit may be re-rented, leased or otherwise re-occupied by the prosecuted tenant
(s) prior to the expiration of a 12 month period following the vacation of the
rental unit by the tenant(s).
   (C)   The required notice shall also state that within such ten day period,
the landlord may file a written appeal of the determination of violation with
the City Manager who shall cause the matter to be set for hearing. Written
notice of the date and time of such hearing shall be served by, first class
mail addressed to the landlord's last known business address. Following the
conclusion of the hearing, the City Manager may affirm, reverse or reverse
subject to conditions, the Police Chief's determination of violation. The City
Manager's decision shall be based upon written findings and shall be final.
   (D)   In the event no appeal is timely filed or an appeal is denied, the
city may immediately proceed to enforce the provisions of this chapter against
such landlord by way of criminal or civil code enforcement action, including an
action for injunctive relief, or by any other remedy provided by law to compel
compliance including, but not limited to, all remedies available to abate a
nuisance.
   (E)   A court rendering a judgment pursuant to this section may, in addition
to any other penalty or remedies provided by law, impose a civil penalty in the
maximum amount permitted by law, payable to the city, and/or require the
payment of the City Attorney's fees, costs of investigation, and discovery and
court costs.
(Ord. 1275, passed 5-17-00)
§ 132.06 LIEN AUTHORIZED.
   Any judgment for money, including permitted fees and costs, may be recorded
as a lien against the subject property in an amount not to exceed $5,000 and,
if multiple defendants exist, they shall be jointly and severally liable for
any payments so ordered.
(Ord. 1275, passed 5-17-00)
§ 132.07 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   It is unlawful for any person to violate any provision or to fail to comply
with any of the requirements of this chapter. Any person violating any
provision of this chapter or failing to comply with any of its requirements
shall by punished as follows:
   (A)   For three or less violations occurring within any 12 consecutive month
period, a violation of this chapter shall be deemed to be an infraction
punishable by a fine not exceeding $100 for a first violation, $200 for a
second violation of the same provision within any 12 consecutive month period,
and a fine not exceeding $500 for a third violation of the same provision
occurring within any 12 consecutive month period.
   (B)   A fourth violation of the same provision occurring within any 12
consecutive month period shall be deemed to be a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $1,000, or by
imprisonment not exceeding six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 1275, passed 5-17-00)
CHAPTER 133: UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF
A CATALYTIC CONVERTER
Section
   
133.010   Findings and purpose
   
133.020   Definitions
   
133.030   Unlawful possession of a catalytic converter
   
133.040   Violation and enforcement
§ 133.010 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   The City Council of Indio finds that the theft of catalytic converters has
been an increasing problem in Indio in recent years. In Riverside County, there
were at least 200 reports of catalytic converter thefts in 2022 and, as of July
1, 2023, there were at least 316 reports by victims. The external location of
catalytic converters and the use of valuable precious metals, including
rhodium, palladium and platinum, in catalytic converters makes these devices a
target for thieves. Individuals in possession of stolen catalytic converters
often recycle them for substantial profit, while victims of these thefts suffer
the consequences of paying thousands of dollars in repairs, the inconvenience
of repairing their vehicles, and feeling unsafe in the community. Finding the
victim of these crimes is extremely difficult due to the manner in which the
catalytic converter thefts occur and lack of identifying markers on catalytic
converters to link a stolen catalytic converter to the victim. The inability to
identify the victims of catalytic converter thefts can inhibit the ability to
successfully prosecute individuals for the thefts. This chapter is necessary to
provide the city, in conjunction with the County of Riverside and other
surrounding cities, a means to protect the public, deter this criminal activity
and promote a more productive use of Indio resources. The purpose and intent of
this chapter is to curb the theft of catalytic converters throughout the city
and to provide the city with reasonable means to address the impact on the
community and the victims posed by increasing catalytic converter thefts.
(Ord. 1811, passed 6-5-24)
§ 133.020 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
   CATALYTIC CONVERTER. Any exhaust emission control device, or portion
thereof, that converts toxic gases and pollutants in exhaust gas from an
internal combustion engine into less-toxic pollutants.
   CITY. The City of Indio.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of Indio.
   DOCUMENTATION OR OTHER PROOF. Written document(s) clearly identifying the
vehicle from which the catalytic converter originated based on the totality of
the circumstances, which includes, but is not limited to, the following types
of documents:
      (1)   Bill of sale from the original owner with photographs.
      (2)   Verifiable documentation from an auto-body shop proving the owner
relinquished the catalytic converter to the auto-body shop.
      (3)   Verifiable electronic communication from the previous owner to the
possessor relinquishing ownership of the catalytic converter.
      (4)   Photographs of the vehicle from which the catalytic converter
originated.
      (5)   Vehicle registration associated with the catalytic converter
containing an etched associated license plate number or vehicle identification
number or driver's license number of registered vehicle owner.
   LAWFUL POSSESSION. Includes:
      (1)   Being the lawful owner of the catalytic converter; or
      (2)   Being in possession of the catalytic converter with the lawful
owner's verifiable written consent. It is not required to prove the catalytic
converter was stolen to establish the possession is an unlawful possession.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Sheriff, the City Manager, Code Enforcement, or
Building Official, and any of their designees.
(Ord. 1811, passed 6-5-24)
§ 133.030 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF A CATALYTIC CONVERTER.
   (A)   Barring any provision of state law permitting the same, it is unlawful
for any person to possess any catalytic converter which is not attached and an
operable part of a vehicle unless the person has a verifiable valid proof of
ownership of the catalytic converter.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a detached catalytic converter that has
been verifiably tested, certified, and labeled or otherwise approved for reuse,
and is being bought or sold for purposes of reuse in accordance with the
federal Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. § 7401 et seq.) and regulations under the
Clean Air Act, as they may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly falsify or cause to be
falsified any information in a record intended to show valid proof of
ownership.
   (D)   Evidence of unlawful possession may be presumed by the number of
detached catalytic converters within one's possession and/or by the condition
of the dismantled catalytic converter(s), including but not limited to, the
manner a catalytic converter has been detached or cut from a vehicle.
(Ord. 1811, passed 6-5-24)
§ 133.040 VIOLATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Misdemeanor penalty. Any person who violates any provision of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding $1,000, or by imprisonment in the county jail for a term not
exceeding one year, or by both. Upon any second or subsequent conviction of the
offense, the person shall be punished by the penalties of a fine of $1,000 and
by imprisonment in the county jail for one year. The City Attorney, in his or
her sound discretion, may prosecute a violation of this chapter as an
infraction, rather than a misdemeanor, or reduce or agree to the reduction of a
previously filed misdemeanor to an infraction. Any person convicted of an
infraction under this code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $100 for
the first violation, a fine not exceeding $200 for a second violation within
one year, and a fine not exceeding $500 for a third violation within one year.
A fourth violation of this code within one year shall be charged as a
misdemeanor and may not be reduced to an infraction.
   (B)   State penalties apply. Nothing in this chapter shall be intended to
limit any of the penalties provided for under California law, including but not
limited to the Penal Code, with regard to the sale, use, possession, delivery,
and/or receipt of catalytic converters.
   (C)   Administrative citations. In addition to any other penalties provided
by law, whenever an enforcement officer determines a violation of this chapter
has occurred, the enforcement officer shall have the authority to issue an
administrative citation in the manner described in Chapter 12 of this code.
(Ord. 1811, passed 6-5-24)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BILLBOARDS AND SIGNS
         
151.   BUILDINGS
         
152.   DUST CONTROL
         
153.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
         
154.   DENSITY BONUSES AND OTHER INCENTIVES FOR LOW INCOME AND SENIOR HOUSING
         
155.   SOIL EROSION
         
156.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
         
157.   TRAILERS AND TRAILER PARKS
         
158.   UNUSED SERVICE STATIONS
         
159.   ZONING REGULATIONS
         
160.   TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT
         
161.   OLD TOWN INDIO BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
         
162.   GRADING
         
163.   RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM CONVERSIONS
CHAPTER 150: BILLBOARDS AND SIGNS
   This chapter has been repealed by City Council action via Ordinance No. 1782
at its regular City Council Meeting of September 21, 2022 with an effective
date of October 22, 2022. The full Unified Development Code can be found
online.
(Ord. 1782, passed 9-21-22)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDINGS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Appeals
California Administrative Code
   
151.005   Adoption of California Administrative Code
   
151.006   Conflicting provisions
California Building Code
   
151.010   Adoption of California Building Code
   
151.011   Amendments and additions to Building Code
California Historical Building Code
   
151.014   Adoption of California Historical Building Code
California Existing Building Code
   
151.015   Adoption of California Existing Building Code
California Energy Code
   
151.017   Adoption of California Energy Code
California Mechanical Code
   
151.020   Adoption of California Mechanical Code
California Plumbing Code
   
151.025   Adoption of California Plumbing Code
California Electrical Code
   
151.030   Adoption of California Electrical Code
California Residential Code
   
151.040   Adoption of California Residential Code
   
151.041   Amendments and additions to Residential Code
California Green Building Standards Code
   
151.050   Adoption
International Property Maintenance Code
   
151.055   Adoption of the International Property Maintenance Code
Small Residential Rooftop Solar Energy System Permits
   
151.060   Expedited review of small residential rooftop solar energy system
permits
Expedited Building Permit Process for  Electric Vehicle Charging Stations
   
151.065   Electric vehicle charging station systems
Moving Buildings
   
151.120   Title and purpose
   
151.121   Building moving permits and fees required
   
151.122   Approval; inspection staff
   
151.123   Bonds
   
151.124   Execution of work
Addressing Property and Buildings
   
151.135   Purpose
   
151.136   Authority to assign numbers
   
151.137   Procedure for assigning numbers
   
151.138   Official numbering system
Security Fencing
   
151.150   Electrical charges
   
151.151   Barbed wire, razor wire and other security
Construction; Related Regulations
   
151.160   Permitted work hours
   
151.161   Removal of trash from building sites
Fencing
   
151.185   Permit required
   
151.186   Application for permit
Mobile Home Sales Complex Permits
   
151.190   Mobile home sales complex permit established
   
151.191   Model home sales complex permit applicability
   
151.192   Model home sales complex permit review and conditions
   
151.193   Model home sales complex permit approval period(s)
   
151.194   Mobile home sales complex permit public hearing need and phasing
   
151.195   Model home sales complex permit submittal requirements
   
151.196   Model home sales complex permit certificate of occupancy
Parking
   
151.200   Permit required
   
151.201   Fees
   
151.202   Plans and specifications
   
151.203   Work without a permit
   
151.204   Work complete in violation of requirements
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 APPEALS.
   Appeals under this chapter, including appeals as to any decision, order or
determination of an official arising from or relating to the most recent
version of the California Building Codes or any other Codes adopted by this
chapter, may be appealed to the Indio Consolidated Appeals Board in the manner
specified with respect to appeals under § 95B.114 of this code. One purpose of
this appellate provision is to allow due process of law to persons affected by
administrative orders related to the use, maintenance, or change of occupancy
of buildings and structures, including but not limited to requirements
governing alteration, additions, repair, demolition, moving, or vacation.
(Ord. 1784, passed 10-19-22)
CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
§ 151.005 ADOPTION OF CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATIVE CODE.
   The 2022 California Administrative Code (CAC) as published by the
International Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference and shall become the
administrative code of the City of Indio for regulating the erection,
construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal, demolition,
conversion, occupancy equipment use, height, area and maintenance of all
buildings and/or structures in the City. The 2022 California Administrative
Code is on file for public examination in the office of the Building Official.
(Ord. 1784, passed 10-19-22)
§ 151.006 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   In the event of a conflict between any provisions contained in the
Administrative Code and the administrative provisions of the Code of Indio, the
more specific provision shall be given effect, unless another applicable
provision is determined by the Building Official to more fully provide for the
public health and safety and/or that it will more fully promote the intent of
the Code of Indio.
(Ord. 1784, passed 10-19-22)
CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE
§ 151.010 ADOPTION OF CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE.
   Except as provided in this chapter, the 2022 California Building Code (CBC),
incorporating the 2021 International Building Code, as published by the
International Code Council, and as amended herein, is hereby adopted by
reference and shall become the building code of the City of Indio for
regulating the erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving,
removal, demolition, conversion, occupancy equipment use, height, area and
maintenance of all buildings and/or structure in the city. The 2022 California
Building Code is on file for public examination in the office of the Building
Official.
(Ord. 1784, passed 10-19-22)
§ 151.011 AMENDMENTS AND ADDITIONS TO BUILDING CODE.
   (A)    Chapter 1, Section 101.2 Scope, is amended as follows:
   101.2. Delete the paragraph entitled "Exception" in its entirety.
   (B)   Chapter 1, Section 101.4.4, is amended to read as follows:
   101.4.4 Property maintenance. The provisions of all of the adopted codes,
laws and pertinent regulations shall apply to existing structures and premises;
equipment and facilities; light, ventilation, space heating, sanitation, life
and fire safety hazards; responsibilities of owners, operators and occupants;
and occupancy of existing premises and structures.
   (C)   Chapter 1, Section 105.2 is amended by deleting Items (2) and (4) in
their entirety and amending Item (1) under the heading "Building" to read as
follows:
   1.   Non-permanent, one-story detached accessory structures used as tool and
storage sheds, playhouses and similar uses, provided the floor area does not
exceed 120 square feet, may be excluded provided the proposed work meets City
of Indio Zoning regulations.
   (D)   Chapter 1 Section 105.5 is amended to read as follows:
   105.5. Expiration. Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work
on the site authorized by such permit is commenced within 365 days after its
issuance, or if the work authorized on the site by such permit is suspended or
abandoned for a period of 365 days after the time of the work is commenced. The
Building Official is authorized to grant, in writing, one or more extensions of
time, for periods not more than 180 days each. The extension shall be requested
in writing and justifiable cause demonstrated. At the discretion of the
Building Official work shall be considered abandoned whenever substantial
progress has not been made within 365 days from the date of permit issuance or
extension, if given. Every permit issued or extended as part of code
enforcement actions shall become invalid if substantial progress has not been
made within the time period determined by the Building Official.
   (E)   Chapter 1, Section 107.3.1 is amended to read as follows:
   107.3.1 Approval of construction documents. When the Building Official
issues a permit, the construction documents shall be approved in writing, or by
stamp, as "Approved.". One set of construction documents so reviewed shall be
retained by the Building Official. The other set shall be returned to the
applicant and shall be kept at the site of work, and shall be open to
inspections by the Building Official or duly authorized representatives.
   (F)   Chapter 1, Section 108.1 is amended to read as follows:
   108.1 General. The Building Official is authorized to issue a permit for
temporary structures or temporary uses. Such permits shall be limited as to
time of service, but shall not be permitted for more than 180 days or as
determined by the Building Official. The Building Official is authorized to
grant extensions for demonstrated cause.
   (G)   Chapter 1 Section 109.4 and Section 109.5 are amended to read as
follows:
   109.4 Work commencing before permit issuance. Whenever any work for which a
permit is required by this code has been commenced without first obtaining said
permit, a special investigation shall be made before a permit may be issued for
such work.
   109.5 Related fees. An investigation fee, in addition to the permit fee,
shall be collected whether or not a permit is then or subsequently issued. The
investigation fee shall be equal to the amount of the permit fee set forth in
Section 109.2. The payment of such investigation fee shall not exempt any
person from compliance with all other provisions of this code nor from any
penalty prescribed by law.
   (H)   Chapter 16, Section 1613.5.2 is hereby added to read as follows:
   1613.5.2 ASCE 7, Section 12.2.3.1, Exception 3. Modify ASCE 7 Section
12.2.3.1 Exception 3 to read as follows:
   3.   Detached one and two family dwellings up to two stories in height of
light frame construction.
   (I)   Chapter 18, Section 1807.1.4 is amended to read as follows:
   1807.1.4 Permanent wood foundation systems. Permanent wood foundation
systems shall be designed and installed in accordance with AF&PA PWF. Lumber
and plywood shall be treated in accordance with AWPA U1 (Commodity
Specification A, Use Category 48 and Section 5.2) and shall be identified in
accordance with Section 2303.1.9.1. Permanent wood foundation systems shall not
be used for structures assigned to Seismic Design Category D, E or F.
   (J)   Chapter 18, Section 1809.7 is amended as follows:
   Table 1809.7, Footnotes (c) and (g) are hereby deleted without replacement.
   (K)   Chapter 18, Section 1809.12 is amended to read as follows:
   1809.7 Timber footings. Timber footings shall be permitted for buildings of
Type V construction and as otherwise treated in accordance with AWPA U1
(Commodity Specification A, Use Category 48). Treated timbers are not required
where placed entirely below permanent water level, or where used as capping for
wood piles that project above the water level over submerged or marsh lands.
The compressive stresses perpendicular to grain in untreated timber footings
supported upon treated piles shall not exceed 70 percent of the allowable
stresses for the species and grade of timber as specified in the AF&PA NOS.
Timber footings shall not be used in structures assigned to Seismic Design
Category D, E or F.
   (L)   Chapter 18, Section 1810.3.2.4 is amended to read as follows:
   1810.3.2.4 Timber. Timber deep foundation elements shall be designed as
piles or poles in accordance with AF&PA NOS. Round timber elements shall
conform to ASTM 025. Sawn timber elements shall conform to DOC PS-20. Timber
deep foundation elements shall not be used in structures assigned to Seismic
Design Category D, E or F.
(Ord. 1784, passed 10-19-22)
CALIFORNIA HISTORICAL BUILDING CODE
§ 151.014 ADOPTION OF CALIFORNIA HISTORICAL BUILDING CODE.
   The 2022 California Historical Building Code (CHBC) as published by the
International Code Council is hereby adopted by reference and shall become the
historical building code of the City of Indio for regulating the erection,
construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal, demolition,
conversion, occupancy equipment use, height, area and maintenance of all
buildings and/or structure in the city. The 2022 California Historical Building
Code is on file for public examination in the office of the Building Official.
(Ord. 1784, passed 10-19-22)
CALIFORNIA EXISTING BUILDING CODE
§ 151.015 ADOPTION OF CALIFORNIA EXISTING BUILDING CODE.
   The 2022 California Existing Building Code (CEBC), incorporating the 2021
International Existing Building Code, as published by the International Code
Council is hereby adopted by reference and shall become the existing building
code of the City of Indio for regulating the erection, construction,
enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal, demolition, conversion,
occupancy equipment use, height, area and maintenance of all buildings and/or
structure in the city. The 2022 California Existing Building Code is on file
for public examination in the office of the Building Official.
(Ord. 1784, passed 10-19-22)
CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE
§ 151.017 ADOPTION OF CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE.
   The 2022 California Energy Code (CEC), as published by the International
Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference and shall become the energy code
of the City of Indio for regulating the erection, construction, enlargement,
alteration, repair, moving, removal, demolition, conversion, occupancy
equipment use, height, area and maintenance of all buildings and/or structure
in the city. The 2022 California Energy Code is on file for public examination
in the office of the Building Official.
(Ord. 1784, passed 10-19-22)
CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE
§ 151.020 ADOPTION OF CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE.
   The 2022 California Mechanical Code (CMC), incorporating the 2021 Uniform
International Mechanical Code, as published by the International Association of
Plumbing and Mechanical Officials, is hereby adopted by reference and shall
become the mechanical code of the City of Indio for regulating the erection,
construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal, demolition,
conversion, occupancy equipment use, height, area and maintenance of all
buildings and/or structure in the city. The 2022 California Mechanical Code is
on file for public examination in the office of the Building Official.
(Ord. 1784, passed 10-19-22)
CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE
§ 151.025 ADOPTION OF CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE.
   The 2022 California Plumbing Code (CPC), incorporating the 2021
International Plumbing Code, as published by the International Association of
Plumbing and Mechanical Officials is hereby adopted by reference and shall
become the plumbing code of the City of Indio for regulating the erection,
construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal, demolition,
conversion, occupancy equipment use, height, area and maintenance of all
buildings and/or structure in the city. The 2022 California Plumbing Code is on
file for public examination in the office of the Building Official.
(Ord. 1784, passed 10-19-22)
CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 151.030 ADOPTION OF CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE.
   The 2022 California Electrical Code (CEC), incorporating the 2020 National
Electrical Code including all annexes thereto, published by the National Fire
Protection Association, as modified by the State of California, is hereby
adopted by reference and shall become the electrical code of the City of Indio
for regulating the erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair,
moving, removal, demolition, conversion, occupancy equipment use, height, area
and maintenance of all buildings and/or structure in the city. The 2022
California Building Codes is on file for public examination in the office of
the Building Official.
(Ord. 1784, passed 10-19-22)
CALIFORNIA RESIDENTIAL CODE
§ 151.040 ADOPTION OF CALIFORNIA RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   Except as provided in this chapter, the 2022 California Residential Code
(CRC), incorporating the 2021 International Residential Code, as published by
the International Code Council, and as amended herein, is hereby adopted by
reference shall become the residential building code of the City of Indio for
regulating the erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving,
removal, demolition, conversion, occupancy equipment use, height, area and
maintenance of all buildings and/or structure in the city. The 2022 California
Residential Code is on file for public examination in the office of the
Building Official.
(Ord. 1784, passed 10-19-22)
§ 151.041 AMENDMENTS AND ADDITIONS TO RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   (A)   Chapter 3, Section R301.1.3.2 is amended to read as follows:
   R301.1.3.2 Woodframe structures greater than two-stories. The building
official shall require construction documents to be approved and stamped by a
California licensed architect or engineer for all dwellings of woodframe
construction more than two stories and basement in height. Notwithstanding
other sections of law, the law establishing these provisions is found in
Business and Professions Code Section 5537 and 6737.1. The building official
shall require construction documents to be approved and stamped by a California
licensed architect or engineer for all dwellings of wood framed construction
more than one story in height or with a basement located in Seismic Design
Category D0, D1, D2 or E.
   (B)   Chapter 4, Section R401.1 is amended to read as follows:
   R401.1 Application. The provisions of this chapter shall control the design
and construction of the foundation and foundation spaces for all buildings. In
addition to the provisions of this chapter, the design and construction of
foundations in areas prone to flooding as established by Table R301.2(1) shall
meet the provisions of Section R322. Wood foundations shall be designed and
installed in accordance with AF&PA PWF.
      Exception: The provisions of this chapter shall be permitted to be used
for wood foundations only in the following situations:
      1.   In buildings that have no more than two floors and a roof.
      2.   When interior basement and foundation walls are constructed at
intervals not exceeding 50 feet (15240 mm).
   Wood foundations in Seismic Design Category D0, D1, D2 shall not be
permitted.
   (C)   Chapter 4, Section R404.2 is amended to read as follows:
   R404.2 Wood foundation walls. Wood foundation walls shall be constructed in
accordance with the provisions of Section R404.2.1 through R404.2.6 and with
the details shown in Figures R403.1(2) and R403.2(3). Wood foundation walls
shall not be used for structures located in Seismic Design Category D0, D1, D2.
   (D)   Chapter 6, Section 602.3 is amended as follows:
   Table R602.3(1) shall have the following language added to the Fastening
Schedule to read as follows:
   j.   Staples shall not be used as wood structural panel fasteners in Seismic
Design Category D0, D1, D2.
   Table R602.3(2) shall have the following language added to the Fastening
Schedule to read as follows:
   i.   Staples shall not be used as wood structural panel fasteners in Seismic
Design Category D0, D1, D2.
   (E)   Chapter 8, Section R803.2.4 is added to read as follows:
   Openings in horizontal diaphragms. Openings in horizontal diaphragms shall
conform with Section R503.2.
(Ord. 1784, passed 10-19-22)
CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING
STANDARDS CODE
§ 151.050 ADOPTION.
   Except as provided in this chapter, those certain building codes known and
designated as the 2022 California Green Building standards Code (CGBC), is
hereby adopted by reference and shall become the green building standards code
of the City of Indio for regulating the erection, construction, enlargement,
alteration, repair, moving, removal, demolition, conversion, occupancy
equipment use, height, area and maintenance of all buildings and/or structure
in the city. The 2022 California Green Building Standards Code is on file for
public examination in the office of the Building Official.
(Ord. 1784, passed 10-19-22)
INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 151.055 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The 2018 International Property Maintenance Code as published by the
International Code Council is hereby adopted by reference and shall apply to
all existing residential and non-residential structures and all existing
premises and constitute minimum requirements and standards for premises,
structures, equipment and facilities for light, ventilation, space, heating,
sanitation, protection from the elements, a reasonable level of safety from
fire and other hazards, and for a reasonable level of sanitary maintenance; the
responsibility of owners, an owner’s authorized agent, operators and occupants;
the occupancy of existing structures and premises, and for administration,
enforcement and penalties. The 2018 International Property Maintenance Code is
on file for public examination in the office of the Building Official.
(Ord. 1742, passed 11-6-19)
SMALL RESIDENTIAL ROOFTOP SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM PERMITS
§ 151.060 EXPEDITED REVIEW OF SMALL RESIDENTIAL ROOFTOP SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM
PERMITS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   BUILDING OFFICIAL shall have the same meaning as that set forth in
the 2013 California Building Code adopted by the City pursuant to §
151.010.
      (2)   FEASIBLE METHOD TO SATISFACTORILY MITIGATE OR AVOID THE SPECIFIC,
ADVERSE IMPACT shall have the same meaning as provided in the Solar Rights Act,
Government Code § 65850.5(j)(1), as the same may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   SMALL RESIDENTIAL ROOFTOP SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM shall have the same
meaning as provided in the Solar Rights Act, Government Code § 65850.5(j)(3),
as the same may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   SPECIFIC, ADVERSE IMPACT shall have the same meaning as provided in
the Solar Rights Act, Government Code § 65850.5(j)(5), as the same may be
amended from time to time.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   This §
151.060 applies to the permitting of all small residential rooftop solar energy
systems (as defined herein) in the City of Indio.
      (2)   Small residential rooftop solar energy systems legally established
or permitted prior to the effective date of this Section are not subject to the
requirements herein unless physical modifications or alterations are undertaken
that materially change the size, type, or components of a small rooftop energy
system in such a way as to require new permitting. Routine operation and
maintenance or like-kind replacements shall not require a permit.
   (C)   Small Residential Rooftop Solar Energy System Standard Plan and Permit
Application Checklist; Submittal.
      (1)   The City’s Building Official is delegated authority to: (a) develop
and implement an administrative, nondiscretionary review process to expedite
approval of small residential rooftop solar energy systems; and (b) develop and
adopt a standard plan and checklist of all requirements with which small
residential rooftop solar energy systems shall comply to be eligible for
expedited review. The review process, standard plan and checklist shall be
implemented and/or adopted by the City’s Building Office on or before September
30, 2015.
      (2)   The small residential rooftop solar energy system permit process,
standard plan(s), and checklist(s) shall substantially conform to
recommendations for expedited permitting, including the checklist and standard
plans contained in the most current version of the California Solar Permitting
Guidebook adopted by the Governor’s Office of Planning and Research.
      (3)   All documents required for the submission of a small residential
rooftop solar energy system application shall be made available on the City’s
publicly accessible website.
      (4)   The City’s Building Official shall ensure that electronic submittal
of the required permit application and associated documentation shall be made
available to all small residential rooftop solar energy system applicants.
Electronic submittal shall mean submission of the application by email, the
internet or facsimile as determined by the Building Official.
   (D)   Permit Review.
      (1)   The Building Official shall deem complete an application that
satisfies the information requirements in the standard plan(s) and checklist
(s).
      (2)   If the Building Official deems the application incomplete, the
Building Official shall issue a written correction notice to the applicant
detailing all deficiencies in the application and any additional information or
documentation required so the application may be eligible for expedited permit
issuance.
      (3)   The Building Official shall issue a building permit, the issuance
of which is nondiscretionary, on the same day for over the counter applications
or within one to three business days for electronic applications or in either
case as soon thereafter as may be practicable upon receipt of a complete
application that meets the requirements of the approved checklist and standard
plan. Notwithstanding, multiple applications submitted simultaneously may
require additional process time.
      (4)   Review of the application shall be limited to the Building
Official’s review of whether the application meets local, state and federal
health and safety requirements.
      (5)   The Building Official may require an applicant to apply for a
conditional use permit if the Building Official finds, based on substantial
evidence, that the small residential rooftop solar energy system could have a
specific, adverse impact upon the public health and safety.
      (6)   If a conditional use permit is required, the Building Official may
deny such application if it makes written findings based upon substantial
evidence in the record that the proposed installation of a small residential
rooftop solar energy system would have a specific, adverse impact upon the
public health or safety, and there is no feasible method to satisfactorily
mitigate or avoid the specific, adverse impact. The findings shall include the
basis for the rejection of potential feasible alternatives of preventing the
adverse impact.
      (7)   The decision of the Building Official pursuant to subparagraphs (5)
and (6) above may be appealed to the Planning Commission.
   (E)   Inspection Requirements.
      (1)   Only one inspection shall be required and performed by the Building
Official for small residential rooftop solar energy systems eligible for
expedited review. A separate fire inspection may be performed.
      (2)   The inspection shall be done in a timely manner and should include
consolidated inspections. An inspection will be scheduled within two business
days of a request and provide an inspection window.
      (3)   If a small residential rooftop solar energy system fails
inspection, a subsequent inspection is authorized but need not conform to the
requirements of this Section.
   (F)   Interpretation. The Building Official shall have the authority to
render interpretations of this §
151.060  and to adopt policies and procedures in order to clarify the
application of its provisions. Such interpretations, policies and procedures
shall be in conformance with the intent and purpose of this §
151.060 . In no instance shall such policies and procedures have the effect of
waiving requirements specifically provided for this §
151.060 .
(Ord. 1676, passed 6-17-15)
EXPEDITED BUILDING PERMIT PROCESS FOR
ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS
§ 151.065 ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Applicability and Purpose. This section applies to applications for
expedited building permits for electric vehicle charging station systems in the
City consistent with California Government Code § 65850.7.
   (B)   Definitions. The definitions set forth below shall be applicable to
the provisions in this section.
      (1)   BUILDING OFFICIAL means the city’s designated authority charged
with the administration and enforcement of this section.
      (2)   ELECTRONIC SUBMITTAL means the utilization of one or more of either
electronic mail, the internet or facsimile.
      (3)   ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION SYSTEM means any level of
electric vehicle supply equipment station that is designed and built in
compliance with Article 625 of the California Electrical Code, as it reads as
of January 1, 2016, and delivers electricity from a source outside an electric
vehicle into a plug-in electric vehicle.
      (4)   FEASIBLE METHOD TO SATISFACTORILY MITIGATE OR AVOID THE SPECIFIC
ADVERSE IMPACT includes, but is not limited to, any cost-effective method,
condition or mitigation imposed by the City on another similarly situated
application in a prior successful application for a similar permit.
      (5)   SPECIFIC ADVERSE IMPACT means a significant, quantifiable, direct,
and unavoidable impact, based on objective, identified, and written public
health or safety standards, policies, or conditions as they existed on the date
the application was deemed complete.
   (C)   Electric Vehicle Charging Station System Expedited Building Permit
Review Process.
      (1)   Anyone seeking to install an electric vehicle charging station
system at any site within the City may apply to the Building Official for an
expedited nondiscretionary building permit.
      (2)   The Building Official shall adopt a checklist of all application
requirements for expedited building permits for electric vehicle charging
stations. The checklist shall substantially conform to the most current version
of the “Plug-In Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Permitting Checklist” found in
the “Zero-Emission Vehicles in California: Community Readiness Guidebook”
published by the Governor’s Office of Planning and Research. The checklist,
application form, and any other documents required by the Building Official to
process an application shall be published on the City’s website.
      (3)   An application for an expedited building permit for an electric
vehicle charging station and all associated documentation may be submitted to
the Building Official in person, by mail, or by electronic submission as
specified on the City’s website. Electronic signatures may be used in lieu of
wet signatures.
   (D)   Additional Electric Vehicle Charging System Requirements.
      (1)   All electric vehicle charging systems shall meet all applicable
health and safety standards and requirements, including, but not limited to,
any requirements imposed by the State, local fire department, California
Building and Electrical Code, this Code, and Federal laws, including the
Americans with Disability Act.
      (2)   Prior to submitting an application, the applicant shall verify the
electric vehicle charging system meets all applicable safety and performance
standards established by , the Society of Automotive Engineers, the National
Electrical Manufacturers Association, and accredited testing laboratories such
as Underwriters Laboratories and, where applicable, rules of the Public
Utilities Commission regarding safety and reliability.
   (E)   Application Review.
      (1)   An application for an electric vehicle charging station shall be
deemed complete and the permit available for issuance when the Building
Official determines that the application satisfies all the requirements
contained in the city’s checklist(s), including complete supporting documents.
      (2)   If an application is deemed incomplete, a written correction notice
will be sent to the applicant within ten (10) working days of the City’s
determination detailing all deficiencies in the application and any additional
information or documentation required to be eligible for expedited permit
issuance for resubmission.
      (3)   If the Building Official determines that an application for an
expedited building permit is complete, the Building Official shall process the
application. If the Building Official determines that the proposed charging
station meets all health and safety requirements of state and federal law, and
would not have a specific, adverse impact upon the public health or safety, the
application shall be approved and a building permit shall be issued.
      (4)   If the Building Official finds, based on substantial evidence, that
a proposed charging station could have a specific, adverse impact upon the
public health or safety, the applicant must apply for an “electric vehicle
charging station use permit” in order to install the proposed charging station.
      (5)   An application for an “electric vehicle charging station use
permit” shall be reviewed by the Building Official. The Building Official shall
not deny such an application without making written findings, based upon
substantial evidence in the record, that the proposed charging station would
have a specific, adverse impact upon the public health or safety which could
not feasibly be satisfactorily mitigated or avoided. The written findings
required for rejection of an electric vehicle charging station use permit
application shall include the Building Official’s basis for rejecting any
potentially feasible alternatives that could mitigate or prevent the alleged
adverse impact. Pursuant to Government Code § 65850.7, the Building Official’s
review shall be limited to health and safety issues. Aesthetic concerns, or
other items not related to public health or safety shall not be considered. In
addition, consistent with Government Code § 65850.7, the Building Official
shall not condition the approval for any electric vehicle charging station
permit on the approval of such a system by a homeowners association, as that
term is defined by Civil Code § 4080.
      (6)   A decision of the Building Official made pursuant to subsections
(3), (4) or (5) of this paragraph (E) may be appealed to the Planning
Commission. The Planning Commission’s review shall be subject to the same
limitations as that of the Building Official, and only health and safety issues
may be considered.
      (7)   Any condition imposed on an application for an expedited building
permit or “electric vehicle charging station use permit” shall be designed to
mitigate the specific, adverse impact upon health and safety at the lowest
possible cost.
(Ord. 1760, passed 4-7-21)
MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 151.120 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be referred to as the "building
moving ordinance." The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the moving of
buildings within, into, from and through the city.
(Ord. 1580, passed 12-1-10)
§ 151.121 BUILDING MOVING PERMITS AND FEES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required. No person, firm or corporation shall move any
building within, into, from or through the city without first obtaining a
permit for that purpose from the Community Development Department. Each
structure or building shall require a separate permit.
   (B)   Filing fees.
      (1)   The fee for filing an application for a permit to move a building
from or through the city shall be that amount specified by resolution of the
City Council.
      (2)   The fee for filing an application for a permit to move a building
from or through the city shall be that amount specified by resolution of the
City Council. In addition to the application and filing fee there shall be an
additional fee of $0.30 per mile from City Hall to any building located outside
the city limits to defray the cost of an on-site preliminary inspection of the
structure to be moved.
      (3)   The fee for a permit to set up and occupy a building moved within
or into the city shall be in accordance with the building valuation data
published in the Building and Standards for new building of the same
construction used in occupancy and the building permit be table adopted by
resolution of the city.
   (C)   Application to move a building from or through the city. Applications
for permits to move building within, into, from or through the city shall be
made through the Community Development Department on a form provided for that
purpose. The applicant shall furnish the additional information to the city and
meet the additional requirements as may be required to ensure the safety and
welfare of private and public property in the route of travel.
(Ord. 1580, passed 12-1-10)
§ 151.122 APPROVAL; INSPECTION STAFF.
   Upon submission of an application for a permit provided herein, the Building
Official and other staff, as required, shall make an inspection of the building
to determine whether or not the building appears to be structurally sound and
capable of being made to comply with city building and safety laws if moved to
the contemplated location and occupied and used for the intended purpose and if
it is sound, to so indicate on the application. If it is not so found, a
written finding shall be made to the application to advise him or her of the
condition of the building and the basic repairs required to be made prior to
moving. If, in the opinion of the Building Official, a building should not be
moved, he or she shall declare his or her findings in writing to the owner, who
may appeal the same under the provision of this chapter for building and
housing code appeals.
(Ord. 1580, passed 12-1-10)
§ 151.123 BONDS.
   (A)   Buildings to be located within the city shall be covered by a faithful
performance bond or cash deposit, payable to the city prior to the issuance of
a moving permit. The performance bond shall be in the amount of 150% of the
estimated cost of the work to be done to bring the building into conformity to
the code, and the estimate accordance with the directions of the Planning
Commission, building permit and all applicable city regulations within a period
of six months following issuance of the building permit; otherwise, the full
amount of the bond will be forfeited to the city and the building will be
completed for occupancy or removed from the site at the direction of the city.
   (B)   To secure payment of damage to any street, tree, utility or
installation caused by the moving, and to protect against personal injury and
property damage, the applicant or mover shall provide proof of personal injury
and property damage insurance in the amount of at least $1,000,000 combined
single limit and enter into an indemnity agreement with the city to hold the
city harmless for any liability on the part of the mover.
   (C)   In addition to posting all other required bonds, applicants for a
permit to move a building off a parcel of land within the city shall post a
cash bond or faithful performance bond in an amount to be determined by the
Building Official, not to exceed $5,000, payable to the city to ensure cleanup
of debris, concrete, foundation and other materials left on the site including
securing its surface for dust control. Applicants shall have 30 days from the
date the building is moved to clean and secure the surface of the site;
otherwise, the Building Official shall be empowered to use all or a portion of
the bond to accomplish the remaining cleanup and surface preparation
requirements.
(Ord. 1580, passed 12-1-10)
§ 151.124 EXECUTION OF WORK.
   (A)   Moving any building or structure or portion thereof over, along, upon
or across any street in accordance with this subchapter shall be under the
direction and supervision of the Building Inspector, with the accompaniment of
necessary police patrol for traffic control. The Building Inspector shall
determine the hours during which moves are to be made.
   (B)   The route of travel shall be approved by the Public Services
Department, Police Department and utility companies prior to allowing a
building to be moved. The applicant for the permit shall obtain these approvals
in writing from the concerned departments of utilities.
(Ord. 1580, passed 12-1-10)
ADDRESSING PROPERTY AND BUILDINGS
§ 151.135 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the administration of a
uniform addressing system consistent with that which is in general use in the
country.
(Ord. 1580, passed 12-1-10)
§ 151.136 AUTHORITY TO ASSIGN NUMBERS.
   (A)    The engineering staff shall maintain an "official address map" for
the city and shall assign all numbers to lots, building, and/or units thereof
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Numbers shall be assigned when required to identify any property,
building or units thereof in the city. New numbers may be assigned as provided
herein to previously numbered property in order to correct conflicts, errors or
inconsistencies.
(Ord. 1580, passed 12-1-10)
§ 151.137 PROCEDURE FOR ASSIGNING NUMBERS.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   Any person owning or controlling property may apply for a new
address by providing adequate description of the property or buildings to be
assigned and the name of the property owner and tenants of the same.
      (2)   The application shall be processed in such a manner to adequately
provide for building or unit identification for postmen, utility company
personnel, city fire and police personnel and the general public.
      (3)   Where conflicts or inconsistencies arise, the Department may
initiate a change in numbers on its own, provided that all other requirements
are met regarding proper notice.
   (B)   Notice. Once a number or numbers are assigned, the applicant shall be
notified in person or by mail, or both, as shall the post office, Registrar of
Voters, 911 Riverside County Communications, Valley Sanitation District,
Riverside County Assessor, Indio Police Department, Indio Building Division,
Imperial Irrigation District, Indio Water Authority (or applicable water
purveyor), Southern California Gas Company, applicable school district and any
tenant listed on the application.
   (C)   Posting of numbers. It shall be the duty of the owner or person in
possession of a property to properly post the assigned number within ten days
after the notice is received. The number shall be located in a position to make
it clearly visible from a street during the daytime; except, subunit
designations on individual apartments, shops and similar spaces shall be
located on or near the entrance door of the subunit. The number shall
correspond to the one assigned by the city, and shall be posted at all times.
In the event a number is removed, deteriorates or is no longer visible, the
property owner and or tenant shall be subject to the provisions of this
subchapter with respect to posting.
(Ord. 1580, passed 12-1-10)
§ 151.138 OFFICIAL NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   For the purpose of maintaining uniform numbering, the following system shall
be maintained:
   (A)   Buildings and lots shall be numbered so as odd numbers shall be to the
west and south, even numbers shall be to the north and east; except for
subunits which may be numbered consecutively or by buildings or a combination.
   (B)   Where an apartment or commercial building with several subunits that
do not face a public street is involved, the property or project may have one
number and each subunit consequently shall have the same number plus a subunit
designation by number or letter or both.
   (C)   Numbering east-west streets. Primary property or building numbers for
streets, avenues, highways, courts or roads on an east-west axis shall be
assigned on the half-mile, as in county territory, Avenue 42, 43, 44, 45 and
46, and the like, with a three-digit number following (45-000) in consecutive
and progressive order starting each half-mile from north to south.
   (D)   Numbering north-south streets. Primary property or building numbers
for streets, avenues, highways, courts or roads on a north-south axis shall be
assigned on one-mile units as in county territory, i.e., Clinton Street 81-,
Monroe Street 82-, Jackson Street 83-, and the like, with a three-digit number
following (81-000) in consecutive and progressive order staring each mile from
the west to east.
(Ord. 1580, passed 12-1-10)
SECURITY FENCING
§ 151.150 ELECTRICAL CHARGES.
   No fence installed or maintained in the city shall be charged with
electricity for security or other reasons. Exceptions may be granted for a
farming or ranch operator where the fence is in a rural area. Exemptions shall
be conditioned with consideration of the amount of electrical charge to
restrain farm animals. These fences shall also be adequately marked with signs
and warnings.
(Ord. 1580, passed 12-1-10)
§ 151.151 BARBED WIRE, RAZOR WIRE AND OTHER SECURITY.
   No fence or wall shall include barbed wire, razor wire or other types of
wire, metal or glass that is not approved by the Building Official, in writing.
(Ord. 1580, passed 12-1-10)
CONSTRUCTION; RELATED REGULATIONS
151.160 PERMITTED WORK HOURS.
   (A)   No person shall be employed nor shall any person cause any other
person to be employed pursuant to a building permit of the city of public works
contract, in any work of construction, erection, alteration, repair, addition
to or improvement of any building, structure, road or improvement to realty
except between the hours set forth as follows:
      (1)   Pacific Standard Time:
         (a)   Monday through Friday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
         (b)   Saturday, 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
         (c)   Sunday, 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
         (d)   Government Code holidays, 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
      (2)   Pacific Daylight Time:
         (a)   Monday through Friday, 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
         (b)   Saturday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
         (c)   Sunday, 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
         (d)    Government Code holidays, 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
   (B)   Emergency work and/or unusual conditions may cause work to be
permitted with the written consent of either the City Manager, Director of
Community Development, or Chief Building Official. A copy of the written
consent must be maintained upon the premises where the work is being performed
and must be available upon request to any enforcement authority of the city.
(Ord. 1580, passed 12-1-10)
§ 151.161 REMOVAL OF TRASH FROM BUILDING SITES.
   (A)   Every building permit is issued subject to the condition that the
permittee shall keep the building site free and clear of trash and debris.
   (B)   A trash container shall be located on every construction site and
shall remain in place until construction is completed. The container shall be
adequate in size to store the trash and debris generated on the building site
until it can be disposed of.
   (C)   Disposal shall be by transportation to a legally established dump site
either by the city's refuse contractor of the permittee. As used in this
section trash and debris shall include papers, cartons, bottles, cans, garbage,
roofing materials, plaster, concrete and other substances that may accumulate
as a result of construction activities.
   (D)   Violation of any provision of this section shall constitute sufficient
cause for suspension or revocation of the building permit.
(Ord. 1580, passed 12-1-10)
FENCING
§ 151.185 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall construct, erect, install or
otherwise build any fence, wall, or retaining wall on any property in the city
or cause the same to be done without first obtaining a permit from the city.
   (B)   This subchapter does not apply to raised planter boxes or beds not
more that 24 inches high that are not located upon or immediately adjacent to
any property line.
(Ord. 1580, passed 12-1-10)
§ 151.186 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   The requirement for applying for a fence permit shall be the same as those
contained.
   (A)   Fee. An investigating fee in addition to the permit fee shall be
charged in accordance with the Code of Indio.
(Ord. 1580, passed 12-1-10)
MODEL HOME SALES COMPLEX PERMITS
§ 151.190 MODEL HOME SALES COMPLEX PERMIT ESTABLISHED.
   A model home complex permit is established for model home sales complex for
residential units and a sales office in a development which is being used to
illustrate the design of the units to potential homebuyers during initial sale
of units.
(Ord. 1742, passed 11-6-19)
§ 151.191 MODEL HOME SALES COMPLEX PERMIT APPLICABILITY.
   A model home sales complex is a temporary real estate office that may be
established within the boundaries of an approved tract and may be used solely
for the first sale of homes or the first rental or sale of apartments or other
multi-family units in projects of twenty (20) or more units within the same
project.
(Ord. 1742, passed 11-6-19)
§ 151.192 MODEL HOME SALES COMPLEX PERMIT REVIEW AND CONDITIONS.
   Model home sales complex permits shall be reviewed by building, planning,
engineering and fire and compliance to any and all conditions specified by
these reviewing entities shall be continuously achieved.
(Ord. 1742, passed 11-6-19)
§ 151.193 MODEL HOME SALES COMPLEX PERMIT APPROVAL PERIOD(S).
   A model home sales complex permit may be approved for up to three (3) years
and may be extended for an additional three (3) years or increments thereof.
Each extension shall only be granted by the Building Official if he or she
makes written findings of the necessity for said extension. Any and each
extension of a model home sales complex permit shall not be issued until the
applicant pays the required fee as approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 1742, passed 11-6-19)
§ 151.194 MODEL HOME SALES COMPLEX PERMIT PUBLIC HEARING NEED AND PHASING.
   There shall be no public hearing for a model home sales complex permit if
design review of the model homes, if required, was conducted as part of the
project approval process. For projects that contains more than one phase, a
separate model home sales complex permit application request shall be submitted
and the required fee shall be paid for each approved phase of development.
(Ord. 1742, passed 11-6-19)
§ 151.195 MODEL HOME SALES COMPLEX PERMIT SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENT.
   The permit application should be submitted in conjunction with the first
precise grading plan for a tract or each phase thereof.
(Ord. 1742, passed 11-6-19)
§ 151.196 MODEL HOME SALES COMPLEX PERMIT CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   A certificate of occupancy issued for each model home for commercial use of
the structure shall automatically expire upon the cessation of authorized use
as a model home. A separate certificate of occupancy shall be issued for the
residential use of all models.
(Ord. 1742, passed 11-6-19)
PARKING
§ 151.200 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall construct, enlarge, modify, improve,
remove, or re-stripe any parking lot within the city without first obtaining a
permit to do so.
(Ord. 1580, passed 12-1-10)
§ 151.201 FEES.
   The fee for parking lot construction or re-striping shall be as set by
resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 1580, passed 12-1-10)
§ 151.202 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Plans, engineering calculation, diagrams and other data shall be
submitted in three sets with each application for a permit. The Building
Official or City Engineer may require plans, computations and specifications to
be prepared and designed by an engineer or architect licensed by the state to
practice as such.
   (B)   Plans and specifications shall be drawn to scale and shall be of
sufficient clarity to indicate the location, nature, and extent of the work
proposed and show in detail that it will conform to all relevant laws,
ordinances, rules, and regulations pertaining to grading, drainage and
handicapped accessibility.
(Ord. 1580, passed 12-1-10)
§ 151.203 WORK WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   Where work for which a permit is required by this subchapter is commenced or
completed prior to the issuance of a permit, the applicant shall pay an
inspection fee to the city at the hourly rate as specified by City Council
resolution for inspections for which no fee is specifically indicated.
(Ord. 1580, passed 12-1-10)
§ 151.204 WORK COMPLETE IN VIOLATION OF REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Work started or completed prior to the issuance of a permit that fails
to comply with all laws and regulations does not relieve the person doing the
work from complying with all laws and regulations.
(Ord. 1580, passed 12-1-10)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions or
failing to comply with any of the mandatory requirements of this chapter or any
of the code adopted herein by reference or who fails to comply therewith, or
who violates or fails to comply with any order made thereunder, or who builds
in violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and
approved thereunder or any certificate or permit issued thereunder and from
which no appeal has been taken or who fails to comply with such an order as
affirmed or modified by the City Council or by a court of competent
jurisdiction, with the time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every
such violation and noncompliance respectively be guilty of a misdemeanor. The
imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or
permit it to continue; and any and all such person, firm or corporation shall
be required to correct or remedy the violations or defects within a reasonable
time. Any such person, firm or corporation shall be guilty of a separate
offense for each and every day during which any violation is committed,
continued or permitted. In addition, any violation of any of the codes adopted
herein is a nuisance that may be abated as such pursuant to the provisions of
this Municipal Code.
   (B)   The application of the penalty set out in division (A) above shall not
be held to prevent the enforced removal of the prohibited condition.
(Ord. 1580, passed 12-1-10; Am. Ord. 1639, passed 11-6-\-13; Am. Ord. 1703,
passed 11-16-16; Am. Ord. 1784, passed 10-19-22)
CHAPTER 152: DUST CONTROL
Section
   
152.01   Duty to control dust
   
152.02   Duty to comply with order to control dust
   
152.03   Failure to comply with order
   
152.04   Assessment of cost against property owner
   
152.05   60 days written notice
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 DUTY TO CONTROL DUST.
   No person, firm or corporation shall disturb the surface of the soil upon
any land within the city for the purpose of excavation or grading or building
construction without first providing the adequate dust control upon the site as
follows:
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any person, firm or corporation to provide
water trucks in sufficient numbers to maintain a stable soil surface, free from
blowing dust and sand during the duration of the grading work.
   (B)   Upon completion of the grading work the surface shall be treated or
stabilized in the following manner acceptable to the city:
      (1)   A portable sprinkler system installed and maintained in operation
until the surface of the soil has been found to be permanently stabilized.
      (2)   Planting of grass or other ground cover acceptable to the city and
continuously watered until such grass or ground cover has reached a sufficient
height and density to maintain the soil; and/or
      (3)   The contiguous operation of water trucks to keep the soil wet and
stable. A soil bonding agent may be required for sandy soils.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of any person, firm or corporation engaged in any
construction which requires a permit from the city to provide for the control
of dust until all construction has been completed and the surface of the soil
has been found to be permanently stabilized. The dust control shall be provided
as follows:
      (1)   A portable sprinkler system shall be installed and maintained
operable around the perimeter of the construction site.
      (2)   Either water trucks or additional sprinkler systems shall be
operated through the interior of the construction site including streets and
utility excavations.
      (3)   Dust control means as specified in division (C)(1) and (2) shall be
maintained operable at all times throughout the duration of the construction
project until the surface of the soil has been found to be permanently
stabilized and acceptable to the city.
('61 Code, § 17B.1) (Ord. 904, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.02 DUTY TO COMPLY WITH ORDER TO CONTROL DUST.
   It shall be the duty of any person, firm or corporation within one hour from
the time of notification from the city to activate dust control sprinklers or
water trucks.
('61 Code, § 17B.2) (Ord. 904, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.03 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.
   (A)   If any person, firm or corporation fails to neglects to activate the
required dust control sprinkler system or water trucks within the time
specified by this chapter, the City Manager through the city employees
authorized by him, shall cause such sprinkler system and/or water trucks to be
activated. The work of watering for dust control may be done by city crews or
by any commercial water truck company.
   (B)   A report of the proceedings and an accurate cost of the work on each
separate property shall be filed with the City Council. If more than one lot or
parcel in a subdivision is affected, the total cost incurred will be divided
equally to reflect an equal square of the cost for each lot or parcel in the
subdivision.
('61 Code, § 17B.3) (Ord. 904, passed - - )
§ 152.04 ASSESSMENT OF COST AGAINST PROPERTY OWNER.
   Upon completion of the work and approval of the cost thereof, the City
Council may cause the assessment of the cost of work against such property by
the recording of a lien for the amount of such costs against the real property
as set forth in Chapter 14 of this code.
('61 Code, § 17B.4) (Ord. 904, passed - - )
§ 152.05 60 DAYS WRITTEN NOTICE.
   (A)   If any notice of rent increase served pursuant to this section does
not state the actual dollar amount of such rent increase, a supplemental or
additional notice which does state the actual dollar amount of such rent
increase shall be served upon the homeowner, in the manner prescribed by law,
not less than 60 days prior to the effective date of such rent increase.
   (B)   Service upon a homeowner of a copy of the petition or application to
such commission for a hardship adjustment of rent shall be deemed to constitute
the notice of rent increase referred to in section A herein; provided, however,
that the homeowner shall be entitled to at least 60 days written notice of the
actual dollar amount of the rent increase.
(Ord. 1079, passed 12-5-90)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor. Each day that the violation
exists shall be deemed a separate offense.
('61 Code, § 17B.1) (Ord. 904, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1080, passed - - )
CHAPTER 153: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Statement of purpose
   
153.04   Definitions
   
153.05   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
153.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
153.07   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
153.08   Compliance
   
153.09   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.10   Interpretation
   
153.11   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
153.12   Development permit
   
153.13   Standards of construction
   
153.14   Standards for utilities
   
153.15   Standards for subdivisions and other proposed development
   
153.16   Standards for manufactured homes
   
153.17   Standards for recreational vehicles
   
153.18   Floodways
   
153.19   Nature of variances
   
153.20   Conditions for variances
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.30   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
153.31   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
153.32   Appeals
   
153.33   Appeal Board
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of California has in Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 65302,
65560, and 65800 conferred upon local governments the authority to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare
of its citizenry. Therefore, the City Council of the city does hereby adopt the
following floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 1537, passed 6-9-08)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by uses that are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed, or protected from flood damage. The cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and
velocities also contributes to flood losses.
(Ord. 1537, passed 6-9-08)
§ 153.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by legally enforceable regulations applied
uniformly throughout the community to all publicly and privately owned land
within flood prone, mudslide [mudflow] or flood related erosion areas. These
regulations are designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains; electric, telephone and sewer lines; and streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future blighted
areas caused by flood damage;
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an area
of special flood hazard; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 1537, passed 6-9-08)
§ 153.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure that is either:
      (1)   Solely for the parking of no more than two cars; or
      (2)   A small, low cost shed for limited storage, less than 150 square
feet and $1,500 in value.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ALLUVIAL FAN. A geomorphologic feature characterized by a cone or fan-shaped
deposit of boulders, gravel, and fine sediments that have been eroded from
mountain slopes, transported by flood flows, and then deposited on the valley
floors, and which is subject to flash flooding, high velocity flows, debris
flows, erosion, sediment movement and deposition, and channel migration.
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan or similar land form below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one to three feet; a clearly
defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable and
indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized
by ponding or sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA.
   A ZONE. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also  called the "100-year flood"). Base flood is the term used
throughout this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map for Zones AE, AH, A1-30, VE and V1-V30 that indicates the water surface
elevation resulting from a flood that has a 1% or greater chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade - below ground
level - on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, plant growth, fill,
excavation, buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain
which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before August 15, 1979.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD, FLOODING, OR FLOOD WATER.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters; the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source;
and/or mudslides (mudflows); and
      (2)   The condition resulting from flood-related erosion.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). The official map on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency or Federal Insurance Administration has
delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or Federal Insurance Administration has delineated
both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable
to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration that includes flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate Map, the
Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, and the water surface elevation of the base
flood.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. See FLOODING.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The community official designated by title to
administer and enforce the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control) and other application of
police power which control development in flood-prone areas. This term
describes federal, state or local regulations in any combination thereof which
provide standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents. For guidelines on dry and wet floodproofing,
see FEMA Technical Bulletins TB 1-93, TB 3-93, and TB 7-93.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. That area of the floodplain on either side of the
"regulatory floodway" where encroachment may be permitted.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION. As related to §
153.33(B)(3) of this chapter, means that the variance granted must not cause
fraud on or victimization of the public. In examining this requirement, the
City Council. will consider the fact that every newly constructed building adds
to government responsibilities and remains a part of the community for 50 to
100 years. Buildings that are permitted to be constructed below the base flood
elevation are subject during all those years to increased risk of damage from
floods, while future owners of the property and the community as a whole are
subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger, and suffering that those
increased flood damages bring. In addition, future owners may purchase the
property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage, and can be
insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, and does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The local governing unit, such as county or municipality,
that is empowered to adopt and implement regulations to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HARDSHIP. As related to
153.33(B)(2) of this chapter, means the exceptional hardship that would result
from a failure to grant the requested variance. The City Council requires that
the variance be exceptional, unusual, and peculiar to the property involved.
Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not exceptional. Inconvenience,
aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps, personal preferences, or the
disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as an
exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be resolved through other means
without granting a variance, even if the alternative is more expensive, or
requires the property owner to build elsewhere or put the parcel to a different
use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either
by an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior or
directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.
   LEVEE. A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accord with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including
basement (see BASEMENT definition).
      (1)   An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure below the lowest floor
that is usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an
area other than a basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor
provided it conforms to applicable non-elevation design requirements,
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   The flood openings standard in §
153.13(C)(3);
         (b)   The anchoring standards in §
153.13(A);
         (c)   The construction materials and methods standards in §
153.13(B)(1); and
         (d)   The standards for utilities in §
153.14.
      (2)   For residential structures, all subgrade enclosed areas are
prohibited as they are considered to be basements (see BASEMENT definition).
This prohibition includes below-grade garages and storage areas.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a "recreational vehicle".
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. Is defined in the city substantial damage/improvement
procedures. See §
153.14(B)(1).
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, North American Vertical Datum
(NAVD) of 1988, or other datum, to which base flood elevations shown on a
community's Flood Insurance Rate Map are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, means structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced on or after August 15, 1979, and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after August 15,
1979.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation,
channelization, bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel,
refuse, fill, structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or
projecting into any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the
direction and/or velocity of the flow of water, or due to its location, its
propensity to snare or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its
likelihood of being carried downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED-YEAR FLOOD or 100-YEAR FLOOD. See BASE FLOOD.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community's floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management regulations.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. As related to §
153.33(B)(3) of this chapter, means that the granting of a variance must not
result in anything which is injurious to safety or health of an entire
community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons, or unlawfully
obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable
lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state or local floodplain management regulations, or if this is
not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that impacts may
be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected development from
flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the chapter or
otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing state or federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). An area in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is shown on an FHBM or FIRM
as Zone A, AO, A1-A30, AE, A99, or, AH.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days from the date of the
permit. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufacture home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground;
this includes a gas or liquid storage tank or a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations or state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a "historic structure," provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure."
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance
required in this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, or
other datum, of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains
of coastal or riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, arroyo, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. 1537, passed 6-9-08)
§ 153.05 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes regulations to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases
in erosion or flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas.
(Ord. 1537, passed 6-9-08)
§ 153.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 1537, passed 6-9-08)
§ 153.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the "Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for "Flood
Insurance Study for City of Indio" dated May 1, 1985, with accompanying Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM's) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFM's),
dated May 1, 1985, and all subsequent amendments and/or revisions, are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. This FIS and
attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of this chapter and may
be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow implementation of this
chapter and which are recommended to the City Council of the city by the
Floodplain Administrator. The study, FIRM's and FBFM's are on file at 100 Civic
Center Mall Indio, CA 92201.
(Ord. 1537, passed 6-9-08)
§ 153.08 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards) shall constitute a misdemeanor.
Nothing herein shall prevent the City Council from taking such lawful action as
is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 1537, passed 6-9-08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.09 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 1537, passed 6-9-08)
§ 153.10 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 1537, passed 6-9-08)
§ 153.11 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of City Council of the city, any officer
or employee thereof, the State of California, or the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 1537, passed 6-9-08)
§ 153.12 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or other
development, including manufactured homes, within any area of special flood
hazard established in §
153.07. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Flood Plain Administrator. The applicant shall provide the following
minimum information:
   (A)   Plans in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing:
      (1)   Location, dimensions, and elevation of the area in question,
existing or proposed structures, storage of materials and equipment and their
location;
      (2)   Proposed locations of water supply, sanitary sewer, and other
utilities;
      (3)   Grading information showing existing and proposed contours, any
proposed fill, and drainage facilities;
      (4)   Location of the regulatory floodway when applicable;
      (5)   Base flood elevation information as specified in §
153.07 or §
153.31(C);
      (6)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest
floor (including basement) of all structures; and
      (7)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure will be floodproofed, as required in §
153.13(C)(2) of this chapter and detailed in FEMA Technical Bulletin TB 3-93.
   (B)   Certification from a registered civil engineer or architect that the
nonresidential floodproofed building meets the floodproofing criteria in §
153.13(C)(2).
   (C)   For a crawl-space foundation, location and total net area of
foundation openings as required in §
153.13(C)(3) of this chapter and detailed in FEMA Technical Bulletins 1-93 and
7-93.
   (D)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (E)   All appropriate certifications listed in §
153.31(E) of this chapter.
(Ord. 1537, passed 6-9-08)
§ 153.13 STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In all areas of special flood hazards the following standards are required:
   (A)   Anchoring. All new construction and substantial improvements of
structures, including manufactured homes, shall be adequately anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   Construction materials and methods. All new construction and
substantial improvements of structures, including manufactured homes, shall be
constructed:
      (1)   With flood resistant materials, and utility equipment resistant to
flood damage for areas below the base flood elevation;
      (2)   Using methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      (3)   With electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding; and
      (4)   Within Zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (C)   Elevation and floodproofing.
      (1)   Residential construction. All new construction or substantial
improvements of residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including
basement:
         (a)   In AE, AH, A1-30 Zones, elevated to or above the base flood
elevation.
         (b)   In an AO Zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number
is specified.
         (c)   In an A Zone, without BFE's specified on the FIRM [unnumbered A
Zone], elevated to or above the base flood elevation; as determined under §
153.31(C).
         (d)   Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the
lowest floor, including basement, shall be certified by a registered civil
engineer or licensed land surveyor, and verified by the community Building
Inspector to be properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall be
provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   Nonresidential construction. All new construction or substantial
improvements of nonresidential structures shall either be elevated to conform
with division (C)(1) of this section or:
         (a)   Be floodproofed, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the elevation recommended under division (C)(1) of this
section, so that the structure is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water;
         (b)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
         (c)   Be certified by a registered civil engineer or architect that
the standards of divisions (a) and (b) above are satisfied. Such certification
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
      (3)   Flood openings. All new construction and substantial improvements
of structures with fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding
basements) that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
storage, and which are subject to flooding, shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwater. Designs for meeting this requirement must meet the
following minimum criteria:
         (a)   For non-engineered openings:
            1.   Have a minimum of two openings on different sides having a
total net area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of
enclosed area subject to flooding;
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade;
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwater; and
            4.   Buildings with more than one enclosed area must have openings
on exterior walls for each area to allow flood water to directly enter; or
         (b)   Be certified by a registered civil engineer or architect.
      (4)   Manufactured homes. See §
153.16.
      (5)   Garages and low cost accessory structures.
         (a)   Attached garages.
            1.   A garage attached to a residential structure, constructed with
the garage floor slab below the BFE, must be designed to allow for the
automatic entry of flood waters. See division (C)(3) of this section. Areas of
the garage below the BFE must be constructed with flood resistant materials.
See division (B) of this section.
            2.   A garage attached to a nonresidential structure must meet the
above requirements or be dry floodproofed. For guidance on below grade parking
areas, see FEMA Technical Bulletin TB-6.
         (b)   Detached garages and accessory structures.
            1.   “Accessory structures” used solely for parking (two-car
detached garages or smaller) or limited storage (small, low-cost sheds), as
defined in §
153.04, may be constructed such that its floor is below the base flood
elevation (BEE), provided the structure is designed and constructed in
accordance with the following requirements:
               a.   Use of the accessory structure must be limited to parking
or limited storage;
               b.   The portions of the accessory structure located below the
BFE must be built using flood-resistant materials;
               c.   The accessory structure must be adequately anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse and lateral movement;
               d.   Any mechanical and utility equipment in the accessory
structure must be elevated or floodproofed to or above the BFE;
               e.    The accessory structure must comply with floodplain
encroachment provisions in §
153.18; and
               f.   The accessory structure must be designed to allow for the
automatic entry of flood waters in accordance with division (C)(3) of this
section.
            2.   Detached garages and accessory structures not meeting the
above standards must be constructed in accordance with all applicable standards
in this section.
(Ord. 1537, passed 6-9-08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.14 STANDARDS FOR UTILITIES.
   (A)   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems shall
be designed to minimize or eliminate:
      (1)   Infiltration of flood waters into the systems; and
      (2)   Discharge from the systems into flood waters.
   (B)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them, or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 1537, passed 6-9-08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.15 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS AND OTHER PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   All new subdivisions proposals and other proposed development,
including proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions, greater than
50 lots or five acres, whichever is the lesser, shall:
      (1)   Identify the Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHA) and Base Flood
Elevations (BEE).
      (2)   Identify the elevations of lowest floors of all proposed structures
and pads on the final plans.
      (3)   If the site is filled above the base flood elevation, the following
as-built information for each structure shall be certified by a registered
civil engineer or licensed land surveyor and provided as part of an application
for a Letter of Map Revision based on Fill (LOMR-F) to the Floodplain
Administrator:
         (a)   Lowest floor elevation.
         (b)   Pad elevation.
         (c)   Lowest adjacent grade.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed development shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed development shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (D)   All subdivisions and other proposed development shall provide adequate
drainage to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
(Ord. 1537, passed 6-9-08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.16 STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved, on
sites located: (1) outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; (2) in a
new manufactured home park or subdivision; (3) in an expansion to an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision; or (4) in an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision upon which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial
damage" as the result of a flood, shall: Within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the
community's Flood Insurance Rate Map, be elevated on a permanent foundation
such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated to or above the
base flood elevation and be securely fastened to an adequately anchored
foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
   (B)   All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved on sites
in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within Zones A1-30, AH,
and AE on the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map that are not subject to the
provisions of division (A) above will be securely fastened to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement,
and be elevated so that either the:
      (1)   Lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the base flood
elevation; or
      (2)   Manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than 36
inches in height above grade.
   (C)   Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor including basement shall be certified by a registered civil engineer or
licensed land surveyor, and verified by the community Building Inspector to be
properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 1537, passed 6-9-08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.17 STANDARDS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   All recreational vehicles placed in Zones A1-30, AH, and AE will either:
   (A)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or
   (B)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has
no permanently attached additions; or
   (C)   Meet the permit requirements of §
153.12 of this chapter and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
manufactured homes in §
153.16(A).
(Ord. 1537, passed 6-9-08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.18 FLOODWAYS.
   Since floodways are an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of flood
waters which carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential, the
following provisions apply:
   (A)   Until a regulatory floodway is adopted, no new construction,
substantial development, or other development (including fill) shall be
permitted within Zones A1-30 and AE, unless it is demonstrated that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the city.
   (B)   Within an adopted regulatory floodway, the city shall prohibit
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, and
other development, unless certification by a registered civil engineer is
provided demonstrating that the proposed encroachment shall not result in any
increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (C)   If divisions (A) and (B) are satisfied, all new construction,
substantial improvement, and other proposed new development shall comply with
all other applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of §
153.13 through this section.
(Ord. 1537, passed 6-9-08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.19 NATURE OF VARIANCES.
   (A)   The issuance of a variance is for floodplain management purposes only.
Insurance premium rates are determined by statute according to actuarial risk
and will not be modified by the granting of a variance. The variance criteria
set forth in this section of the chapter are based on the general principle of
zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property and are not personal
in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of property with physical
characteristics so unusual that complying with the requirements of this chapter
would create an exceptional hardship to the applicant or the surrounding
property owners. The characteristics must be unique to the property and not be
shared by adjacent parcels. The unique characteristic must pertain to the land
itself, not to the structure, its inhabitants, or the property owners.
   (B)   It is the duty of the City Council to help protect its citizens from
flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level are so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood chapter are quite
rare. The long term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can
only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance
guidelines provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple
provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The
criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
(Ord. 1537, passed 6-9-08)
§ 153.20 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement, and other proposed new development to be erected on a lot of one-
half acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing
structures constructed below the base flood level, providing that the
procedures of §§
153.12 through
153.18 and §§
153.30 through
153.32 of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond 1/2 acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
   (B)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of "historic
structures" (as defined in §
153.04 of this chapter) upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
   (C)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (D)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the "minimum necessary" considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
MINIMUM NECESSARY means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation from the
requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to an
elevation requirement, this means the City Council need not grant permission
for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the
applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the City Council believes
will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
   (E)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. It is recommended that a copy of the notice shall be
recorded by the Floodplain Administrator in the Office of the Riverside County
Recorder and shall be recorded in a manner so that it appears in the chain of
title of the affected parcel of land.
   (F)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such variances
issued in its biennial report submitted to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
(Ord. 1537, passed 6-9-08)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.30 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Director of Public Works is hereby appointed to administer, implement,
and enforce this chapter by granting or denying development permits in accord
with its provisions.
(Ord. 1537, passed 6-9-08)
§ 153.31 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to the following:
   (A)   Permit review. Review all development permits to determine:
      (1)   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied, including
determination of substantial improvement and substantial damage of existing
structures;
      (2)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained;
      (3)   The site is reasonably safe from flooding;
      (4)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of areas where base flood elevations have been determined but a
floodway has not been designated. This means that the cumulative effect of the
proposed development when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the city; and
      (5)   All Letters of Map Revision (LOMR's) for flood control projects are
approved prior to the issuance of building permits. Building Permits must not
be issued based on Conditional Letters of Map Revision (CLOMR's). Approved
CLOMR's allow construction of the proposed flood control project and land
preparation as specified in the "start of construction" definition.
   (B)   Development of substantial improvement and substantial damage
procedures.
      (1)   Using FEMA publication FEMA 213, "Answers to Questions About
Substantially Damaged Buildings," develop detailed procedures for identifying
and administering requirements for substantial improvement and substantial
damage, to include defining "market value."
      (2)   Assure procedures are coordinated with other departments/divisions
and implemented by community staff.
   (C)   Review, use and development of other base flood data.
      (1)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
153.07, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer §§
153.13 through
153.18.
      (2)   NOTE. A base flood elevation may be obtained using one of two
methods from the FEMA publication, FEMA 265, "Managing Floodplain Development
in Approximate Zone A Areas – A Guide for Obtaining and Developing Base (100-
year) Flood Elevations" dated July 1995.
   (D)   Notification of other agencies.
      (1)   Alteration or relocation of a watercourse:
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities and the California Department of
Water Resources prior to alteration or relocation;
         (b)   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency; and
         (c)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
      (2)   Base Flood Elevation changes due to physical alterations:
         (a)   Within 6 months of information becoming available or project
completion, whichever comes first, the floodplain administrator shall submit or
assure that the permit applicant submits technical or scientific data to FEMA
for a Letter of Map Revision (LOMR).
         (b)   All LOMR's for flood control projects are approved prior to the
issuance of building permits. Building permits must not be issued based on
Conditional Letters of Map Revision (CLOMR's). Approved CLOMR's allow
construction of the proposed flood control project and land preparation as
specified in the "start of construction" definition.
         (c)   Such submissions are necessary so that upon confirmation of
those physical changes affecting flooding conditions, risk premium rates and
floodplain management requirements are based on current data.
      (3)   Changes in corporate boundaries. Notify FEMA in writing whenever
the corporate boundaries have been modified by annexation or other means and
include a copy of a map of the community clearly delineating the new corporate
limits.
   (E)   Documentation of floodplain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
      (1)   Certification required by §
153.13(C)(1) and §
153.16 (lowest floor elevations);
      (2)   Certification required by §
153.13(C)(2) (elevation or floodproofing of nonresidential structures);
      (3)   Certification required by §
153.13(C)(3) (wet floodproofing standard);
      (4)   Certification of elevation required by §
153.15(A)(3) (subdivisions and other proposed development standards);
      (5)   Certification required by
153.18(B) (floodway encroachments); and
      (6)   Maintain a record of all variance actions, including justification
for their issuance, and report such variances issued in its biennial report
submitted to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (F)   Map determination. Make interpretations where needed, as to the exact
location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions.
The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
153.32.
   (G)   Remedial action. Take action to remedy violations of this chapter as
specified in §
153.08.
   (H)   Biennial report. Complete and submit biennial report to FEMA.
   (I)   Planning. Assure community's General Plan is consistent with
floodplain management objectives herein.
(Ord. 1537, passed 6-9-08)
§ 153.32 APPEALS.
   The City Council of the city shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made
by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1537, passed 6-9-08)
§ 153.33 APPEAL BOARD.
   (A)   In passing upon requests for variances, the City Council shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified
in other sections of this chapter, and the:
      (1)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      (2)   Danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      (4)   Importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the
community;
      (5)   Necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   Availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   Relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   Safety of access to the property in time of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      (10)   Expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters expected at the site; and
      (11)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water system, and streets and bridges.
   (B)   Variances shall only be issued upon a:
      (1)   Showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   Determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional "hardship" to the applicant; and
      (3)   Determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or extraordinary
public expense, create a nuisance (see "Public safety and nuisance"), cause
"fraud and victimization" of the public, or conflict with existing local laws
or ordinances.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial improvement,
and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use provided that the provisions of §
153.33 are satisfied and that the structure or other development is protected
by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does not
result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public
nuisance.
   (D)   Upon consideration of the factors of §
153.20(A) and the purposes of this chapter, the City Council may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 1537, passed 6-9-08)
CHAPTER 154: DENSITY BONUSES AND OTHER INCENTIVES FOR LOW INCOME AND SENIOR
HOUSING
Section
   
154.01   Purpose and intent
   
154.02   Applicability
   
154.03   Definitions
   
154.04   Grant of development incentive
§ 154.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The California Legislature has determined that the provision of housing for
lower and very low income individuals and senior citizens is of primary
importance in the state and must be encouraged at the local level. The purpose
of this chapter is to comply with the provisions of Cal. Gov't Code § 65915
requiring the city to adopt an ordinance providing incentives to developers of
housing for lower and very lot income individuals and senior citizens.
('61 Code, § 26.010) (Ord. 1085, passed - - )
§ 154.02 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all housing developments, as defined in this
chapter consisting of five or more units.
('61 Code, § 26.020) (Ord. 1085, passed - - )
§ 154.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DENSITY BONUS. A density increase of at least 25% over the otherwise maximum
allowable residential density under the applicable zoning regulations of the
city and land use element of the General Plan as of the date the preliminary
proposal is received pursuant to §
154.05. The density bonus shall not be included when determining the number of
housing units which is equal to 10% or 20% of the total.
   DEVELOPER. The legal or equitable owner, or his authorized representative,
of any lot or parcel within the city who intends to develop such lot in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   HOUSING DEVELOPMENT. One or more groups of projects for residential units.
   LOWER INCOME HOUSEHOLD. Persons and families whose income does not exceed
the qualifying limits in the Cal. Health & Safety Code § 5079.5.
   QUALIFYING RESIDENT. Means either:
      (1)   A person 62 years or age or older; or
      (2)   55 years of age or older in a senior citizen housing development as
defined in the Cal. Civ. Code § 51.3.
   VERY LOW INCOME HOUSEHOLD. Persons or families whose income do not exceed
the qualifying limit in the Cal. Health & Safety Code § 50105.
('61 Code, § 26.030) (Ord. 1085, passed - - )
§ 154.04 GRANT OF DEVELOPMENT INCENTIVE.
   A developer shall be entitled to a development incentive as described in
California Government Code Section 65915, et. seq. (Density Bonuses and Other
Incentives), as may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 1638, passed 10-16-13)
CHAPTER 155: SOIL EROSION
Section
   
155.01   Acts causing wind erosion of land prohibited; protection against
erosion
   
155.02   Defense to violation
   
155.03   Remedies
   
155.04   Removal of sand or soil by Director of Public Services; assessment of
costs against property owner
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 ACTS CAUSING WIND EROSION OF LAND PROHIBITED; PROTECTION AGAINST
EROSION.
   No person who owns or is in possession or control of land the soil of which,
by virtue of its character and the presence in the area of strong prevailing
winds, seasonal or otherwise, is likely, if the surface thereof is disturbed,
to be eroded by wind and blown onto a public road or roads or other public or
private property in the vicinity of such land, shall disturb the surface of
such land by excavating, leveling, cultivating, plowing, removal of natural or
planted vegetation or root crops, or by depositing or spreading material or
other substance on such land, or by any other act likely to cause or contribute
to wind erosion of such land or material placed thereon or to aggravate an
existing wind erosion condition thereon, without providing sufficient
protection at or prior to the time of so disturbing the surface of such land or
without thereafter continuously maintaining the same or equivalent protection,
so as to prevent the soil or such land from being eroded by wind or blown onto
a public road or roads or other public or private property. Such protection
shall be provided by means of windbreaks, walls, fences, planting and
maintaining vegetation, covering the land, applying water or other material or
other effective methods or combination of methods of holding the soil in place.
('61 Code, § 17A.1) (Ord. 438, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.02 DEFENSE TO VIOLATION.
   It shall be a defense to any prosecution hereunder for the defendant to
establish, as to any agricultural operation which might otherwise violate
§ 155.01, that the act or omission complained of was necessarily incidental to
and consistent with the conduct of such agricultural operation in a manner
usual and customary for such agricultural operations in the area.
('61 Code, § 17A.2) (Ord. 438, passed - - )
§ 155.03 REMEDIES.
   Nothing herein shall deprive any person or agency of any civil or other
remedy that he or it would otherwise have for any act or omission prohibited by
this chapter, or shall any building permit or subdivision approval or other
permit or authorization issued by the city or any of its officers or employees
be deem to authorize a violation of this chapter or be a defense to any
prosecution under this chapter.
('61 Code, § 17A.3) (Ord. 438, passed - - )
§ 155.04 REMOVAL OF SAND OR SOIL BY PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS
AGAINST PROPERTY OWNER.
   In addition to the remedies provided in §
155.03, upon the giving of five days' written notice to the legal owner of the
property or other persons in possession causing deposits of sand or soil on
public roads and/or public property to abate and remove the condition, the
Director of Public Services may cause the removal of such sand or soil and/or
may enter upon the property and take such action as is necessary to prevent the
sand or soil from being eroded or blown onto such public road or roads, and
upon completion and approval of the cost thereof by the City Council may cause
the assessment of the cost of removal and prevention of erosion against such
property by the recording of a lien for the amount of such costs against the
real property, as set forth in Chapter .
('61 Code, § 17A.1) (Ord. 438, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 558, passed - - Am. Ord.
893, passed - - )
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor. The failure to maintain
protection required by §
155.01, shall be deemed a separate offense for each day the condition exists.
('61 Code, § 17A.5) (Ord. 438, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1080, passed - - )
CHAPTER 156: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Authority and title
   
156.002   Purpose and application
   
156.003   Conformity to general plan, specific plan and zoning regulations
   
156.004   Definitions
   
156.005   Responsibilities
   
156.006   Fees
   
156.007   Improvements applicable to unsubdivided lots
   
156.008   Standards for improvement and design
Maps
   
156.020   General provisions
   
156.021   Procedures for filing maps
   
156.022   Parcel maps; authority and procedure
   
156.023   Waiver of parcel map requirements
   
156.024   Tentative maps; authority and procedure
   
156.025   Final maps
   
156.026   Lot line adjustments
Design and Improvements
   
156.035   Standards for design and improvement
Requirements
   
156.045   Generally
Improvement Security
   
156.055   General provision
   
156.056   Securities to be furnished and amounts
   
156.057   Security release
Reversions to Acreage
   
156.070   Reversions to acreage by final map
   
156.071   Initiation of proceedings by owners
   
156.072   Initiation of proceedings by City Council
   
156.073   Date for reversion to acreage
   
156.074   Proceeding before City Council
   
156.075   City Council approval
   
156.076   Return of fees, deposits and release of securities
   
156.077   Delivery of final map
   
156.078   Effect of filing reversion map with the County Recorder
   
156.079   Exclusions for reversions
Parcel Mergers
   
156.090   Mergers not required
   
156.091   Mergers required
   
156.092   Notice of merger
   
156.093   Request by property owner
Enforcement; Waivers; Judicial Review
   
156.105   Enforcement, remedies and judicial review
   
156.106   Administrative waiver of improvements
Vesting Tentative Maps
   
156.115   Authority
   
156.116   Purpose and intent
   
156.117   Consistency findings
   
156.118   Definition
   
156.119   Application
   
156.120   Filing and processing
   
156.121   Fees
   
156.122   Expiration of vested maps
   
156.123   Vesting on approval of vesting tentative map
   
156.124   Development inconsistent with zoning conditional approval
   
156.125   Applications inconsistent with current policies
Park and Recreation Land Dedication and Fees
   
156.130   Definitions
   
156.131   Authority, purpose and scope
   
156.132   Dedication/fee as a precondition to approval of final map
   
156.133   Standards for determining dedication
   
156.134   Fees in lieu of dedication
   
156.135   Determination of dedication, fees or combination
   
156.136   Subdivider credits
   
156.137   Disposition of land or fees
   
156.138   Time of dedication or payment of fees
   
156.139   Schedule for performance
   
156.140   Procedure
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 AUTHORITY AND TITLE.
   This chapter is adopted to supplement and implement the “Subdivision Map
Act,” Cal. Gov't Code § 66410 et seq. This chapter may be cited as the
“Subdivision Ordinance of the City of Indio.”
('61 Code, § 19.1) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
§ 156.002 PURPOSE AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter and any rules, standards and
specifications adopted pursuant hereto is to regulate and control the division
of land within the city and to supplement the provisions of the Subdivision Map
Act concerning the design, improvement, the form and content and procedures to
be followed in securing official approval regarding such maps. To accomplish
this purpose, the regulations outlined in this chapter are determined to be
necessary or the public health, safety and general welfare, to promote orderly
growth and development, and to promote open space, protection and proper use of
land and to insure provision for adequate traffic circulation, utilities,
stormwater protection and public services.
   (B)   The regulations set forth in this chapter shall apply to all
subdivisions or parts thereof within the city.
('61 Code, § 19.2) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
§ 156.003 CONFORMITY TO GENERAL PLAN, SPECIFIC PLAN AND ZONING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   To be approved, any map of a proposed division of land and the
provisions for the design and improvement must be found by the Planning
Commission and City Council, when applicable, to be consistent with the adopted
general plan, any applicable specific plan, and the zoning regulations in the
Unified Development Code.
   (B)   The type and intensity of land use as shown on the general plan shall
determine the types of streets, roads, highways, utilities, storm drain
facilities, and public service that shall be provided by the developer.
('61 Code, § 19.3) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
§ 156.004 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever any words or phases as used in this chapter are not defined herein,
the definitions contained in the Subdivision Map Act shall be deemed to apply.
   ADVISORY AGENCY. Shall mean:
      (1)   The Planning Commission for all purposes concerning tentative
subdivision and parcel maps; and
      (2)   The Director of Community Development for all purposes concerning
lot line adjustments.
   APPEAL BOARD. The City Council of the city unless otherwise noted.
   DESIGN. Means:
      (1)   Street alignments, grades and widths;
      (2)   Drainage and sanitary facilities and utilities, including
alignments and grades thereof;
      (3)   Location and size of all required easements and rights-of-way;
      (4)   Fire roads and fire breaks;
      (5)   Lot size and configuration;
      (6)   Traffic access;
      (7)   Grading;
      (8)   Land to be dedicated for park or recreational purposes;
      (9)   Such other specific requirements in the plan and configuration of
the entire subdivision as may be necessary or convenient to insure conformity
to or implementation of the general plan or any adopted specific plan. (From
the definition contain in the State Subdivision Map Act).
   GENERAL PLAN. The general policies and development plan; including all
adopted elements, in effect in the city.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Refers to such street work, storm drainage, utilities and
landscaping to be installed, or agreed to be installed, by the subdivider  on
the land to be used for public or private streets, highways and easements, as
are necessary for the general use of the lot owners in the subdivision and
local neighborhood traffic and drainage needs as a condition precedent to the
approval and acceptance of the final map thereof; or to such other specific
improvements or type of improvements, the installation of which, either by the
subdivider, by public agencies, by private utilities, by any subdivider, by
public agencies, by private utilities, by any other entity approved by the
local agency or by a combination thereof, is necessary or convenient to insure
conformity to or implementation of the general plan or any adopted specific
plan.
   IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS. The standard details and
specifications, and other standards that are adopted as supplemental to this
chapter that govern the improvements to be constructed pursuant to this chapter
and the Subdivision Map Act.
   LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT. A minor shift or rotation of an existing lot line or
other adjustments where a greater number of parcels than originally existed is
not created.
   MERGER. The joining of two or more contiguous parcels of land under one
ownership into one parcel.
   PERIPHERAL STREET. A street where right-of- way is contiguous to the
exterior boundary of a subdivision.
   REMAINDER. That portion of an existing parcel which is not included as part
of the subdivided land but must be shown on the required maps as part of the
area surrounding subdivision development.
   SUBDIVISION MAP ACT or MAP ACT. The state law governing the division of land
contained in Cal. Gov't Code § 66410 et seq.
   ZONING REGULATIONS. The Unified Development Code governing zones, as adopted
pursuant to state law.
('61 Code, 19.4) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
§ 156.005 RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall be responsible for approving as to form all
subdivision, improvement agreements, subdivision improvement securities, and
covenants, conditions and restrictions required for a division of land.
   (B)   The City Council shall have final jurisdiction over tentative maps,
final maps and improvement agreements related thereto, acceptance by the city
of lands and/or improvements as may be proposed for dedication to the city as a
result of the subdivision process. The City Council shall act as the Appeal
Board for hearing appeals of actions of the administrative staff or Planning
Commission.
   (C)   The City Engineer shall be responsible for:
      (1)   Recommending design and construction details, standards and
specifications for inclusion in the improvement standards and specifications.
      (2)   Determining if proposed subdivision improvements comply with the
provisions of this chapter and the Subdivision Map Act and for reporting the
finding together with any recommendations for approval, or conditional
approval, of the tentative map to the City Council for subdivisions.
      (3)   The processing and certification of final maps, reversion to
acreage maps, and amended maps; the processing and approval of subdivision
improvement plans, merger and certificates of compliance.
      (4)   The inspection and approval of subdivision improvements.
      (5)   The acceptance of dedications and improvements for subdivisions of
four or less parcels.
      (6)   The acceptance of private improvements (improvements not to be
maintained by the city).
      (7)   Certification to the City Council that all the findings can be made
concerning notice requirements of the Cal. Gov't Code § 66427.1 governing
conversion of residential real property into a condominium project.
   (D)   The Director of Public Services shall be responsible for the
management of the Public Works Engineering Division in carrying out the
responsibilities of this chapter.
   (E)   The Department of Planning and Development shall be responsible for:
      (1)   Processing all parcel and tentative maps in compliance with this
chapter and other related regulations such as, California Environmental Quality
Act, the city's general plan, city's zoning regulations, floodplain management
regulations, specific plans.
      (2)   For developing administrative criteria for processing tentative
maps, parcel maps, and approving lot line adjustments.
   (F)   The Director of Community Development shall be responsible for:
      (1)   The management of the Community Development in carrying out the
responsibilities imposed upon it by this chapter.
      (2)   The Director of Community Development, or an authorized deputy,
shall certify that final maps and CC & R's are in conformance with approved
tentative maps, parcel maps and conditions applied thereto.
      (3)   Shall approve lot line adjustments.
   (G)   The Planning Commission shall be responsible for:
      (1)   Approving, conditionally approving, or denying the application for
a parcel map, such as, a subdivision for four or less parcels.
      (2)   Making recommendations to the City Council concerning tentative
subdivisions of five or more parcels, or condominium projects.
('61 Code, 19.5) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
§ 156.006 FEES.
   Where services are required of the city under this chapter or fees are
required for improvements pursuant to §
156.045, the amount to be paid shall be prescribed by separate resolution of
the City Council.
('61 Code, 19.6) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
§ 156.007 IMPROVEMENTS APPLICABLE TO UNSUBDIVIDED LOTS.
   Improvements required by this chapter shall also apply to lots that are not
subject to further division but where a building permit is requested for a
project that is not exempt, as defined as follows:
   Exemptions. Additions to homes, garages and accessory buildings to
dwellings, farm buildings on parcel over three acres. Such improvement shall be
installed as a condition of a building permit and “improvement security” posted
as provided herein prior to issuance of a building permit.
('61 Code, 19.7) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
§ 156.008 STANDARDS FOR IMPROVEMENT AND DESIGN.
   The improvement standards and specifications shall be adopted by City
Council resolution to control the design and improvement and specification of
development of “off-sites” and activities and other matters related to “design”
and “improvement,” in connection with land development. The improvement
standards and specifications shall be a part of this chapter for all intents
and purposes the same as if they were set forth herein verbatim.
('61 Code, 19.8) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
MAPS
§ 156.020 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The necessity for tentative, final and parcel maps shall be as
provided in the Subdivision Map Act, Ch. 2, Art. 1, as last amended.
   (B)   Parcel maps. The content and form of final maps shall be as provided
in the Subdivision Map Act and this chapter.
   (C)   Final maps. The content and form of final maps shall be as provided in
the Subdivision Map Act.
   (D)   Tentative parcel maps. Where it is legal under the Subdivision Map Act
to divide more than four parcels by a parcel map, there shall be filed a
tentative parcel map which shall be filed in accordance with the same
requirements nd procedures for tentative maps as provided in the Subdivision
Map Act and by this chapter.
   (E)   Dedications. Dedications or offers of dedication may be made by
certificate on the final map or parcel map or by separate instrument. In the
case of dedications by separate instrument, such dedications shall be made
prior to the recording of the final map or parcel map, and the recording data
of the separate instrument shall be placed on the final map or parcel map prior
to filing for record.
   (F)   Condominium conversion. A tentative subdivision map or parcel map
involving prospective conversion of one or more existing structures or parcels
into a condominium, stock cooperative or any other form of community ownership,
shall be approved only if the proposed condominium use of the property will be
in conformity with the general plan and such conversion conforms to any other
requirements or restrictions which have been adopted by the City Council by
ordinance dealing with the conversion of existing structures from rental units
to community ownership.
('61 Code, 19.9) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 156.021 PROCEDURES FOR FILING MAPS.
   (A)   The Director of Community Development shall develop the administrative
policies, procedures and forms necessary and consistent with this chapter to
process actions allowed and required by the Subdivision Map Act. This
administrative procedure shall include the form and content of tentative maps
and other maps where the Subdivision Map Act does not dictate the form and
content.
   (B)   Environmental review. No tentative parcel or subdivision map shall be
considered accepted for filing for consideration under this chapter and the
Subdivision Map Act unless the map shall have been first subjected to and
processed according to the city guidelines for environmental review under the
California Environmental Quality Act.
   (C)   Time limits. The time limits for processing maps under this chapter
shall be as specified in the Subdivision Map Act, unless waived by consent of
the developer pursuant to the Cal. Gov't Code § 66451.1(a) for purposes of
concurrent processing.
   (D)   Public hearings. The proceedings before the Planning Commission and
City Council on applications for parcel maps and tentative maps review shall
include public hearings held in accordance with the provisions of § 66451.3 of
the Cal. Gov’t Code.
   (E)   Where to file maps.
      (1)   Tentative maps, parcel maps, mergers and lot line adjustment
requests shall be filed with the Community Development Department and shall be
processed in accordance with the Subdivision Map Act and the provisions of this
chapter. The subdivision shall file as many copies of the maps, with supporting
data, as may be required by the Director of Community Development.
      (2)   Final maps and improvement plans shall be filed with the City
Engineer for checking and processing. Final maps, parcel maps, mergers and lot
line adjustment maps, shall be submitted in the form and content, as required
by the Subdivision Map Act and the City Engineer as to the provisions of this
chapter, and shall be filed at the time and manner as required by the City
Engineer.
   (F)   Review of other agencies. The Director of Community Development shall
transmit copies of maps to those agencies, departments and utilities which he/
she deems may be affected by the proposed subdivision and as required to be
notified by the Subdivision Map Act.
('61 Code, 19.10) (Ord. 852, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1034, passed - - ; Am. Ord.
1609, passed 4-4-12)
§ 156.022 PARCEL MAPS; AUTHORITY AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The processing of parcel maps shall be as provided in the Subdivision
Map Act.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall have the authority to make findings,
approve, conditionally approve or disapprove parcel maps and to impose
requirements and conditions consistent with this chapter and the Subdivision
Map Act.
   (C)   Public hearings for parcel maps shall be held as described in this
chapter. The action of the Planning Commission shall be final unless appealed
to the City Council as provided herein. A tentative parcel map shall be filed
in the same manner as tentative maps for divisions of more than four parcels.
Where allowed by the Subdivision Map Act, parcel maps may subsequently be filed
on the basis of the tentative parcel map.
   (D)   The City Engineer shall review and approve a parcel map for conformity
to the Subdivision Map Act, this chapter, and all conditions and requirements
of the city as part of the map approval. Dedication or offer of dedication may
be made either by certificate on the parcel map or by separate instrument.
   (E)   Failure to file a parcel map with the County Recorder within two years
shall terminate all proceedings and the approvals shall lapse unless extended
as provided herein. The Director of Community Development may grant a one year
administrative extension of time for any parcel map provided that the property
is properly maintained and free of weeds and debris. The Planning Commission
may approve additional extensions provided that the total extensions do not
exceed the maximum time frames prescribed by the Subdivision Map Act. An
application for an extension shall be submitted prior to the expiration of the
initial period or any extension thereof. The decision of the Director granting
the one-year administrative extension may be appealed to the Planning
Commission within 15 calendar days of the date of the Director's decision. When
a parcel map expires the filing of a new map and repayment of fees is required.
   (F)   Filing the parcel map with the County Recorder shall be as prescribed
in the Subdivision Map Act.
   (G)   Within 30 calendar days of the date a map is recorded by the County
Recorder, the subdivider shall, at his/her own expense, cause duplicate copies
of all sheets on polyester base film, to be delivered to the City Engineer.
   (H)   Corrections or amendments to a parcel map shall be as described in the
Subdivision Map Act.
('61 Code, 19.11) (Ord. 852, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1550, passed 2-4-09)
§ 156.023 WAIVER OF PARCEL MAP REQUIREMENTS.
   The Director of Community Development may waive the parcel map for the
following:
   (A)   Division of real property or interest therein created by probate,
eminent domain procedures, partition or other civil judgments or decrees;
   (B)   A division of property resulting from the conveyance of land, or
interest therein, to a public agency for a public purpose, such as school
sites, public building sites or rights-of-way for streets, sewers, utilities,
drainage, and the like; or
   (C)   The Director of Community Development may waive the parcel map upon
making a finding that the proposed division of land complies with requirements
as to area, improvement and design, flood water drainage control, appropriate
improved public roads, sanitary disposal facilities, water supply availability,
environmental protection, and other requirements of this chapter, local
ordinance, and the Subdivision Map Act. Upon waiving the parcel map
requirement, the Director of Community shall cause to be filed with the County
Recorder a “Certificate of Compliance” for the land to be divided. A parcel map
waived by the Director of Community Development may be conditioned to provide
for payment of parkland, drainage, and other fees by a method approved by the
City Attorney.
('61 Code, 19.12) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
§ 156.024 TENTATIVE MAPS; AUTHORITY AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall make investigations, reports and
recommendations on the design and improvement of any proposed tentative map.
The Planning Commission shall have the authority to recommend approval
unequivocally or with requirements and conditions upon such tentative maps, or
recommend disapproval to the City Council. The Planning Commission shall make
the necessary findings as required by this chapter and the Subdivision Map Act
for such recommendations and reports.
   (B)   Public hearings shall be held as described in this chapter and the
Subdivision Map Act.
   (C)   An approved or conditionally approved tentative tract map shall expire
two years after its approval, or as otherwise prescribed by the Subdivision Map
Act.
   (D)   Application for time extension shall be filed at least 45 days before
a tentative map is due to expire. The Director of Community Development may
grant a one-year administrative extension of time provided that the property is
properly maintained and free of weeds and debris. The City Council may approve
additional extensions provided that the total extensions do not exceed the
maximum time frames prescribed by the Subdivision Map Act. The decision of the
Director granting the one-year administrative extension may be appealed to the
City Council within 15 calendar days of the date of the Director's decision.
('61 Code, 19.13) (Ord. 852, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1550, passed 2-4-09)
§ 156.025 FINAL MAPS.
   (A)   The processing of a final map shall be as provided in the Subdivision
Map Act.
   (B)   Filing of a final map with the County Recorder shall be as prescribed
by the Subdivision Map Act. A final map shall be recorded within 60 days from
the date of approval by the City Council, or the proceedings shall be
terminated. Any subdivision of the same land shall require the filing of a new
tentative map.
   (C)   Within 30 calendar days of the date a final map is recorded by the
County Recorder, the subdivider shall, at his/her own expense, cause duplicate
copies of all sheets on polyester base film, to be delivered to the City
Engineer.
   (D)   Corrections or amendments to a final map shall be as described in the
Subdivision Map Act.
   (E)   The City Engineer shall be responsible for certifying that the final
map conforms to the approved or conditionally approved tentative map, the
requirements of the city and the Subdivision Map Act is required for action by
the City Council.
('61 Code, 19.14) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
§ 156.026 LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Authority. The Director of Community Development may authorize lot
line adjustments wherein the number of lots remains the same before the
adjustment and the division is consistent with the city zoning regulations.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Application for lot line adjustment shall be made on the form and
with accompanying data required by the Director of Community Development for
consideration of approval.
      (2)   Upon acceptance of the application and processing fee, the planning
staff shall prepare a report and analysis in consultation with the City
Engineer for compliance with city regulations.
      (3)   The Director of Planning and development shall either approve or
disapprove the application and forward to the City Engineer for completion. The
applicant shall be notified of the decision and be given notice of appeal
rights to the City Council.
('61 Code, 19.15) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENTS
§ 156.035 STANDARDS FOR DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT.
   (A)   General. “Design” and “improvements” as defined in this chapter shall
be installed, or agreed to be installed, by the subdivider of land for the
general use of lot owners. The standards of design and improvement shall be a
combination of the provisions of this chapter, the adopted improvement
standards and specifications, the general plan, any applicable specific plan of
the city and the zoning regulations.
   (B)   Design. In general, standards of design shall be as approved on maps.
For purposes of uniformity, the following minimum criteria shall be observed
unless specific exceptions are made for cause in the map approval:
      (1)   Intersecting street separations, or the minimum distance between
center lines of opposing streets, shall be no less than 150 feet.
      (2)   Lots shall be in accordance with the zoning regulations with
respect to size, width and depth. Lots on arterial streets may be required to
be larger than specified by zoning regulations in order to minimize the number
of driveways, maximize traffic flow and promote safety.
      (3)   (a)   The subdivision lot design and orientation shall give maximum
consideration to the extent feasible, to provide for passive or natural hearing
and/or cooling opportunities of buildings. Examples of passive or natural
cooling opportunities include design of lot size and configuration, and block
configuration to permit orientation of the structures or minimize heat gain. In
providing for future passive or natural cooling opportunities in the design of
the subdivision, consideration shall be given to the local climate.
         (b)   For the purpose of this section, FEASIBLE means capable of being
accomplished in a successful manner taking into account economic, environmental
and technological factors.
      (4)   Grading of lots shall be in accordance with the Uniform Building
Code Chapter 70. Where differences of elevations exist between lots which
exceed one foot and a slope of less than 10% is not possible, a retaining wall
(s) may be required. For hillside areas, greater than 10% slope, design and
improvement standards shall be as required for each area and may be modified to
adjust to specific topographic conditions.
      (5)   Street width shall be determined as a function of projected
traffic-carrying capacity and function of the street in relation to the
subdivision and the neighborhood. The general plan and/or specific plan shall
control design where applicable.
      (6)   Access.
         (a)   All subdivisions shall abut upon or have an approved access to a
public street.
         (b)   Each parcel or lot within a subdivision shall have an approved
access to a public or private street.
         (c)   Where necessary to avoid land locked parcels or inadequately
accessed parcels, the design of a subdivision shall include for future access
in the street layout. Reserve strips or nonaccess at the end of streets shall
be dedicated unconditionally to the city.
      (7)   Lot sizes and the design of housing products, including the size of
units will remain substantially the same for all phases of a project. Phases
shall include maps that were part of the original tentative map (project) but
are revised or otherwise resubmitted. Findings shall be made at the time for
consideration of tentative map approval with respect to compliance with this
section. Increases in lot sizes or additional product types of the same
architectural design may be found consistent with the intent of this section.
Lot subdivisions where products are not constructed as a “tract” project may be
found to be exempt from the requirement that projects be of a “same” design.
   (C)   Improvements.
      (1)   In general, the improvements required by this chapter shall be
constructed according to the specifications of the improvement standards and
specifications adopted by the City Council.
      (2)   Improvement plans shall be submitted to the City Engineer and shall
include but not be limited to, grading, storm drains, streets, utilities,
landscaping, required perimeter walls and related facilities. The form and
content of improvement plans, supplementary plans and calculations, required
signatures shall be as specified by the City Engineer.
      (3)   The following minimum improvements shall be provided as part of all
parcels.
         (a)   Streets, either private or public, as are determined to be
appropriate. Private street may be permitted if adequate assurance is provided
for continual physical maintenance and access to the residents and/or owners of
the subdivision. All lots shall be guaranteed access to public streets, either
direct or indirect.
         (b)   Sidewalks, in all residential and commercial areas, and by
individual determination in industrial or “M” zoned lands.
         (c)   Traffic and directional signs, such as street name, regulatory,
warning and guide signs.
         (d)   Traffic signals, where determined in the environmental analysis
that project's impact will be cause for the need for all or part of a traffic
signal to be installed. Criteria for determination of traffic signal
requirements shall be as the city warrants.
         (e)   Street lights, in accordance with the city policy on all
streets.
         (f)   Street trees, in accordance with city policy.
         (g)   Water system shall be a public system adequate for both domestic
use and fire protection to each lot.
         (h)   Drainage protection to satisfy criteria for stormwater runoff
and control, including stormwater conduits, structures and appurtenances when
required.
         (i)   Where determination is made that wind erosion and blowsand
protection is required as a mitigation measure to environmental impacts, there
shall be conditions applied and irrigation, walls and/or fences, control of
soils disturbed as a result of development.
         (j)   Public sanitary sewer system shall be provided for all lots
unless a specific waiver and/or deferment is granted for cause.
         (k)   Survey monuments.
         (l)   Utilities consisting of electric power, natural gas (if
available) telephone and television cable. All new utility installations shall
be underground unless waived by the Director of Community Development, as
provided in this chapter.
         (m)   Walls (or fences) and landscaping where required for perimeter
or other street frontages. Landscape maintenance districts shall be provided in
accordance with state law where a homeowners' association does not exist to
maintain landscaping. The developer shall deposit, with the city, an amount
equal to one year's maintenance service for all required maintenance districts.
('61 Code, 19.9) (Ord. 852, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 928, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
REQUIREMENTS
§ 156.045 GENERALLY.
   The procedure for satisfying this subchapter shall be as provided in the
Subdivision Map Act, Cal. Gov't Code § 66473 et seq.
   (A)   Dedication requirements. As a condition of approval of a map, the
subdivider shall dedicate or make an irrevocable offer of dedication of all
parcels of land within the subdivision that are needed for streets and alleys,
including access rights and abutters' rights, drainage, public utility
easements, and other public easements. In addition, the subdivider shall
improve or agree to improve all streets and alleys, and install all required
facilities in drainage, public utility easement and other public easements as
required by the general plan, or any specific plan adopted pursuant thereto.
   (B)   Improvements. The subdivider shall be required to furnish, construct,
install and convey ownership to the city or other agency or utility by his
development. These improvements shall include all standard improvements,
required by this chapter and general plan and/or specific plan adopted pursuant
thereto, including, but not limited to, curbs and gutters, sidewalks, street
lights, street tress, pavement, survey monuments, storm drainage facilities,
seers, electrical gas and water system, including fire hydrants and
appurtenances, and any other improvements as may be required as a condition of
approval of the final or tentative or revised map. All improvements shall be in
conformance with city-adopted standards.
   (C)   Additional dedications. On major and secondary thoroughfares, the
advisory agency may require additional dedications of rights-of-way or
easements for landscaping, pedestrian paths and the like. Such dedication shall
be improved with permanently irrigated landscaping with decorative masonry
walls or berming to screen lots abutting such arterials in accordance with the
scenic highway elements of the general plan and city policy.
   (D)   Sunlight on solar easements. Sunlight easements to assure each parcel
or unit in a subdivision the right to receive sunlight for any solar energy
system, may be required, provided that all the following are submitted for city
approval.
      (1)   Specific standards to determine the exact dimensions and location
of such indicated easements, which standards shall be applicable to the entire
subdivision.
      (2)   Specific regulations on any restrictions on vegetation, buildings
and other objects which have the capability of obstructing the passage of
sunlight through the easement.
      (3)   Specific terms or conditions, if any, under which an easement may
be revised or terminated.
   (E)   Waiver of direct access to streets. The advisory agency may impose a
requirement that any dedication or offer of dedication of a street shall
include a waiver of direct access rights to such street from any property shown
on a final map as abutting thereon, and that if the dedication is accepted such
waiver shall become effective in accordance with the provisions of the waiver
of direct access.
   (F)   School site dedication requirements.
      (1)   As a condition of approval of a final map, a subdivider who
develops within the city shall dedicate, if required, to the school district
such lands as the City Council shall deem to be necessary for the purpose of
construction thereon of schools necessary to assure the residents of the
subdivision adequate elementary school service.
      (2)   Procedure. The requirement of dedication of school lands shall be
imposed at the time of approval of the tentative map. If within 30 days after
the requirement of dedication is imposed by the city, the affected school
district does not offer to enter into a binding commitment with the subdivider
to accept the dedication, the requirement shall be automatically terminated.
The required dedication may be made any time before, concurrently with, or up
to 60 days after the filing of the final map on any portion of the subdivision.
      (3)   Payments. Payments to subdivider for school dedications shall be
made in accordance with the requirements of the Subdivision Map Act.
      (4)   Other school site requirements. The provision for school site
dedication set forth above shall not be exclusive, but shall be cumulative and
additional to any other provision for school site dedication, or payment of
fees in lieu thereof, which may be duly adopted by the City Council, including
as example and not as limitation, the provisions of the Cal. Gov't Code § 65970
et seq.
   (G)   Reservation requirement.
      (1)   As a condition of approval of a map, the subdivider shall reserve,
if required, sites appropriate in area and location for recreational
facilities, fire stations or other public uses according to the standards,
formula and procedures contained in this chapter and the Subdivision Map Act.
      (2)   Where recreational facilities, a fire station or other public use
is shown on an adopted general plan element, the subdivider may be required by
the city to reserve sites as determined by the city.
   (H)   Storm drain facilities fee. Concurrent with the filing of any final or
parcel map for residential development, and application for building permits
for any commercial development, the subdivider or owner or developer of a lot
shall pay or cause to be paid a storm drain facilities fee as established
pursuant to the city’s impact fee ordinance (§§
33.065 et seq. )
   (I)   Road, bridge and thoroughfare fee. Notwithstanding the provisions of
any other provisions of this Code to the contrary, and specifically in addition
to the provisions of §§
156.130 et seq., upon application for a building permit, the subdivider or
owner of a lot shall be required to pay or cause to be paid a road, bridge and
thoroughfare fee as established pursuant to the city’s impact fee ordinance (§§
33.065, et seq.).
   (J)   Maintenance of private improvements. Prior to the approval of any
final or parcel map, or prior to the issuance of any building permit, the
subdivider or owner of property to be subdivided which will create private
streets, common recreation and/or open space areas, shall provide the city with
adequate assurance of its continued future maintenance pursuant to city policy.
   (K)   Traffic signal fees.
      (1)   Prior to application for a building permit, the subdivider or owner
of a lot or developer shall be required to pay or cause to be paid the
following fees for defraying the actual or estimated of construction of any
traffic signal related to the project. The fees shall be $24.93/SFR and $2.50/
trip for all others. In the event this section becomes effective after
recording of a final map, fees for residential development shall be payable
upon application for a building permit.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this section, no fee shall
be payable on account of construction of additional space to an existing
single- family dwelling. Credits may be negotiated with developments covered by
assessment districts or Mello-Roos Community Facilities Districts.
      (3)   Such fees shall be adjusted automatically (increased or decreased)
annually on July 1 of each year pursuant to the Engineer News Record Cost
Construction Index – Los Angeles.
   (L)   Supplemental improvements.
      (1)   Required. The subdivider may be required to install improvements
for the benefit of the subdivision which may contain supplemental size,
capacity or number for the benefit of property not within the subdivision, as a
condition precedent to the approval of a subdivision or parcel map, and
thereafter to dedicate such improvements to the public. However, the subdivider
shall be reimbursed pursuant to the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act for
that portion of the cost of such improvements equal to the difference between
the amount it would have cost the subdivider to install such improvements to
serve the subdivision only and the actual cost of such improvements.
      (2)   Supplemental improvements reimburse-ment agreement; funding
procedures. No charge, area of benefit or local benefit district shall be
established unless and until a public hearing in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter is held thereon by the City Council and the City Council finds
that the fee or charge and the area of benefit or local benefit district is
reasonably related to the cost of such supplemental improvements and the actual
ultimate beneficiaries thereof. In addition to any other notice required by
law, written notice of the hearing shall be given to the subdivider and to
those who own property within the proposed area of benefit as shown on the
latest equalized assessment role, and the potential users of the supplemental
improvements insofar as they can be ascertained at the time. Such notices shall
be mailed by the City Clerk at least ten days prior to the date established for
hearing.
   (M)   Soils reports.
      (1)   For all divisions of land for which a soils report is not otherwise
required by the Subdivision Map Act, adequate tests may be required by the
Director of Community Development. The soils reports, to be done by a civil
engineer registered in this state, and based upon adequate test borings may be
required at the time of submission for consideration of a tentative tract or
parcel map, or may be postponed by the Director of Community Development to be
submitted at the time of, and in connection with, the final map.
      (2)   A preliminary soils report may be waived by the Director of
Community Development if he finds there is sufficient data available in the
city files concerning the soils qualities in the proposed area that a
preliminary soils report is unnecessary.
      (3)   If the city has knowledge of, or the preliminary soils report
indicates, the presence of soils problems which would lead to structural
defects, a soils investigation of each lot in the subdivision may be required
by the advisory agency. Such soils investigation shall be done by a civil
engineer registered in this state, who shall recommend the corrective action
which is likely to prevent structural damage to each structure proposed to be
constructed in the area where such soils problem exists.
      (4)   The advisory agency may approve the subdivision or portion thereof
where such soils problems exist if it determines that the recommended action is
likely to prevent structural damage to each structure to be constructed, and a
condition to theissuance of any building permit may require that the approved
recommended action be incorporated in the construction of each structure.
   (N)   Survey monument.
      (1)   The subdivider shall conform to the Land Surveyors Act as to the
setting of monuments or ties. For the purpose of this section, the following
shall be deemed as meeting the requirements of Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §§ 8771,
8771.5 and 8772 (Land Surveyors Act):
      (2)   All rear lot corners shall be marked by a one-inch iron pipe,
properly tagged, 18 inches long, set six inches below ground level. All corners
of lots fronting on streets shall be marked by an offset lead and tag set in
the permanent concrete curb. Such offset shall be noted on the subdivision map.
      (3)   All corners of subdivision shall be marked on one-inch iron pipes,
properly tagged, 30 inches long, set six inches below the ground.
      (4)   All public street intersection centerlines and all beginnings and
endings of curves on streets shall be monumented by means of city standards
monuments set in hand holes provided by the subdivider. All other street
intersection centerlines and beginnings and endings, or points of intersection
that fall within the pavement of all curves, shall be monumented using Standard
Riverside County type "B" monuments set flush with street tied to lead and tag
set in permanent concrete curbs. Notes for these ties shall be provided to the
city on standard survey note paper, 8½ by 11 inches.
('61 Code, 19.17) (Ord. 852, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 921, passed - - ; Am. Ord.
950, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1422, passed 5-4-05; Am. Ord. 1423, passed 5-18-05;
Am. Ord. 1426, passed 6-1-05; Am. Ord. 1438, passed 6-15-05; Am. Ord. 1463,
passed 5-17-06)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross-reference:
   Park and Recreation Land Dedication and Fees, see §§
156.130 through
156.140
IMPROVEMENT SECURITY
§ 156.055 GENERAL PROVISION.
   Any improvement agreement, contract or act required or authorized by the
Subdivision Map Act or this subchapter for which security is required by the
city, shall be secured in the manner provided for in the Subdivision Map Act.
('61 Code, 19.18) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
§ 156.056 SECURITIES TO BE FURNISHED AND AMOUNTS.
   (A)   Faithful performance. A separate instrument in the amount of 100% of
the estimated cost of construction and incidental costs, to guarantee the
faithful performance of the agreement.
   (B)   Labor and material. A separate instrument in the amount of 50% of the
estimated cost of construction and incidental costs, to guarantee the payment
of laborers and materialmen.
   (C)   Monumenting. A separate instrument in the amount of 100% of the total
estimated cost of setting survey monuments, securing payment to the engineer or
surveyor for the performance of the required act.
   (D)   Maintenance. A separate instrument in the amount of 15% of the
estimated cost of construction and incidental costs, for the guarantee and
warranty of the work for a period of one year following the completion and
acceptance thereof against any defective work or labor done, or defective
materials furnished.
   (E)   Securities other than bonds. If the improvement security is other than
a bond, or bonds furnished by duly authorized corporate surety, an additional
amount may be included that is not less than 50% of the total estimated cost of
the improvement or of the act to be performance. This additional amount is to
cover the cost and reasonable expenses and fees, including reasonable
attorney's fees, which may be incurred by the city in successfully enforcing
the obligation secured.
('61 Code, 19.19) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 156.057 SECURITY RELEASE.
   The improvement security required hereunder shall be released in the manner
which follows. Security given for faithful performance of an act or agreement
shall be released upon final completion and acceptance of the act or work.
Security given to secure payment to the contractor, his subcontractors and to
persons furnishing labor, materials or equipment, may 60 days after the
completion and acceptance of the act or work, be reduced to an amount equal to
125% of the aggregate amount of all claims therefor filed an of which notice
has been given to the city, plus an amount reasonably determined by the City
Engineer to be required to assure the performance of any other obligations
secured thereby. The balance of the security shall be released upon the
settlement of all such claims and obligations for which the security was given.
Security give to secure the payment of an engineer or surveyor for setting
survey monuments, shall be released upon receipt, by the City Engineer on
written proof from the engineer or surveyor that he has set the monuments and
that he has been paid for this work. No security given for the guarantee for
warranty of work shall be released until the expiration of the period thereof
and the completion and acceptance of any repair, replacement or other work
found to be needed during such warranty period.
('61 Code, 19.20) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
REVERSIONS TO ACREAGE
§ 156.070 REVERSIONS TO ACREAGE BY FINAL MAP.
   Subdivided property may be reverted to acreage pursuant to provisions of
this chapter and the Subdivision Map Act.
('61 Code, 19.21) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
§ 156.071 INITIATION OF PROCEEDINGS BY OWNERS.
   Proceedings to revert subdivided property to acreage may be initiated by
petition of all of the owners of record of the property. The petition shall be
in a form prescribed by the Director of Community Development. The petition
shall contain the information required by this chapter and such other
information as required by the Director.
('61 Code, 19.22) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
§ 156.072 INITIATION OF PROCEEDINGS BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council at the request of any person or on its own motion may, by
resolution, initiate proceedings to revert property to acreage. The City
Council shall direct the Director of Community Development to obtain the
necessary information to initiate and conduct the proceedings.
('61 Code, 19.23) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
§ 156.073 DATE FOR REVERSION TO ACREAGE.
   Petitioners shall file the following:
   (A)   Evidence of title to the real property; and
   (B)   Evidence of the consent of all of the owners of an interest(s) in the
property; or
   (C)   Evidence that none of the improvements required to be made have been
made within two years from the date the final map or parcel map was filed for
record, or within the time allowed by agreement for completion of the
improvements, whichever is the later.
   (D)   Evidence that no lots shown on the final or parcel map have been sold
within five years from the date such final or parcel map was filed for record.
   (E)   A tentative map in the form prescribed by this chapter; or
   (F)   A final map in the form prescribed by this chapter, which delineates
dedication which will not be vacated, and dedications required as a condition
to reversion.
('61 Code, 19.24) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
§ 156.074 PROCEEDING BEFORE CITY COUNCIL.
   A public hearing shall be held before the City Council on all petitions for
initiations for reversion to acreage. Notice of the public hearing shall be
given as provided in the Subdivision Map Act. The Director of Community
Development may give such other notice as is deemed necessary to advisable.
('61 Code, 19.25) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
§ 156.075 CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   (A)   The City Council may approve a reversion to acreage only if it finds
and records in writing that:
      (1)   Dedications or offers of dedication to be vacated or abandoned by
the reversion to acreage are unnecessary for present or prospective public
purposes; and
      (2)   Either:
         (a)   All owners of an interest in the real property within the
subdivision have consented to reversion; or
         (b)   None of the improvements required to be made have been made
within two years from the date the final or parcel map was filed for record, or
within the time allowed by agreement for completion of the improvements,
whichever is later.
   (B)   The City Council may require as conditions of the reversion that:
      (1)   The owners dedicate or offer to dedicate streets or easements.
      (2)   The retention of all or a portion of previously paid subdivision
fees, deposits or improvement securities, if the same are necessary to
accomplish any of the provisions of this chapter.
('61 Code, 19.26) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
§ 156.076 RETURN OF FEES, DEPOSITS AND RELEASE OF SECURITIES.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, upon filing of the final
map for reversion of acreage with the County Recorder, all fees and deposits
shall be returned to the subdivider and all improvement securities shall be
released by the city.
('61 Code, 19.27) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
§ 156.077 DELIVERY OF FINAL MAP.
   After the hearing before the City Council and approval of the reversion, the
final map shall be delivered to the County Recorder.
('61 Code, 19.28) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
§ 156.078 EFFECT OF FILING REVERSION MAP WITH THE COUNTY RECORDER.
   Reversion shall be effective upon the final map being filed for record by
the County Recorder. Upon filing, all dedications and offers of dedication not
shown on the final map for reversion shall be of no further force and effect.
('61 Code, 19.29) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
§ 156.079 EXCLUSIONS FOR REVERSIONS.
   The provisions for exclusions shall be as stated in the Subdivision Map Act.
('61 Code, 19.30) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
PARCEL MERGERS
§ 156.090 MERGERS NOT REQUIRED.
   Two or more contiguous parcels or units of land which have been subdivided
under the provision of this chapter or the Subdivision Map Act shall not merge
by virtue of the fact that such contiguous parcels are held by the same
ownership. No further proceedings under this chapter shall be required for the
purpose of sale, lease or financing, except as provided by this chapter.
('61 Code, 19.31) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
§ 156.091 MERGERS REQUIRED.
   If any one of two or more contiguous parcels or units held by the same owner
does not conform to existing zoning regulations so as not to permit its
development, and at least one parcel or unit has not been developed with a
building for which a building permit is required, then such parcels shall be
considered as merged for the purpose of this chapter.
('61 Code, 19.32) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
§ 156.092 NOTICE OF MERGER.
   (A)   Whenever the City Engineer or an authorized representative has
knowledge that real property has merged pursuant to this subchapter, they shall
cause to be field with the County Recorder a notice of merger. At least 30 days
prior to recording of notice, the owner of the parcels or units shall be
advised in writing of the intention to record such notice.
   (B)   The notification to the owner shall specify a time, date and place at
which the owner may present evidence as to why the notice of merger should not
be recorded.
   (C)   The notice of merger to be recorded shall specify the names of the
record owners and describing the property to be merged.
('61 Code, 19.33) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
§ 156.093 REQUEST BY PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   Upon request of the legal owner of contiguous parcels, the City
Engineer or authorized representative may approve the merger of the property.
Such request shall be in writing and shall be accompanied by such data and
documents as required by the City Engineer's office.
   (B)   Upon approval, a “notice of merger” shall be filed with the County
Record. The form and content of the notice shall be as required by the City
Engineer.
   (C)   In approving such merger, the city may impose reasonable conditions.
The reasonableness of such conditions may be appealed within 15 days of written
notice of the conditions to the City Council in accordance with this chapter.
   (D)   A fee to be charged at actual cost shall be charged to the applicant
for processing such merger. A deposit may be required to be applied toward this
fee.
('61 Code, 19.34) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
ENFORCEMENT; WAIVERS; JUDICIAL REVIEW
§ 156.105 ENFORCEMENT, REMEDIES AND JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   The provision for enforcement of this chapter shall be as stated in the
Subdivision Map Act. The provisions of remedies shall be as state din the
Subdivision Map Act.
('61 Code, 19.35) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
§ 156.106 ADMINISTRATIVE WAIVER OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   Under the following conditions, waiver and/or deferment of requirements of
this chapter may be permitted.
   (A)   Dedication of right-of-way shall be required as a condition of
building permit issuance except as follows:
      (1)   When the project is for the purpose of remodeling or addition to
existing building and the proposal does not increase the floor area of an
existing structure by more than 20% for residential, 10% for commercial, and/or
the remodeling does not involve extensive reconstruction of a building equal to
15% the value of existing structures as determined by “fair market value”
established by the County Assessor or a certified appraisal.
      (2)   When a building permit is issued for the purpose of demolition of a
structure.
      (3)   When a building permit is issued for the construction of a wall,
fence, swimming pool or sign.
   (B)   Applicants for a building permit shall provide street improvements,
including paving, curbs and gutters, sidewalks, street trees, street signs,
except:
      (1)   Single-family residence are exempt from the improvement
requirements if the same conditions exist where dedication of right-of-way
apply as cited above.
      (2)   When the partially improved street is unpaved and a residentially
zoned lot or parcel is part of an area where existing street grades are such
that curbs and gutter would not reasonably match existing conditions, or when a
parcel is at least 1,300 feet from any improved area, a deferment of street
requirements may be granted by the Public Works Director as provided herein.
      (3)   Multiple-family dwellings, commercial and industrial buildings,
churches and other institutional buildings, may be remodeled or altered without
the off-site improvements being a condition of construction, provided the
following exist:
         (a)   When the improvement is a maintenance project, such as painting,
reroofing, replacing existing windows or doors or air conditioners, and the
like.
         (b)   Minor building permits for signs, fences, patios, shades,
screening walls, unless the structure is the principal improvement on the
property.
         (c)   When the purpose of remodeling does not involve extensive
reconstruction equivalent to more than 15% of the value of the existing
structure.
   (C)   Public sewer requirements may be waived providing trunk sewers are not
available with 3,000 feet, or are otherwise inaccessible because of storm
channels, freeways, or similar obstructions, and providing a private sewage
disposal system can be installed to the satisfaction of the Health Department
and the Regional Water Quality Control Board.
   (D)   The required city water service for a single-family residence may be
waived from developments more than 1,300 feet from available city water, or
when barriers (other than economic) make extension of water mains impractical.
Other waivers or deferments shall be made by individual determination of the
City Council.
   (E)   Underground utilities. Certain circumstances are hereby acknowledged
as being a basis for deferring, waiving or conditioning the requirement that
utilities be placed underground.
      (1)   Residential subdivisions shall be subject to the underground
requirements, except as follows:
         (a)   Transmission lines which do not provide service to the area
being subdivided may be installed overhead unless otherwise prohibited.
         (b)   Peripheral lots in a subdivision shall be served with
underground laterals to each house where overhead exists to feed adjoining
properties. Provisions for serving underground from existing overhead shall be
the responsibility of the subdivider to work out with the utility companies
where existing conditions do not make a partial system practical.
      (2)   Single lot developments:
         (a)   Residential uses of less than four units which are not in a new
subdivision (more than four lots) may be served by overhead utility facilities
if such parcel is within a developed area served by existing overhead
facilities. Business and commercial and industrial buildings with less than
four shops, suites or other type divisions may be served overhead from existing
overhead facilities that are not more than 75 feet from the new structure, or
when the total floor area of the building is less than 20,000 square feet, or
when not otherwise required to install underground by City Council policy.
         (b)   The waiver shall apply only if no additional service poles or
other supporting structures are required to serve the parcel or parcels
proposed to be developed; and when an addition or new structure is in excess of
650 square feet, the developer shall provide, in addition to the usual overhead
utility lines, a conduit stub down or pull boxes or both, in compliance with
city regulations.
         (c)   For purposes of this section, “single lot developments” shall
not include shopping centers, such as, where one or more buildings are grouped
together as a center, however, the parcel may be divided by lease or sale into
more than one ownership.
            1.   Agreement to participate in underground utility district
required. Any person obtaining a permit to erect, construct, place or replace
or relocate a building, or to enlarge or make additions thereto in excess of
300 square feet may be required to participate in an underground utility
district.
            2.   Underground street light requirements may be waived, or
deferred, notwithstanding other provisions of this policy, under the following
conditions:
               a.   Where an existing utility pole might be used in lieu of
adding another pole for a street light, the street lighting luminaire may be
attached to the existing pole providing the developer agrees to the conditions
of deferment specified by the city.
               b.   In conjunction with a one lot single-family residential
development, the underground street lighting requirement will be fulfilled if
the property owner deposits the sum of $8 per lineal foot of street frontage to
be used as a pooling fund for installation of a street light when development
safety factors warrant.
               c.   For single lot multiple residential, commercial or
industrial developments, where it is impractical due to parcel size to install
two or more lights, the city may accept a deposit of $8 per lineal foot of
street frontage as a means to pool funds together for the installation of a
street light or lights under an economic and practical time.
               d.   Where there are existing overhead street lighting circuits
in adjacent blocks, the developer may permitted to install overhead street
lighting system.
               e.   In lieu of the required deposits in divisions a. and b.
hereinabove, the developer may sign an agreement to defer the improvements,
providing he pays his proportionate share of improvements at the city's
request.
   (F)   Procedure for waiving or deferring requirements and executing
performance agreements:
      (1)   In matters dealing with off-site improvements, the Public Work
Director shall make a finding if the conditions of this policy are applicable
for a deferment or waiver. Any agreement related thereto shall be executed by
the Public Works Director.
      (2)   In matters relating to on-site improvements, the Planning and
Development Director shall make a finding if the conditions of this policy are
applicable for a deferment or waiver as provided herein.
      (3)   The City Attorney shall approve the terms and conditions of all
such agreements before it may be finalized.
      (4)   Any person not satisfied with a decision of either the Public Work
Director or the Planning and Development Director may appeal their ruling to
the City Manager. The decision of the City Manager shall be final unless
appealed to the City Council within ten days from the date the City Manager's
ruling is made.
      (5)   A building permit shall not be issued until all the necessary
agreements are entered into in accordance with this subchapter.
('61 Code, 19.36) (Ord. 852, passed - - )
VESTING TENTATIVE MAPS
§ 156.115 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the Subdivision Map Act, Cal. Gov't
Code § 65498.1 et seq.
('61 Code, 19.37) (Ord. 937, passed - - )
§ 156.116 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to establish rules and satisfied for
the implementation of the Vesting Tentative Map Statute. The regulations
outlines in this subchapter are determined to be necessary for the preservation
of the public health, safety and general welfare and for the promotion of
orderly growth and development.
('61 Code, 19.38) (Ord. 937, passed - - )
§ 156.117 CONSISTENCY FINDINGS.
   No land shall be subdivided and developed pursuant to a vesting tentative
map for any purpose which is inconsistent with the city's general plan, any
applicable specific plan, or zoning regulation of the city.
('61 Code, 19.39) (Ord. 937, passed - - )
§ 156.118 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   VESTING TENTATIVE MAP. A “tentative map” or “tentative parcel map” or a
“parcel map” for a residential subdivision as defined in this chapter, that
shall have printed conspicuously on its face the words “Vesting Tentative Map”
at the time it is filed in accordance with
§ 156.120, and is thereafter processed in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter.
('61 Code, 19.40) (Ord. 937, passed - - )
§ 156.119 APPLICATION.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply only to residential developments. Whenever
a provision of the Subdivision Map Act, as implemented and supplemented by this
chapter requires the filing of a tentative map or tentative parcel map for a
residential development, a vesting tentative map may instead be filed, in
accordance with the provisions hereof.
   (B)   If a subdivider does not seek the rights conferred by the Vesting
Tentative Map Statute, the filing of a vesting tentative map shall not be a
prerequisite to any approval for any proposed subdivision, permit for
construction or work preparatory to construction.
('61 Code, 19.41) (Ord. 937, passed - - )
§ 156.120 FILING AND PROCESSING.
   A vesting tentative map shall be filed in the same form and have the same
contents, accompanying data and reports and shall be processed in the same
manner as set forth in this chapter for a tentative map except as hereinafter
provided:
   (A)   At the time a vesting tentative map is filed it shall have printed
conspicuously on its face the words “Vesting Tentative Map.”
   (B)   At the time a vesting tentative map is filed a subdivider shall also
supply the following information in a form specified by the Director of
Community Development unless the same is specifically waived by the Director
with written justification:
      (1)   Height, size and location of site improvements, buildings and
architectural elevations thereof;
      (2)   Sewer, water, storm drain and road detail for on-site and off-site
improvements.
      (3)   Information on the uses to which the buildings will be put;
      (4)   Detailed grading plans;
      (5)   Geological studies;
      (6)   Flood control information;
      (7)   Noise impact studies.
   (C)   Waivers shall be documented in the record and may be overruled by the
Planning Commission and City Council during the map review proceedings.
('61 Code, 19.42) (Ord. 937, passed - - )
§ 156.121 FEES.
   The fees for a vesting tentative map shall be the same as for a tentative
map unless otherwise specified by the city's fee schedule as adopted by
resolution of the City Council.
('61 Code, 19.43) (Ord. 937, passed - - )
§ 156.122 EXPIRATION OF VESTED MAPS.
   The approval or conditional approval of a vesting tentative map shall be two
years from the date of the City Council approval. The City Council may grant up
to four one year extensions. Extensions shall be requested at least 45 days
from the expiration date of the vesting tentative map.
('61 Code, 19.50) (Ord. 937, passed - - )
§ 156.123 VESTING ON APPROVAL OF VESTING TENTATIVE MAP.
   (A)   The approval or conditional approval of a vesting tentative map shall
confer a vested right to proceed with development in substantial compliance
with the ordinances, policies, and standards described in Cal. Gov't Code §
66474.2.
      (1)   However, if the Cal. Gov't Code § 66474.2 is repealed, the approval
or conditional approval of a vesting tentative map shall confer a vested right
to proceed with development in substantial compliance with the ordinances,
policies and standards in effect at the time the vesting tentative map is
approved or conditionally approved.
      (2)   The city may apply any ordinances, policies or standards that were
formally published to amend applicable general or specific plans, subdivisions
or zoning regulations prior to a vesting tentative map being received as a
complete application and that are in effect on the date the city approved or
disapproves the vesting tentative map.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) of this section a permit approval,
extension or entitlement maybe made conditional or denied if any of the
following are determined:
      (1)   A failure to do so would place the residents of the subdivision or
the immediate community, or both, in a condition dangerous to their health or
safety, or both.
      (2)   The condition or denial is required, in order to comply with state
or federal law.
   (C)   The rights referred to herein shall expire if a final map is not
approved prior to the expiration of the vesting tentative map as provided in §
156.122. If the final map is approved, these rights shall last for the
following periods of time:
      (1)   An initial time period of one year beyond the recording of the
final map. Where several final maps are recorded on various phases of a project
covered by a single vesting tentative map, this initial time period shall begin
for each phase when the final map for that phase is recorded.
      (2)   The initial time period set forth in this division (C)(1) above,
shall be automatically extended by any time used for processing a complete
application for a grading permit or for design or architectural review, if such
processing exceeds 30 days, from the date a complete application is filed.
      (3)   A subdivider may apply to the City Council for a one-year extension
at any time before the initial time period set forth in this division (C)(1)
above, expires.
      (4)   If the subdivider submits a complete application for a building
permit during the periods of time specified in this division (C)(1) and (3)
above, the rights referred to herein shall continue until the expiration of
that permit, or any extension of that permit.
      (5)   The developer who applies for an amendment pursuant to Cal. Gov't
Code § 66498.2 shall do so prior to the expiration of vesting rights. The city
shall process the application as a modification to tentative maps as contain in
this chapter. Approved modifications shall not extend the vesting period.
('61 Code, 19.45) (Ord. 937, passed - - )
§ 156.124 DEVELOPMENT INCONSISTENT WITH ZONING CONDITIONAL APPROVAL.
   (A)   Whenever a subdivider files a vesting tentative map for a subdivision
whose intended development is inconsistent with the zoning regulations in
existence at that time, that inconsistency shall be noted on the map. The city
shall deny such a testing tentative map or approve it conditioned on the
subdivider, or his or her designee, obtaining the necessary change in the
zoning regulations to eliminate the inconsistency. If the change in the zoning
regulations is obtained, the approved or conditionally approved vesting
tentative map shall, notwithstanding §
156.123(A) confer the vested right to proceed with the development in
substantial compliance with the change in the zoning regulations and the map,
as approved.
   (B)   The rights conferred by this section shall be for the time periods set
forth in §
156.123(C).
('61 Code, 19.46) (Ord. 937, passed - - )
§ 156.125 APPLICATIONS INCONSISTENT WITH CURRENT POLICIES.
   Notwithstanding any provisions of this subchapter, a property owner or his
or her designee may seek approvals or permits for development which depart from
the ordinances, policies and standards described in §
156.123(A) and §
156.124 and local agencies may grant these approvals or issue these permits to
the extent that the departures are authorized under applicable law.
('61 Code, 19.47) (Ord. 937, passed - - )
PARK AND RECREATION LAND DEDICATION AND FEES
§ 156.130 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FAIR MARKET VALUE . The value of the land being subdivided based upon the
current assessed value, modified to equal market value in accordance with the
current practice of the County Assessor, or, at the option of city, based upon
an appraisal by a licensed and qualified appraiser. In the event that the city
elects to secure an appraisal in order to determine the value of land subject
to this subchapter, the city shall meet and confer with the subdivider seeking
to record a final map with respect to the land in question. The purpose of this
meeting and conference shall be the selection of an appraiser, acceptable to
both the subdivider and the city, to render the appraisal that the city has
elected to secure pursuant to this subchapter. Such a meeting and conference
will not exceed three business days in length. If after a reasonable good faith
effort by the city to agree with a subdivider upon an appraiser, no agreement
is reached, the city will unilaterally select an appraiser it finds acceptable.
All costs of said appraisal shall be paid by the subdivider prior to the
recordation of any final map or the issuance of any building permit. An
appraiser selected pursuant to this subchapter shall find the FAIR MARKET VALUE
of land to be equal to the amount of cash or its equivalent that such land
would bring if exposed for sale in the open market under conditions in which
neither buyer nor seller could take advantage of the exigencies of the other,
and both the buyer and the seller have knowledge of all of the uses and
purposes to which the land is adapted and for which it is capable of being
used, and of the enforceable restrictions upon those uses and purposes. The
FAIR MARKET VALUE shall be determined before the final map or parcel map of a
subdivision is filed. With regards to any park and recreation improvements, or
equipment provided by the subdivider, the FAIR MARKET VALUE shall be the actual
cost of acquiring, constructing and installing the improvement or equipment.
   PARK . A parcel or contiguous parcels of land owned, operated and maintained
by a public agency or private association, which provides recreational land and
facilities for the benefit and enjoyment of the residents of the subdivision
and of persons residing, working or visiting in the city. PARKS may be
classified as community parks, including community centers, athletic
facilities, large multi-use swimmingpools, picnic areas, cultural centers or
similar facilities; public neighborhood parks, including playground equipment,
sports fields, and picnic areas; and private neighborhood parks, generally
intended to serve only the immediate subdivision/development or specified
planned community in which they are located. PARKS may also include, or be
limited to open space areas suitable for active or passive uses.
   PARK AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES . Any public improvements deemed necessary
by the city to develop, improve or rehabilitate land and facilities for park
and recreational purposes. Such improvements may include, but not be limited
to: grading; landscaped areas for active and passive recreational use; open
space and sports fields; irrigation and drainage systems; lawn, shrubs and
trees; facilities for recreational community gardening; walkways; bicycle
facilities and park lighting; playground or other recreational equipment;
picnic facilities; community center or other buildings; swimming pools;
volleyball, basketball, tennis, racquetball and other courts; vehicle
driveways, parking areas and any other facilities that may hereafter be
authorized by state law or approved by the city.
   PRIVATE OPEN SPACE . Privately owned land and facilities for park and
recreation purposes provided within a subdivision and perpetually maintained
and operated by the future residents or owner of the subdivision. This land and
facilities can be credited against the dedication and payment requirements
established in this subchapter, when the following criteria are met:
      (1)   That the private park land meet a minimum size requirement
equivalent to one-third (0.33) acre per 20 parcels;
      (2)   That the proposed private park land be reasonably adaptable for use
for park and recreational purposes, taking into consideration such factors as
its size, shape, topography, geology, access and location;
      (3)   That the following areas or subdivision design features shall not
be eligible for private park credit: golf courses, yards, court areas,
setbacks, subdivision edges, landscaped subdivision entries, meandering
streams, flood retention facilities and circulation improvements, such as
bicycle, hiking and equestrian trails;
      (4)   That the location of the land provide convenient access to housing
and schools;
      (5)   That the perpetual private ownership and maintenance of the land is
adequately provided for by a recorded written agreement; and
      (6)   That the use of the private park land is perpetually restricted for
park and recreational purposes that cannot be defeated or eliminated without
the consent of the City Council, and in no event without providing equivalent
park and recreational space elsewhere in the subdivision.
(Ord. 1325, passed 11-6-02)
§ 156.131 AUTHORITY, PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Authority and purpose.
      (1)   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by
Cal. Gov't Code § 66477, and shall be interpreted to be consistent with the
provisions thereof.
      (2)   The park and recreational facilities for which dedication of land
and/or payment of a fee is required by the terms of this section shall be
provided in accordance with the standards, specifications and requirements of
the city's general plan, any specific plan adopted pursuant thereto, and any
other adopted city resolution, policy or standard.
   (B)   Conflict with other laws.
      (1)   With respect to its subject matter, this subchapter supersedes all
other ordinances or regulations of the city.
      (2)   This subchapter shall not supersede other ordinances or regulations
of the city, except as expressly stated in this subchapter.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to commercial or
industrial subdivisions; nor to condominium or stock cooperative projects,
which consist of the subdivision of airspace in an existing apartment building
more than five years old, when no new dwelling units are added.
      (2)   Nonresidential subdivisions containing less than five parcels.
         (a)   Subdivisions containing less than five parcels and not used for
residential purposes shall be exempted from the requirements of this section.
         (b)    However, in that event, a condition may be placed on the
approval of a parcel map that, if a building permit is requested for
construction of a residential structure or structures on one or more of the
parcels, the fee may be required to be paid by theowner of each parcel as a
condition of the issuance of the permit.
(Ord. 1325, passed 11-6-02)
Cross-reference:
   General dedication requirements, see §
156.045
§ 156.132 DEDICATION/FEE AS A PRECONDITION TO APPROVAL OF FINAL MAP.
   (A)   As a condition of approval of a tentative or final tract map or parcel
map for a residential subdivision or a multiple family residential project, the
subdivider/developer shall be required to dedicate land, pay a fee in lieu
thereof, or both:
      (1)   At the option of the city;
      (2)   In an amount determined pursuant to this subchapter;
      (3)   For park or recreational purposes, unless the subdivider/developer
is exempted from this requirement by the express provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)    The dedication of land and/or payment of a fee shall be at the time
and according to the standards and formula contained in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1325, passed 11-6-02)
Cross-reference:
   General dedication requirements, see §
156.045
§ 156.133 STANDARDS FOR DETERMINING DEDICATION.
   (A)   General. If the park dedication is required under §
156.132, the park area required shall be determined in accordance with the
standards provided in this section.
   (B)   Standard of park area to population.
      (1)   It is found and determined that the public interest, convenience,
health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city require that three
acres of property for every 1,000 persons residing within the city be devoted
to local and community park and recreational purposes, and that such park area
is necessary to provide for the needs of the current and future persons
residing and working in the city.
      (2)   Said ratio of three acres per thousand population is hereafter
referred to as the park area standard.
   (C)   Dwelling unit occupancy factor.
      (1)   Based upon the latest available census data, the dwelling unit
occupancy factors shall be as follows:
 
Occupancy Factor Housing Type
3.9              single-family dwelling units
3.5              multi-family dwelling units
1.5              mobile-home/RV units or spaces
1.8              age-restricted, single-family subdivisions
 
      (2)   These figures may be revised from time to time by resolution of the
advisory agency.
   (D)   Computation of area of park to be dedicated.
      (1)   The dedication of park land required for any subdivision shall be
determined by multiplying the number of dwelling units in the subdivision for
each housing type by the occupancy factor for each housing type by .003 (i.e.,
the ratio of the park area standard of three acres to 1,000 population).
      (2)   This is represented as follows:
         (number of dwelling units) (occupancy factor) (3/1,000) = area of park
to be dedicated
   (E)   Qualification of land being dedicated. In addition to meeting the
requirements set forth in this section, any land offered for park dedication
shall meet the criteria specified in §
156.135(D)(1).
   (F)   Costs of acquisition and development of land.
      (1)   Recent park development analysis indicates an acquisition and
development cost of $180,000 per acre for park and recreation facilities.
      (2)    This cost applies to 182 acres of new parkland for a total cost of
$32,760,000.
      (3)   The recommended and approved cost recovery level of new residential
projects for park and recreation facilities improvements is 75% or $24,570,000.
(Ord. 1325, passed 11-6-02)
§ 156.134 FEES IN LIEU OF DEDICATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to §
156.135, the subdivider/ developer may pay to the city a fee in lieu of making
such dedication.
   (B)   The fee shall be set by City Council.
   (C)   The subdivider/developer shall have the option to submit a fair market
appraisal report prepared by a licensed real estate appraiser in the State of
California to establish a project specific Quimby in-lieu of fee. This report
shall be prepared in conformance with
Ch. 156 of this code. The Director of Community Development shall have the
authority to review and accept or reject the fee specified in the report,
provided, that if there is 10% or less difference in the fee specified in the
appraisal report and the adopted fee, the Director shall accept the appraisal
report fee.
(Ord. 1325, passed 11-6-02; Am. Ord. 1524, passed 1-16-08; Am. Ord. 1795,
passed 12-6-23)
§ 156.135 DETERMINATION OF DEDICATION, FEES OR COMBINATION.
   (A)   Dedication generally required.
      (1)   Where a park or recreational facility has been designated in the
general plan of the city or other adopted resolution policy or standard of the
city, and is to be located, in whole or in part, within the proposed
subdivision to serve the immediate and future needs of the residents of the
subdivision and other members of the public, the subdivider shall dedicate land
for a park and provide recreational facilities thereon as provided in this
subchapter, unless the city determines that dedication is not desirable as
provided in this section.
      (2)   If the fair market value of the park and recreational facilities
provided pursuant to city specifications is less than that required hereunder,
no additional fees shall be required, otherwise, the subdivider shall pay the
difference.
   (B)   In-lieu fees.
      (1)   Where no park or recreational facility located, in whole or in
part, within the proposed subdivision is designated in the general plan of the
city or other adopted resolution policy or standard of the city, the subdivider
shall, in lieu of dedicating land, pay a fee computed in accordance with §
156.134(B).
      (2)   In-lieu fees shall be used for park and recreational purposes,
serving the residents of the area being subdivided and other members of the
public.
   (C)   Combination of land and fees. The city may accept a combination of
land and fees, with the respective amounts to be determined at the sole
discretion of city, so long as the aggregate fair market value plus in-lieu
fees does not exceed the limits established in this subchapter.
   (D)   Determination of land or fee.
      (1)    Whether the city accepts land dedication or elects to require
payment of a fee in lieu thereof, or a combination of both, shall be at the
city's sole discretion, and shall be determined by consideration of the
following:
         (a)   The provisions of the city's general plan, any specific plan
adopted thereto, and any other adopted city resolution, policy or regulation;
         (b)   The topography, geology, access and location of the land in the
subdivision available for dedication;
         (c)   The size and shape of both the subdivision, and of the land
available for dedication;
         (d)   The feasibility of dedication;
         (e)   The access and location of other park sites to the subdivision;
and
         (f)   The need to develop, improve and rehabilitate other accessible
park sites.
      (2)   The determination of the city as to whether land shall be
dedicated, or whether a fee shall be charged, or a combination thereof, shall
be final and conclusive.
   (E)   In-lieu fees for subdivisions of 50 parcels or less. If the
subdivision contains 50 parcels or less, onlythe payment of in-lieu fees may be
required, except that condominium, stock cooperative or community apartment
projects may be required to dedicate land if they have more than 50 dwelling
units.
(Ord. 1325, passed 11-6-02)
Cross-reference:
   General dedication requirements, see §
156.045
§ 156.136 SUBDIVIDER CREDITS.
   (A)   Public parks.
      (1)   The subdivider shall receive a credit against the park dedication
requirement for the fair market value of any land dedicated for park purposes,
and for the value of any park and recreation improvements provided by
subdivider in conjunction with any public park.
      (2)    The value of such improvements shall be determined by the city
based upon fair market value.
   (B)   Private parks.
      (1)   In conjunction with any planned development, real estate
development, stock cooperative, community apartment or condominium, as defined
by state law, if the subdivider provides PRIVATE OPEN SPACE , as defined in §
156.130, then the subdivider may receive a credit equal to the fair market
value of that space against the park dedication requirement of this subchapter,
but such credit shall not exceed one-third of such requirement.
      (2)   The actual amount of such credit shall be determined by the city,
based upon the comparability of the private open space to public park area and
the adequacy of such private open space to serve the needs of the subdivision
for active recreational uses.
   (C)   Application of credits. The credits provided in this section shall be
applied to reduce the subdivider's obligation to dedicate and/or pay an in-lieu
fee as required under this subchapter, but only to the extent of such credit.
(Ord. 1325, passed 11-6-02)
§ 156.137 DISPOSITION OF LAND OR FEES.
   (A)   The amount and location of land to be dedicated or the fees to be paid
shall bear a reasonable relationship to the use of the park and recreational
facilities by the future inhabitants of the subdivision.
      (1)   In accordance with Cal. Gov't Code § 66477, it is expressly
acknowledged that the land to be dedicated or fees to be paid may be for both
neighborhood and community parks.
      (2)   Such fees may be used to improve or rehabilitate existing parks.
      (3)   Such fees may be used to purchase land, construct a venue, or
rehabilitate a venue where a variety of cultural activities could take place.
   (B)   Fees paid by a subdivider pursuant to this subchapter may be spent to
develop, improve and rehabilitate community and neighborhood parks, even though
such parks may be used by nonresidents of the subdivision, so long as the
benefit of the park and recreational facilities to residents of the subdivision
is reasonable in relation to the location of the park and the amount of the
fees.
(Ord. 1325, passed 11-2-02)
§ 156.138 TIME OF DEDICATION OR PAYMENT OF FEES.
   At the sole discretion of the city, all fees shall be paid directly to the
City Cashier at the time of building permit issuance, or at the city's
discretion pursuant to a development agreement.
(Ord. 1524, passed 1-16-08)
§ 156.139 SCHEDULE FOR PERFORMANCE.
   (A)   City's schedule.
      (1)   The Director of Community Development shall prepare and maintain a
schedule specifying how, when and where the land or fees, or both, which were
dedicated to the city to develop park or recreational facilities will be used.
      (2)   Any fees collected under this subchapter shall be committed within
five years after the payment of such fees or the issuance of building permits
on one-half of the lots created by the subdivision, whichever occurs later.
   (B)   Subdivider's schedule.
      (1)   In the event that the subdivider improves or develops parks for
public or private ownership, he or she shall prepare a schedule specifying
when, how and where the park or recreational facilities serving the residents
of the subdivision will be developed.
      (2)   This schedule will be required as a condition of subdivision map
approval.
(Ord. 1325, passed 11-6-02)
§ 156.140 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Approval of subdivision map.
      (1)   Unless otherwise expressly provided in this subchapter, the
advisory body shall make any decision or action required by the city pursuant
to this subchapter, after the duly noticed public hearing at the time of
approval of the tentative tract map or parcel map.
      (2)   Such a decision or action shall be a condition of approval of the
subdivision map.
   (B)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any person may appeal a determination of the advisory body made
pursuant to this subchapter.
      (2)   Appeals shall be made as provided in §
30.89 of this code.
(Ord. 1325, passed 11-6-02)
CHAPTER 157: TRAILERS AND TRAILER PARKS
Section
General Provisions
   
157.01   Definitions
   
157.02   Adoption of applicable state law by reference
   
157.03   House trailers to comply with building code and state housing laws
when wheels removed
   
157.04   Permission required from owner of land to park trailer coaches thereon
Administration and Enforcement
   
157.15   Enforcement officials
   
157.16   Right of entry
   
157.17   Officers of Building Inspector to have authority of peace officers
Abatement of Nuisances
   
157.30   Generally
   
157.31   Failure to comply
   
157.32   Grounds for abating operation in trailer camps
Permits to Operate Trailer Parks
   
157.45   Required
   
157.46   Compliance with state law
   
157.47   Application; forms; information to be shown
   
157.48   Inspection fee to accompany application
   
157.49   Investigation prior to issuance
   
157.50   Issuance dependent on approval by Health Department and Fire
Department
Permit for Single Auto House Trailer
   
157.60   Keeping trailers on property outside authorized trailer camps
prohibited
   
157.61   Exceptions
   
157.62   Fee to accompany application for permit
   
157.63   Revocation of permit
Special Events
   
157.75   Parking and maintenance of trailers
   
157.76   Regulation and direction by Health Department
Cross-reference:
   Mobile home fair practices, see
Ch. 99
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING DEPARTMENT. The Building Department or the Building Inspector of
the city.
   FAMILY. One person living along, or a group of two or more persons, whether
related to each other or not, living together in a house trailer.
   FIRE DEPARTMENT. The Fire Department or the Fire Chief of the city.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Health Department or the Health Officer of the city.
   TRAILERS, HOUSE TRAILERS, TRAILER COACHES, CAMP CARS, BOAT TRAILERS and
AUTOMOBILE PULLED TRAILERS. Any unit used for transporting any object or any
unit used for living or sleeping purposes and which is equipped with wheels  or
other similar devices used for the purpose of transporting such unit from place
to place and which is not self-propelled.
   TRAILER PARK, TRAILER COURT and TRAILER CAMP. Any place or are in the city
wherein two or more house trailers are located and used as living or sleeping
quarters for one or more families or persons with the express consent of the
owner or person in charge of the land upon which the trailer park is located.
('61 Code, § 22.1) (Ord. 261, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 531, passed - - )
§ 157.02 ADOPTION OF APPLICABLE STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   That those certain documents, three copies of each of which are on file in
the office of the City Clerk and which are marked and designated that certain
code as enacted by the State Legislature and contained in Cal. Health & Safety
Code ch. 1, 3 and 4, part 2, div. 13 (generally referred to as Trailer Park
Act); Rules and Regulations to Implement, Interpret and Make Specific
Provisions of the Trailer Park Act, Cal. Admin. Code tit. viii, ch. 9, art. 1;
Plumbing Rules and Regulations for Independent Trailer Coaches, Cal. Admin.
Code tit. viii, ch. 9, art. 3; Rules and Regulations for Structures in Trailer
Parks, Cal. Admin. Code tit. viii, ch. 9, art. 4; and Rules and Regulations for
Electrical Standards in Trailer Parks, Cal. Admin. Code tit. viii, ch. 9, art.
5 and each of the provisions thereof are hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this chapter with the same force and effect as if each and all were
herein set forth in full, providing that whichever provisions, whether of this
chapter or those adopted herein by reference are the more restrictive, then
such more restrictive provisions shall prevail.
('61 Code, § 22.2) (Ord. 261, passed - - )
§ 157.03 HOUSE TRAILERS TO COMPLY WITH BUILDING CODE AND STATE HOUSING LAWS
WHEN WHEELS REMOVED.
   Any house trailer on which the wheel have been removed, except for the
purpose of making temporary repairs, shall be deemed a permanent residence and
shall be made to conform to all the requirements pertaining to permanent
buildings of the Building Code and other ordinances of the city and the State
Housing Acts.
('61 Code, § 22.8) (Ord. 261, passed - - )
§ 157.04 PERMISSION REQUIRED FROM OWNER OF LAND TO PARK TRAILER COACHES
THEREON.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, keep or maintain any auto
house trailer on any land within the city without the expressed permission of
the owner of such land.
('61 Code, § 22.9) (Ord. 261, passed - - )
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 157.15 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the Building Official of
the city, provided that the Health Department and Fire Department thereof may
also enforce such provisions of this chapter as may pertain to their respective
jurisdictions.
('61 Code, § 22.3) (Ord. 261, passed - - )
§ 157.16 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Inspectors of the Building Department, the Health Department and the Fire
Department of the city, and any other department having jurisdiction, may enter
public or private property to determine whether there exists any trailer park
to which this chapter or any other law applies; to inspect all accommodations,
equipment or paraphernalia to be used in connection therewith, including the
right to examine a register of occupants, maintained therein, in order to
enforce the provisions of this chapter or other law applying.
('61 Code, § 22.4) (Ord. 261, passed - - )
§ 157.17 OFFICERS OF BUILDING OFFICIAL TO HAVE AUTHORITY OF PEACE OFFICERS.
   For the purpose of securing the enforcement of this chapter the officers or
agents of the Building Official shall have the authority of peace officers,
including authority to make arrests, to serve any process or notice throughout
the state, and generally such other authority of peace officers as may be
necessary in order to secure enforcement of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 22.10) (Ord. 261, passed - - )
ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES
§ 157.30 GENERALLY.
   The owner or operator of an auto and trailer camp shall abate any nuisance
in the camp within five days, or within such longer period of time as may be
allowed by the Building Official, after he has been given written notice by the
Building Official to remove the nuisance.
('61 Code, § 22.5) (Ord. 261, passed - - )
§ 157.31 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If the owner or operator of an auto and trailer camp located within the city
shall fail to comply with §
157.30, the City Attorney shall bring a civil action to abate the nuisance in
the superior court of the county in the name of the city.
('61 Code, § 22.6) (Ord. 261, passed - - )
§ 157.32 GROUNDS FOR ABATING OPERATION IN TRAILER CAMPS.
   In any action or proceeding to abate a nuisance in an auto and trailer camp,
proof of the following facts is sufficient for a judgment or order for the
abatement of the operation of the auto and trailer camp:
   (A)   Previous conviction of the owner or operator of the auto and trailer
camp of a violation of this chapter which constitutes a nuisance.
   (B)   Failure of the part of the owner or operator to correct the violation
after the conviction.
   (C)   The violation is the basis for the proceeding.
('61 Code, § 22.7) (Ord. 261, passed - - )
PERMITS TO OPERATE TRAILER PARKS
§ 157.45 REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to construct,
operate, maintain or offer for public use, within the confines of the city, as
hereinafter set forth, any trailer park without first applying for and
receiving from the Building Official, a permit to do so in the manner
hereinafter set forth, and without complying with the requirements of zoning
regulations in the Unified Development Code, and without complying with rules
and regulations which may be formulated by the Health Department from time to
time.
('61 Code, § 22.11) (Ord. 261, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 157.46 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   No permit shall be issued until evidence has been submitted to the Building
Official, the Health Department and the Fire Department, that all parts of the
Cal. Health & Safety Code div. 13, part 2, and all provisions of this chapter
have been complied with.
('61 Code, § 22.12) (Ord. 261, passed - - )
§ 157.47 APPLICATION; FORMS; INFORMATION TO BE SHOWN.
   Each application for a permit shall be in writing upon a form provided by
the Building Official for that purpose. It shall state the name and address of
the applicant and a description of the property wherein it is proposed to
conduct a trailer park. It shall also contain such other information as the
Building Official may require. it shall be filed with the Building Official not
less than ten days nor more than 30 days before the trailer park is made ready
for use.
('61 Code, § 22.13) (Ord. 261, passed - - )
§ 157.48 INSPECTION FEE TO ACCOMPANY APPLICATION.
   An inspection fee in an amount established by resolution of the City Council
must accompany each application, for which the Building Official shall issue a
receipt.
('61 Code, § 22.14) (Ord. 261, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 665, passed - - )
§ 157.49 INVESTIGATION PRIOR TO ISSUANCE.
   Upon the filing of every application for a regular permit hereunder
accompanied by the inspection fee, it shall be the duty of the Building
Official to investigate the premises to determine whether the proposed trailer
park site conforms to the provisions of this chapter.
   The Building Official shall submit such application and his report thereon
to the Health Department and the Fire Department.
('61 Code, § 22.15) (Ord. 261, passed - - )
§ 157.50 ISSUANCE DEPENDENT ON APPROVAL BY HEALTH DEPARTMENT AND FIRE
DEPARTMENT.
   Before a permit can be issued, a written approval of the proposed trailer
park must be received from the Health Department and the Fire Department.
('61 Code, § 22.16) (Ord. 261, passed - - )
PERMIT FOR SINGLE AUTO HOUSE TRAILER
§ 157.60 KEEPING TRAILERS ON PROPERTY OUTSIDE AUTHORIZED TRAILER CAMPS
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person whether or not in return for rent or
other compensation, to allow, suffer or permit any trailer as defined by this
section to be placed, kept or maintained on any land owned or controlled by
him, excepting in any auto house trailer camp for which a permit has been
issued by the Building Official, or except as hereinafter provided.
('61 Code, § 22.17) (Ord. 261, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 157.61 EXCEPTIONS.
   Section
157.60 shall not apply under the following circumstances:
   (A)   Temporary storage. A trailer may be temporarily stored for a period
not to exceed four days.
   (B)   Storage. In the case of a trailer stored on any premises and not used
for sleeping or living purposes, and further provided that such trailer is
stored only in the side yard or rear yard as defined by the zoning regulations
in the Unified Development Code, or within a completely enclosed building and
that no portion of the trailer is closer to the adjoining street than the
immediately adjacent part of the building.
   (C)   Property owners, and the like in certain zones. An owner, or occupant,
or occupants of a lot in the R-1, R-2, R-3 or R-P zones of the city may allow
not more than one auto house trailer to be placed, kept and maintained on such
lot under the following terms and conditions:
      (1)   The owner of an unimproved lot in such zones, who intends in good
faith to immediately commence and diligently process the erection of a dwelling
house on the lot, may keep and retain one auto house trailer on such lot for
living purposes, provided that such trailer shall be connected to the existing
sewage disposal facilities and provided that he shall first have secured a
permit to place and maintain the auto house trailer on the lot from the
Building Official of the city. The Building Official shall issue such owner a
permit to place and maintain the auto house trailer on the lot for a period of
90 days, and may if the owner has shown substantial progress in the erection of
the building, extend the permit for two additional periods of not to exceed 30
days each.
      (2)   A bona fide nonpaying guest of an owner, or occupant of a lot shall
be permitted to keep and maintain a single family auto house trailer on any lot
in the aforementioned zones of the city under the following terms and
conditions:
         (a)   That such trailer shall be used solely for the purpose of
providing sleeping accommodations and no cooking or eating shall be done in the
trailer, and the toilet and sanitary facilities of the trailer shall be sealed
off so that they cannot be used during the period of its stay on the lot.
         (b)   That if the auto house trailer shall be kept and maintained on
the lot for a period in excess of four days, the owner shall secure a permit
from the Building Official of the city to keep and maintain the trailer on the
lot for a period not to exceed 30 days. The Building Official shall issue only
one such permit for any lot at any one time and shall not issue a permit for
the maintenance of any auto house trailer on any one lot for a period of 30
days following the expiration of a prior permit for 30 days.
('61 Code, § 22.18) (Ord. 261, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 424, passed - - ; Am. Ord.
531, passed - - )
§ 157.62 FEE TO ACCOMPANY APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Each application for a permit for a single auto house trailer as provided
for herein shall be accompanied by a fee as established by resolution of the
City Council.
('61 Code, § 22.19) (Ord. 261, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 665, passed - - )
§ 157.63 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Building Official is hereby authorized in the exercise of a reasonable
discretion to revoke any permit issued pursuant to this subchapter if, after
due investigation, he determines that the holder thereof has violated any of
the provisions of this subchapter or that the auto house trailer is being
maintained in an unsanitary or unsafe manner or is a nuisance. Written notice
of such revocation shall be given either by personal delivery thereof to the
person to be notified, or by depositing such notice in the United States mail
in a sealed envelop, postage prepaid, addressed to such person at the address
which appears on the records of the Building Official pertaining thereto.
('61 Code, § 22.20) (Ord. 261, passed - - )
SPECIAL EVENTS
§ 157.75 PARKING AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAILERS.
   The city may allow and permit the parking and maintenance of trailers on
city-owned property during a period of time commencing one week before the
opening of the Riverside County Fair and National Date Festival and a week
following the close thereof during each year or at such other times as the City
Council may designate.
('61 Code, § 22.21) (Ord. 276, passed - - )
§ 157.76 REGULATION AND DIRECTION BY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   The parking and maintenance of trailers on city-owned property during the
period described in §
157.75 of this subchapter shall be under the regulation and direction of the
Health Department of the city and shall be subject to inspection and control by
the Health Department or any other city department so that at all times such
trailers and the area in which they are permitted and allowed to park are
maintained in a safe and sanitary condition.
('61 Code, § 22.22) (Ord. 276, passed - - )
CHAPTER 158: UNUSED SERVICE STATIONS
Section
   
158.01   Purpose
   
158.02   Findings
   
158.03   Definitions
   
158.04   Voluntary abatement
   
158.05   Effect of voluntary abatement
   
158.06   Notice of involuntary abatement
   
158.07   Hearing on involuntary abatement
   
158.08   Grievance with final order; appeal to City Council
   
158.09   Collection of abatement costs; recovery; incorporation of Chapter 95
procedures
   
158.10   Miscellaneous
 
   
158.99   Penalty
§ 158.01 PURPOSE.
   The City Council declares that its purpose in adopting this chapter is to
eliminate public nuisances that are created when service stations are unused
for long periods of time. The City Council also finds and determines that the
existence of closed, vacant and inoperative service stations, constituting
nonuser as the word “nonuser” is defined in §
158.03, has become increasing direct and substantial in significance and that
there is now a need for further control over the lack of utilization, condition
and appearance of such facilities. This chapter is not exclusive. The City
Council shall have the power to provide other procedures or to follow
procedures now or hereafter provided by general law. The procedures and powers
herein specified are alternative.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 158.02 FINDINGS.
   It is further found and determined as follows:
   (A)   Closed, vacant and inoperative service stations constituting nonuser
cannot reasonably be expected to be utilized for the purpose originally
established, inasmuch as the cost of replacing fuel storage tanks underground
for ones which have been removed is excessive.
   (B)   Service stations cannot be readily adapted for use as other commercial
facilities without excessive cost due to their unique location on the property,
with respect to property lines, their unique architectural design, and their
unique functional layout on the property.
   (C)   Service stations have been established in close proximity to the
freeway, and economic conditions have not warranted reopening of closed service
stations in the older locations, as evidenced by the fact that most closed
service stations have been vacant for over one year.
   (D)   Because of cost design considerations, closed, vacant and inoperative
service stations, constituting nonuser, usually cannot reasonably be expected
to be utilized for the purposes originally established or adapted for other
permitted uses, or moved for use elsewhere, and the existence of such
conditions contravene the purposes of the zoning ordinances and the general
plans of the city in that planning for a compatible blend of land uses will be
disrupted because the lands affected cannot be reasonably put to other uses
until the existing conditions are abated by restoration or removal of the
buildings, and also in that planning for other uses will be prevented unless
such abatement is accomplished.
   (E)   The existence of closed, vacant and inoperative service station sites
constituting nonuser is injurious and inimical to the public health, safety,
comfort and welfare of the community in that such conditions invite
unsightliness, blight, fire hazards, decreasing values to surrounding
properties and vandalism, and the existence of conditions which invite such
ills constitute an abuse of property rights as to entitle this city to exercise
its police powers in order to protect the health, safety, comfort and welfare
of the community and its residents.
   (F)   Unless corrective measures are undertaken to cure and prevent such
public nuisances, such serious threats to the public health, safety and welfare
will continue to exist, and the need to correct such conditions is sufficiently
great as to outweigh potential benefits of inaction, if any, to the owners of
such unused service stations.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 158.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY. Upon discovery that any service station may constitute a public
nuisance, the City Manager or his or her designee may commence proceedings to
abate such nuisance and carry the same through to conclusion in the manner
prescribed by this chapter.
   BUILDING. Any physical improvement or structure finished or unfinished, on
or in real property, which is designed, built or adapted for use as or in
connection with a service station, regardless of its size, shape, height,
location, age, or state of repair. Included in this definition are all main
buildings, pumps, pump islands, all underground storage tanks, foundations, all
paving and any other materials, originally placed in connection therewith on or
at any depth beneath the surface of the real property.
   NONUSER. The City Council may, upon finding that the site can no longer be
reasonably used for a service station, declare the site and all buildings
thereon and therein to be closed, vacant and inoperative, and the conditions
constitute nonuser.
   NOTICE TO ABATE. Upon discovery of such facts, the City Manager or his or
her designee shall cause a Notice to Abate to be served personally upon or
mailed by certified mail to all persons who own or claim an interest in the
real property as disclosed by the last available equalized tax roll on file in
the office of the Assessor of the County and as known to the City Manger or his
or her designee. The individual receiving the Notice shall commence voluntary
abatement thereof. The period for abatement may be extended by the City Council
for good reason presented to the Council.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Each service station which is unused as such, the
underground storage tanks of which have been removed, may be declared by the
City Council to be a PUBLIC NUISANCE (if such station constitutes a danger to
the public health, welfare, or safety).
   SERVICE STATION. Any lot or parcel of real property, the buildings of which
are designed and built for dispensing and selling fuels for internal combustion
engines of any motor vehicles.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 158.04 VOLUNTARY ABATEMENT.
   No person shall do any of the following:
   (A)   Reoccupy or reinstitute any use of any building on the property unless
and until the Building Official and Fire Marshal have inspected the same and
found it to be in compliance with such and so many of the standards applicable
to the suitability of such building for such occupancy as appear in the city's
current building code and the city's current Fire Code;
   (B)   Reoccupy or reinstitute such use on the property if the same is in
violation of any applicable zoning regulation of the city;
   (C)   Fail or refuse to pay any fee prescribed for the inspection services
specified in division (A) of this section.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 158.05 EFFECT OF VOLUNTARY ABATEMENT.
   If the nuisance is abated within the one year period specified in the Notice
to Abate, no further action shall be taken with respect thereto by the City
Manager, or his or her designee. If abatement work has been commenced within
such period, then the City Manager, or his or designee, may grant a single
extension of time for completion for up to 30 days for good cause shown, e.g.,
delay beyond the control of the owner or real property owner.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 158.06 NOTICE OF INVOLUNTARY ABATEMENT.
   If the owner or real property owners do not abate the nuisance within the
time specified in the Notice to Abate, or any extension thereof, then the City
Manger, or his or her designee, shall cause a Notice to Abate to be served
personally upon or mailed by certified mail to all persons who own or claim an
interest in the real property, as disclosed by the last available equalized tax
roll on file in the office of the Assessor of the County, or as known to the
City Manager, or his or her designee. The Notice shall advise the recipient of
his or her right to request a hearing before the Buildings Fire Appeals Board
regarding the proposed abatement.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 158.07 HEARING ON INVOLUNTARY ABATEMENT.
   (A)   At a hearing on involuntary abatement, after the City Manager or his
or her designee has presented evidence on the issue, any interested person may
state his objections and protests and give evidence relative to the alleged
public nuisance or the proposed abatement thereof.
   (B)   After all such evidence is received and heard, the Building/Fire
Appeals Board shall determine the issue. If it finds and determines that the
condition of the property constitutes a public nuisance and that the public
nuisance requires abatement, then the Building/Fire Appeals Board may take such
action as it may deem necessary therefor, including (but not by way of
limitation) any of the following actions:
      (1)   Allow abatement by means of reinstitution of lawful service station
or other uses, including rehabilitation and repair if necessary within a stated
period of time; or
      (2)   Order the nuisance to be abated, including, if necessary therefor,
the demolition and removal of any or all structures situated on the property,
the filing of all excavations, and the excavation and removal of all
underground tanks and appurtenances; and
      (3)   Revoke any permits or variances that authorized or otherwise
pertained to the discontinued service station use.
   (C)   If the Building/Fire Appeals Board's order is made pursuant to
divisions (B)(1) or (B)(2) above, then the Building/Fire Appeals Board may
condition its order upon commencement of such abatement within such period of
time as the Board may find to be reasonable in the circumstances, and may order
that upon failure of such condition:
      (1)   The City Manager, or his or her designee, shall abate the nuisance
by awarding a contract for the work of abatement in the name of the city; or
      (2)   The City Attorney may commence an action to enjoin the nuisance.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 158.08 GRIEVANCE WITH FINAL ORDER; APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL.
   Whenever any person is aggrieved by any final order or decision of the
Building/Fire Appeals Board, such person may appeal to the City Council in the
sage manner as provided for in the Uniform Fire Code and the Uniform Building
Code.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 158.09 COLLECTION OF ABATEMENT COSTS; RECOVERY; INCORPORATION OF CHAPTER 95
PROCEDURES.
   The city shall be entitled to recover its abatement costs with respect to an
abandoned service station determined to be a public nuisance under this
chapter, to the same extent and in the same manner as abatement costs are
recovered for nuisances governed by Chapter 95. All such procedures are
incorporated herein as if fully set forth and shall govern the recovery of
abatement costs incurred pursuant to the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 158.10 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   Notification to Future Applicants. All permits relating to the use,
occupancy, construction, or repair on or in any real property of any service
station and any permits relating to any activities to be pursued thereon or
therein, and all zone variances to be granted after April 20, 1994, for real
property in which an service station is located shall contain in boldface type
the following statement:
“THIS PERMIT IS GRANTED SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 158, CITY CODE, OF
THE CITY OF INDIO, CALIFORNIA. A VIOLATION OF THESE PROVISIONS MAY RESULT IN
ENFORCEMENT BY PROCEEDINGS FOR BRINGING ABOUT REMOVAL OF ALL BUILDINGS,
INCLUDING ALL UNDERGROUND EQUIPMENT AND FOUNDATIONS. SUCH A VIOLATION MAY ALSO
RESULT IN ENFORCEMENT BY PROSECUTION FOR A MISDEMEANOR. NOTHING CONTAINED IN
CHAPTER 158 SHALL PREVENT APPLICATION OF OTHER PROVISIONS OF THE CITY CODE.”
   The City Manager or his or her designee shall cause the language quoted
above to be incorporated into permits which fall within the city's jurisdiction
to grant in connection with service station uses.
   (B)   Limitation of Actions. No action shall be commenced to contest any
proceeding, decision, action, or order taken or made hereunder, unless the same
be commenced within 30 days from after the date thereof.
   (C)   Service of Resolution. Each action taken or order made by the City
Council under this chapter shall be done by resolution, a copy of which shall
be served personally or by certified mail upon all persons who were entitled to
notice not later than 14 calendar days after the date of adoption of such
resolution.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
§ 158.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and each such person shall be deemed guilty of a
separate offense for each and every day during which any violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter is committed, continued or permitted.
(Ord. 1153, passed 4-20-94)
CHAPTER 159: ZONING REGULATIONS
   This chapter has been repealed by City Council action via Ordinance No. 1782
at its regular City Council Meeting of September 21, 2022 with an effective
date of October 22, 2022. The full Unified Development Code can be found
online: https://www.indio.org/home/showpublisheddocument/3314/
638046229914700000
(Ord. 1782, passed 9-21-22)
CHAPTER 160: TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT
Section
   
160.01   Purpose and intent
   
160.02   Recitals
   
160.03   Definitions
   
160.04   Applicability
   
160.05   Exemptions
   
160.06   Minimum standards
   
160.07   Processing time limits
   
160.08   Filing procedure and evaluation
   
160.09   Renewal; review for compliance
   
160.10   Fees for initial review and program monitoring
   
160.11   Appeals
   
160.12   Community Development Director
§ 160.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This chapter is intended to protect the public health, welfare and safety by
reducing air pollution caused by vehicle trips and vehicle miles traveled. This
chapter shall do this by meeting requirements of AB 1791, Section 65089 (b) (3)
which required development of a trip reduction and travel demand element to the
Congestion Management Plan (CMP), and Section 65089.3 (b) which requires
adoption and implementation of Trip Reduction and Travel Demand Ordinances.
(Ord. 1116, passed 4-1-92)
§ 160.02 RECITALS.
   (A)   Whereas,state law establishing requirements for development of a
county-wide Congestion Management Program (AB 471 & 1791) mandates the
inclusion of a Trip Reduction and Travel Demand Element Ordinance; and
   (B)   Whereas, other Transportation Demand Management (TDM) program
requirements have been adopted for the region including Regulation XV and
Appendix IV-C Control Measures of the Air Quality Management Plan (AQMP); and
   (C)   Whereas,generally increased traffic congestion contributes to
significant deterioration in air quality; increased the inefficient use of
energy resources; and adversely impacts public and private sector economies due
to reduced productivity of the work force; and
   (D)   Whereas, various efforts underway including the Congestion Management
Program (CMP) recognize and encourage the use of Transportation Demand
Management (TDM) strategies to increase mobilty and improve the general
efficiency of the transportation system by enhancing vehicle flow and shifting
demand on existing transportation facilities; and
   (E)   Whereas, implementation of TDM strategies at the local government
level would provide significant public benefits by improving air quality;
enhancing the effectiveness of the existing transportation system; and reducing
energy requirements; and
   (F)   Whereas, coordinated TDM efforts among all local jurisdictions in the
County can contribute to air quality improvements, energy conservation, and
decreases in the levels of noise and traffic congestion;
(Ord. 1116, passed 4-1-92)
§ 160.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For purpose of this chapter, the definitions for the following terms shall
apply:
   ALTERNATIVE TRANSPORTATION MODES. Any mode of travel that serves an as
alternative to the single occupant vehicle. This can include all forms of
ridesharing such as carpooling or vanpooling, as well as public transit,
bicycling or walking.
   APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT. Any new development project that is determined to
meet or exceed the employment threshold using the criteria contained in this
ordinance. An applicable development also includes developments which are owned
and/or managed as one unit, such as a business park or shopping center, that
also meet or exceed the employment threshold.
   BICYCLE FACILITIES. Any capital improvements which would benefit an employee
who rides a bicycle to their work site, including shower facilities, locker
facilities, bicycle parking, etc.
   CHANGE OF USE. A development or facility space of a lessee which has altered
its initial use to another use not related to the previous. (example: office
space changes its use to commercial space).
   DEVELOPER. The builder who is responsible for the planning, design and
construction of an applicable development project. A developer may be
responsible for implementing this ordinance as determined by the property
owner.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person employed by a firm, person(s), business, educational
institution, non-profit agency or corporation, government agency or other
entity which employs 100 or more persons at a single work site.
   EMPLOYMENT GENERATION FACTORS. Refers to factors developed for use by the
jurisdiction for protecting the potential employment of any proposed
development project.
   EMPLOYER. Any person(s), firm, business, educational institution, government
agency, non-profit agency or corporation, or other entity which employs 100 or
more persons at a single work site, and may either be a property owner or
tenant of an applicable development project.
   EMPLOYMENT THRESHOLD. Refers to the number of employees which an applicable
development must have for the TDM ordinance to be required of that employer.
   MINIMUM STANDARDS. That minimum changes made to establish a transportation
demand management and trip reduction plan at an applicable development project
to a level which satisfies this ordinance.
   MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT. New development projects that combine any land uses
one with another.
   NEW DEVELOPMENT PROJECT. Means any non-residential project being processed
where some level of discretionary action by a decision making body is required.
   PEAK PERIOD. Those hours of the business day between 7 a.m. and 9 a.m.
Inclusive, Monday through Friday, which TDM strategies such as this Ordinance
identify as the priority period for reducing work related vehicle trips.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The legal owner of the applicable development.
   RIDESHARE FACILITIES. Any capital improvements which would benefit an
employee who rideshares to the work site, including on-site amenities,
preferential parking, and rideshare drop-off areas at the entrance of the work
site.
   SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN PERMIT. A precise plan of development that may be
subject to public hearing before the Planning Commission, Design Reviews, Use
Permits, Planned Development, Fast Track Site Plan Approval.
   TRANSIT FACILITIES. Any capital improvements which would benefit an employee
who uses any form of transit to travel to the work site, including transit
stops, shelters, bus turnouts, park and ride lots, and other transit amenities.
   TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION. A voluntary entity of employers,
property owners and other interested parties who share a mutual concern for
local transportation problems. TMA's have the ability to collectively pool
participants' resources to address these issues. A TMA must still meet a 10%
reduction in work related trips for each individual applicable new development.
   TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT. The implementation of programs, plans or
policies designed to encourage changes in individual travel behavior. TDM can
include an emphasis on alternative travel modes to the single occupant vehicle
such as carpools, vanpools, and transit; reduction or elimination of the number
of vehicle trips, or shifts in the time of vehicle commutes to other than peak
period.
   WORK SITE. A building, grouping of buildings located within the jurisdiction
which are physical contact or separated solely by a private or public roadway
or other private right of way, and which are owned or operated by the same
employer (or by employers under common control).
(Ord. 1116, passed 4-1-92)
§ 160.04 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all new development projects and/or change
of use projects that are estimated to employ a total of 100 or more persons as
determined by the methodology in this Section below:
   (B)   For purposes of determining whether a new development project is
subject to this chapter, the total employment figure will be determined as
follows:
      (1)   Employment projections developed by the project applicant, subject
to approval by the Community Development Director; or
      (2)   Employment projections developed by the Community Development
Director or Designee using the following employee generation factors by type of
use.
   LAND USE          GROSS SQ. FT./
   CATEGORY            EMPLOYEE
   Retail/ Commercial         500
   Office/ Professional         250
   LAND USE          GROSS SQ. FT./
   CATEGORY            EMPLOYEE
   Industrial/Manufacturing      525
   Hotel/Motel         .8-1.2 employees/room
   Hospital            300
      (3)   The employment projection for a development of mixed use or
multiple uses shall be calculated on a case by case basis based upon the
proportion of development devoted to each type of use.
(Ord. 1116, passed 4-1-92)
§ 160.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   Not withstanding any other provisions, the following uses and activities
shall be specifically exempt from this chapter:
   (A)   Development projects expected to employ fewer than 100 persons.
   (B)   Temporary construction activities on any affected project, including
activities performed by engineers, architects, contract subcontractors and
construction workers.
   (C)   Other temporary activities, as defined in the City Development Code,
or as authorized by the City when such temporary activities shall discontinued
at the end of the designated time period.
(Ord. 1116, passed 4-1-92)
§ 160.06 MINIMUM STANDARDS. 
   (A)   All applicable new developments (non-residential developments which
employ 100 or more persons) which are owned and managed as one unit shall
submit a Transportation Demand Management Plan prepared by a qualified
professional identifying the traffic impacts associated with the proposed
project and including design recommendations and mitigations measures, as
appropriate, to address on and off site project impacts. The TDM Plan shall
implement a trip reduction plan to reduce work related vehicle trips by 10%
from the expected number of trips related to the project (as indicated in the
Trip GeneratIon Handbook published by the Institute of Traffic Engineers). The
Plan shall also indicate specific strategies and guidelines to reduce the
amount of trips and increase the amount of non-vehicular transportation.
   (B)   All developers of applicable new development sand/or change of use
shall be subject to the required capital improvements standards as specified in
this Section VI (B). These standards must all be addressed to realize if they
are applicable to their development. These required standards may be used to
achieve the mandatory reduction of 10% in expected number of trips related to
the project. Developers of all applicable developments shall include in their
project Site Development Plan's provisions to address each of the following
capital improvements:
      (1)   Transit facilities (on and off site);
      (2)   Bicycle facilities; and
      (3)   Rideshare facilities. (See options in Section V (D) for specific
capital improvement strategies.)
   (C)   The operational standards are standards which employers, TMA's or
managing office of a development administered as one unit are subject to
require to achieve the mandatory 10% reduction in trips related to the project.
These standards must be established 60 days after occupancy of the development
by an employer.
   (D)   These options may be included in the developer's TDM Plan to fulfill
both the capital improvement standards and the operational standards:
      (1)   Alternate Work Schedule Flex-time:
      (2)   Telecommuting: Establish telecommuting or work at home programs to
allow employees to work at home or at a satellites work center;
      (3)   Bicycle Facilities: Provide bicycle parking facilities equal to 5%
of total required automobile parking spaces; and preserve 2% of the gross floor
area for employee locker and shower facilities;
      (4)   On-site Employee Housing and Shuttles: Provide affordable on-site
housing and shuttles to and from the housing areas and the work areas;
      (5)   Preferential Parking for Carpool Vehicles;
      (6)   Information Center for Transportation Alternatives;
      (7)   Rideshare Vehicle Loading Areas;
      (8)   Vanpool Vehicle Accessibility;
      (9)   Bus Stop Improvements;
      (10)   On-Site Child Care FacilIties;
      (11)   Availability of Electrical Outlets for recharging of electric
vehicles;
      (12)   On-Site Amenities such as Cafeterias and Restaurants, Automated
Teller Machines, and other services that would eliminate the need for
additional trips;
      (13)   Contributions to Funds providing Regional Facilities such as Park
and Ride Lots, Multi-Model Transportation Centers and Transit Alternatives in
the area;
      (14)   Incentives for Mass Transit Usage including provision of a bud
pass, additional pay, flex-time or others;
      (15)   Implementation of a Parking Fee;
      (16)   Restriction of Business Hours;
      (17)   Restrict Delivery Hours;
      (18)   Provide a Direct Pedestrian Path from the closest Transit Stop
into the facility;
      (19)   Contribute up to $1.00/square foot to a housing subsidy fund so
that affordable housing can be created closer to the employer;
      (20)   Resort / Hotel areas develop a rideshare and shuttle programs;
      (21)   Create Golf Cart Circulations Systems;
      (22)   If an applicable development is on a current transit route,
provide a transit stop, shelter, trash barrels, benches, shade and wind
protection, and bus turnouts;
      (23)   If an applicable development is not located on a current transit
route, contribute to a fund which will be used to provide transit amenities;
      (24)   If an applicable development is located on a major arterial,
statements 23 and 24 should be considered;
      (25)   Provision of a Bicycle Lane; and
      (26)   Provide other creative or innovative strategies to reduce vehicle
trips.
(Ord. 1116, passed 4-1-92)
§ 160.07 PROCESSING TIME LIMITS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Community Development Director or
designee to inform the applicant of a Transportation Demand Management Review
application that the completeness of such an application be within 30 days of
receipt. Once the application is complete, the Community Development Director
shall either approve or deny the application within 60 days or forward the
application to the City Council for their approval, assuring that the
application is processed expediently (no more than 90 days).
(Ord. 1116, passed 4-1-92)
§ 160.08 FILING PROCEDURE AND EVALUATION.
   (A)   A request for TDM approval shall be made through application forms
provided by the Community Development Director. The application for such
approval shall be filed with the Community Development Director within 30 days
of receipt.
   (B)   A processing fee shall be paid at the time the completed application
is filed with the Community Development Director. The fee shall be as stated in
the City's Fee Schedule, as amended.
   (C)   An application for TDM Review shall be supplemented by plans and other
pertinent information to adequately portray all applIcable aspects of a
proposal.
   (D)   Community Development Department shall review applIcations and arrive
at recommendations or approvals as appropriate, by considering aspects for
conformance with this ordinance.
(Ord. 1116, passed 4-1-92)
§ 160.09 RENEWAL; REVIEW FOR COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Community Development Director or Designee shall review the approved
TDM plans annually for complIance of this ordinance through a 25% sampling of
on going TDM programs. This sampling will result in either renewal of a TDM
program if the plan is reducing work related trips by 10%, or denial of a
renewal due to noncompliance of this ordinance. If a TDM plan is not renewed,
an updated plan must be submitted by the applicable development (developer,
owner, employer or managing office) within 30 days of the denial of renewal. A
follow-up review for compliance of the updated TDM plan will take place within
90 days.
   (B)   Community Development Director shall also review any approved TDM
plans for complIance if complaints about the TDM plan and its noncompliance are
recorded to the City.
(Ord. 1116, passed 4-1-92)
§ 160.10 FEES FOR INITIAL REVIEW AND PROGRAM MONITORING.
   (A)   For purposes of meeting its obligations under this ordinance, the City
Council of the City of Indio may set fees deemed necessary to review and
monitor TDM plans. Fees shall be imposed on the subject property owner(s) as
follows:
      (1)   A trip reduction/TDM Plan Review Fee as set by Resolution, or as
amended in the City's Fee Schedule at the time of initial project application
submission to the Community Development Director;
      (2)   A trip reduction/TDM Plan Renewal/Review for ComplIance Fee as set
by Resolution, or as amended in the City's Fee Schedule at the time of initial
review by the Community Development Director.
   (B)   This shall be a fixed fee charged to all applicable developments for
the purpose of defraying the costs of processing and reviewing the trip
reduction/TDM Program.
(Ord. 1116, passed 4-1-92)
§ 160.11 APPEALS.
   (A)   An appeal may be made by the property owner (s) or designee(s) of any
applicable development regarding decisions made by the Community Development
Director on provisions of this ordinance.
   (B)   Such appeals may be reviewed by the City Council for resolutions, who
must act on such appeals within 30 days of such filing.
(Ord. 1116, passed 4-1-92)
§ 160.12 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR.
   For purposes of ensuring that applicable developments comply with the
provisions of this chapter, the Community Development Director shall, following
written notice to subject property owner(s), initiate enforcement actions(s)
against such property owner(s) or designee(s) which may include, but not be
limited to, the following:
   (A)   Withholding Issuance of a Building Permit or Certificate of Use and
Occupancy;
   (B)   Noncompliance infraction;
   (C)   Issuance of a Stop Work Order.
(Ord. 1116, passed 4-1-92)
CHAPTER 161: OLD TOWN INDIO BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
Section
   
161.01   Resolution of intention, public hearing and findings
   
161.02   Definitions
   
161.03   Establishment of boundaries
   
161.04   Establishment of District Board of Directors
   
161.05   Establishment of benefit assessment
   
161.06   Purpose and use of benefit assessments
   
161.07   Exclusions from benefit assessment
   
161.08   New business assessment waiver
   
161.09   Collection of benefit assessment
   
161.10   Voluntary contributions to district
   
161.11   Annual budget process
   
161.12   Decisions regarding expenditure of funds
   
161.13   District proceeds do not offset city services
   
161.14   Public parking
   
161.15   Disestablishment of the district
§ 161.01 RESOLUTION OF INTENTION, PUBLIC HEARING AND FINDINGS.
   The recitals hereof, which set forth facts regarding the adoption of Council
resolutions, the conduct of public hearings and certain findings of the City
Council, are true and correct and incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-1-97)
§ 161.02 DEFINITIONS.
   In order to distinguish between district businesses and for the purpose of
calculating and applying the amount of benefit fees owed, the following
definitions shall apply:
   BILLING PERIOD. The period beginning September 1st to and including August
31st of the following year.
   FINANCIAL. Banks, savings and loans, credit unions, etc.
   FISCAL YEAR. July 1st to and including June 30th of the following year.
   LODGING BUSINESSES. Include inns, hotels, motels, RV parks and other similar
businesses.
   PROFESSIONAL. Includes attorneys, architects, accountants, engineers,
surveyors, physicians, dentists, optometrists, chiropractors and others in a
medical / health service field, consultants, real estate brokers, financial
advisors, laboratories (including dental and optical), hearing aid services,
artists and designers.
   RESTAURANTS. Include cafes, eating establishments, sandwich shops, dinner
houses, restaurants and fast food services and other similar businesses.
   RETAIL BUSINESSES. Include all businesses not covered by other definitions
set out in this section, at least 50% of whose gross income is derived from
"retail sales" as that term is defined under the California Sales and Use Tax
Law. The fact that a substantial part of its business consists of sales other
than retail sales does not exclude said business from this classification so
long as such other business component does not account for more than 50% of
said business' gross income.
   SERVICE BUSINESSES. Include general office, news and advertising media,
printers, photographers, personal care facilities and outlets, contractors/
builders, service stations, repairing and servicing businesses, renting and
leasing businesses, utilities, vending machine businesses, household finance
companies, and other similar businesses not otherwise included in types 1, 2,
and 4 of definitions for retail businesses, restaurants, lodging businesses,
professional, or financial.
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-1-97)
§ 161.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF BOUNDARIES.
   A business improvement district is hereby established pursuant to the
Parking and Business Improvement Area Law of 1989, Sts. and High. Code § 36500
et seq. The boundaries of the district and the benefit zones within the
district shall be as set forth on Exhibit "A", attached hereto and incorporated
herein by reference. This district shall be known as the "Old Town Indio
Business Improvement District" (the "District").
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-1-97)
§ 161.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   There shall be a Board of Directors of the district to administer the
affairs of the district. This Board shall be constituted by fifteen member
businesses of the district. The initial Board shall be approved by the City
Council from a list of business operators located in the district that is
submitted by the Formation Committee. Within the Board there shall be a
President, Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer elected by the membership,
and such other officers as deemed necessary by the Board. Such other officers
shall be appointed by the Board of Directors at their discretion. All voting
within the district regarding election of Board Members and any actions
regarding the normal and routine conducting of district business shall be based
on one vote per assessed dollar, and said business must be current in payment
of their district assessment(s) to participate in such votes.
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-1-97)
§ 161.05 ESTABLISHMENT OF BENEFIT ASSESSMENT.
   All businesses, trades, and professions located within the district
boundaries shown on Exhibit "A" shall, commencing September 1st, pay an annual
benefit assessment to the district in the following amounts:
   Proposed Old Town Indio Annual BID Fee
 
                        Zone A          Zone B
Retailers and           $200 (1-3 emp.) $100
Restaurants             $300 (4-6 emp.) $150
                        $400 (7+ emp.)  $200
Hotels / Motels         $200            $100
Service Businesses      $150            $75
Professional Businesses $100            $50
Financial Institutions  $500            $500
 
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-1-97)
§ 161.06 PURPOSE AND USE OF BENEFIT ASSESSMENTS.
   The types of improvements and activities proposed to be funded by the levy
of assessments on businesses in the district are as follows:
   (A)   The acquisition, construction, installation, or maintenance of any
tangible property with an estimated useful life of five years or more
including, but not limited to, the following improvements:
      (1)   Benches;
      (2)   Trash receptacles;
      (3)   Decorations;
      (4)   Facade improvements;
      (5)   Permanent landscaping.
   (B)   Activities including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Promotion of public events which benefit businesses in the area and
which take place on or in public places within the area;
      (2)   Furnishing of music in any public place in the area;
      (3)   Activities which benefit businesses located and operating in the
area, including but not limited to downtown shopping and promotional programs.
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-1-97)
§ 161.07 EXCLUSIONS FROM BENEFIT ASSESSMENT.
   No person or business shall be required to pay a benefit fee based on: (1) a
residential use of the property within the district, or (2) a non-profit
organization as defined by § 501(C)(6) of the Internal Revenue Service Code
located within the district.
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-1-97)
§ 161.08 NEW BUSINESS ASSESSMENT WAIVER.
   Any new business established within the district shall not be required to
pay an assessment for the billing period during which said business is
initiated. The business will have been considered initiated on the date of
issuance of the business license. This waiver shall not apply to an existing
business that has changed ownership or location within the district. The city
agrees to supply the district with timely information regarding new businesses
initiated within the district.
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-1-97)
§ 161.09 COLLECTION OF BENEFIT ASSESSMENT.
   The benefit assessment authorized by this chapter for city businesses (§
161.05) shall be billed and collected once each fiscal year on September 1st.
The city will bill and collect the benefit fees, at no charge to the district,
and forward all funds collected to the district within 30 days of said
collections. Late payment penalties may be applied to businesses that do not
provide their respective benefit fee payments on the dates provided for in this
chapter.
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-1-97)
§ 161.10 VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO DISTRICT.
   Contributions to the district shall be permitted on a voluntary basis. The
boundary of the district shall not be modified as a result of the contribution,
nor shall said contributing business be considered a member of the district for
voting or other purposes. However, said business making a voluntary
contribution may be entitled to participate in the programs of the district
upon a finding by the Board of Directors that the district derives a benefit
from said business' participation in the program.
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-1-97)
§ 161.11 ANNUAL BUDGET PROCESS.
   Pursuant to Cal. Sts. and High. Code § 36500 et seq., it shall be necessary
for the District Board of Directors to present an annual budget for City
Council review and approval prior to the beginning of any fiscal year. The
purpose of this process is to comply with the Code provisions regarding public
notice and hearing prior to establishing the benefit fees for the next fiscal
year. The city shall not adopt, modify or otherwise amend any fiscal year
budget of the district that is inconsistent in any way with said fiscal year's
budget as agreed to and presented by the District Board of Directors except in
the case of a written majority protest (regarding elimination or modification
of a specific budget item) from business owners which will pay 50% or more of
the benefit fees proposed to be levied as to any specific budget item pursuant
to Cal. Gov't. Code § 36525 (b). In such case the written protest regarding any
specific budget item shall be grounds to eliminate or modify said expenditure
from the district's proposed budget pursuant to the written protest.
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-1-97)
§ 161.12 DECISIONS REGARDING EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS.
   As provided for within the guidelines of SB 1424, decisions of the District
Board of Directors regarding expenditure of all funds generated under this
program shall be final.
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-1-97)
§ 161.13 DISTRICT PROCEEDS DO NOT OFFSET CITY SERVICES.
   The city specifically finds and declares that the funds derived from the
district shall not be used to offset or diminish current maintenance, capital
improvement programs, including but not limited to public property and sidewalk
cleaning, street cleaning and maintenance, tree maintenance, restroom cleaning
and maintenance. The city declares its intent to provide at least the same
level and standard of maintenance and repair of public property within the
district providing city funds are available from year to year.
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-1-97)
§ 161.14 PUBLIC PARKING.
   The proceeds of the benefit fees established under this chapter shall not be
used to acquire and/or construct additional public parking, unless such use of
the funds is first approved by a majority vote of the district members voting.
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-1-97)
§ 161.15 DISESTABLISHMENT OF THE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Proceeding to disestablish the district shall be initiated by the City
Council following the presentation of a petition to the City Council signed by
business owners paying 50% or more of the benefit fees levied in the district.
Proceedings to disestablish the district shall follow the procedures set forth
in Cal. Gov't. Code § 36550. The City Council shall disestablish the district
if, following the public hearing prescribed in § 36550 (b), written protests
are not withdrawn as to reduce the protests below the 50% level.
   (B)   In the event of disestablishment of the district, remaining revenues
of the district shall be refunded to paying business owners in a pro-rata
manner calculated in the same manner as was used to establish the most recent
fees applied in the district.
(Ord. 1218, passed 10-1-97)
CHAPTER 162: GRADING
Section
   
162.010   Title
   
162.020   Purpose
   
162.030   Definitions
   
162.040   Permit - required - exceptions
   
162.050   Permit - prohibited when
   
162.060   Permit required
   
162.070   Permit - types designated
   
162.080   Soil investigation report required
   
162.090   Permit application
   
162.100   Grading plan - requirements
   
162.110   Geotechnical reports
   
162.120   Landscaping and irrigation
   
162.130   Haul route
   
162.140   Additional data to be provided
   
162.150   Grading application - expiration - extension
   
162.160   Grading permit - expiration - extension
   
162.170   Permit denial
   
162.180   Permit - temporary suspension
   
162.190   Permit revocation
   
162.200   Fees - plan checking fees
   
162.210   Fees - geotechnical report review
   
162.220   Fees - grading permit
   
162.230   Fees - inspection
   
162.240   Fees - work commenced before permit issued
   
162.250   Fees - exemption
   
162.260   Fees - additional requirement
   
162.270   Fees - refunds
   
162.280   Security - cash deposit - corporate surety bond
   
162.290   Permit - work authorization
   
162.300   Additional permits
   
162.310   Permit - use
   
162.320   Right of entry - indemnification
   
162.330   Liability
   
162.340   Permittee responsibility - adjacent property protection
   
162.350   Protective devices - maintenance
   
162.360   Permittee responsibility - utilities protection
   
162.370   Permittee responsibility - permit contents
   
162.380   Environmental review - required
   
162.390   Environmental review - Significant impact determination
   
162.400   Environmental review - Environmental impact report waiver
   
162.410   Environmental review - Environmental impact report required when
   
162.420   Design responsibility
   
162.430   Design responsibility - transfer
   
162.440   Grading operation - hours permitted
   
162.450   Cut slope requirements
   
162.460   Fill slope requirements
   
162.470   Berms
   
162.480   Setbacks - generally
   
162.490   Setback - requirements
   
162.500   Setbacks - design standards
   
162.510   Drainage and terracing - generally
   
162.520   Drainage and terracing - terraces and drains
   
162.530   Drainage and terracing - interceptor drains
   
162.540   Subsurface drainage
   
162.550   Surface drainage
   
162.560   Drainage easement
   
162.570   Erosion control - required
   
162.580   Erosion control plan
   
162.590   Erosion control plan - plan information - required
   
162.600   Erosion control system standards
   
162.610   Depositing materials on streets prohibited
   
162.620   Clean up of materials on streets required
   
162.630   Dust control requirements
   
162.640   Adjoining property - protection
   
162.650   Inspection - initial
   
162.660   Inspection - types required
   
162.670   Final inspection - release of security, maintenance
   
162.680   Inspection - noncompliance notification
   
162.690   Inspection - specials
   
162.700   Inspection - stop work orders
   
162.710   Work completion
   
162.720   Use permits - variances
   
162.730   Nuisance declaration
 
   
162.999   Penalty
§ 162.010 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Grading Ordinance of the City of Indio.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.020 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the grading chapter is to establish an official set of
standards regulating the design and construction of building sites and the
development of property by grading; to regulate the alteration of the ground
surface to protect and preserve the public health, safety, general welfare,
aesthetic value and natural resources; to encourage contoured grading in
conformance with natural to encourage contoured grading in conformance with
natural terrain; to minimize differential settlement, slipping or sliding of
earth; to protect adjacent properties from damage caused by blockage, diversion
or channeling of natural run-off waters to require engineering and geological
analysis of soil conditions; to provide erosion control and proper drainage; to
provide a basis for the design of footings, floor slabs and structures to be
erected on parcels of land whose natural topography has been altered; to
establish an administrative procedure for issuance of permits; to provide for
approval of plans and inspection of grading construction; to supersede existing
local practices and conventions arising from and related to grading; to advance
the public health, safety and welfare by complimenting the local requirement
and implementation of stormwater pollution prevention plans (SWPPPs), plans for
the management and reduction of particulate matter with a diameter of less than
ten micrometers ("PM10"), and National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
("NPDES") plans; and to provide for the enforcement of the requirements
contained in this chapter.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.030 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVAL. A written professional opinion by the responsible principal of
record concerning the satisfactory progress and completion of the work under
this purview unless it specifically refers to the Director of Public Works.
   APPROVED PLANS. The most current grading plans which bear the signature of
approval of the Director of Public Works.
   APPROVED TESTING AGENCY.  A facility which spends the majority of its time
in the field of applied soil mechanics and foundation engineering; which is
equipped to perform and certify the tests and procedures required in this
chapter; and which operations are conducted under the responsible supervision
of a registered civil engineer.
   AS-GRADED. The surface configuration upon completion of grading.
   BEDROCK. In-place solid rock.
   BENCH. A relatively level step excavated into earth material on which fill
is to be placed.
   BORROW. Earth material acquired from an off- site location for use in
grading on a site.
   CITY ENGINEERING. The Director of Public Works or authorized
representatives.
   CIVIL ENGINEER. A professional engineer registered in the State of
California to practice in the field of civil engineering.
   CIVIL ENGINEERING. The application of the knowledge of the forces of nature,
principles of mechanics, and the properties of materials to evaluation, design
and construction of civil works for the beneficial uses of mankind.
   CLEARING, BRUSHING AND GRUBBING. The removal of vegetation (grass, brush,
trees and similar plant types) by mechanical means.
   COMPACTION. The densification of a fill by mechanical or other acceptable
means.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The city's Director of Public Works and/or his
authorized designee or representative.
   EARTH MATERIAL. Any rock, natural soil, or fill, and/or any combination
thereof.
   ENGINEERING GEOLOGIC REPORT. A report prepared under the supervision of an
engineering geologist providing a geologic map of a site, information on
geologic measurements and exploration performed on the site and surrounding
area and providing recommendation for remedial measures necessary to provide a
geologically stable site for its intended use.
   ENGINEERING GEOLOGIST. A geologist certified by the State of California to
practice engineering geology.
   ENGINEERING GEOLOGY.  The application of geologic knowledge and principles
in the investigation and evaluation of naturally occurring rock and soil for
use in the design of civil work.
   EROSION. The process by which the ground surface is worn away as a result of
the movement of wind or water.
   EROSION CONTROL SYSTEM. Any combination of desilting facilities, retarding
basins and erosion protection, including effective planting and the maintenance
thereof, to protect adjacent private property, watercourses, public facilities
and receiving waters from the deposition of sediment or dust.
   EVACUATION. Any act by which soil, sand, gravel or rock is cut into, dug,
quarried, uncovered, removed or relocated, and shall include the conditions
resulting therefrom.
   FAULT. A fracture in the earth's crust along which movement has occurred. A
fault is considered active if movement has occurred within the past eleven
thousand years (Holocene geologic time).
   FILL OR EMBANKMENT. A deposit of soil, sand, gravel, rock or other material
placed by artificial means.
   GEOHYDROLOGY. All groundwater, information, well development requirements
and seepage evaluations, appropriate to site development.
   GEOTECHNICAL REPORT. A report which contains all appropriate soil
engineering, geologic, geohydrologic, and seismic information, evaluation,
recommendations and findings. This type report combines both engineering
geology and soil engineering reports.
   GRADE. The vertical elevation of the ground surface.
      (1)   EXISTING GRADE. The ground surface prior to grading.
      (2)   FINISH GRADE. The final grade of the site which conforms to the
approved plan.
      (3)   NATURAL GRADE or NATURAL GROUND. The ground surface unaltered by
artificial means.
      (4)   ROUGH GRADE. The stage at which the grade approximately conforms to
the approved plan.
   GRADING. Any process of excavation or filling or combination thereof.
   GRADING CONTRACTOR. A contractor licensed and regulated by the State of
California who specializes in grading work or is otherwise licensed to do
grading work.
   GUIDELINES AND SPECIFICATIONS OF LANDSCAPE DEVELOPMENT. A guideline
containing information concerning the design, installation, and maintenance of
landscape and irrigation systems, as per city policy or as may be adopted by
the City Council by resolution.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Landscaping, landscape irrigation equipment, man-made drainage
devices such as terrace drains, dry wells, retaining walls, soil membranes,
geotextiles, etc. Improvements may be to public or private property.
   KEY. A designed compact fill placed in a trench excavated in earth material
beneath the toe of a proposed fill slope.
   KEYWAY. An excavated trench into competent earth material beneath the toe of
the proposed fill slope.
   LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT. A landscape architect registered by the State of
California.
   LANDSLIDE. The downward and outward movement of soil, sand, gravel, rock or
fill or a combination thereof.
   OWNER. Any person, agency, firm or corporation having a legal, possessory or
equitable interest in a given real property.
   PERMIT, FINISH GRADING. Finish grading permit a permit that is issued on the
basis of approved plans which show the precise locations of structures, finish
elevations, drainage details and all on-site improvements on a given property.
   PERMIT, ROUGH GRADING. A permit that is issued on the basis of approved
plans which show the precise locations of structures, finish elevations,
drainage details and all on-site Improvements on a given property.
   PERMITTEE. Any person or owner to whom a permit is issued pursuant to this
code.
   REFERENCES. Unless indicated otherwise, references in this code to civil
engineer, soil engineer, geologist, landscape architect and engineering
geologist refer to the professional person(s) preparing, signing or approving
the project plans and specifications which comprise the approved grading or
landscape-irrigation plan.
   RESOURCE CONSERVATION AREA. 
      (1)   Watercourses;
      (2)   Scenic corridor zones or other area officially designated by
federal, state or local governments as scenic areas;
      (3)   Areas of severe geologic hazard;
      (4)   Hillside areas;
      (5)   Archeological sites.
   RETAINING WALL. A wall designed to resist the lateral displacement of soil
or other materials.
   SITE. Any lot or parcel of land or contiguous lots or parcels, or
combination thereof, where grading is performed or permitted.
   SLOPE. An inclined ground surface of a fill, excavation, or natural terrain,
the inclination of which is expressed as a ratio of horizontal distance to
vertical distance. The height of a slope is the vertical measurement taken from
the toe of the slope to the top of the slope.
   SLOPE STABILITY.
      (1)   GROSS STABILITY. The factor of safety against failure of slope
material located below a surface approximately three to four feet deep,
measured from and perpendicular to the slope face.
      (2)   SURFICIAL STABILITY. The factor of safety against failure of the
outer three to four feet of slope material measured from and perpendicular to
the slope face.
   SOIL. Earth material of whatever origin, overlying bedrock and may include
the decomposed zone of bedrock which can be readily excavated by mechanical
equipment.
   SOIL ENGINEER. A civil engineer duly registered in the State of California,
who:
      (1)   Is engaged in the practice of civil engineering and spends a
majority of his or her time in the field of applied soil mechanics and
foundation engineering;
      (2)   Has at least four years of responsible practical experience in the
field of applied soil mechanics;
      (3)   Has access to an adequately equipped soils testing laboratory;
   SOIL ENGINEERING. The application of the principles of soil mechanics in the
investigation, evaluation, and design of civil works involving the use of earth
materials and the inspection and testing of the construction thereof.
   SOILS ENGINEERING REPORT. A report prepared under the responsible
supervision of a soils engineer which includes:
      (1)   Preliminary information concerning engineering, properties of soil
and rock on a site prior to grading, describing locations of these materials
and providing recommendations for preparation of the site for its intended use;
      (2)   Final grading report including information on site preparation,
compaction of fills placed, providing recommendations for structural design and
approving the site of its intended use.
   STOCKPILE. A temporary, uncompacted fill or embankment placed by artificial
means, which is designated or intended to be moved or relocation at a later
date.
   SUITABLE MATERIAL. Any soil or earth material which, under the criteria of
this chapter or under the criteria of an approved geotechnical report, is
suitable for use as fill or for any other intended purpose.
   SULFATE (SO4). A chemical compound occurring in soil or water, which in
concentration has a corrosive effect on ordinary portland cement concrete and
some metals.
   TERRACE. A relatively level step constructed in the face of a graded slope
surface for drainage and maintenance purposes.
   UNIFORM BUILDING CODE (U.B.C.). The latest edition of the UBC adopted by the
City of Indio, published by the International Conference of Building Officials.
   UNSUITABLE MATERIAL. Any soil or earth material having properties or
characteristics which, under the criteria of this chapter or under the criteria
continued in any approved geotechnical report, make it unsuitable for use as
fill or for any other intended use. There properties or characteristics include
but are not limited to: organic content of the material exceeds 3%; rock
diameters exceeding eight inches, the presence of concrete or asphalt, or the
presence of expansive soils within four feet of finish grade of any area
intended or designed as a location for a building.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.040 PERMIT---REQUIRED--EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct any grading, excavation, earth moving,
filling, clearing, brushing or grubbing on natural or existing grade, or
perform work that is preparatory to grading, without first having obtained a
valid grading permit in accordance with this chapter, except for the following:
      (1)   An excavation below finished grade for basements and footings for a
building, mobile home, retaining wall, septic system, or other structure
authorized by a valid building permit or excavation permit. This shall not
exempt any excavation having an unsupported height greater than five feet after
the completion of such structure, or an unsupported excavation with vertical
banks more than two feet high. This shall not prohibit a minimum fee grading
permit or soil or geologic report from being required for foundation design and
inspection purposes when, in the opinion of the Director of Public Works,
stability considerations warrant such inspection;
      (2)   Cemetery graves;
      (3)   Refuse disposal sites controlled by other regulations or agencies;
      (4)   Earthwork or construction controlled by the federal, state, county
or city governments or by a local agency as defined by Government Code Sections
53090 through 53095 (special districts); pipeline or conduit excavation and
backfill conducted by local agencies or public utilities. This exemption,
however, shall apply only when the earthwork construction takes place on the
property, or dedicated rights-of-way or easements of the above agencies;
      (5)   Excavation and backfill for installation of underground utilities
by public utilities or companies operating under the authority of a franchise
or public property encroachment permit. Notwithstanding this exception,
backfill shall comply with division (D) of §
162.460, Compaction;
      (6)   Mining, quarrying, excavating, processing, stockpiling of rock,
sand, gravel, aggregate or clay where established and provided for by law,
provided such operations do not affect the lateral support or increase the
stresses in or pressures upon any adjacent or contiguous property, or alter the
orientation of natural water courses which may result in adverse changes on
adjoining property;
      (7)   Exploratory excavations under the direction of soil engineers,
archaeologists or paleontologists, engineering geologists, provided all
excavations are properly backfilled or otherwise restored;
      (8)   An excavation which does not exceed 50 cubic yards on any site and
which is less than two feet in vertical depth and does not adversely affect the
stability of any existing slopes or alter drainage conditions;
      (9)   A fill less than one foot in depth, placed on a natural grade with
a slope flatter than five horizontal to one vertical, which does not exceed 50
cubic yards on any one lot and does not obstruct a drainage course;
      (10)   Except within an identified resource conservation area, or when
determined otherwise by the Director of Public Works, clearing, brushing and
minor grading for agricultural or livestock purposes provided all excavated
material is placed on the same site and such operations do not affect the
lateral support or increase the stresses in or pressures on any contiguous
property, or block or divert any natural water courses, or result in dumping or
organic or hazardous waste, or cause unreasonable downstream siltation. This
grading includes, but is not limited to, contour grading to provide for orchard
planting, minor leveling not exceeding three vertical feet of either
excavations or fill of two crops, installation of irrigation systems, and
stockpiling of fertilizer or other amendments.
   (B)   The exceptions stated in this §
162.040 do not apply to any excavation incorporating a slough wall with a
height of three feet or more.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.050 PERMIT - PROHIBITED WHEN.
   No person shall grade upon nor shall any permit be issued for grading upon
natural or existing grade steeper than two horizontal to one vertical unless
such grading is required to mitigate a geologic hazard to adjacent grade, or is
required for the construction of necessary access or fire roads, all as
approved by the Director of Public Works.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.060 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as exempted in this chapter, no person shall do any grading nor
shall an owner allow any grading on his or her property unless the person or
owner has a valid grading permit of the type described in §
162.070 issued by the Director of Public Works authorizing such grading. An
owner is presumed to have allowed grading which has been done on property
occupied by him or her or is under his or her dominion and control. This
presumption is a presumption affecting the burden of producing evidence. A
separate grading permit shall be required for each site. A grading permit may
authorize both excavations and fills.
   (B)   Any applicant for a permit under this chapter, not the owner holding
title to the property to be graded and/or improved pursuant to said permit,
shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works that said
applicant has the permission holding title to the owner of the property in
question to do all grading work and make all improvements subject to the
permit.
   (C)   Further, it shall be unlawful for any person to stockpile, deposit or
allow the placement, construction, or deposition of earth material on any real
property in excess of 50 cubic yards without first obtaining a grading permit,
described in this chapter, and without the subsequent processing of the
material, unless part of an approved stockpile grading plan.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.070 PERMIT - TYPES DESIGNATED.
   (A)   A rough grading permit or a finish grading permit may be issued for
grading work, upon completion of a property application, submittal or other
required date, and review and approval of grading plans by the Director of
Public Works.
   (B)   A stockpile grading permit may be issued for the temporary stockpile
of materials, provided the materials shall be removed from the stockpile site,
or compacted and worked thereon under a subsequently issued rough or finish
grading permit within six months of the issuance of the stockpile grading
permit, and provided further that the stockpile material is graded and placed
such that unreasonable erosion will not occur. A grading plan shall be required
for stockpile grading permit, and a cash deposit or other security may be
required by the Director of Public Works to issue property erosion control and
cleanup, and removal of the stockpile.
   (C)   Precise grading permit. No person shall construct concrete or
bituminous pavement surfacing, or any other surfacing material approved by the
Director of Public Works in a resource conservation area, in excess of 6,000
square feet, on natural or existing grade for the purpose of a private road or
travelway, or in excess of 1,000 square feet for any commercial, industrial,
multi-residential parking lot, without a valid grading permit unless waived by
the Director of Public Works or a separate improvement plan for such paving is
approved and signed by the Director of Public Works. Resurfacing or maintenance
of paved surfaces shall be exempt from this requirement.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.080 SOIL INVESTIGATION REPORT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works may require a soils investigation and/or
engineering geology report for any grading permit as he solely deems necessary
to correlate surface and subsurface conditions with the proposed grading plan.
The results of the investigation shall be presented in a soils report by a soil
engineer which shall include, but need not be limited to, data regarding the
nature, distribution and strength of existing soils and rock on the site; the
soils engineer's conclusions and recommendations for grading requirements,
including the correction of weak or unstable soil conditions and treatment of
any expansive soils that may be present; and his or her opinions as to the
adequacy of building sites to be developed by the proposed grading operations.
   (B)   The Director of Public Works may require such supplemental reports and
data as he or she deems necessary upon his or her review of the site and the
reports and other data submitted. Such test may include tests for soil
fertility and agricultural suitability to be performed at the conclusion of
rough grading by a recognized agronomic soil testing laboratory, with written
analysis and recommendation, to be utilized during any required landscaping.
   (C)   Recommendations included in such reports and approved by the Director
of Public Works, shall be incorporated in the grading plan, landscape-
irrigation plan and specifications.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.090 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Grading permit applications shall be provided in a form approved by
the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   A separate application with plans, specifications and other
supplemental data, shall be required for each grading permit. The application
shall be signed by the owner of the property to be graded.
   (C)   A complete grading permit application shall be submitted for city
review and approval along with the following items, completed and signed by the
applicant or his representatives, unless otherwise waived or specified by the
Director of Public Works, or this code:
      (1)   Application form;
      (2)   Grading plan (prints in duplicate);
      (3)   Preliminary soil investigation report (in duplicate);
      (4)   Preliminary geologic report (in duplicate);
      (5)   Erosion control plans (in duplicate);
      (6)   Grading plan check fee;
      (7)   Landscape and irrigation plan (in duplicate);
      (8)   Agronomic soils report;
      (9)   Hydrology and hydraulic report;
      (10)   Haul route, including source of borrow or disposal;
      (11)   Environmental assessment checklist (from planning department);
      (12)   Geotechnical report review fee.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.100 GRADING PLAN--REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A grading plan shall consist of a general set of plans of five mil
mylar reproducible sheets measuring 24 inches by 36 inches, drawn to an
engineering scale of a maximum of one inch equals 50 feet, showing the original
and designed finish contours, spot elevations of building pads and public
improvements, slope ratios, proposed and existing drainage facilities and
patterns, protective fencing, retaining walls, and any structures or buildings
on adjacent properties within 15 feet of the common property lines, and the
existing elevations of adjoining/adjacent properties and parcels.
   (B)   All grading plans shall be signed and stamped by a registered civil
engineer. The Director of Public Works may waive this requirement when in his
or her opinion the proposed grading entails little hazard to any property, and
either:
      (1)    The proposed grading meets the criteria for a stockpile permit; or
      (2)    The proposed grading does not exceed 100 cubic yards, is upon a
single lot or parcel, does not necessitate construction of extensive drainage
structures, erosion control facilities, or other facilities and does not
interfere in any way with existing natural or improved drainage courses or
channels.
   (C)   A statement of quantities shall be on the plan, giving the estimated
cubic yards or excavation, embankment, import, export, and the shrinkage or
swell factor.
   (D)   All grading plans shall also include a vicinity map, legend, address
of parcel, north arrow, bearing and distance of property lines, prominent
existing or natural terrain features, setbacks from tops and toes of slopes to
property lines or other features, daylight lines, and drainage patterns.
   (E)   Finish grading plans shall show the footprint for all proposed
structures, setback distances therefrom, detailed finish grading, finish floor
elevations, yard swales and drains, all concrete sidewalks, driveways or
flatwork which will be used for drainage and drainage retention areas.
   (F)   The title sheet of all grading plans shall show the names, addresses
and phone numbers of the site owner, the responsible civil engineer, project
soil engineer and geologist, and the subdivider or developer of the property if
different from the owner. At least one print submitted to the Director of
Public Works shall be signed by the soil engineer and geologist.
   (G)   The grading plans shall also show such other information as required
by the Director of Public Works.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.110 GEOTECHNICAL REPORTS.
   (A)   Two copies of the soil investigation/ geotechnical report required in
§
162.080 shall be submitted as part of the application for grading permit. Each
report shall contain all information applicable to the project and shall be
prepared in accordance with generally accepted geotechnical engineering
practice.
   (B)   Recommendations contained in the approved reports shall be
incorporated into the grading plans and specifications and shall become
conditions of the grading permit.
      (1)   Preliminary Soil Report. The preliminary (initial) soil engineering
report shall include information and data regarding the nature, distribution,
physical and chemical properties of existing soils including, but not limited
to, expansion index and soluble sulfate content; conclusions as to adequacy of
the site for the proposed grading; recommendations for general and corrective
grading procedures; foundation and pavement design criteria; and shall provide
other recommendations, as necessary, commensurate with the project grading and
development.
      (2)   Preliminary Engineering Geology Report. Engineering geologic
reports shall be required for all developments on hillside sites where geologic
conditions are considered to have a substantial effect on existing and/or
future site stability. This requirement may be extended to other sites
suspected of being adversely affected by faulting, or by landslides. The
preliminary (initial) engineering geology report shall include a comprehensive
description of the site topography and geology including, where necessary, a
geologic map; an opinion as to the adequacy of the proposed development from an
engineering geologic standpoint; an opinion as to the extent that known or
reasonably inferred instability on adjacent properties may adversely affect the
project; a description of the field investigation and findings; conclusions
regarding the effect of geologic conditions on the proposed development, and
shall provide other recommendations as necessary, commensurate with the project
grading and development. The preliminary engineering geology report may be
combined with the preliminary soil engineering report.
      (3)   Final Engineering Soils/Geology Report. The final engineering
soils/geology report shall be submitted upon completion of all grading
operations and shall include a comprehensive description of the findings and
conclusions, including but not limited to the results of compaction tests,
arising from and related to the grading operation, and a statement that all
issues and concerns raised in the Preliminary Engineering Geology Report and
Preliminary Soil Engineering Report have been resolved to the satisfaction of
the Director of Public Works.
   (C)   Seismicity/Liquefaction Report.
      (1)   A seismicity/liquefaction report shall be required as a condition
for issuance or a grading permit and/or building permit for all subdivisions
(tracts); and all sites for critical structures (fire stations, nursing homes,
etc.) and major structures, as determined by the Director of Public Works.
Additionally, sites containing earthquake-sensitive earth materials and/or
sites that are located on or near potentially active or active faults shall
also require a seismicity/liquefaction report, as determined by the Director of
Public Works.
      (2)   The report shall be prepared by an engineering geologist,
geophysicist or a civil engineer with expertise in earthquake technology and
its application to buildings and other civil engineering works. The scope of
the report shall be commensurate with the proposed development and shall
reflect the state of the art. The seismic report may be combined with the soil
and engineering geology reports.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.120 LANDSCAPING AND IRRIGATION.
   (A)   Landscaping and irrigation facilities shall be required for, but not
limited to, all graded slopes greater than five feet in height, and for all
graded areas determined by the Director of Public Works to be susceptible to
erosion, within all residential, commercial and industrial development,
subdivisions, condominium projects, planned developments, borrow area, disposal
areas and other grade areas, unless such requirement is waived or amended by
the Director of Public Works. A landscape and irrigation plan shall be required
therefor.
   (B)   Landscape and irrigation plans shall be prepared and signed by a
landscape architect, or by a qualified landscape company or other person, when
approved by the Director of Public Works, based upon the scope, magnitude and
complexity of the project, and may be subject to city review and shall be
approved by the Community Development Director and the Director of Public
Works.
   (C)   The plan shall conform to good, accepted standard procedures and
requirements with special consideration for soil conditions encountered within
the project area. The plan shall include specifications for the preparation of
the existing soils or for the application of topsoil or amendment to the slopes
to encourage vigorous growth. The landscape architect shall be responsible for
full compliance with the city standards and procedures as may be detailed in
the city's policies, guidelines and specifications for landscape development as
established and adopted from time to time. Extraordinary effort shall be made
to develop water conservation programs through the planting, irrigation and
maintenance plans and specifications.
   (D)   Landscape and irrigation plans prepared for projects subject to the
provisions of §
54.063 (Water Efficient Landscape Development Standards) shall also comply with
the procedures and standards set forth in that section.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05; Am. Ord. 1684, passed 1-20-16)
§ 162.130 HAUL ROUTE.
   (A)   If the grading project includes the movement of earth material to or
from the site in an amount considered substantial by the Director of Public
Works, the permittee shall submit the haul route for review and approval by the
Public Works Department. Alternate routes or special requirement in
consideration of the possible impact on the adjacent community environment, or
effect on the public right-of-way itself, may be prescribed by the Director of
Public Works as a condition of the grading permit. The haul route shall be
approved prior to issuance of a grading permit. The haul route or the following
note shall be shown on the grading plan: This plan is not an approved grading
plan without an attached haul route plan approved by the Director of Public
Works.
   (B)   Deviation from this designated haul route shall constitute a violation
of the conditions of the permit issued under this chapter. When the Director of
Public Works does specify a route, he or she shall do so in writing and shall
notify the city police department that the haul route has been specified.
   (C)   The Director of Public Works may further specify load limits where, in
his or her opinion, the standard load capacity of vehicles used in such hauling
would cause excessive damage to streets on the designated route. Any grading or
hauling contractor moving earth material in violation of this chapter shall be
financially responsible for any damage to the public streets done by the
hauling vehicles, and shall pay to the city the cost, as determined by the
Director of Public Works, of repairing such damage.
   (D)   At least 24 hours before hauling is to commence, the applicant shall
also be required to notify the city police department and the Director of
Public Works. The Police Department or Director of Public Works may require
traffic control devices to be provided by the applicant where reasonably
necessary to protect the health, safety and general welfare.
   (E)   The permit may specify other conditions, including the posting of cash
bond, which may be shown necessary in order to minimize disruption of normal
traffic activities and public inconvenience, and to prevent or minimize damage
to public or private streets or improvements.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.140 ADDITIONAL DATA TO BE PROVIDED.
   (A)   When required by the Director of Public Works, the applicant shall
submit hydrology and hydraulic calculations and drainage area maps to determine
the quantity of runoff generated by or tributary to the city, and its effects
on the site or upon upstream or downstream properties. Erosion and sediment
transfer studies, and other supporting data may be required.
   (B)   Limits of inundation on the subject property during condition of
specified storm frequencies may be required to be delineated on the grading
plan, along with the submittal of supporting calculations.
      (1)   Properties of one acre or greater in size shall be designed to
retain the 100-year, 24-hour, duration storm on site. Such properties shall
retain this duration storm on site or provide a drainage system to convey the
drainage to an acceptable retention site as determined by the Director of
Public Works. Such a drainage system shall include a provision to fully address
disposal of nuisance water to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works.
      (2)   Properties of less than one acre in size shall incorporate
retention and drainage systems and/or properties approved by the Director of
Public Works; such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
   (C)   The civil engineer responsible for preparation of the plans shall also
certify that the building pads to be created through any proposed grading, are
free from inundation from runoff from specified storms, and to provide
floodplain elevations, and widths, sheet flow depths, floodway elevation and
widths, and any other data required by the Director of Public Works, or by any
applicable county, state or federal flood protection or insurance program or
requirement.
   (D)   The civil engineer or applicant may also be required to prepare and
submit, suitable studies and data regarding percolation and permeability
characteristics of the soils and their suitability for the use of septic tanks
ground water hydrology studies, data, and tests regarding the quantity and
quality of ground water which can be produced from properties not served by
water systems, and its adequacy for domestic and agricultural use and for fire
protection.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.150 GRADING APPLICATION - EXPIRATION - EXTENSION.
   (A)   Grading permit applications for which a valid grading permit has not
been issued, whether or not the grading plans have been approved and signed by
the Director of Public Works, shall expire automatically, 180 days after
receipt of the application by the city, after which time the application and
plans shall be deemed as expired and invalid. The plans, application
requirements, and necessary fees may be altered or changed at any time between
application submittal and permit issuance under the following conditions:
      (1)   A change of policy or direction by the City Council;
      (2)   A change in the grading ordinance or fee structure approved by City
Council;
      (3)   A discovery that the plans, application, or fees violate or do not
meet existing ordinance or policy, or discovery of any design defect, soil or
geologic hazard, or any other fact or item which if left unchanged could cause
damage, harm or hazard to public or private properties, or to life, limb or the
general public safety or welfare.
   (B)   If such discoveries are made and changes are so directed, the
applicant shall be granted an extension of the application expiration date for
30 days, or for such other period as the Director of Public Works may grant to
the applicant, to allow for all required changes to reasonably be made and
accomplished.
   (C)   The time limits in this section shall apply to all grading plans and
applications submitted prior to the effective day of the ordinance codified in
this chapter.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.160 GRADING PERMIT - EXPIRATION - EXTENSION.
   (A)   Every duly issued grading permit shall be valid for a period of six
months from the date of issuance, and all work covered in the permit shall be
completed within that period, except as specified in this section.
   (B)   Expiration.
      (1)   Every permit issued shall expire by limitation and shall become
null and void if the work authorized by the permit is not commenced and
diligently pursued within 90 days from the date of permit issuance, or if after
work is commenced, the work is terminated, stopped, suspended or abandoned for
a period of 90 days.
      (2)   Upon written request from the permittee, submitted prior to the
expiration of the 90-day period in which work was to commence, the Director of
Public Works may extend the period in which the permittee must start work for
no more than two successive periods of 90 days each, provided the permittee
demonstrates to his or her satisfaction that circumstances beyond the
permittee's control prevented his or her commencement of the approved work. If
work is not commenced, or diligently pursued within the extension periods
specified in this section, then the permit shall thereafter be deemed expired
and null and void.
   (C)   If the work authorized by the grading permit is not completed within
the six-month permit period, the Director of Public Works, upon written request
from the permittee, submitted prior to the expiration of the six-month period,
may extend the permit for a period or periods reasonably necessary to complete
the work. The total of all such extension shall not exceed a total of one
additional year.
   (D)   City's intent in enacting this chapter is that there will generally be
no extension of grading permits beyond the initial six month term of validity.
However, city intends this §
162.160 to provide the Director of Public Works with the discretion necessary
to implement and enforce this chapter equitably.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, diligently pursued work shall be
grading of such magnitude, frequency or complexity so as to require the regular
services of the permittee's soil engineer, and/or civil engineer, or other
professional and which is inspected at regular intervals, by the city.
   (F)   As a condition of the extension of any grading permit time period, the
Director of Public Works may require the payment of additional permit fees,
inspection fees, or other additional fees as are required to cover the
administration of the extensions or to meet any fee schedule then in effect.
   (G)   If the permittee is unable to complete the work within the original
permit period, or any extension thereof as provided in division (C) of this
section, or has failed to request the extension in division (C) of this
section, the Director of Public Works, upon written request and justification
submitted 30 days following the permit's expiration, may renew the grading
permit for a period not to exceed six months.
   (H)   The Director of Public Works may require the payment of additional
fees for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Extension or renewal of the grading permit;
      (2)   Enlargement of the scope or quantity of grading or any change which
increases the need for inspection or administration of the project.
   (I)   The Director of Public Works may require the amendment or change of
approved grading plans, erosion control plans, or landscape-irrigation plans
for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Extension or renewal of the grading permit;
      (2)   Changes have been made in the actual work which is not reflected on
the approved plans;
      (3)   Enlargement of the scope or quantity of grading;
      (4)   Construction, traffic, drainage, soil, geologic, public safety or
environmental problems not considered, known or evident at the time of permit
issuance or plan approval.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.170 PERMIT DENIAL.
   (A)   General Plan Consistency. If, in the opinion of the Community
Development Director, the land area on which the grading is proposed is not
consistent with the general plan, the grading permit shall be denied.
   (B)   Hazardous Grading. The Director of Public Works shall not issue a
grading permit in any case where he or she finds or when it may reasonably be
inferred that the work as proposed by the applicant will:
      (1)   Damage any private or public property; or
      (2)   Expose any property to landslide or geologic hazard; or
      (3)   Adversely interfere with existing drainage courses or patterns; or
      (4)   Cause erosion which could result in the depositing of mud, silt or
debris on any public or private street or way; or
      (5)   Create any hazard to person or property. If it can be shown to the
satisfaction of the Director of Public Works that the hazard can be mitigated
by the construction of retaining structures, buttresses, fills, drainage
structures or facilities or by other means, the Director of Public Works may
issue the grading permit on the condition that such construction be performed
and the revision of the grading plans accordingly.
   (C)   Geological Hazard. If, in the opinion of the Director of Public Works,
the land area for which grading is proposed is subject to geological hazard to
the extent that no reasonable amount of corrective work can eliminate or
sufficiently reduce the hazard to person or property, the grading permit shall
be denied.
   (D)   Flood Hazard. If, in the opinion of the Director of Public Works, the
proposed grading would adversely affect the flow of runoff in any identified
floodplain of floodway, or would alter runoff to the detriment of upstream,
downstream or adjacent properties, the grading permits shall be denied.
   (E)   Subdivision or Use Permit. Under either of the following
circumstances, a grading permit shall not be issued unless and until a
tentative map or subdivision or a use permit has been approved or conditionally
approved:
      (1)   If the purpose of the proposed grading as stated in the application
is to prepare the land for subdivision or for some use for which a use permit
is required; or
      (2)   Notwithstanding the purpose of the proposed grading as stated in
the application, if the Director of Public Works and the Director of Community
Development find that the purpose of the proposed grading is to prepare the
land for subdivisions or for some use for which a use permit is required.
   (F)   Other Reasons. The Director of Public Works shall deny the issuance of
a grading permit if so directed by the City Council, if prohibited therefrom by
a duly enacted moratorium, court order, injunction, or other legal order, or if
the applicant or owner has failed to comply with the provisions of this code or
any particular condition of approval or requirement arising from application of
the California Environmental Quality Act related to the project and/or grading
operation in question, or if the work proposed is not consistent with the City
of Indio general plan, or any element thereof, or any specific plan, use
permit, land use ordinance or regulation, or zoning ordinance or regulation.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.180 PERMIT - TEMPORARY SUSPENSION.
   The Director of Public Works shall have the authority to temporarily suspend
all work on a grading project and suspend the permit if he or she determines
that field conditions present an immediate hazard or danger to life or
property, or if the permittee fails to or refuses to correct a deficiency or
hazard, or if the work being done is contrary to the approved plans or
conditions thereof, or if there is lack of supervision of the grading
operation, lack of engineering control, soil engineering control is not being
adequately provided, or for any other condition which in the Director of Public
Works' opinion, presents a threat to the public safety or welfare immediately,
or in the future, and which may cause unstable earth conditions. This temporary
suspension shall continue in effect until the hazard or condition is removed to
the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.190 PERMIT - REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works shall have the power to revoke any permit
granted under the provisions of this chapter if the Director of Public Works
determines that the permit was obtained by fraud, or that one or more of the
conditions upon which the permit was granted have been violated, or that the
permittee failed or refused to correct a deficiency or a hazard upon the
receipt of written notice and within the time specified in such notices; or
that the permittee fails or refuses to perform any of the work required, or
fails or refuses to conform with any of the conditions or standards established
for any subdivision, lot division, use permit or the approval granted by city
or fails to eliminate any hazard or condition as referred to in §
162.180.
   (B)   The permittee, owner or other party aggrieved or adversely affected by
the revocation of the grading permit may appeal such action to the City
Council. Any such appeal shall be in writing and shall be submitted to the City
Clerk, and shall cite reasons and contain other information as necessary to
explain why the Director of Public Works' action should be rescinded or
modified. Upon receipt of any such written appeal, the City Clerk shall set the
matter for public hearing.
   (C)   All grading work shall be suspended between the date the permittee is
notified of the hearing and the date upon which the City Council renders its
decision. Any interested person may appear at the hearing and present evidence.
At the conclusion of a hearing on an appeal of a permit revocation, the Council
may deny the appeal, modify existing conditions of, or add new conditions to
the permit, or reinstate the permit or impose any penalty provided by law. The
decision of the City Council shall be final.
   (D)   If a permit is revoked, no further work shall be done upon that site
except the correction of hazards, and the completion of any work required by
the permittee's agreement. Every agreement and every security required by this
chapter shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any such
revocation.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.200 FEES - PLAN CHECKING FEES.
   (A)   Before accepting an application and set of grading and/or landscape-
irrigation plans and specifications for checking, the Director of Public Works
shall collect a plan checking fee. Separate permits and fees shall apply to
retaining walls or major drainage structures, as indicated elsewhere in the
city ordinance. There shall be no separate charge for standard terrace drains
and similar facilities. The amount of plan checking fee for grading and
landscape-irrigation plans shall be as set forth by City Council resolution.
   (B)   The plan checking fee for a grading permit authorizing additional work
to that under a valid permit shall be the difference between the plan checking
fee paid for the original permit and the fee required for the entire project.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.210 FEES - GEOTECHNICAL REPORT REVIEW.
   Before accepting a geotechnical report for review, the Director of Public
Works shall collect a report review fee. A separate fee will be charged for
each individual report submitted for review. The amount of the report review
fee shall be as set forth by City Council resolution.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.220 FEES - GRADING PERMIT.
   (A)   A fee for each grading permit shall be paid to the Director of Public
Works as set forth by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   A fee for a grading permit authorizing additional work to that under a
valid permit shall be the difference between the fee paid for the original
permit and the fee shown for the entire project.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.230 FEES - INSPECTION.
   Prior to the issuance of a grading permit, there shall be paid to the
Director of Public Works a fee to cover the city's expenses, costs and overhead
for field inspection, office engineering, and administration of the work
performed, including landscape and irrigation work. The amount of the
inspection fee shall be as set forth by City Council resolution.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.240 FEES - WORK COMMENCED BEFORE PERMIT ISSUED.
   In addition to any penalty prescribed for violation of this code or for
violation of the provisions of this chapter, and in addition to the fees
required in this chapter, a double fee shall be assessed for any work for which
a permit is required by this chapter, commenced prior to obtaining such permit.
Payment of such fee shall not relieve any person from any liability under the
provisions of this code or from fully complying with the requirements of this
division. The fee prescribed by this §
162.240 is not intended and shall not be construed as a penalty but is added to
defray the specific expense of enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.250 FEES - EXEMPTION.
   Permits for grading for soil and water conservation projects, when approved
and inspected by a county, state or federal agency, may be issued without
payment of any or all of the fees in this chapter.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.260 FEES - ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENT.
    The applicant for a grading permit shall pay other fees related to
development as required by city code.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.270 FEES - REFUNDS.
   (A)   No fee collected pursuant to this chapter, shall be refunded in whole
or in part, except as provided in this section.
      (1)   Plan checking fees may be refunded, less any city expenses,
including overhead incurred, upon the applicant's request, provided the grading
application or permit has expired, or is withdrawn by the applicant. A handling
charge shall be deducted from any such refund. The maximum fee refund shall be
80% of the total fee paid.
      (2)   Geotechnical report review fee may be refunded, less any city
expenses, including overhead incurred, upon the applicant's request, provided
the grading application or permit has expired or is withdrawn by the applicant,
or if the project does not warrant geotechnical reports to be prepared. A
handling charge shall be deducted from any such refund.
      (3)   Grading permit fees. Prior to the issuance of a grading permit, any
permit fees paid shall be fully refundable, less a handling charge, upon the
applicant's request. There shall be no refund after issuance of a permit.
      (4)   Grading inspection fees may be refunded in full, less a handling
charge, at any time prior to the start of the work authorized by the permit,
upon the applicant's request, provided the grading application has expired or
has been withdrawn. After issuance of a permit and commencement of work, these
fees may be refunded, less any city expense, including overhead incurred, upon
the permittee's request, providing the permit has expired or has been withdrawn
by the permittee.
      (5)   No refund shall be made if the applicant or permittee has any
outstanding debts owed to the city, or if corrective work remains to be done on
the grading work itself.
   (B)   No refund shall be made pursuant to this section if a request for
refund is submitted to the city more than one year from the date of payment of
the fee as to which a refund is claimed; nor shall any refund be paid if the
total refundable amount, after deduction of city costs as provided in this
chapter is less than $25.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.280 SECURITY - CASH DEPOSIT - CORPORATE SURETY BOND.
   (A)   Security to be posted.
      (1)   No grading permit shall be issued for grading involving the
movement of more than 50 cubic yards of soil unless the applicant shall first
post a security with the city comprised of a cash deposit or a combination cash
deposit and a corporate surety bond of a surety authorized to do business in
the State of California, instrument of credit or other security all as
satisfactory to the City Attorney, pledging the performance of the work,
installation of required structures, drains, erosion control, landscaping,
irrigation, and the like and agreeing such funds are trust funds for the
purposes of satisfying the cost of correcting any deficiency or any hazard or
injury created by the work or its lack of maintenance. An irrevocable standby
letter of credit issued by a financial institution chartered by the State of
California or federal government may be posted in lieu of the surety bond,
instrument of credit or other security. If the Director of Public Works
determines that the size, complexity, and scope of the work do not justify the
full amount of the security, he or she may waive all or part of the amount to
the extent that there is no hazard or danger.
      (2)   The total security shall be in the form approved by the City
Attorney. The total amount of the security shall be equal to 30% of the
estimated cost of the grading work authorized by the permit, plus an additional
sum equal to 100% of the estimated cost of the construction of retaining walls
and sprinkler irrigation systems, landscaping and drainage structures or
facilities (including standard terrace drains, slope planting, erosion control
facilities, and similar facilities) authorized by the permit. The estimated
cost of the work shall be determined by the Director of Public Works after
reviewing the civil engineer's estimates.
      (3)   The cash deposit shall be equal to 30% of the total security
required for projects where the total security required is $75,000 or less,
plus an additional 5% of the total security required when the security is over
$75,000. In no instance shall the cash deposit be less than $1,000. This cash
deposit shall be used to satisfy the cost of correcting any deficiency, hazard,
or injury created by the work in violation of the terms and conditions of the
grading permit and in violation of the provisions of this code or any other
applicable law or ordinance; or for the maintenance cleanup or repair of any
public or private street or easement, or for the maintenance, cleanup or repair
of any maintenance, upkeep, or installation of debris basins, erosion control
devices, etc. Use of the cash deposit or a portion thereof shall in no way
limit or release the obligation of the permittee or surety to satisfy the cost
of correcting any deficiency, hazard or injury created by the work or to
maintain same in a safe condition. If the amount of the cash deposit is
insufficient to satisfy the cost in full, the surety shall be liable to satisfy
the remainder of the cost in excess of the cash deposit to the extent that the
remainder does not exceed the full penalty amount of the bond. In addition, if
suit is brought upon the bond by the city and judgment is revoked, the surety
shall pay all cost incurred by the city in such suit, including a reasonable
attorney's fee to be fixed by the court.
   (B)   Every bond and instrument of credit shall include and every cash
deposit and letter of credit shall be made on the conditions that the permittee
shall:
      (1)   Comply with all the provisions of this code, applicable laws and
ordinances;
      (2)   Comply with all the terms and conditions of the grading permit to
the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works;
      (3)   Complete all of the work contemplated under the grading permit
within the time limit specified in the grading permit, or if no time limit is
so specified, the time limit specified in this chapter. The Director of Public
Works may, for sufficient cause, extend the time specified in the permit, but
no such extension shall release the owner or the surety on the bond or person
issuing the instrument of credit.
   (C)   Each bond shall remain in effect until the completion of the work to
the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works.
   (D)   In the event of failure to complete the work or failure to comply with
all of the conditions and terms of the grading permit, the Director of Public
Works may order such work as in his or her opinion is necessary to correct any
deficiencies or eliminate any dangerous condition and leave the site in a safe
condition or may order the work authorized by the permit to be completed to a
safe and stable condition to this satisfaction. The permittee and the surety
executing such bond or person issuing the instrument of credit, letter of
credit or making the cash deposit shall continue to be firmly bound under a
continuing obligation for the payment of all necessary costs and expenses that
may be incurred or expended by the city in causing any and all such work to be
done. In the case of a cash deposit, any unused portion thereof shall be
refunded to the permittee.
   (E)   Posted security for a grading permit issued pursuant to this chapter
shall only be released to owner in conformance with §
162.670.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.290 PERMIT - WORK AUTHORIZATION.
   The issuance of a grading permit shall constitute an authorization to do
only that work which is described or illustrated on the application for the
permit, or on the plans and specifications approved by the Director of Public
Works and the work shall be done in accordance with any conditions imposed by
the Director of Public Works and in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.300 ADDITIONAL PERMITS.
   Permits issued pursuant to this chapter shall not relieve the owner of
responsibility for securing required permits for work to be done which is
regulated by any other provision of this code or by any other person, body or
agency. Owners seeking a grading permit pursuant to this chapter shall be fully
responsible to comply with all federal, state and local authority and
regulations applicable to SWPPPs, PM10 plans, and NPDES plans, including but
not limited to an owner's fulfillment of permit compliance responsibilities as
a "co-permittee" as defined by 40 CFR 122.26(b)(1), as that provision may be
amended or superseded from time to time, if any.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.310 PERMIT - USE.
   No grading permit shall be issued when borrow or waste material is to be
removed from a grading site unless a use permit has been issued for the
operation of a borrow pit on the grading site, a legally nonconforming borrow
pit is being operated on the grading site, or the grading comes within one of
the exceptions listed in the zoning ordinance of the city.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.320 RIGHT OF ENTRY - INDEMNIFICATION.
   As a condition of issuance of any grading permit, the owner of the site to
be graded and the contractor, if any, shall grant to the city a right of entry
on the site for the purposes of inspection and the for purposes of correction
of grading not performed in compliance with the terms and conditions of the
permit. The owner and the contractor shall agree to indemnify the city for any
claims or damages which may result from the city's entry onto the property
including any corrective action taken pursuant to such right of entry. The
right of entry and indemnification agreement shall be on a form approved by the
City Attorney.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.330 LIABILITY.
   (A)   Neither the issuance of a permit under the provisions of this chapter,
nor the compliance with the provisions of this chapter or with any conditions
imposed by any city official under this chapter, shall relieve any person from
any responsibility for damage to persons or property otherwise imposed by law,
nor impose any liability upon the city for damage to persons or property.
   (B)   The Director of Public Works or any employee charged with the
enforcement of this chapter, acting in good faith and without malice for the
city in the discharge of his or her duties, shall not thereby render himself or
herself liable personally and he or she is relieved from all personal liability
for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act
required or by reason of any act or omission in the discharge of his duties.
Any suit brought against the Director of Public Works or employee, because of
such act or omission performed by him or her in the enforcement of any
provisions of this chapter, shall be defended by the city until final
termination of the proceedings.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.340 PERMITTEE RESPONSIBILITY - ADJACENT PROPERTY PROTECTION.
   Notwithstanding the minimum standards set forth in this chapter, the
permittee is responsible for the prevention of damage to adjacent property and
no person shall excavate on land so close to the property line as to endanger
any adjoining public street, sidewalk, alley or any other public or private
property without supporting and protecting such property from settling,
cracking or other damage which might result.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.350 PROTECTIVE DEVICES - MAINTENANCE.
   The owner of any property on which a fill or excavation has been made
pursuant to a permit granted under the provisions of this chapter, or any other
person or agent in control of such property shall maintain in good condition
and repair all retaining walls, cribbing, drainage structures or and other
protective devices and planting shown in the approved plans and specifications
or in the as-built plans or required by the permit. Facilities dedicated for
use by the public and accepted for such use by a public agency are excepted
from this maintenance requirement.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.360 PERMITTEE RESPONSIBILITY - UTILITIES PROTECTION.
   During grading operations the permittee shall be responsible for the
prevention of damage to any public utilities or services. This responsibility
applies within the limits of grading and along any routes of travel of
equipment. At least 48 hours prior to excavating, permittee shall request
utility locations by contacting Underground Service Alert at 1-800-422-4133.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.370 PERMITTEE RESPONSIBILITY - PERMIT CONTENTS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the permittee to be knowledgeable of the
conditions and/or restrictions placed on the grading permit and as outlined in
applicable sections of this code, and as contained on the approved grading
plans as in the approved geotechnical report(s). The permittee shall also be
responsible to maintain in an obvious and accessible location on the site, a
copy of the permit and grading plans bearing the approval of the Director of
Public Works.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.380 ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW - REQUIRED.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of any grading permit, the Director of Public
Works shall refer the application for such permit to the community development
department for review and determination whether the proposed grading could have
a significant effect upon the environment. The environmental review shall be
conducted in accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act
guidelines and state statutes. However, such application need not be referred
to the community development department if the following condition is met: The
City Council, a commission or city officer having final authority for project
approval has adopted an environmental impact report which considered the
proposed grading or has determined that the project, which included the
proposed grading, would not have a significant effect upon the environment.
   (B)   Anything contained in this section to the contrary notwithstanding, if
in the opinion of the Director of Public Works and the Community Development
Director, there are unusual conditions with respect to the property for which
an application is filed which renders an environmental review desirable or
necessary, the Director of Public Works shall refer the application to the
community development department for the aforementioned determination. Such
unusual conditions include but are not limited to land located in resource
conservation areas as follows:
      (1)   Watercourses;
      (2)   Scenic corridor zones or other area officially designated by
federal, state or local governments as scenic areas;
      (3)   Areas of severe geologic hazard;
      (4)   Hillside areas;
      (5)   Archeological sites.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
  § 162.390 ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW - SIGNIFICANT IMPACT DETERMINATION.
   The City Community Development Department shall review each application
referred to it to determine whether the grading, if carried out as proposed,
could have a significant effect upon the environment.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.400 ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT WAIVER.
   If the Community Development department determines that the proposed grading
would not have a significant effect upon the environment, it shall so inform
the applicant and the Director of Public Works. Upon receipt of notification of
such determination, the Director of Public Works may issue the grading permit
without requiring an environmental impact report.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.410 ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT REQUIRED WHEN.
   If the community development department determines that the proposed grading
could have a significant effect upon the environment, the grading permit shall
not be issued unless and until the adoption of an environmental impact report,
or other environmental clearance, prepared pursuant to the California
Environmental Quality Act and city rules and procedures adopted pursuant
thereto.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.420 DESIGN RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the civil engineer who prepared the
grading plans to incorporate the applicable recommendations from the soil
engineering and engineering geology reports into the grading plan. The civil
engineer shall be responsible for establishing line and grade for the grading
and drainage improvement and shall act as the coordinating agent in the event
the need arises for liaison between the other professionals, the contractor,
and the Director of Public Works. The civil engineer shall also be responsible
for the preparation of plan revisions and upon completion of the work, the
submission of as-built grading plans incorporating all changes and/or additions
made during construction. The civil engineer shall certify that the completed
grading is in substantial conformance with the approved plan.
   (B)   Likewise, the designing landscape architect shall incorporate
applicable recommendations from the agronomic soils reports along with
appropriate measures related to soils engineering and engineering geology
reports into the landscape-irrigation plans. The landscape architect shall also
prepare plan revisions for the submission of as-built drawings incorporating
all changes and/or additions made during construction. For detailed guidelines
for plan preparation the landscape architect shall thoroughly familiarize
himself with the city policies, and its guidelines and specifications for
landscape development.
   (C)   Soil engineering and engineering geology reports shall be required as
specified in this code. During grading, all necessary reports, compaction data,
soil engineering and engineering geology recommendations and reports shall be
submitted to the Director of Public Works. The soil engineer's area of
responsibility shall include, but not be limited to, the professional
inspection and approval concerning the preparation of ground to receive fills,
testing for required compaction, stability of all finish slopes, design of
buttress fills where required, and incorporating data supplied by the
engineering geologist.
   (D)   The engineering geologist's area of responsibility shall include, but
not be limited to, professional inspection and approval of the stability of cut
slopes with respect to geological matters, and the need for subdrains or other
groundwater drainage devices. He or she shall report his or her findings to the
soil engineer for engineering analysis.
   (E)   The Director of Public Works or his or her representative shall
inspect the project at intervals necessary to determine that adequate
inspection and testing is being exercised by the professional consultants.
   (F)   When preliminary soil engineering reports are not required by the
Director of Public Works, they may require inspection and approval by a soil
engineer. The soil engineer's responsibility shall include, but not be limited
to, approval of cleared areas and benches to receive fill, and the compaction
and testing of fills and their inspection and approval.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.430 DESIGN RESPONSIBILITY - TRANSFER.
   (A)   If the civil engineer, the soil engineer, the engineering geologist,
the testing agency, or the grading contractor of record are changed during the
course of the work, the work shall be stopped until:
      (1)   The owner submits a letter of notification verifying the change of
the responsible professional; and
      (2)   The new responsible professional submits in writing that he or she
has reviewed all prior reports and/or plans (specified by date and title) and
work performed by the prior responsible professional, and that he or she
concurs with the findings, conclusions and recommendations, and is satisfied
with the work performed. He or she must state that he or she assumes all
responsibility within this purview as of a specified date. All exceptions must
be justified to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   Where clearly indicated that the firm, not the individual engineer
and/or geologist, is the contracting party, the designated engineer or
geologist may be reassigned and another engineer and/or geologist within the
firm may assume responsibility.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.440 GRADING OPERATION - HOURS PERMITTED.
   Grading and equipment operations within one-half mile of a structure for
which city has issued a certificate of occupancy shall not be conducted except
during the hours specified in §
151.160 of this code as permissible for work of construction, erection,
alteration, repair, addition to or improvement of any building, structure, road
or improvement to realty. No owner shall engage in grading or equipment
operations pursuant to this chapter during other hours without approval of the
City Council. With City Council approval, the Director of Public Works may
permit grading or equipment operations during other specific hours if the
Director determines that such operations are not detrimental to the health,
safety or welfare of the inhabitants of such a structure. Permitted hours of
grading and equipment operations per this §
162.440 may be shortened by the Director of Public Works' finding of a
previously unforeseen effect on the health, safety or welfare of the
surrounding community. Work approved to be performed other than during the
hours permitted by this §
162.440 shall require an amendment to the grading permit and payment of
additional fees to cover necessary inspection of same.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.450 CUT SLOPE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Cut slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one vertical (2:
1). In special circumstances as determined solely by the Director of Public
Works, slopes steeper than 2:1 may be approved.
   (B)   Slope stability analysis shall accompany soil engineering reports for
all slopes steeper than 2:1 and for all slopes exceeding 40 feet in height,
regardless of the slope ratio. The soil engineer shall consider both gross and
surficial stability of the slope and provide a written statement approving the
slope stability.
   (C)   Where public streets are to be underlain by bedrock which is
excavatable by grading equipment but cannot be excavated with conventional
trenching equipment, the Director of Public Works may require a zone in the
street to be undercut and replaced as compacted fill to facilitate placement of
utilities without resorting to blasting. No rock blasting shall be permitted
unless approved by the City Council.
   (D)   Any grading plan which proposes cut slopes steeper than 5:1 and having
a vertical height of six feet or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the planning commission prior to permit issuance.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.460 FILL SLOPE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Fills - Maximum Slope, Construction.
      (1)   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one vertical
(2:1), exclusive of benches or terraces.
      (2)   All fill slopes shall be overfilled to a distance from finished
slope face that will allow compaction equipment to operate freely within the
zone of the finished slope, and then cut back to the finish grade to expose the
compacted core. Alternate methods may be employed by the grading contractor
subject to approval by the soil Engineer and Director of Public Works. In such
instances, the grading contractor shall provide detailed specifications for the
method of placement and compaction of the soil within a distance of an
equipment width from the slope face.
      (3)   At least 20% of the field density test taken within the slope,
during grading, shall be located within the outer three feet of the final slope
surface, and at least one density foot shall be taken within the outer eleven
inches of the finished slope face for every 5,000 square feet of slope area.
      (4)   Fill slopes shall not be constructed on natural slopes steeper than
two horizontal to one vertical (2:1), or where the fill slope toes out within
12 feet horizontally of the top of existing cut slopes adjacent to the permit
area boundary unless evidence is submitted by the soil engineer and/ or
engineering geologist which indicates adequate stability and the proposed slope
is approved by the Director of Public Works.
      (5)   Any grading plan which proposes fill slopes steeper than 5:1 and
having a vertical height of six feet or greater shall be subject to the review
and approval of the Planning Commission prior to permit issuance.
   (B)   Preparation of Ground.
      (1)   The ground surface shall be prepared to receive fill by removing
vegetation; non-complying fill; topsoil and other unsuitable materials; and by
scarifying to a minimum depth of 12 inches to provide a bond with the new fill.
Where existing slopes exceed five feet in height and/or are steeper than five
horizontal to one vertical (i.e., 5:1), the ground shall be prepared by
benching into sound bedrock or other competent material as determined by the
soil engineer and approved by the Director of Public Works. The lowermost bench
beneath the toe of a fill slope shall be a minimum of ten feet in width. The
ground surface below the toe of fill shall be prepared for sheet flow runoff,
or a paved drain shall be provided.
      (2)   Where fill is to be placed over a cut slope, the bench under the
toe of the fill shall be at least 15 feet wide and shall meet the approval of
the soil engineer and/or engineering geologist as a suitable foundation for
fill.
   (C)   Fill Material.
      (1)   Detrimental amounts of organic material shall not be permitted in
fills. No rocks greater than six inches dimension shall be placed within five
feet of the finished grade. Except as outlined below, no rock or similar
irreducible material with a maximum dimension greater than 12 inches shall be
buried or placed in fills.
      (2)   The Director of Public Works may permit placement of rock when the
soils engineer properly devises a method of placement, continuously inspects
placement, and approves the soil stability and competency. The following
conditions shall also apply:
         (a)   Prior to issuance of the grading permit, potential rock disposal
area(s) shall be delineated on the grading plan;
         (b)   Rock sizes greater than 12 inches in maximum dimension shall be
ten feet or more below grade, measured vertically, and/or ten feet measured
horizontally from slope faces whichever greater;
         (c)   When the design of the development or covenants and restrictions
provide assurance that no structure or utilities will be placed on a precisely
definable area, these dimensions may be reduced with the approval of the
Director of Public Works.
      (3)   All rock shall be placed so as to be completely surrounded by
soils; no nesting of rocks will be permitted.
   (D)   Compaction.
      (1)   All fills shall be compacted to a minimum of 90% of maximum density
as determined by ASTM D1557-78 (five layer test). Field density tests shall be
performed in accordance with ASTM D1556-78, or equivalent as approved by the
Director of Public Works. At least 25% of the total test shall be by ASTM
D1556-78 to verify the accuracy of the equivalent method. All such tests shall
be reasonably uniformly distributed within the fill or fill slope surface (See
division (A) of this section) so that representative results are obtained.
      (2)   Locations of field density tests shall be determined by the
engineer or approved testing agency and as directed by the Director of Public
Works, but shall be sufficient in both horizontal and vertical placement to
provide representative testing of all fill placed. Testing in areas of a
critical nature or special emphasis shall be in addition to a network of
representative sampling.
      (3)   Sufficient maximum density determinations by test method ASTM 1557-
78 shall be performed during the grading operations to verify that the maximum
density curves used are representative of the material placed through the fill.
   (E)   Buttress/Stabilization Fills. Recommendations for buttress fills or
stabilization fills by the soil engineer shall be accompanied by a report
setting forth the soil or geologic factors necessitating the buttress/
stabilization fill, stability calculations, the approved grading plan showing
the location of the buttress/stabilization fill, a scaled section of the
buttress/stabilization fill, and recommendations with details of subdrain
requirements.
   (F)   Utility Line Backfill. Backfills for utility line trenches, such as
stormdrain, water, sewer, gas, cable television and electrical services shall
be compacted and tested in accordance with division (D) of this section.
Alternate materials and methods may be used for utility line backfills,
provided, that the material specification and method of placement are
recommended by the soil engineer and approved by the Director of Public Works
prior to backfilling. The final utility line backfill report from the project
soil engineer shall include a statement of compliance by the soil engineer that
the tested backfill is suitable for the intended use.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.470 BERMS.
   Unless waived by the Director of Public Works, a compacted earthen berm
shall be constructed at the top of all slopes steeper than 5:1. The berm shall
conform to the slope and shall be a minimum of one foot high and four feet
wide.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.480 SETBACKS - GENERALLY.
    The setbacks and other restrictions specified by this section are minimum
and may be increased by the Director of Public Works or by the recommendation
of a civil engineer, soils engineer, or engineering geologist, if necessary for
safety and stability, or to prevent damage of adjacent properties from
deposition or erosion, or to provide access for slope maintenance and drainage.
Retaining walls may be used to reduce the required setbacks when approved by
the Director of Public Works. Where zoning requirements exceed the minimums in
this chapter, the zoning setbacks shall govern.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.490 SETBACKS - REQUIREMENTS.
   The tops and toes of slopes shall be set back from the outer boundaries of
the permit area, including slope rights, areas and easements, in accordance
with Figure A and Table A in §
162.500. Lot lines shall be located at the top of slopes, including berms,
wherever practicable.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.500 SETBACKS - DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Setbacks between graded slopes (cut or fill) and structures shall be
provided in accordance with Figure A and Table A and Figure B and Table B as
applicable.
   (B)   At least one side yard of at least five feet from any building wall or
projection or attachment thereto shall be provided to the toe or top of a
slope, unless waived by the Director of Public Works. No provision in this
section shall be construed to allow less than the required setback for berms
and drainage unless an improved drainage device is used to reduce these
requirements.
NOTES:
1.   PA permit area boundary and/or property lines; MFD manufactured surface.
2.   Setbacks shall also comply with applicable zoning and development code
regulations.
3.   Table A applies to manufactured slopes and 2:1 or steeper natural slopes.
Setbacks from natural slopes flatter than 2:1 shall meet the approval of the
Director of Public Works.
4.   "b" may be reduced to five feet minimum if an approved drainage device is
installed within b roof gutters and downspouts may be required.
5.   "b" may be reduced to less than five feet if no drainage is carried on
this side and if roof gutters are included which do not drain into the b area;
d may not be reduced.
6.   If the slope between "a" and "b" levels is replaced by a retaining wall, a
may be reduced to zero and b remains as shown in Table A. The height of the
retaining wall shall be controlled by zoning and development code regulations.
7.   "b" is measured from the face of the structure or any attachment thereto
to the top of the slope.
8.   "d" is measured from the lower outside edge of the footing along a
horizontal line to the face of the slope. Under special circumstances, d may be
reduced as recommended in the approved soil report and approved by the building
official.
9.   The use of retaining walls to reduce setbacks as shown in Figure B and
Table B must be approved by the Director of Public Works and requires separate
permits.
10.   "f" may be reduced to zero feet if the building official approves a
combination structure wall-retaining wall and the Director of Public Works
approves the slope configuration and drainage pattern.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.510 DRAINAGE AND TERRACING - GENERALLY.
   Unless otherwise indicated in the approved grading plan, drainage facilities
and terracing shall conform to the provisions of this section, and to the
currently adopted design standards and the master drainage plan, except where
otherwise specified.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.520 DRAINAGE AND TERRACING - TERRACES AND TERRACE DRAINS.
   (A)   Terraces at least eight feet in width shall be established at not more
than 30 foot vertical intervals on all cut or fill slopes to control surface
drainage and debris; except that where only one terrace is required, it shall
be at mid-height. Terrace widths and spacing of cut and fill slopes greater
than 90 feet in height shall be designed by the civil engineer upon
recommendation of the soil engineer and approved by the Director of Public
Works. Suitable access shall be provided to permit proper cleaning and
maintenance.
   (B)   Terrace drains shall be constructed on all terraces, using concrete
with suitable reinforcement, with a minimum grading of 5% unless waived by the
Director of Public Works due to special circumstances. Construction of the
drains shall be such that concrete is a minimum of ½ inch below (and a maximum
of four inches below) the surface elevation of the adjacent grade. The terrace
drain shall have a minimum depth at the deepest point of one foot and a minimum
width of three feet (measured across the top) and shall be designed to
accommodate the runoff created.
   (C)   Unless otherwise approved by the Director of Public Works, a single
run of terrace drain shall not collect more than 13,500 square feet of drainage
area without discharging into a downdrain or other approved collection device.
Approval of alternatively designed terrace drains shall be based on runoff
generated by rainfall intensities characteristic of the peak portion of a
rainfall hydrograph for a period of time concentration at the discharge point
of the terrace drain. Splash walls, velocity reducers, flow spreaders and other
structures shall be provided in accordance with good engineering practice.
   (D)   Construction of the terrace drains shall be as described for gutters
and down drains in this chapter, and shall be located on the terraces with one
side of the ditch two feet from the toe of slope.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.530 DRAINAGE AND TERRACING - INTERCEPTOR DRAINS.
   Concrete interceptor drains shall be installed along the top or toes of all
cut or fill slopes where the tributary drainage area directs runoff over the
slope or toward or along the toe of slope; unless waived by the Director of
Public Works. The slope of the drain shall be approved by the Director of
Public Works.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.540 SUBSURFACE DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Cut and fill slopes shall be provided with subsurface drainage as
necessary for stability, and as recommended by the soils engineer and/or the
engineering geologist.
   (B)   All canyons and buttress fills shall be provided with subdrains unless
approved otherwise by the Director of Public Works, based upon the information
provided by the engineering geologist and/or the soil engineer indicating that
they are not necessary and recommending against them.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.550 SURFACE DRAINAGE.
   Stormwater runoff from lots or adjacent properties shall not be carried over
cut or fill slopes steeper than 5:1. Such runoff shall be provided for as
follows:
   (A)   As required by §
162.140(B), whenever feasible, drainage shall be retained onsite within
percolation areas or drywells identified on the grading plan and as approved by
the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   If division (A) of this section is determined by the Director of
Public Works not to be feasible, each lot shall be graded so that stormwater
will drain away from the structure at a grade of 2% and from the backyard
through the side yard and front yard with a grade of ½% minimum directly to an
abutting street or approved drainage facility, without flowing across other
lots or cut and fill slopes. Where the velocity of the flow is found to be
erosive, an improved drainage device shall be required.
   (C)   When the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of this section are not
feasible as determined by the Director of Public Works, stormwater shall be
collected along the top of banks or at the rear of the graded lots by means of
improved gutters or interceptor drain and carried to properly sized improved
outfalls or area drains or devices which shall not be allowed to drain across
the surface of sidewalks or parkways.
   (D)   Connecting downdrains between the interceptor drains and/or terrace
ditches shall be constructed of poured portland cement concrete or airblown
mortar, both reinforced with wire mesh, and of sufficient depth (a minimum of
18 inches deep) to allow for an unimpeded flow when terraces are crossed. If
pipe downdrains of concrete are used, anchor lugs or collars may be required.
Pipe specifications shall be approved by the Director of Public Works. Special
design features shall be provided as required for abrupt changes of direction.
   (E)   The discharge from any downdrain, ditch, or pipe shall be controlled
so as to prevent erosion of the adjacent ground. Velocities shall be reduced by
means of adequately sized aprons of rock, grouted rip rap, or box type energy
dissipaters. Rip rap sizing shall be designed based upon flow velocities and
rip rap shall be placed in a manner so as not to create other erosion problems.
   (F)   Runoff volumes shall be computed using reasonable estimates of
infiltration and evaporation of rainfall. Infiltration shall be assessed based
in infiltration capacity of soil types expected to be encountered during
project development a well as the percentage covered by impervious or nearly
impervious surfaces. Conditions assumed for determining infiltration rates
shall be consistent with absorption capacity of the soil being satisfied by
prior irrigation or storm activity. Actual time of concentration shall be used
to determine rain fall rates used in design.
   (G)   Surface drainage shall not be carried across a lot or parcel within
three feet of a structure, without the use of an improved drainage device.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.560 DRAINAGE EASEMENT.
   For all drainageways where the continuous functioning of the drainageway is
essential to the protection and use of multiple properties, a covenant and/or
deed restriction shall be recorded by the applicant, placing the responsibility
for the maintenance of the drainageways on the owner of record of each
respective lot affected. Permanent off-site drainage easements, as required by
the Director of Public Works, shall be acquired by the permittee. Such
easements shall be subject to approval of the Director of Public Works and City
Attorney and recorded prior to issuance of the grading permit.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.570 EROSION CONTROL - REQUIRED.
   No grading work shall be allowed between October 15 and the following April
15 on any site when the Director of Public Works determines that erosion,
mudflow or sediment of silt discharge may adversely affect downstream
properties, drainage courses, storm drains, streets, easements, or public or
private facilities or improvements unless an approved erosion control system
has been implemented on the site.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.580 EROSION CONTROL PLAN.
   When it is determined by the Director of Public Works that an erosion
control system shall be required on a site, plans for an erosion control system
shall be prepared and submitted for the review and approval of the Director of
Public Works by September 15 of each year for projects under a valid permit.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.590 EROSION CONTROL PLAN - PLAN INFORMATION - REQUIRED.
   An erosion control plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
   (A)   Name, address and a 24-hour phone number of the owner or responsible
party, and the person or contractor responsible for installing and maintaining
the erosion control system and performing emergency erosion control work;
   (B)   The name, address and signature of the civil engineer or person who
prepared the plan;
   (C)   All desilting basins, debris basins, silt traps and other desilting,
velocity retarding, and protection facilities necessary to adequately protect
the site and downstream properties from erosion and its effects;
   (D)   The streets, easements, drains and other improvements which will be
existing as of October 15th;
   (E)   The location and placement of sandbags, diverters, check dams, slope
planting, drains and other erosion controlling devices and measures;
   (F)   Access routes to all such erosion control facilities and how access
shall be maintained during inclement weather.
   (G)   Data corresponding to an owner's compliance with all federal, state
and local authority and regulations applicable to SWPPPs, PM10 plans, and NPDES
plans, including but not limited to an owner's fulfillment of permit compliance
responsibilities as a "co-permittee" as defined by 40 CFR 122.26(b)(1), as that
provision may be amended or superseded from time to time, if any.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.600 EROSION CONTROL SYSTEM STANDARDS.
   (A)   The faces of cut and fill slopes and the project site shall be
prepared and maintained to control against erosion. Where cut slopes are not
subject to erosion due to the erosion-resistant character of the materials,
such protection may be omitted upon approval by the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   Where necessary, temporary and/or permanent erosion control devices
such as desilting basin, check dams, cribbing, rip rap, or other devices or
methods as approved by the Director of Public Works, shall be employed to
control erosion and provide safety during the rainy season from October 15 to
April 15.
   (C)   Desilting basins constructed of compacted earth shall be compacted to
a relative compaction of ninety percent of maximum density. A soil engineering
report prepared by the soil engineer including the type of field testing
performed, location and results of testing shall be submitted to the Director
of Public Works for approval upon completion of the desilting basins.
   (D)   Desilting facilities shall be provided at drainage outlets from the
graded site, and shall be designed to provide a desilting capacity capable of
containing the anticipated run-off for a period of time adequate to allow
reasonable settlement of suspended particles.
   (E)   Desilting basins shall be constructed around the perimeter to
projects, whenever feasible, when it provides improved maintenance access from
paved roads during wet weather.
   (F)   The erosion control provisions shall take into account drainage
patterns during the current and future phases of grading throughout the rainy
season.
   (G)   Erosion protection shall consist of effective planting of all slopes
in excess of five feet in height unless otherwise approved by the Director of
Public Works.
   (H)   Planting of the slopes shall be done as soon as practicable, which may
be prior to rough grade approval. Effective plantings shall be installed, fully
germinated and effectively cover the required slopes.
   (I)   The permittee or owner shall be responsible for control or erosion on
all areas of the project until acceptance of the completed project. This
responsibility extends to completed and occupied lots.
   (J)   Equipment and workers for emergency work shall be made available at
all times during the rainy season. Necessary material shall be available on-
site and stockpiles at convenient locations to facilitate rapid construction of
temporary devices when rain is imminent.
   (K)   All removable protective devices shown shall be in place at the end of
each working day when the five-day rain probability forecast exceeds 40%.
   (L)   If the owner does not provide the required installation or maintenance
of erosion control structures, the Director of Public Works may issue contracts
for such work and charge the cost of this work to the cash deposits or other
instruments implemented for this work. No additional work on the project except
erosion control work may be performed until the fill amount drawn from the
deposit is restored by the developer.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.610 DEPOSITING MATERIALS ON STREETS PROHIBITED.
   This code forbids the placing, storing, dumping or depositing of dirt, rocks
or any building material on the public streets or any portion of the public
right-of-way. All vehicles engaged in hauling materials under the permit
provision of this chapter shall refrain from depositing the material on the
public streets by any means, including but not limited to, spillage from the
bed of a truck or other vehicle and debris collected on the wheels of the haul
vehicle. The Director of Public Works may require a cash deposit to insure the
clean-up of public streets.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.620 CLEAN UP OF MATERIALS ON STREETS REQUIRED.
   The permittee conducting any earth-moving operation under this chapter which
required vehicles to haul earth materials on any public street shall be
responsible for the complete removal of such materials from the street; of
earth, mud or other material, if spilled, dumped, or deposited on a public
street. If the permittee fails to remove completely such spillage, and it is
necessary for the city to cause such removal to be made, the permittee and/or
the property owner shall be liable to pay the city the full cost of such
removal work. A cash deposit may be required prior to grading permit issuance
to insure the clean-up of public streets.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.630 DUST CONTROL REQUIREMENTS.
   The contractor/permittee conducting any earth-moving operation under this
chapter shall be responsible for controlling dust and blowing sand at all times
in a manner acceptable to the Director of Public Works.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.640 ADJOINING PROPERTY - PROTECTION.
   Each adjacent owner is entitled to the lateral and subjacent support which
his land receives from the adjoining land, subject to the right of the owner of
the adjoining land to make proper and usual excavations on the same for purpose
of construction or improvement, under the following conditions:
   (A)   Any owner of land or his lessee intending to permit or to make an
excavation greater than ten feet in depth within ten feet of his property lines
shall give reasonable notice to the owner or owners of land abutting the
property lines affected by such excavation, stating the depth for which such
excavation is intended to be made and when the excavation will begin.
   (B)   In making any excavation reasonable care and skill shall be used and
reasonable precautions taken that the soil of adjoining property will not cave
in or settle to the detriment of any building or other structure which may be
thereon.
   (C)   No grading shall be approved which physically prevents access to any
parcel.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.650 INSPECTION - INITIAL.
   (A)   Prior to the approval of any building or grading plans and
specifications, the Director of Public Works may inspect the site to determine
that the plans and specifications are current and reflect existing conditions.
   (B)   After permit issuance, but prior to any grading, brushing, or
clearing, there shall be a pre-grading meeting held on the site. Prior to
pouring curb and gutter or placement of pavement base material, there shall be
a pre-paving meeting held on the site. The permittee, or his or her agent,
shall notify the Director of Public Works at least two working days prior to
the meetings and shall be responsible for notifying all principals responsible
for grading or paving related operations.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.660 INSPECTION - TYPES REQUIRED.
   The following inspections shall be required of the items of work listed, at
the stage or time indicated. The permittee shall notify the Director of Public
Works at least one working day ahead of the time the work will be ready:
   (A)   Excavation and Fill Inspection.
      (1)   Canyon Cleanout. After all brush and unsuitable material has been
removed and an acceptable base has been exposed, but before any fill is placed;
      (2)   Toe Bench and Key. After the natural ground or bedrock is exposed
and prepared to receive fill, but before fill is placed;
      (3)   Over-excavation.  After the area has been excavated but before fill
is placed;
      (4)   Excavation. After the excavation is started, but before the
vertical depth of the excavation exceeds ten feet, and every ten-foot interval
thereafter;
      (5)   Fill. After the fill has started, but before the vertical height of
the fill exceeds ten feet and every ten-foot interval thereafter.
   (B)   Concrete or Gunite Drainage Device Inspection.
      (1)   Alley gutter and/or concrete device draining asphalt:
         (a)   Subgrade. After subgrade is prepared and required reinforcement
placed,
         (b)   Concrete. During concrete placement;
      (2)   Curb and gutter (private property).
         (a)   Subgrade. After subgrade is made, forms in place, with required
reinforcement,
         (b)   Concrete. During concrete placement;
      (3)   Terrace trains, down drains, brow ditches and all other paved
drainage devices.
         (a)   Subgrade. After grade is made but prior to placement of welded
wire mesh or reinforcing steel;
         (b)   Reinforcement. After thickness control wire and reinforcing
steel or welded wire are in place;
      (4)   Concrete. During concrete or gunite placement.
   (C)   Drainage Device Other than Concrete or Gunite Inspection.
      (1)   Subdrains.
         (a)   After excavation but prior to placement of filter material and
pipe. The subdrain pipe and filter material shall be on-site for inspection;
         (b)   After filter material and subdrain has been placed but prior to
covering with backfill;
      (2)   Storm Drains and Inlets.
         (a)   After placement of storm drains but prior to covering with
backfill. The civil engineer shall provide written approval indicating
substantial conformance to line and grade;
         (b)   After placement of inlet forms but prior to pouring concrete.
The civil engineer shall provide written approval indicating substantial
conformance to a line and grade;
      (3)   Earth Swales.
         (a)   Prior to rough grading approval;
         (b)   Prior to final grading approval.
   (D)   Rough Grade Inspection. When all rough grading has been completed.
This inspection may be called for at the completion of rough grading after the
Director of Public Works has reviewed and approved the required reports, and
the civil engineer has submitted written approval indicating substantial
conformance to line and grade. Under normal circumstances, all subdrains and
slope drains shall be in place and approved as a condition for rough grading
approval.
   (E)   Paving Inspection.
      (1)   Subgrade. After subgrade has been established, tested and approved
by the soil engineer, or his qualified representative. The soil engineer may
leave a field memo or compaction test results on site. The civil engineer shall
provide written approval indicating substantial conformance to line and grade.
      (2)   Base. After the aggregate base course has been placed, tested and
approved by the soil engineer, or his or her qualified representative, but
prior to prime coat and asphalt placement. The soil engineer may leave a field
memo on site to provide compaction test results. Material invoices may be
required.
      (3)   Asphalt concrete.
         (a)   During asphalt lay-down, to verify compliance with plans and
specifications. Continuous inspection by an approved testing agency, its
qualified representative, the city inspector or a special inspector may be
required when authorized by the Director of Public Works. Material invoices may
be required.
         (b)   Prior to application of seal coat, the paved surface shall be
water-tested to reveal any irregularities and shall be patched where required.
Material invoices may be required after placement of seal coat.
   (F)   Irrigation Inspection.
      (1)   Installation of irrigation. Improvements shall only be accomplished
after approval of appropriate plans and specifications.
      (2)   Main Line. At the completion of main line installation and prior to
backfilling, a hydrostatic pressure test shall be performed in the presence of
the city's landscape inspector or other designee, in conformance with city
landscape policies and as may be detailed in city's guidelines and
specifications for landscape development.
      (3)   Lateral Lines and Control Valves. During installation of lateral
lines, inspection shall be made to assure continuous support of all pipe,
properly assembled fittings and valve installation, as well as proper backfill
procedures.
      (4)   Coverage Test. When the irrigation system is completed, a coverage
test shall be performed in the presence of the city landscape inspector. For
more detailed requirements and scheduling of inspections, review the city's
policies, and consult its guidelines and specifications for landscape
development.
   (G)   Planting Inspection.
      (1)   General Soil Preparation. After finish grade has been established
and appropriate drainage is accomplished, incorporation of approved amendments
shall be inspected. Material invoices may be required.
      (2)   Plant Pit Preparation. During the preparation of all plant pits,
inspection shall confirm proper procedures are followed to maximize the
promotion of healthy root development. Material invoices may be required.
      (3)   Weed Abatement Program. Compliance with program, as addressed in
city's policies and detailed in the guidelines and specifications for landscape
development, shall be inspected.
      (4)   Staking and/or Guying Procedures. Upon completion of planting, all
nursery stakes directed to be removed, proper staking and/or guying practices
shall be accomplished. Inspection of procedures will confirm compliance.
   (H)   Final Inspection. When all work, including installation of all
drainage structures, debris removal, irrigation, slope planting and other
protective devices, precise grading, and such additional work as may be
required by any provision of this chapter has been completed and all written
professional approvals, certifications and the required reports have been
submitted.
   (I)   Establishment and Maintenance Inspection. Inspections shall confirm
compliance with all specified procedures for continuous care of landscape
improvements. Material invoices may be required.
   (J)   Erosion Control Facilities (Rainy Season - October 15 to April 15).
      (1)   After excavation of desilting basins but prior to fill placement,
prefabricated devices are to be available on-site for inspection;
      (2)   After fill placement for desilting basins but prior to placement of
concrete or other non-erosive materials;
      (3)   After completion of an erosion control system in accordance with an
approved erosion control plan and the requirements of the Director of Public
Works.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.670 FINAL INSPECTION - RELEASE OF SECURITY, MAINTENANCE.
   Ninety percent of security posted pursuant to §
162.280 shall be released to owner upon the completion of improvements
permitted per this chapter and the passage of final inspection per §
162.660(H). City shall retain the remaining 10% of posted security through the
first year after the passage of final inspection in order to insure, and fund
if necessary, the workmanship and maintenance of any public or private
Improvements implemented pursuant to this chapter. Any security not needed to
address issues as to the workmanship or maintenance of such improvements during
said first year shall be refunded to owner.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.680 INSPECTION - NONCOMPLIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   If in the course of fulfilling their responsibility under this code, the
civil engineer, the soil engineer, the engineering geologist, or the testing
agency finds that the work is not being performed in accordance with approved
plans, specifications, or this code, the discrepancies shall be reported
immediately in writing to the grading contractor, the owner, and the Director
of Public Works. Recommendations for corrective measures shall be submitted for
approval by the Director of Public Works.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.690 INSPECTION - SPECIALS.
   The Director of Public Works may establish special inspection requirements
in accordance with Section 306 of the Uniform Building Code, amended, for
special cases involving grain or paving related operations. Special cases may
apply to work where, in the opinion of the Director of Public Works, it is
necessary to supplement the resources or expertise available for inspection.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.700 INSPECTION - STOP WORK ORDERS.
   (A)   The provisions of Section 202(d) Stop Orders of the Uniform Building
Code, shall apply to all grading work. Whenever the Director of Public Works
determines that any work does not comply with the terms of a permit, or this
code, or that the soil or other conditions are not as stated on the permit, or
that work is being done improperly, or in a hazardous manner, he may order the
work stopped by notice in writing served on any person engaged in doing or
causing of such work to be done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such
work until authorized by the Director of Public Works to proceeds with the
work.
   (B)   Whenever any work on which inspections are required is covered or
concealed by additional work without first having been inspected, the Director
of Public Works may require, by written notice, that such work be exposed for
examination. The work of exposing and recovering shall not entail or be subject
to expense by the city.
   (C)   If the inspector finds the soil or other conditions not as stated in
the approved plans and geotechnical reports or in additional information which
was required for issuance of the grading permit, the may issue a stop work
order until approval is obtained for a revised grading plan which will conform
to the conditions.
   (D)   Work may resume and the stop order shall be rescinded upon the
Director of Public Works' determination that conditions have changed,
corrections been made, or the causes or actions which require a stop order have
been acceptably remedied or alleviated to his or her satisfaction.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.710 WORK COMPLETION.
   (A)   Final Reports. Upon completion of the rough grading work and at the
final completion of the work under the grading permit, but prior to the release
of grading securities or issuance of a certificate of use and occupancy, the
Director of Public Works shall require:
      (1)   An as-graded grading plan prepared, signed and dated by the
responsible civil engineer which shall include original and as-graded ground
surface elevations, pad elevations, slope ratios, and elevations and locations
of all surface and subsurface drainage facilities, location and scaled sections
of all buttress/stabilization fills, subdrains, and general location and depth
of all areas of removal of unsuitable soil.
      (2)   A written statement by the civil engineer certifying the grading as
being in substantial conformance with the approved grading plan and which
specifically states the following items were performed under his or her
supervision, and are shown correctly on the as-built drawings:
         (a)   Quantities of cut, fill, export and import;
         (b)   Staking of line and grade for all pads, engineered drainage
devices and retaining walls (rough and final grading);
         (c)   Staking of property corners for proper building and slope
location (rough grading);
         (d)   Location of permanent walls or structures on property corners or
property lines;
         (e)   Location and slope ratio of all manufactured slopes;
         (f)   Construction of earthen berms and positive building pad
drainage.
      (3)   A final soil engineering report prepared by the soil engineer,
including type of field testing performed, suitability of utility trench and
retaining wall backfill, summaries of field and laboratory tests and other
substantiating data, and comments on any changes made during grading and their
effect on the recommendations made in the soil engineering investigation
report. Each field density test shall be identified, located on a plan or map,
the elevation of test, and the test method of obtaining the in-place density
described; either ASTM D1556 78 or the approved equal shall be so noted. The
soil engineer shall provide written approval as to the adequacy of the site for
the intended use, as affected by soil engineering factors and a statement of
compliance to finish grade. Such report may consist of a series of reports at
various stages of construction.
      (4)   A geologic report prepared by the engineering geologist, including
a final description of the geology of the site including any new information
disclosed during the grading, and the effect of same on recommendations
incorporated in the approved grading plan. He or she shall provide written
approval as to the adequacy of the site for the intended use as affected by
geologic factors, a statement of compliance to finish grade, and when required
by the Director of Public Works, shall submit an as-built geologic map.
   (B)   Notification of Completion. The permit holder or his agent shall
notify the Director of Public Works when the grading operation is ready for
final inspection. Final inspection and approval release for use and occupancy
shall not be given until all work, including installation of all drainage
facilities and their protective devices, and all erosion control measures, have
been completed in accordance with the final approved grading plan and the
required reports and statements of compliance have been submitted.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.720 USE PERMITS - VARIANCES.
   Nothing in this grading chapter shall preclude the inclusion in any use
permit, subdivision approval, variance, waiver, review or other approval issued
or approved pursuant to the city zoning ordinance, general plan or review or
other approval issued or approved pursuant to the city zoning ordinance,
general plan or any other city ordinance of any condition, provision or
requirement concerning the grading of land. Nothing in this grading chapter
shall preclude the requirements for the owner or applicant or obtain any other
permit or approval required by law from any other public or private party, or
agency.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
§ 162.730 NUISANCE DECLARATION.
   Notwithstanding §
162.740, any grading done contrary to the provisions of this chapter is also a
public nuisance. Upon order of the Planning Commission, the City Attorney is
authorized to commence necessary proceedings provided by local or state law to
abate, remove and/or enjoin such public nuisance. Any grading done without
grader's first having obtained a grading permit therefor, regardless of whether
such failure is due to neglect or refusal, shall be prima facie evidence that a
public nuisance has been committed. To implement this section, the City
Attorney may proceed as a civil or criminal remedy. The civil remedy may be
before a court within the local jurisdiction or may be an adjudicatory hearing
pursuant to the city's nuisance abatement procedure.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
Cross-reference:
   Public nuisances, see
Chapter 95A
  § 162.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof
such person shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $500 or by
imprisonment for not more than six months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment for each violation. Each such person, firm, or corporation shall
be deemed guilty of a separate offense for every day during any portion of
which any violations of any provision of this chapter, is permitted, continued,
or committed by such person, firm, or corporation and shall be punishable
therefor as provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 1449, passed 10-19-05)
CHAPTER 163: RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM CONVERSIONS
Section
   
163.01   Purpose and intent
   
163.02   Applicability
   
163.03   Definitions
   
163.04   Condominium conversion application procedures
   
163.05   Condominium conversion development standards
   
163.06   Hearing notices
§ 163.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to establish development
standards and special conditions for the protection of the community and
purchasers or renters of converted residential and mixed-use zoned real
property proposed for subdivision, and shall not include mobile home parks.
   (B)   The city seeks to avoid the unique problems that beset conversion of
apartment and residential rental projects and it further seeks to provide and
ensure a reasonable balance of rental and ownership housing in the city and a
variety of individual choices of tenure, type, price and location of housing,
and to maintain a supply of rental housing for all economic segments of the
population.
(Ord. 1513, passed 9-19-07)
§ 163.02 APPLICABILITY.
   All residential and mixed-use residential real property projects converting
from rental to a form of individual ownership of units or spaces, and rental
projects not yet built for which a permit for building has been issued, shall
be reviewed for conformance with the provisions of this code under the city's
conditional use permit procedure, subject to the requirements of this chapter,
in addition to any and all requirements for preparation, review, and approval
of a subdivision map, pursuant to
Chapter 156 (Subdivisions Regulations) and the Subdivision Map Act.
(Ord. 1513, passed 9-19-07)
§ 163.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMON AREA. An entire condominium project excluding all units therein.
   COMMUNITY APARTMENT PROJECT. A project in which an undivided interest in the
land is coupled with the right of exclusive occupancy of any apartment located
thereon.
   CONDOMINIUM. An estate in real property consisting of an undivided interest
in common in a portion of a parcel of real property, together with a separate
interest in space or units in a building on such real property, such as a
residence, apartment, or apartment house. A condominium may include, in
addition, a separate interest in other portions of such real property and is
more particularly defined in Cal. Civ. Code § 783.
   CONDOMINIUM CONVERSION PROJECT. The conversion to subdivision of a single
ownership parcel of existing improved real property, including but not limited
to a structure containing two or more dwelling units, into a form of ownership
for residential purposes involving the right of exclusive occupancy or separate
ownership of individual units, including but not limited to stock cooperatives
and cooperative and community apartments pursuant to state law.
   DEVELOPER. The owner or subdivider with a controlled proprietary interest in
the proposed condominium.
   PROJECT. As used in this chapter, refers to a condominium conversion
project.
   RECREATIONAL OPEN SPACE. An undivided interest in common in open space on
the project (exclusive of the required front setback area and any area fenced
for the use of an individual unit) which shall be used exclusively for leisure
and recreational purposes, for the use occupants and their visitors of units of
the project and to which such occupants and their visitors shall have the right
of use and enjoyment. Accessory structures such as swimming pools, recreational
buildings, and landscaped areas are examples of uses of recreational open
space.
   TENANT. A person, who rents, leases or subleases, through either a written
or oral agreement, real property from another.
   UNIT. Unit is the element of a condominium conversion project which is not
owned in common with the other owners of the project.
(Ord. 1513, passed 9-19-07)
§ 163.04 CONDOMINIUM CONVERSION APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Conditional use permit and subdivision regulations. Condominium
conversions may be approved in the city pursuant to the procedures for a
conditional use permit and applicable subdivision regulations as set forth in
this code.
   (B)   Application requirements. In addition to such other application
requirement as the Community Development Director may deem necessary, no
application for a project shall be accepted for any purpose unless the
application includes the following:
      (1)   Sufficient copies of plans illustrating the following details shown
to scale:
         (a)   Site plan illustrating the location of buildings, parking areas,
circulation system, recreational facilities, open space, patios, and the like;
         (b)   Floor plans for each unit type;
         (c)   Fully dimensional elevation plans of the structures, showing the
architectural features and types and materials of construction;
         (d)   Landscaping and irrigation plans illustrating the existing
system and any proposed modifications and a statement specifying the manner by
which landscape areas shall be maintained;
         (e)   The location, structural section, and type of surfacing for all
driveways, pedestrian ways, vehicle parking areas, curb cuts and storage areas;
         (f)   The location, height, and type of materials for exterior walls
or fences;
         (g)   The location and description of all recreational facilities and
a statement specifying the method of the maintenance thereof;
         (h)   The location, size, and number of parking spaces to be used in
conjunction with each condominium unit for residents and guests;
         (i)   The location, type and size of all drainage pipes and retention
basins;
         (j)   The location, type and size of all on-site and adjacent overhead
and underground utility lines.
      (2)   Three copies of the proposed Declaration of Covenants, Conditions,
and Restrictions (CC&Rs) which will apply to the proposed project, which shall
include:
         (a)   Provisions for the maintenance of the common areas exterior of
all structures and walls, including roads, recreational amenities and
landscaping. Common areas items, including, but not limited to, the roof,
plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems shall be maintained
by the developer in good condition until one year elapses from the date of the
sale of the last individual unit is sold;
         (b)   A statement that the city has the right, but not the duty to
enforce said CC&Rs in the event of default in the maintenance of such areas by
individual owners of the units, and that costs, including attorney fee's
incurred thereby shall be reimbursed to the city;
         (c)   Provisions establishing each individual unit owner's exclusive
right to the use of designated parking spaces for each unit;
         (d)   Provisions for separate storage area, if any, for each unit for
inside and outside storage of recreational vehicles consisting of boats,
trailers, and the like, and any other materials.
         (e)   Provisions for dedication of land or establishment of easements
for street widening or other public purpose.
      (3)   Tenants have received a tenant's notice of intent to convert
pursuant to the provisions of Cal. Gov’t Code § 66427.1 (Subdivision Map Act)
prior to filling a notice of pending application to convert with the Community
Development Department. Such notice shall be given by the applicant, and shall
contain information as to tenant's rights under state and local regulations.
      (4)   Written notices shall be mailed to all tenants at least five days
prior to the submission of the application {'{'}Cal. Gov’t Code § 66427.1(c)
{'}'} to the Community Development Department. The applicant shall provide the
Department with affidavits or declarations under penalty of perjury of said
notices at the time of the application. All tenants occupying the project
subsequent this initial notice shall be notified in writing of the pending
conversion prior to occupancy.
      (5)   A list prepared under declaration of penalty of perjury by the
developer, including but not limited to the names and addresses of all tenants
residing in the project proposed to be converted at the time the application is
filed, including but not limited to, commencement and expiration dates of the
leases of said tenants and total number of project occupants.
      (6)   Sales information. Anticipated terms of sale prices of individual
dwelling units based on information known at the time of application;
anticipated terms of sale to existing tenants; and a statement as to whether
sales will be permitted to families with minor children.
      (7)   A pest control report issued no more than three months from the
date of the filling of the application, to be provided to, and reviewed by, the
building official. The report shall include, but not be limited to termites,
rodents and general pests.
      (8)   A building elements report describing in detail the condition and
useful life of the electrical, plumbing, and structural elements of all
existing buildings and structures including foundation. Such report shall be
prepared by a registered civil or structural engineer, licensed contractor, or
licensed architect for the applicable portion of the report.
      (9)   A descriptive report containing acoustical test data which
indicates the noise attenuation characteristics of existing party walls, floors
and ceilings including but not limited to a sampling of at least 10% of the
dwelling units involved, but in no case fewer than two dwelling units. Such
report shall be compiled by a qualified person experienced in the field of
acoustical testing and engineering as determined by the Community Development
Director or designee. Report shall provide comparative analysis of the test
data as it relates to state and local attenuation requirements.
      (10)   A report by a qualified marketing survey research firm submitted
for review by the Community Development Department and Planning Commission
pertaining to the vacancy factor of the rental housing units in the city.
      (11)   The Planning Commission shall evaluate the adequacy of interior
amenities that may include floor and surface materials, kitchen cabinets, and
the like, during the conditional use permit approval process.
      (12)   A minimum of 10% of the units to be converted to ownership units
shall be reserved for low to moderate income individuals or families.
(Ord. 1513, passed 9-19-07)
§ 163.05 CONDOMINIUM CONVERSION DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Development requirements. Except as otherwise provided by law, in
approving or conditionally approving any project, the following conditions
shall be met:
      (1)   Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided at a ratio of 1.5
spaces for each dwelling unit with 50% of the total required parking spaces
under carports or garages (covered). In addition, one off-street guest parking
space shall be provided for every five units. All other parking requirement
shall be provided pursuant to the Unified Development Code.
      (2)   Private open space. An outdoor private area shall be provided
contiguous with each residential ground level unit.
      (3)   Recreational open space. Recreational facilities or recreational
open space shall be reviewed for its adequacy for the project.
      (4)   All permanent equipment, including domestic appliances, which are
determined by the Building Official to be a potential source of vibration or
noise, shall be installed or modified as approved by the City Building Official
to lessen the transmission of vibration and noise.
      (5)   Utilities.
         (a)   A shut-off for each utility shall be provided.
         (b)   The consumption of gas, electricity, and Cable T.V. within each
dwelling unit shall be separately metered so that the unit owner can be
separately billed for each utility except that upon determination of the
Building Official that such separate metering valve would not be practicable at
the time of the conditional use permit approval, the Building Official may
approve an equivalent alternative metering system.
         (c)   The consumption of water shall either be by master meter or
separate meters and shall be determined by the City Engineer. All additional
water connection fees shall be payable prior to approval of the condominium
final map.
         (d)   Sewer facilities shall be converted subject to the requirements
of the California Building and Plumbing Codes and shall connect to the sewer
system by a manhole connection at the front property line. All additional sewer
connection fees shall be payable prior to city approval of the condominium
final map.
         (e)   All systems of the structures, including but not limited to
structural, electrical, plumbing, mechanical, fire and life safety shall comply
with all applicable statues, ordinances, rules and regulations.
         (f)   A separate irrigation meter for common areas will be required.
         (g)   Back flow devices and fire sprinklers may be required if the
existing structure is three or more stories.
      (6)   Each dwelling unit shall have a separate water heater unless there
is one central circulating water heating system serving all dwelling units on
the property and such system shall provide sufficient capacity to serve all
dwelling units. The Building Official shall determine that said heating system
is adequate.
      (7)   Each unit shall be separated from adjacent units by two one-hour
fire walls or an approved automatic fire sprinkler system as approved by the
Fire Chief and Building Official. Alternative methods which achieve a two-hour
equivalency rating may be considered if approved by the Fire Chief and Building
Official.
      (8)   All dwelling units shall comply with current statues, ordinances,
rules and regulations for energy conservation, sound transmission, control and
fire detection systems that apply to all new residential construction except
that the Building Official may approve an alternative material, method of
construction or work provided it is determined and found that such alternative
material, method of construction or work offered is at least equivalent to the
prescribed by the applicable statues, ordinances, rules and regulations in
quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability or safety.
      (9)   The developer shall provide to each purchaser of a unit
certification of insurance, guaranty or warranty covering the operation,
appliances and usability of all elements of the building, including but not
limited to the structural, mechanical, electrical, plumbing, roofing elements
and approval for period of not less than one year from the date of final
building permits approval and shall declare under penalty of perjury that such
certificate has been so provided.
      (10)   Residential and/or common structures shall have plumbing in sound
condition, insulation of all water heaters, and pipes for circulated hot water
where feasible and adequate, and protected trash areas.
      (11)   Yard and height requirements. All projects shall comply with
property development standards for the district in which the project is to be
located, provided that nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit
the imposition of more restrictive requirements as a condition of approval by
the Planning Commission when necessary to protect the public health, safety, or
general welfare, based upon appropriate findings.
      (12)   The project shall comply with Chapter 11A of the California
Building Code, which addresses accessibility. This could include new or
reconstructed paths, ramps and accessible parking spaces.
      (13)   Impact fees. With the exception of applicable park fees, impact
fees are not charged for subdivision of existing residential units. With park
fees, the increment between the fee for a single family attached and a
multifamily unit is applicable.
      (14)   Any other requirement and condition as may be imposed by the
Planning Commission.
      (15)   NOTE. Specific requirements will vary depending on the
characteristics of each project. Other laws, regulations and requirements may
apply.
   (B)   Findings and conditions of approval.
      (1)   The Community Development Department shall prepare and deliver to
the applicant a staff report including a staff recommendation for approval or
denial, a listing of conditions or requirements recommended as a basis for
approval, and supportive reasons or justifications for such recommendations.
      (2)   Planning Commission approval shall be subject to the following
findings:
         (a)   The vacancy factor of the rental housing units in the city
exceeds three percent of the total rental housing inventory. Existing rental
units may be approved for conversion regardless of the vacancy factor if the
Planning Commission determines that a new rental unit has or will be added to
the city's housing inventory for each rental unit removed through conversion.
         (b)   The structural, electrical, fire, and life safety systems of the
applicable structures and/or common structures are in a condition of good
repair and maintenance, including such alterations or repairs as are required
by the building official prior to the sale of the units.
         (c)   The developer has complied with all other requirements and
conditions in this chapter.
      (3)   Planning Commission approval shall be subject to the following
conditions, in addition to any other condition required pursuant to this
chapter:
         (a)   All tenants of the proposed condominium conversion project shall
be given at least 120 days advance written notice including but not limited to
the following:
            1.    Termination of their tenancy subsequent to Planning
Commission approval of the conditional use permit; and
            2.   The exclusive right of first refusal to purchase a unit at the
time said units are offered to the general public and upon at least as
favorable terms and conditions as said units are first offered to the general
public.
         (b)   The developer shall mail written notice to all tenants residing
in the project within 15 days after approval of any condominium conversion
project. Such notice shall state all of the conditions of approval of the
conditional use permit for the condominium conversion project.
         (c)   The project shall be subject to design review approval.
         (d)   The developer shall comply with all other notices required by
state law.
(Ord. 1513, passed 9-19-07)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 163.06 HEARING NOTICES.
   Prior to any hearing on the application, written notices shall be posted by
the Community Development Department in a conspicuous location on the site of
the proposed project and shall be mailed by the city, first class, to all
tenants residing in the proposed project not less than ten days of any hearing
concerning the project. Such notices shall provide, at least, the following:
   (A)   The date, time, place and purpose of the hearing;
   (B)   That should the conditional use permit for the conversion be approved,
the property owner may require the tenants to vacate (move from) the premises;
   (C)   That should the conditional use permit for the conversion be approved,
the property owner shall give, according to all applicable laws, all tenants a
minimum 120 days notice of termination of their tenancy, together with the
exclusive right of first refusal to purchase a unit.
(Ord. 1513, passed 9-19-07)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to California Statutory Codes
References to 1961 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO CALIFORNIA STATUTORY CODES
 
Administration Code
Statutory Code Section                       Code Section
Title 8, Ch. 9, Art. 3                       54.236
Title 8, Ch. 9, Art. 4, § 1392              160.449
Title 14, §§ 40, 670 - 670.7 and 671 - 671.92.08
                                             
 
Business & Professions Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Business & Professions Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Div. 3                 123.38
Div. 3, Ch. 9          54.223
Div. 8, Ch. 9, Art. 6  114.10
Div. 8, Ch. 19         95E.110
5537                   151.041
6737                   151.041
7512 et seq.           110.05 
8771, 8771.5 and 8772  156.045
11212(aa)              12.08.07
17000 et seq.          110.37
17070 et seq.          134.174
22435.7                95E.109
23003                  130.182
23004                  130.004,
                       130.182
26001(e)               123.06
26001(h)               123.06
26001(o)               123.06
26001(y)               123.13
26001(ai)              123.06
26001(ap)              123.06
26001(aq)              123.06
26057(b)(4)            123.37
26070(a)(1)            123.06
                       
 
Civil Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Civil Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
51.3                   154.03
783                    163.03
798.41                 99.06
799.24                 132.01
815.3                  33.090
1708.8                 105.03
                       12.02.07,
3479                   57.06,
                       95A.104
                       95A.104,
3480                   95B.104,
                       105.03
4080                   151.065
                       
 
Civil Procedures Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Civil Procedures Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
12                     12.08.05
415.10 et seq          12.13.05
416.10-146.40          12.08.04
416.60-146.90          12.08.04
446                    102.09
683.110-683.220        12.13.05
685.010                12.13.05,
                       12.13.06
697.340                12.13.05
731                    130.057
1010.6                 12.03.01
1094.5 et seq.         120.11
                       10.21,
1094.5                 33.078,
                       34.169
                       10.21 ,
                       12.12.08,  
1094.6                 55.43,
                       95B.122,
                       123.25
2015.5                 57.04,
                       71.53
2015.5(a)              71.53
2015.5(b)              71.53
                       
 
 
California Constitution
Code Section           Code Section
Section 19, Article IC 111.01
Section 7, Article XI  33.065,
                       110.36
                       
 
 
Corp. Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
10400 et seq.          92.07
                       
 
 
Educ. Code
Statutory Code Section          Code Section
Title 2, Div. 4, Part 27, Ch. 9 51A.06
Educ. Code §§ 18900 and 18901.94.02 
Educ. Code §§ 18900 and 18964.94.06 
Educ. Code §§ 18910 and 18927.94.16 
                                
 
Elections Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Elections Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
§ 10227               30.20
§ 21601               30.22
§ 21603               30.22
§ 21606               30.22
§ 21607               30.22
                       
 
 
Evidence Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
§ 250              12.01.01,
                       12.02.08
                       
 
 
 
Family Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
§ 7002                130.001
                       
 
 
Financial Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
                       
 
 
Food & Agriculture Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Div. 17, Ch. 10.5      114.10
9701                   92.03
                       
 
Government Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Government Code
Statutory Code Section   Code Section
Title 5, Div. 1, Art. 9. 54.236
820.2                    105.07
853                      105.07
853.1                    105.07
853.5                    105.02
913                      34.168
935                      34.168
935(b)                   34.169
945.6                    34.168
946                      34.168
1090 et seq.             30.36
1098                     30.86
6253.5                   30.85
6254                     30.85
6254.7                   30.85
12650 et seq.            34.174
34871                    30.20
34882                    30.22
36503.3                  30.18
36515.5                  30.02
36516                    30.02
36516(a)(3(              30.02
36900                    12.08.07
36901                    98.99
37104 et seq.            12.02.08
37106                    12.02.08
                         12.02.07,
38771                    95B.104,
                         102.02
38771-38773.5            12.13.02
38773.1                  10.24 ,
                         12.13.01
                         10.24 ,
                         12.04.06,
38773.5                  12.13.01,
                         12.13.02,
                         12.14.02,  
                         95A.108
38773.6                  10.24
38773.7                  12.04.06,
                         95A.122
39501                    12.02.07
39502                    12.02.07
39560                    12.02.07
39561                    12.02.07
39561.5                  12.02.07
40602                    31.51
40802 - 40805            33.016
50244 et seq.            54.236
53055                    112.08
53055.1                  112.08
53055.2                  112.08
                         12.08.01,
53069.4                  12.08.06,
                         12.08.07 ,
                         124.99
53088.2                  112.08
53090 - 53095            162.040
53150 et seq.            93.07
53601                    31.36
54950 et seq.            32.04,
                         34.176
54954                    30.35
54954.1                  30.38
54954.5                  30.37
54956.2                  30.30
54956.5                  30.32
54957.5                  30.85
54957.9                  30.60
54970 - 54975            32.01
65100 et seq.            32.10
65302, 65560 and 65800   153.01 
65402                    32.09
65451.3                  156.021
65498.1 et seq.          156.115
65850.5(j)(1)            151.060
65850.5(j)(3)            151.060
65850.5(j)(5)            151.060
65850.7                  151.065
65915                    154.01 
65970 et seq.            156.045
                         33.065,
                         33.066,
66000 et seq.            33.081,
                         33.085,
                         33.090
                         33.076,
66001                    54.132,
                         156.045
66001(d), (e), (f)       33.077
66001(e)                 33.077
66001(f)                 33.077
                         33.076,
66006                    54.132,
                         156.045
66016                    33.071
66017                    33.071
66018                    33.071
66020                    33.078
66021                    33.078
66410 et seq.            156.001,
                         156.004
66427.1                  156.005,
                         163.04
66427.1(c)               163.04
66451.1(a)               156.021
66473 et seq.            156.045
66474.2                  156.123
66483                    156.045
66498.2                  156.123
68632(a), (b)            114.21
81000 et seq.            30.36
82700                    38.01
83700                    38.01
84100                    38.01
91500 et seq.            33.200
                         
 
Health & Safety Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Health & Safety Code
Statutory Code Section                         Code Section
Ch. 1, 3 and 4, Part 2, Div. 13                157.02
Ch. 6, Part 3, Div. 5, Art. 4, §§ 5470 et seq57.90
Ch. 6, § 11350                                132.01
Ch. 6, § 11400                                132.01 
Div. 13, Part 2                                157.46
520                                            95A.103
1250                                           130.128
5079.5                                         154.03
5464                                           57.14
5471                                           57.25,
                                               57.26
5474                                           57.14
11000 et seq.                                  130.182,
                                               132.01
11007                                          102.01
11054 - 10058                                  110.28
11362.71                                       123.38
11370.4                                        123.08
11379.8                                        123.08
11401                                          102.01
11532                                          132.01
11590                                          113.05,
                                               117.17
12500 et seq.                                  101.02,
                                               101.05
12503                                          101.02
12505                                          101.02,
                                               130.182
12508                                          101.02
12511                                          101.02
12512                                          101.02
12524                                          101.02
12525                                          101.02
12527                                          101.02
12529                                          101.02
12532                                          101.02
12557                                       101.99
12561                                          101.02
12575 - 12577                                  101.07
12640 - 12654                                  101.09,
                                               101.11
12706                                       101.99
13009                                          93.07
13009.1                                        93.07
17980                                          12.04.06,
                                               95A.122
18010                                          34.36
18938.6                                        151.011
33200                                          32.81 
39730.5                                        51A.01
39730.6                                        51A.01
39730.7                                        51A.01
39730.8                                        51A.01
40460 et seq.                                  33.047
44223                                          33.045
44223                                          33.045
44223,                                         33.045
44223                                          33.052
44243                                          33.046
44243(b)(3)                                    33.045
44244 and 44244.1(a)                           33.052
50105                                          154.03
113781                                         114.10
113789                                         51A.01
113841                                         51A.01
113842                                         51A.01
114079                                         51A.06
Div. 104, Part 9, Ch. 8, §§ 114960 et seq.   51A.01
                                               100.01,
115800                                         100.03,
                                               100.04
Div. 104, Part 14, §§ 117600 et seq.         51A.01
120275                                         106.02
120295                                         106.02
121710                                         92.03
123275                                         103.06
                                               
 
Penal Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Penal Code
Statutory Code Section            Code Section
Title 3, Ch. 5, 5c, 5d, Part 2    55.46
Title 3, Ch. 5c, Part 2           55.46
Title IX, Ch. X, Part 1 § 130.999130.095
Title IX, Ch. X, Part 1           130.096
Chapter 4.5, § 830 et seq.       95C.04
266(h)                            115.03
266(i)                            115.03
                                  113.05,
                                  115.26,
290                               115.49,
                                  115.60,
                                  117.17
313                               97.136
313.1(d)                          120.14
314                               120.20
315                               115.03
316                               115.03
318                               115.03
318.5                             120.20
318.6                             120.20
                                  111.01,
326.3                             111.03,
                                  111.05
                                  111.01,
326.4                             111.03,
                                  111.05
                                  111.01,
326.5                             111.03,
                                  111.05
370                               12.02.07
372                               12.04.05
373(a)                            12.04.05
402                               105.03,
                                  105.07
594                               130.999
637.5                             112.08
647(a), (b)                       102.01,
                                  115.03
667.5                             123.08
830                               12.02.06
830 et seq.                       12.02.06
832, 836, 853.1                   10.98
                                  55.46 ,
836.5                             12.02.03,
                                  12.02.06
853.6                             55.46 ,
                                  12.02.06
853.8                             12.04.02
1192.7                            123.08
1320(a)                           12.04.02
1412                              102.04
1427                              12.04.02
4577                              105.04
                                  31.75,
11105                             110.23,
                                  110.28,
                                  120.04
11105(b)(11)                      123.37
12020(a)                          96.01
12601(a)                          96.01
13300                             120.04
13300(b)(11)                      123.37
                                  
 
 
Pub. Cont. Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
22000 et seq.          33.124
                       
 
Pub. Res. Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Pub. Res. Code
Statutory Code Section                      Code Section
2100 et seq.                                56.02
40141                                       51A.01
40191                                       51A.01
40195.1                                     51A.01
41500                                       51A.01
41802                                       51A.01
41950                                       51A.08
Div. 30, Part 3, Ch. 12                     51A.04
Div. 30, Part 3, Ch. 13.1, §§ 42652 et seq51A.01
                                            
 
Pub. Util. Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Pub. Util. Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
234, 218, 222, 215-5   53.01 
799                    34.171,
                       34.175
10010 et seq.          54.004
5860                   112.05,
                       112.06
5870                   112.10
21252                  105.03
21407.1                105.03
21407.2                105.03
21409                  105.03
21410                  105.03
21411                  34.210
21415                  105.03
                       
 
 
Residential Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Title 24, Part 2.5     54.091
                       
 
Rev. Tax Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Rev. Tax Code
Statutory Code Section  Code Section
                        34.20,
Div. 2                  34.21,
                        34.207,
                        34.208 
                        34.18,
Div. 2, Part 1          34.19,
                        34.211
                        34.16,
Div. 2, Part 1.5        34.18,
                        34.19,
                        103.02
                        34.202,
Div. 2, Part 1.6        34.207,
                        34.210,
                        34.212
Div 2, Part 1.6 and 1.7 34.211
Div. 2, Part 1.7        34.202
Div. 2, Part 20         53.03
62                      34.19
62                      34.18
501(a)                  53.03
1001 et seq.            34.18,
                        34.19 
3691                    12.13.06
5096 et seq.            34.69 
                        34.18,
6067                    34.209,
                        114.13
                        34.18,
6203                    34.68,
                        34.208
6366 and 6366.1         34.19,
                        34.210
6701                    34.208
6702                    34.208
6711                    34.208
6715                    34.208
6737                    34.208
6797                    34.208
6828                    34.208
                        34.161,
7284.6                  34.167,
                        34.176
7284.7                  34.167,
                        34.176
                        34.60,
11901 et seq.           34.68,
                        34.70 
11927                   34.63
23701(a)                111.04
23701(b)                111.04
23701(d)                111.04
23701(e)                111.04
23701(f)                111.04
23701(g)                111.04
23701(d)                111.04 
23701(l)                111.04
23701(w)                111.04
51500 to 51519          34.19
53750                   34.166
56067                   34.19
56067                   34.18
                        
 
 
Sts. & High. Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Div. I, Ch. 1, Art. 5. 33.030
Div. I, Ch. 1, Art. 5. 33.032
36500                  161.03
Chapter 6              72.01
                       
 
Vehicle Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Vehicle Code
Statutory Code Section              Code Section
Chapter 1, Div. 3                   34.210
Chapter 1, Div. 3.5                 34.210
Chapter 1, Div. 7, §§ 16000 et seq72.04
233                                 71.02
260                                 71.02
400                                 71.02
670                                 73.02,
                                    102.01
4000                                71.02,
                                    71.08
5007                                71.21,
                                    71.22
5200                                71.08
5202                                71.02,
                                    71.08
5204                                71.08
13202.6                             130.999
21107.7                             71.03
21107.8                             71.03
21107.9                             71.03
22507.5                             71.10
22507.8                             71.21
22511.7                             71.21
22511.8                             71.21
22511.55                            71.21,
                                    71.22
22511.59                            71.21,
                                    71.22
22650 et seq.                       90.04
22651                               71.05,
                                    90.02
22651(n)                            71.14
22651.5                             95C.05
22655                               90.02
22655.5                             95C.04
22660                               90.02
22662                               90.02
22669                               90.02
22855                               90.07
23103(a) and (b)                    73.02
23109                               73.02
23109(a)                            102.01
24002                               71.02
24004                               71.08
40001                               71.02,
                                    71.08
40200 et seq.                       71.51,
                                    71.53
40202                               71.53
40202(a)                            71.52,
                                    71.53
40203.5(a)                          71.50
40215(b)                            71.53
40215(c)(2)                         71.53
40215(c)(4)                         71.51,
                                    71.53
40230                               71.54
                                    
 
Water Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Water Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Div. 11, Part 2        50.01 
350                    54.054
10620 et seq.          54.051
13801(c)               54.215
22123                  50.02 
                       
 
 
Welfare and Institutions Code
Statutory Code Section Code Section
155500              103.06
                       
 
REFERENCES TO 1961 CODE
1961 Code Section 1994 Code Section
1961 Code Section 1994 Code Section
1.7               10.99
1.8               10.98
1.9               10.98
1.10              10.98
1.11              10.19
1.12              10.98
1.13              10.20
2A.1              91.01
2A.2              91.10
2A.3              91.20
2A.4              91.21
2A.5              91.22
2A.6              91.23
2A.6              91.24
2A.7              91.25
2A.9              91.26
2A.10             91.27
2A.11             91.28
2A.11-A           91.29
2A.12             91.30
2A.13             91.31
2A.14             91.32
2A.15             91.45
2A.16             91.33
2A.17             91.55
2A.18             91.56
2A.19             91.57
2A.20             91.58
2A.21             91.59
2A.22             91.60
2A.23             91.60
5A.2              117.01
5B.1              130.020
5B.3              130.022
5B.4              130.999
5B.5              130.999
8.1               50.02
8.2               50.25
8.3               50.01
8.4               50.03
8.5               50.04
8.6               50.15
8.7               50.26
8.8 1., 3., 4.    50.98
8.8 2., 5.        50.99
10.1              51.01
10.2              51.02
10.2-1            51.03
10.5              51.15
10.12             51.16
10.15             51.30
10.18             51.31
10.19             51.40
10.20             51.41
10.21             51.42,
                  51.43
10.24             51.44
10.25             51.45
10.26             51.46
11.1              94.01
11.2              94.02
11.3              94.03
11.4              94.04
11.5              94.05
11.6              94.06
11.7              94.15
11.8              94.16
11.9              94.17
12.3              110.03
12.4              110.04
12.5              110.05
12.6              110.06
12.7              110.07
12.8              110.08
12.8              110.09
12.10             110.10
12.11             110.11
12.12             110.12
12.13             110.13
12.14             110.14
12.15             110.15
12.16             110.16
12.17             110.17
12.18             110.18
12.19             110.50
12.21             110.52
12.22             110.53
12.23             110.35
12.24             110.19
12.25             110.20
12.26             110.21
12.27             110.22
12.28             110.36
12.28-1           110.23
12.29             110.24
12.30             110.25
12.31             110.26
12.50             110.65
12.51             110.66
12.52             110.67
12.53             110.68
12.54             110.69
12.55             110.70
12.56             110.71
12.57             110.72
12.58             110.99
13.1              70.001
13.2              70.002
13.3              70.003
13.4              70.030
13.5              70.031
13.6              70.004
13.7              70.005
13.8              70.032
13.9              70.033
13.10             70.006
13.11             70.034
13.13             70.007
13.14             70.008
13.15             70.009
13.16             70.010
13.17             70.011
13.18             70.012
13.19             70.013
13.20             70.050
13.21             70.051
13.22             70.052
13.23             70.053
13.24             70.054
13.25             70.055
13.26             70.056
13.27             70.057
13.28             70.058
13.29             70.059
13.29-1           70.060
13.30             70.061
13.31             70.062
13.32             70.075
13.33             70.076
13.35             70.035,
                  70.077
13.36             70.036
13.37             70.037
13.38             70.038
13.39             70.039
13.40             70.040
13.42             70.090
13.43             70.091
13.45             70.014
13.46             70.063
13.47             70.015
13.48             70.016
13.50             70.017
13.51             70.160
13.52             70.160
13.100            70.100
13.101            70.100
13.102            70.101
13.103            70.018
13.104            70.110
13.105            70.111
13.106            70.120
13.107            70.121
13.108            70.999
13.110            70.130
13.111            70.131
13.112            70.132
13.113            70.133
13.114            70.134
13.115            70.135
13.116            70.136
13.118            70.145
13.119            70.146
13.120            70.147
13.121            70.148
15.1              130.001
15.4              130.065
15.5              130.066
15.6              130.067
15.7              130.068
15.8              130.080
15.9              130.081
15.10             130.082
15.11             130.083
15.15             130.095
15.16             130.096
15.17             130.097
15.18             130.002
15.19             130.003
15.22             130.110
15.23             130.111
15.24             130.112
15.30             130.004
15.31             130.005
15.32             130.006
15.50             130.051
15.51             130.052
15.52             130.053
15.53             130.054
15.54             130.050
15.55             130.055
15.56             130.056
15.57             130.999
15.58             130.057
15.59             130.125
15.60             130.126
15.61             130.127
15.62             130.128
15.63             130.129
15.64             130.130
15.65             130.131
15.66             130.132
15.67             130.133
15.68             130.134
15.69             130.135
15.70             130.136
15.72             130.137
15.72             130.999
15A.1             117.15
15A.3             117.16
15A.4             117.17
15A.5             117.18
15A.6             117.19
15B.1             117.30
15B.2             117.01
15B.3             117.31
15B.4             117.32
15B.5             117.33
15B.6             117.34
15B.7             117.35
15B.8             117.36
15B.9             117.37
15B.10            117.38
15C.1             116.01
15C.2             116.02
15C.3             116.15
15C.4             116.16
15C.5             116.17
15C.6             116.18
15C.7             116.19
15C.8             116.20
15C.9             116.21
15C.10            116.22
15C.11            116.23
15C.12            116.03
15C.13            116.04
15C.14            116.05
15C.15            116.24
15C.16            116.06
16A.1             52.01
16A.1             52.02
16A.3             52.03
16A.4             52.04
16A.5             52.05
16A.6             52.06
16A.7             52.07
16A.8             52.08
16A.9             52.09
16A.10            52.10
16A.11            52.11
16A.12            52.99
17A.1             155.01,
                  156.04
17A.2             155.02
17A.3             155.03
17A.5             155.99
17B.1             152.01
17B.1             152.99
17B.2             152.02
17B.3             152.03
17B.4             152.04
18.1              97.001
18.2              97.002
18.3              97.003
18.4              97.004
18.5              97.005
18.6              97.006
18.7              97.007
18.8              97.008
18.9              97.009
18.10             97.010
18.11             97.011
18.12             97.012
18.13             97.013
18.14             97.014
18.15             97.015
18.16             97.016
18.17             97.017
18.18             97.018
18.19             97.019
18.20             97.020
18.21             97.021
18.22             97.022
18.23             97.023
18.24             97.024
18.25             97.025
18.26             97.026
18.27             97.027
18.28             97.028
18.29             97.029
18.30             97.040
18.31             97.041
18.32             97.042
18.33             97.043
18.34             97.044
18.34             97.045
18.36             97.046
18.37             97.047
18.38             97.065
18.39             97.066
18.40             97.067
18.41             97.068
18.42             97.069
18.43             97.070
18.44             97.071
18.45             97.072
18.46             97.073
18.47             97.074
18.48             97.085
18.49             97.086
18.50             97.087
18.51             97.088
18.52             97.089
18.53             97.090
18.54             97.091
18.55             97.100
18.56             97.101
18.57             97.102
18.58             97.103
18.59             97.104
18.61             97.105
18.62             97.106
18.63             97.107
18.64             97.108
18.65             97.109
18.66             97.110
18.67             97.999
19.1              156.001
19.2              156.002
19.3              156.003
19.4              156.004
19.5              156.005
19.6              156.006
19.7              156.007
19.8              156.008
19.9              156.020
19.9              156.035
19.10             156.021
19.11             156.022
19.12             156.023
19.13             156.024
19.14             156.025
19.15             156.026
19.17             156.045
19.18             156.055
19.19             156.056
19.20             156.057
19.21             156.070
19.22             156.071
19.23             156.072
19.24             156.073
19.25             156.074
19.26             156.075
19.27             156.076
19.28             156.077
19.29             156.078
19.30             156.079
19.31             156.090
19.32             156.091
19.33             156.092
19.34             156.093
19.35             156.105
19.36             156.106
19.37             156.115
19.38             156.116
19.39             156.117
19.40             156.118
19.41             156.119
19.42             156.120
19.43             156.121
19.45             156.123
19.46             156.124
19.47             156.125
19.50             156.122
21.1              118.01
21.2              118.02
21.3              118.03
21.4              118.04
21.5              118.05
21.6              118.20
21.7              118.21
21.8              118.22
21.9              118.23
21.10             118.24
21.11             118.06
21.12             118.07
21.13             118.35
21.14             118.36
21.15             118.37
21.16             118.38
21.17             118.39
21.18             118.40
21.19             118.41
21.20             118.42
21.21             118.43
21.22             118.44
21.22-1           118.45
21.23             118.46
21.24             118.47
21.24-1           118.48
21.24-2           118.49
21.24-3           118.50
21.24-4           118.51
21.25             118.60
21.26             118.61
21.27             118.62
21.28             118.63
21.29             118.64
21.30             118.65
21.31             118.66
21.32             118.67
21.33             118.80
21.34             118.81
21.35             118.82
21.36             118.83
21.37             118.84
21.38             118.85
21.39             118.86
21.40             118.87
21.41             118.88
22.1              157.01
22.2              157.02
22.3              157.15
22.4              157.16
22.5              157.30
22.6              157.31
22.7              157.32
22.8              157.03
22.9              157.04
22.10             157.17
22.11             157.45
22.12             157.46
22.13             157.47
22.14             157.48
22.15             157.49
22.16             157.50
22.17             157.60
22.18             157.61
22.19             157.62
22.20             157.63
22.21             157.75
22.22             157.76
23B.1             53.01
23B.2             53.02
23B.3             53.03
23B.4             53.04
23B.5             53.05
23B.6             53.06
23B.7             53.07
23B.8             53.30
23B.9             53.30
23B.10            53.30
23B.11            53.31
23B.12            53.32
23B.13            53.32
23B.14            53.33
23B.15            53.34
23B.16            53.34
23B.17            53.34
23B.18            53.35
23B.19            53.20
23B.20            53.08
23B.21            53.45
23B.22            53.46
23B.23            53.47
23B.24            53.48
23B.25            53.11
23B.25            53.49
23B.26            53.50
23B.27            53.51
23B.28            53.52
23B.29            53.53
23B.30            53.54
23B.31            53.09
23B.32            53.10
23B.33            53.99
23B.34            53.12
24.1              54.025
24.2              54.027
24.3              54.028
24.4              54.002
24.5              54.003
24.6              54.004
24.7              54.005
24.7              54.040
24.8              54.041
24.14             54.006
24.15             54.007
24.16             54.026
24.17             54.065
24.18             54.066
24.19             54.008
24.20             54.009
24.21             54.010
24.22             54.011
24.23             54.067
24.24             54.029
24.25             54.080
24.25             54.081
24.26             54.082
24.27             54.083
24.28             54.084
24.29             54.085
24.30             54.086
24.31             54.086
24.32             54.086
24.33             54.086
24.34             54.087
24.35             54.088
24.36             54.089
24.37             54.090
24.38             54.068,
                  54.999
24.39             54.012
24.40             54.069
24.41             54.013
24.42             54.014
24.43             54.100
24.43             54.999
24.44             54.101
24.45             54.102
24.46             54.103
24.49             54.115
24.52             54.116
24.53             54.117
24.55             54.119
24.56             54.120
24.57             54.121
24.58             54.122
24.59             54.123
24.60             54.124
24.61             54.125
24.62             54.126
24.63             54.127
24.64             54.128
24.65             54.129
24.66             54.130
24.68             54.131
24.70             54.145
24.71             54.146
24.72             54.146
24.73             54.147
24.74             54.148
24.75             54.149
24.76             54.150
24.78             54.151
24.79             54.152
24.80             54.153
24.81             54.154
24.82             54.155
24.83             54.156
24.84             54.157
24.85             54.158
24.86             54.159
24.87             54.160
                  54.001,
24.88             54.030,
                  54.161
24.89             54.162
24.90             54.175
24.91             54.176
24.92             54.177
24.93             54.178
24.94             54.179
24.95             54.180
24.96             54.181
24.98             54.190
24.99             54.191
24.100            54.192
24.101            54.193
24.102            54.194
24.103            54.195
24.104            54.196
24.105            54.197
24.106            54.198
24.107            54.199
24.108            54.200
24.109            54.201
24.110            54.202
24.111            54.999
24.112            54.215
24.113            54.216
24.114            54.217
24.115            54.218
24.116            54.219
24.117            54.220
24.118            54.221
24.119            54.222
24.120            54.223
24.121            54.224
24.121            54.225
24.124            54.227
24.125            54.228
24.126            54.229
24.127            54.230
24.128            54.231
24.129            54.232
24.130            54.233
24.131            54.234
24.132            54.235
24.133            54.236
24.134            54.237
24.135            54.238
24.136            54.999
26.010            154.01
26.020            154.02
26.030            154.03
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
—      - -         54.004
6        - -         34.01
17       - -         130.003
20       - -         130.002
41       - -         30.01
72       - -         33.030 -
                     33.032
                     94.01 -
79       - -         94.06,
                     94.15 -
                     94.17
91       - -         31.15,
                     31.25
120      - -         130.095 -
                     130.097
123      - -         130.001
166      - -         34.22
175      - -         31.25,
                     31.35
                     30.03,
182      - -         31.45 -
                     31.55
202      - -         10.19
211      - -         31.01
229      - -         51.30
247      - -         31.02
250      - -         130.080 -
                     130.083
                     54.001 -
                     54.014,
                     54.025 -
                     54.030,
                     54.040,
                     54.041,
                     54.065 -
                     54.069,
                     54.080 -
257      - -         54.090,
                     54.100 -
                     54.103,
                     54.115 -
                     54.117,
                     54.119 -
                     54.131,
                     54.145 -
                     54.162,
                     54.999
                     157.01 -
                     157.04,
                     157.15 -
                     157.17,
261      - -         157.30 -
                     157.32,
                     157.45 -
                     157.50,
                     157.60 -
                     157.63
263      - -         34.15 -
                     34.22
269      - -         130.065 -
                     130.068
                     118.01 -
                     118.07,
                     118.20 -
                     118.24,
271      - -         118.35 -
                     118.47,
                     118.60 -
                     118.67,
                     118.80 -
                     118.88
275      - -         54.130,
                     54.131
276      - -         157.75,
                     157.76
                     33.001,
278      - -         33.002,
                     33.015,
                     33.016
284      - -         10.98
295      - -         130.110 -
                     130.112
                     51.01,
                     51.02,
                     51.15,
299      - -         51.16,
                     51.31,
                     51.40 -
                     51.46
322      - -         33.016
                     34.16,
351      - -         34.18,
                     34.19
                     91.01,
                     91.10,
                     91.20 -
360      - -         91.33,
                     91.45,
                     91.55 -
                     91.59
                     10.99,
                     51.01,
361      - -         51.02,
                     51.15,
                     51.44
363      - -         34.18
397      - -         31.15,
                     31.50
                     34.35 -
408      - -         34.47,
                     34.99
424      - -         157.61
                     155.01 -
438      - -         155.04,
                     155.99
439      - -         54.115,
                     54.117
442      - -         34.38
443      - -         51.01 -
                     51.03
457      - -         30.02
469      - -         118.04
472      - -         91.21
475      - -         118.62
                     51.01 -
                     51.03,
498      - -         51.16,
                     51.40,
                     51.45
499      - -         51.15
500      - -         34.60 -
                     34.70
502      - -         34.37
503      - -         31.70 -
                     31.76
513      - -         118.84
531      - -         157.01,
                     157.61
                     118.35 -
                     118.39,
538      - -         118.43,
                     118.45 -
                     118.51
539      - -         54.146
546      - -         54.081
554      - -         51.30
                     52.01 -
555      - -         52.11,
                     52.99
558      - -         155.04
                     50.01 -
                     50.04,
                     50.15,
573      - -         50.25,
                     50.26,
                     50.98,
                     50.99
                     110.35,
586      - -         110.36,
                     110.50 -
                     110.53
599      - -         34.18
604      - -         54.175 -
                     54.181
615      - -         54.127,
                     54.131
630      - -         31.51
                     54.190 -
631      - -         54.202,
                     54.999
649      - -         34.37
                     70.001 -
                     70.005,
                     70.007 -
                     70.018,
                     70.030 -
                     70.040,
                     70.050 -
                     70.063,
653      - -         70.075 -
                     70.077,
                     70.090,
                     70.091,
                     70.100,
                     70.101,
                     70.110,
                     70.111,
                     70.160,
                     70.161,
659      - -         118.84
660      - -         34.18,
                     34.19
661      - -         30.15 -
                     30.17
                     91.26,
                     91.57,
                     110.15,
665      - -         110.17,
                     118.61,
                     151.092,
                     157.48,
                     157.62
677      - -         51.30
684      - -         70.003,
                     70.060
                     110.65 -
685      - -         110.72,
                     110.99
688      - -         130.004
695      - -         30.01
701      - -         91.29
                     97.001 -
                     97.029,
                     97.040 -
                     97.047,
702      - -         97.065 -
                     97.074,
                     97.085 -
                     97.091,
                     97.100 -
                     97.110
722      - -         31.75,
                     110.23
740      - -         54.146
743      - -         54.152,
                     54.153
757      - -         118.84
804      - -         130.005
805      - -         130.006
                     130.050 -
836      - -         130.057,
                     130.999
                     156.001 -
                     156.008 -
                     156.026,
                     156.035,
                     156.045,
                     156.055 -
852      - -         156.057,
                     156.070 -
                     156.079,
                     156.090 -
                     156.093,
                     156.105,
                     156.106
866      - -         130.080,
                     130.081
876      - -         70.120,
                     70.121
877      - -         34.36,
                     34.37
878      - -         34.37
883      - -         34.18,
                     34.19
                     99.01 -
892      4-4-84      99.11,
                     99.22 -
                     99.25
893      - -         155.04
                     54.068,
894      - -         54.100,
                     54.999
                     99.03,
                     99.04,
896      5-16-84     99.07,
                     99.09,
                     99.11,
                     99.25
                     152.01 -
904      - -         152.04,
                     152.99
909      - -         70.130 -
                     70.136
                     53.02 -
                     53.12,
                     53.20,
920      - -         53.30 -
                     53.35,
                     53.45 -
                     53.54,
                     53.99
921      - -         156.045
928      - -         156.035
                     130.125 -
930      - -         130.137,
                     130.999
                     116.01 -
935      - -         116.06,
                     116.15 -
                     116.24
937      - -         156.115 -
                     156.125
939      - -         53.01
950      - -         156.045
956      - -         70.145 -
                     70.148
959      - -         51.15
                     116.01 -
                     116.06,
                     116.15 -
967      - -         116.24,
                     117.01,
                     117.30 -
                     117.38
981      - -         10.98
982      - -         31.51
984      - -         91.60
986      - -         118.04
                     117.01,
990      - -         117.15 -
                     117.19
                     97.103,
997      - -         97.104,
                     97.106,
                     97.999
                     30.02,
1009     - -         31.51,
                     31.77
                     54.009,
                     54.083,
1011     - -         54.127,
                     54.128,
                     54.146
                     118.01,
                     118.03,
                     118.06,
                     118.20,
                     118.24,
1016     - -         118.35,
                     118.40 -
                     118.44,
                     118.60,
                     118.62,
                     118.64
1033     - -         110.05
1034     - -         156.021
                     34.18,
                     34.19,
1036     - -         34.36,
                     34.37,
                     34.63,
                     34.64
1037     - -         117.31
                     130.020,   
1039     - -         130.022,
                     130.999
                     54.215 -
1041     - -         54.238,
                     54.999
1056     - -         110.07,
                     117.31
1057     9-5-90      30.99
1060     - -         97.072
1061     - -         110.05
                     70.014,
1076     - -         70.100,
                     70.121
1079     11-21-90    99.05
1079     12-5-90     152.05
                     10.20,
                     10.99,
                     34.99,
                     52.99,
                     53.99,
                     70.999,
1080     - -         110.20,
                     110.35,
                     130.080,
                     130.083,
                     130.999,
                     152.99,
                     155.99
1085     - -         154.01 -
                     154.03
1091     - -         33.045 -
                     33.053
1094     - -         70.160,
                     70.161
1099     9-18-91     130.145
1101     11-6-91     119.01 -
                     119.11
                     54.215 -
1103     11-20-91    54.238,
                     54.999
1113     2-5-92      53.03 -
                     53.07
1114     3-4-92      10.21
1116     4-1-92      160.01 -
                     160.12
1124     8-5-92      35.01 -
                     35.10
1125     10-7-92     95A.131
1138     3-17-93     95A.131
1141     6-16-93     110.11,
                     110.51
1142     7-7-93      36.01,
                     36.02
                     34.42,
1144     9-1-93      34.48,
                     34.85
1146     11-3-93     31.71
1150     2-16-94     97.092
                     Ch. 90,
                     130.007,
1153     4-20-94     130.155 -
                     130.167,
                     Ch. 158
1154     5-18-94     99.06
1158     8-3-94      130.001
1161     8-17-94     Ch. 120
1172     2-15-95     31.53
1173     3-16-95     130.165,
                     130.166
1180     10-18-95    Ch. 121
1187     12-20-95    130.001
1190     2-7-96      Ch. 150
1194     5-1-96      70.032
1199     9-4-96      Ch. 122
                     30.30 -
1205     11-6-96     30.91,
                     30.99
1213     8-6-97      Ch. 55
1216     9-3-97      97.130 -
                     97.143
1218     10-1-97     Ch. 161
                     110.35 -
1221     11-19-97    110.37,
                     110.50
1226     8-5-98      Ch. 95B
1229     10-21-98    130.007
                     70.100,
1235     11-18-98    70.100.1,
                     70.100.2,
                     70.100.3
1244     5-5-99      95A.131
1248     6-2-99      97.075
1255     1 0-6-99    33.001
1267     4-5-00      95C.01 -
                     95C.13
1275     5-17-00     132.01 -
                     132.07
1291     2-7-01      56.01 -
                     56.08
1293     3-21-01     31.02
                     33.115,
1294     3-7-01      33.116,
                     33.118 -
                     33.123
1297     6-20-01     97.076 -
                     97.078
1298     7-5-01      99.04
1299     8-1-01      95C.14
1301     10-17-01    54.132
1303     11-7-01     33.115
1313     3-20-02     30.18
                     156.130 -
1325     11-6-02     156.137,
                     156.139,
                     156.140
                     100.01 -
1328     1-15-03     100.07,
                     100.99
1354     10-15-03    10.99
1355     10-12-03    102.01 -
                     102.14
1357     12-3-03     95A.131 -
                     95A.135
1358     12-17-03    30.56,
                     30.57
1361     1-7-04      10.99
                     34.90,
                     110.01 -
1374     6-2-04      110.27,
                     110.35 -
                     110.38,
                     110.99 
                     100.05,
1388     8-18-04     100.07,
                     100.99
1421     5-4-05      33.116
1422     5-4-05      54.132,
                     156.045
1423     5-18-05     54.132,
                     156.045
1426     6-1-05      54.132,
                     156.045
1438     6-15-05     54.132,
                     156.045
                     162.010 -
1449     10-19-05    162.730,
                     162.999
                     33.065 -
1463     5-17-06     33.079,
                     54.132,
                     156.045
1477     9-20-06     95C.08
1478     9-6-06      53.03
1479     9-20-06     53.03
1501     6-20-07     51.47
                     113.01 -
1510     7-18-07     113.24,
                     113.99
1513     9-19-07     163.01 -
                     163.06
                     98.01 -
1519     11-14-07    98.10,
                     98.99
1523     1-16-08     70.041
1524     1-16-08     156.134,
                     156.138
                     57.01 -
                     57.06,
                     57.10 -
                     57.15,
                     57.20 -
1525     2-6-08      57.30,
                     57.40 -
                     57.60,
                     57.70 -
                     57.79,
                     57.90 -
                     57.97
1526     2-6-08      120.17,
                     120.18
1528     3-5-08      54.064.1
1529     3-5-08      95A.101 -
                     95A.124
1530     3-5-08      95D.101 -
                     95D.110
1535     3-19-08     33.090
                     153.01 -
1537     6-9-08      153.20,
                     153.30 -
                     153.33
                     34.150 -
1539     7-16-08     34.175,
                     34.999
1541     9-17-08     53.03 -
                     53.07
1550     2-4-09      156.022,
                     156.024
1553     3-18-09     31.51
1555     4-1-09      33.124
                     110.28,
                     117.15 -
1558     5-6-09      117.19,
                     117.32 -
                     117.36
                     71.01 -
1561     6-17-09     71.22,
                     71.50 -
                     71.55
1563     12-16-09    54.064.1
                     96.01,
                     96.02,
                     96.10  -
1565     12-16-09    96.29,  
                     96.31,
                     96.40 -
                     96.45
1569     3-17-10     33.118
                     55.01 -
                     55.06,
                     55.20 -
1570     5-5-10      55.28,
                     55.40 -
                     55.49,
                     55.99
                     34.153,
                     34.154,
                     34.155,
1578     11-2-10     34.156,
                     34.158,
                     34.167,
                     34.173,
                     34.176
1579     11-17-10    112.01 -
                     112.11
                     151.120 -
                     151.124,
                     151.135 -
                     151.138,
                     151.150,
                     151.151,
1580     12-1-10     151.160,
                     151.161,
                     151.185,
                     151.186,
                     151.200 -
                     151.204,
                     151.999
                     72.01 -
1583     12-15-10    72.07,
                     72.99
1586     2-2-11      33.074
                     95A.103,
                     95A.105,
                     95A.113,
                     95A.120,
                     95A.121,
                     95A.124,
1589     3-16-11     95B.113,
                     95B.114,
                     95B.118 -
                     95B.121,
                     95B.123,
                     95D.110,
                     151.001
1590     3-16-11     130.020
1591     4-6-11      130.020
1592     4-6-11      34.176
1593     5-18-11     54.091
1594     5-18-11     54.179
                     111.01 -
1595     5-18-11     111.05,
                     111.99
1596     7-20-11     33.090
1600     9-7-11      33.116
1608     4-4-12      131.001 -
                     131.015
1609     4-4-12      156.021
                     95A.113,
                     95A.120,
1611     4-18-12     95A.121,
                     95B.103,
                     95B.121
                     96.01,
                     96.10,
                     96.24 -
                     96.26,
1618     9-19-12     96.40,
                     96.41,
                     96.45,
                     98.01 -
                     98.03,
                     98.09
1619     9-19-12     33.116
1621     12-5-12     130.081,
                     130.084
1630     5-1-13      131.004
1631     6-19-13     92.01 -
                     92.09
1638     10-16-13    154.04
1639     11-6-13     151.999
1642     11-20-13    95E.101 -
                     95E.110
                     110.03,
1652     4-16-14     110.28,
                     114.10 -
                     114.14
1653     5-15-14     103.01 -
                     103.08
1654     5-15-14     130.180 -
                     130.188
                     54.050 -
1662     10-15-14    54.058,
                     54.061 -
                     54.064.2
1667     11-4-14     34.36,
                     34.37
                     10.20,
1668     12-17-14    10.23 -
                     10.25,
                     10.100
1673     5-20-15     54.057
1676     6-17-15     151.060
1681     10-21-15    54.056
                     110.06,
1682     12-16-15    110.07,
                     110.35
1684     1-20-16     54.064.2
1687     12-3-16     130.020,
1692     4-20-16     92.10
1701     10-19-16    95A.104
1703     11-16-16    151.999
1704     11-8-16     34.200 -
                     34.215
1711     2-23-17     112.06
1712     3-22-17     112.06
1713     4-19-17     33.001
1719     9-6-17      92.10
1720     9-20-17     30.19 -
                     30.22
1724     11-27-17    112.06
1731     3-7-18      105.01 -
                     105.07
1737     4-3-19      38.01
                     151.055,
1742     11-6-19     151.190 –
                     151.196
                     93.01 -
1743     11-6-19     93.08,
                     93.99
1746     1-15-20     54.131
1747     2-5-20      54.131
                     32.01 -
                     32.12,
                     33.100,
1750     4-15-20     33.200,
                     34.176,
                     95.01,
                     99.20,
                     99.21
1753     4-15-20     106.01,
                     106.02
1754     5-6-20      106.01,
                     106.02
1760     4-7-21      151.065
1762     7-21-21     54.059 -
                     54.064.2
1766     12-14-21    37.001 -
                     37.021
                     96.17,
                     110.01,
                     114.10 -
1767     12-15-21    114.22,
                     117.01,
                     117.15,
                     117.31
                     124.01,
1772     2-16-22     124.02,
                     124.99
1778     5-18-22     51A.01 -
                     51A.13
1780     6-1-22      123.01 -
                     123.49
1782     9-21-22     Ch. 150,
                     Ch. 159
                     151.001,
                     151.005,
                     151.006,
                     151.010,
                     151.011,
                     151.014,
                     151.015,
1784     10-19-22    151.017,
                     151.020,
                     151.025,
                     151.030,
                     151.040,
                     151.041,
                     151.050,
                     151.999
1786     11-2-22     33.080 -
                     33.088
                     93.01 -
1785     10-19-22    93.08,
                     93.99
                     93.07,
                     101.01 -
                     101.16,
1787     11-2-22     101.99,
                     130.182,
                     130.183A,
                     130.999
1788     11-16-22    70.160
1790     2-15-23     105.01 -
                     105.07
1794     7-19-23     73.01 -
                     73.06
1796     8-16-23     32.03,
                     32.04
1799     11-15-23    101.05,
                     101.06
1795     12-6-23     156.134
1807     2-21-24     30.02
                     96.01,
                     96.02,
1808     2-21-24     96.10 -
                     96.31,
                     96.40 -
                     96.98 
                     12.01.01,
                     12.02.01 -
                     12.02.08,
                     12.03.01 -
                     12.03.03,
                     12.04.01 -
                     12.04.06,
                     12.05.01 -
                     12.05.03,
                     12.06.01 -
                     12.06.10.
                     12.07.01 -
                     12.07.10,
                     12.08.01 -
                     12.08.09,
                     12.09.01 -
                     12.09.04,
1809     2-21-24     12.10.01 -
                     12.10.04,
                     12.11.01 -
                     12.11.03,
                     12.12.01 -
                     12.12.09,
                     12.13.01 -
                     12.13.08,
                     12.14.01,
                     12.14.02,
                     12.15.01 -
                     12.15.08,
                     12.16.01 -
                     12.16.03,
                     12.17.01,
                     12.17.02,
                     37.018,
                     95.01
                    
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section        Description
                     133.010,
1811     6-5-24      133.020,            Unlawful possession of catalytic
                     133.030,            converters
                     133.040
1812     6-19-24     31.26,              Duties of the City Clerk and City
                     31.36               Treasurer
1816     8-21-24     130.020             Camping prohibition
                     10.19 -
1818     9-18-24     10.23,              City seal and city logo
                     Ch. 10, App. A and
                     B
                                       
 
 
