LOS ANGELES COUNTY
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
Current through January 1, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
Title 1
General Provisions
Chapter 1-01
Establishment
1-01-010 Adoption of Code.
There is hereby adopted the Administrative Code of the Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority. Throughout this code, wherever reference
is made to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority or to the MTA, that
reference shall mean the same as the Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority.
Except as otherwise provided in section
1-01-040, where any provision of this code is substantially similar to a
previous ordinance of the MTA, the Southern California Rapid Transit District
or the Los Angeles County Transportation Commission, that provision of this
code shall be considered a reenactment of that previous ordinance.
1-01-020 Title — Citation — Reference.
This code shall be known as the "Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority Administrative Code" or the "MTA Administrative Code" and it shall be
sufficient to refer to either title in any legal proceeding where it is cited.
It shall be sufficient to designate any ordinance, adding to, amending,
correcting or repealing all or any part of the code as an addition, amendment
to, correction or repeal of the "MTA Administrative Code."
1-01-030 Authority.
This code is enacted pursuant to the ordinance adopting authority granted to
the Southern California Rapid Transit District by Public Utilities Code
Sections 30273 et seq., and to the Los Angeles County Transportation Commission
by Public Utilities Code Sections 130103 and 130105. Pursuant to Public
Utilities Code Sections 130050.2, 130051.13 and 130051.14 the Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority is the single successor agency to
the Southern California Rapid Transit District and the Los Angeles County
Transportation Commission with all of the powers and authority given by law to
those two agencies.
1-01-040 Certain Ordinances Continued.
The Los Angeles County Transportation Commission Ordinance No. 16, entitled "An
Ordinance Establishing a Retail Transactions and Use Tax in the County of Los
Angeles for Public Transit Purposes," which was adopted by the electorate as
Proposition A at the November 1980 general election, the Los Angeles County
Transportation Commission Ordinance No. 49, entitled "An Ordinance Establishing
an Additional Retail Transactions and Use Tax in the County of Los Angeles for
Public Transit Purposes," which was adopted by the electorate as Proposition C
at the November 1990 general election, the MTA ordinance entitled "The
Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) Reform and Accountability Act of
1998," which was adopted by the electorate as Proposition A at the November
1998 general election, and the MTA ordinance entitled “Traffic Relief and Rail
Expansion” which was adopted by the electorate as Measure R at the November
2008 general election are each included in this code as adopted by the
electorate. For convenience, the section headings and numbering of these three
ordinances have been revised to be consistent with the numbering and heading
system in this code. Any provision of any of these ordinances may be cited
using the numbering in this code. However, the inclusion of these ordinances
within this code is not intended and should not be construed as a substantive
change in any provision of any of these three ordinances. Their inclusion in
this code is solely for the convenience of presenting all MTA ordinances in one
code, and should not be considered a reenactment of the provisions of these
ordinances. These three ordinances remain in full force and effect as adopted
by the electorate and their interpretation and effect should continue in the
same manner as if this code were not adopted.
1-01-050 Repeal of Other Ordinances.
Except as provided in section
1-01-040, this administrative code is intended to include all ordinances
applicable to the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority. Any
ordinance of the Southern California Rapid Transit District, the Los Angeles
County Transportation Commission or the Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority which is not included in this code, is repealed as of
the effective date of this code.
Chapter 1-05
Interpretation
1-05-010 Severability.
If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is for any reason held
to be invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this code. The MTA Board of Directors hereby
declares that it would have adopted this code, and each section, subsections,
sentence, clause and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases had been declared
invalid or unconstitutional, and if for any reason this code should be declared
invalid or unconstitutional, then the original ordinance or ordinances shall
remain in full force and effect.
1-05-020 Provisions Not Affected By Headings.
Title, chapter and section headings contained in the provisions of this code
shall not be deemed to govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope,
meaning or intent of any section hereof.
1-05-030 Construction of Terms – Tenses.
Within this code, unless the text clearly provides otherwise, the present tense
includes the past and the future tenses and the future tense includes the
present.
1-05-040 Construction of Terms — Gender.
Within this code, unless the text clearly provides otherwise, the masculine
gender includes the feminine, and the feminine gender includes the masculine
1-05-050 Construction of Terms – Number.
Within this code, unless the text clearly provides otherwise, the singular
includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular.
1-05-060 Construction of Terms — Shall and May.
Within this code, the word "shall" is mandatory, and the word "may" is
permissive.
Title 2
Administration
Chapter 2-01
Board of Directors
2-01-010 MTA Governing Board.
The MTA is governed by a Board of Directors. The membership of the Board of
Directors shall be as set forth in Public Utilities Code Section 130051. Unless
the context otherwise dictates, the term Board of Directors when used in this
Administrative Code, shall mean the Board of Directors governing the MTA.
2-01-020 Board of Directors Regular Meetings.
The regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held the fourth
Thursday of each month commencing at 9:30 a.m. at the MTA Headquarters
Building, One Gateway Plaza, Los Angeles. If the regular meeting date falls on
a holiday, or if for any other reason the Chair of the Board of Directors
determines that the regular meeting in any month should be set for another time
or date, the regular meeting shall be set at the date and time designated by
the Chair.
2-01-030 Board of Directors Special Meetings.
Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called at any time in the
manner provided by Government Code Section 54956.
2-01-040 Board of Directors Annual Meeting.
The regular meeting of the Board of Directors held in June of each year shall
be considered the annual meeting.
2-01-050 Adjourned Meetings.
The Board of Directors may adjourn any regular, adjourned regular, special or
adjourned special meeting to a time and place specified in the order of
adjournment in accordance with Government Code Section 54955.
2-01-060 Board of Directors Quorum.
A majority of the voting members of the Board of Directors shall constitute a
quorum, and except for any decision for which more than a majority vote is
specifically required, any action of the Board of Directors shall require the
affirmative vote of a majority of the voting members or the Board.
2-01-070 Committee of the Whole.
At the time and place set for any meeting of the Board of Directors where an
insufficient number of members are present to constitute a quorum, the members
present may constitute themselves as a Committee of the Whole, and meet for the
purpose of hearing reports from MTA staff or to discuss agenda matters or any
other matter of interest to the members present, but no action as the Board of
Directors may be taken on any matter. The Committee of the Whole shall
automatically cease and become a meeting of the Board of Directors at any time
sufficient members are present to constitute a quorum.
2-01-080 Board Committees.
The Board of Directors shall have a minimum of five standing committees. The
Chair of the Board of Directors may designate other standing and ad hoc
committees subject to concurrence of the Board of Directors and shall make
appointments to all committees. The Board of Directors may delegate to
committees any responsibilities authorized by law including the power to
approve contracts with a four-fifths vote.
2-01-090 Committee Quorum.
A majority of the members of a committee shall constitute a quorum. Fifty
percent of the members of a committee with an even number of members shall
constitute a quorum for that committee. When a committee cannot establish a
quorum, any other member of the Board of Directors who is present may be
temporarily appointed by the chair of the committee to sit as a substitute
member of that committee for that meeting. Any member of the Board of Directors
who is present at any committee meeting may participate in the discussion of
that committee.
2-01-100 Committee Action.
All actions taken by a committee, other than actions requiring a four- fifths
vote, shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of all appointed
committee members. All actions by a committee, which require a four-fifths vote
for approval shall require the affirmative vote of four-fifths of all appointed
committee members. Any agenda item which does not receive a sufficient vote for
approval as required by this section shall be forwarded to the full Board of
Directors for consideration without recommendation by the committee.
2-01-110 Ralph M. Brown Act.
All meetings of the Board of Directors and of its standing and its ad-hoc
committees shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements of the Ralph
M. Brown Act (Chapter 9, commencing with Section 54950, Part 1, Division 2,
Title 5 of the Government Code).
2-01-120 Proceedings of the Board of Directors and Committees.
The Board of Directors may adopt rules governing the proceedings of the Board
of Directors and of its standing and ad hoc committees. Such rules may be
suspended or modified from time to time by action of the Board of Directors.
All proceedings of the Board of Directors and of its standing and ad hoc
committees shall be governed by the law applicable thereto, such rules as are
adopted by the Board of Directors and by Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised.
The General Counsel shall act as parliamentarian and, on request of the Chair,
shall give parliamentary advice. To the extent there is inconsistency among the
provisions governing such proceedings, the order of precedence shall be
applicable law, the rules adopted by the Board of Directors, and Robert's Rules
of Order. The failure to follow Board adopted procedures or Robert's Rules of
Order shall not invalidate any action taken.
2-01-130 Limitations of Public Comment.
The Board of Directors may adopt reasonable limitations for persons wishing to
address the Board of Directors or a Board committee on an agenda item or as
part of the general public comment. Limitations may be placed on the total
number of speakers, the amount of time for each speaker, and the amount of time
for all speakers on any particular matter. Reasonable deviations from the Board
adopted limitations may be directed for a particular meeting or a particular
matter at the discretion of the Chair of the Board of Directors or the Chair of
a Board committee, unless otherwise directed by a vote of the Board or the
committee.
2-01-140 Board Officers.
The Officers of the Board of Directors shall be the Chair, the 1st Vice Chair
and the 2nd Vice Chair, who shall all be members of the Board of Directors.
There shall be an automatic City of Los Angeles/County/City Selection rotation
in the filling of the Chair, the 1st Vice Chair and the 2nd Vice Chair. Unless
the Board of Directors sets a different time period, each year the 1st Vice
Chair shall automatically succeed to the position of Chair and the 2nd Vice
Chair shall automatically succeed to the position of 1st Vice Chair. The
election of the Board Officers shall be held each year at the annual meeting.
2-01-150 Duties of Board Officers.
The Chair shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and shall
exercise and perform such other powers and duties as may be assigned from time
to time by the Board or prescribed by ordinance. In any case where the
execution of a document or the performance of an act is directed, the Chair,
unless a resolution or ordinance otherwise provides, is empowered to execute
such documents or perform such act. The lst Vice Chair shall perform the duties
of the Chair in the absence or inability of the Chair, and when so acting,
shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the
Chair. The 2nd Vice Chair shall perform the duties of the 1st Vice Chair and
Chair in the absence or inability of these officers and shall be governed by
the powers and restrictions upon these offices.
2-01-160 Vacancies in Board Offices.
In the event of a vacancy during the term of the chair, the lst Vice Chair or
the 2nd Vice Chair, the Board shall elect a replacement to fill the vacated
office. The Board shall select a replacement from the Board members
representing the same constituency as the departing officer, i.e., City of Los
Angeles, County of Los Angeles, City Selection Committee to serve the remainder
of the term of the vacant office.
2-01-170 Removal of Board Officers.
Any Officer of the Board of Directors may be removed from office at any time by
an affirmative vote of at least eight members of the Board of Directors.
2-01-180 Appointments of MTA Representatives to Other Boards.
The Chair is authorized to make the appointment to fill a position on the board
of another agency, which is to be filled by an MTA representative, unless the
rules of that agency require appointment through a different procedure. Any
person so appointed as the MTA representative shall serve at the pleasure of
the current Chair unless the rules of the other agency do not allow for
removal. Any action taken by the Chair under this section may be overruled at
any time by a majority vote of the members of the Board of Directors.
2-01-190 Director Expense Reimbursement and Travel Policy.
   A.   Members of the Board of Directors may from time-to-time be required to
travel on behalf of the MTA. The Board of Directors shall approve in advance
all Board member travel, except that authority is hereby given for travel to
American Public Transportation Association related functions, and to Washington
D.C. and Sacramento for legislative purposes. All MTA related travel shall be
governed by the provisions contained in this section and should conform to the
travel policy applicable to MTA employees unless the Board of Directors adopts
a different policy.
   B.   All Directors will be required to declare under penalty of perjury that
the information contained in a request for expense reimbursement is true and
correct to the best of the Director's knowledge.
   C.   Director expense claims with supporting documentation shall be
submitted monthly to the Board Secretary. Allowable expenses related to MTA
business up to $250 per month will be reimbursed upon approval by the Board
Secretary. Expenses over $250 per month shall be reviewed by the Board
Secretary and approved by the Board Chair or his or her designee. Disputed
expense claims shall be referred to the Executive Management and Audit
Committee. If that Committee does not resolve the dispute, the claim shall be
referred to the Board of Directors for a final decision.
   D.   All Director expense reimbursement requests are subject to audit and
review and shall be included in the Inspector General's quarterly report on MTA
expenses.
   E.   Except as otherwise provided by action of the Board of Directors,
travel expense reimbursement for MTA employees and for members of the Board of
Directors shall be subject to the same limits as are set from time-to-time by
the County of Los Angeles for County- related travel by its officials and
employees.
   F.   Travel related to MTA business by a person appointed under section
2-01-180 to serve as the MTA appointee on the board of another agency shall be
subject to the rules set forth in this section.
2-01-200 MTA Officers Appointed by and Reporting Directly to the Board of
Directors.
The Board of Directors, by majority vote, shall appoint as MTA officers who
report directly to the Board of Directors a Chief Executive Officer, a Board
Secretary, a General Counsel, an Inspector General, an Ethics Officer.
Chapter 2-05
Chief Executive Officer
2-05-010 Appointment of a Chief Executive Officer.
The Board of Directors shall appoint a Chief Executive Officer to serve as the
executive manager of the MTA under the direction of the Board of Directors. The
Chief Executive Officer shall be a full time officer of the MTA and shall be
appointed for a term of four years.
2-05-020 Authority and Responsibilities of Chief Executive Officer.
The Chief Executive Officer shall have the following authority and
responsibilities:
   A.   To plan programs and develop policies for the operation of the MTA
within the limits of the authority established from time-to-time by the Board
of Directors;
   B.   To organize the staff of the MTA for the most effective performance of
the MTA's programs, and to retain well- qualified persons to carry out these
programs;
   C.   To provide leadership for all of the staff of the MTA;
   D.   To direct, coordinate and evaluate the work of all MTA organizational
units;
   E.   To report to the Board of Directors at its regular and special
meetings, and to the Chair of the Board of Directors between meetings, on the
progress of programs being conducted, and to make recommendations to the Board
of Directors with respect to Board actions that are necessary to further these
programs;
   F.   To commit expenditures to the extent permitted by law on behalf of the
MTA consistent within the authorized budget and expenditure authority and such
other limitations as may be set from time-to-time by the Board of Directors;
   G.   To employ and discharge staff of the MTA as necessary to meet the
objectives of the MTA consistent with the authorized budget and expenditure
authority and such other limitations as may be set from time-to-time by the
Board of Directors;
   H.   To represent the MTA to government officials, business and community
leaders and representatives, and others as necessary to further the interests
and mission of the MTA;
   I.   To award all contracts for construction based upon the lowest
responsible and responsive bid submitted and to award and approve such other
contracts under such authority as may be delegated to the Chief Executive
Officer from time-to-time by the Board of Directors;
   J.   To perform such other responsibilities as may be delegated from time-
to-time by action of the Board of Directors; and
   K.   To further delegate any authority granted the Chief Executive Officer
unless specifically prohibited by law or by action of the Board of Directors.
2-05-030 Removal of Chief Executive Officer.
The Chief Executive Officer shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of
Directors, but may be removed during his or her four year term of office only
as follows:
   A.   By a two-thirds vote of all members of the Board of Directors for any
reason, or
   B.   By a majority vote of all members of the Board of Directors if the
Chief Executive Officer violates a federal or state law or regulation, or an
ordinance, policy or practice of the MTA relative to ethical obligations,
including, but not limited to, the acceptance of gifts or contributions.
2-05-040 Pro Tempore or Acting Chief Executive Officer.
On recommendation of the Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Directors may
approve a list of executive staff members authorized to serve as Chief
Executive Officer Pro Tempore during any absence or disability of the Chief
Executive Officer.
Chapter 2-10
Board Secretary
2-10-010 Appointment of a Board Secretary.
The Board of Directors shall appoint a Board Secretary who shall be a full-time
officer of the MTA and be referred to as the Board Clerk.
2-10-020 Authority and Responsibilities of Board Secretary.
The Board Secretary shall have the following authority and responsibilities:
   A.   To give notice of all meetings of the Board of Directors and Board
Committees as required by law, to keep the official minutes of all such
meetings, to retain the tapes of all such meetings for a period of at least
five years, and to maintain custody of the seal of the MTA; and
   B.   To serve as agent for service of process for the MTA. Claims for money
or damages against the MTA, and for wage garnishments of MTA employees, shall
be referred to the Board Secretary. The Board Secretary is authorized to
perform all functions of the Board of Directors prescribed by Part 3 of
Division 3.6 of Title 1 of the Government Code with respect to such claims
other than the allowance, compromise or settlement of such claims. The Board
Secretary may delegate or refer claims not involving lawsuits to the
appropriate MTA department. Claims involving lawsuits shall be referred to MTA
Risk Management or the General Counsel, as appropriate.
2-10-030 Removal of Board Secretary.
The Board Secretary serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and may be
removed for any reason by a majority vote of the members of the Board of
Directors.
Chapter 2-15
General Counsel
2-15-010 Appointment of a General Counsel.
The Board of Directors shall appoint a General Counsel who shall be a full time
officer of the MTA. The General Counsel may be an employee of the MTA or the
Board of Directors may contract with another public agency to have the law
office of that public agency serve as General Counsel for the MTA.
2-15-020 Authority and Responsibilities of General Counsel.
The General Counsel shall have the following authority and responsibilities:
   A.   To manage the legal affairs of the MTA;
   B.   To provide or arrange for the provision of legal representation to the
MTA and to its officers and employees, in all matters where the MTA is a party
or where the actions of MTA officers and employees within the course and scope
of their MTA employment or official duties are at issue;
   C.   To provide legal advice to the Board of Directors, its individual
members, and to MTA officers and employees on all matters pertaining to the
operations and business of the MTA; and
   D.   To retain private counsel to assist in meeting the responsibilities set
forth above, for matters which are highly complex or require special expertise,
or where the General Counsel staff is not otherwise able to provide the most
effective representation and advice. For any matter where the General Counsel
has retained private counsel, that counsel shall report to and be under the
direction of the General Counsel unless the General Counsel has a conflict of
interest which prevents such oversight.
2-15-030 Removal of General Counsel.
The General Counsel serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and may be
removed for any reason by a majority vote of the members of the Board of
Directors.
Chapter 2-20
Inspector General
2-20-010 Appointment of an Inspector General.
The Board of Directors shall appoint an Inspector General who shall be a full
time officer of the MTA and who shall be appointed for a term of four years.
2-20-020 Authority and Responsibilities of Inspector General.
The Inspector General shall direct an independent and objective unit reporting
directly to the Board of Directors and shall have the following authority and
responsibilities:
   A.   To conduct and supervise audits, reviews and analyses, independent of
those internal audits directed by the Chief Executive Officer, relating to the
programs, operations and contracts of the MTA;
   B.   To receive and investigate complaints from any source and proactively
conduct investigations concerning alleged abuse, fraud or waste of MTA
resources;
   C.   To provide leadership and coordination in recommending policies or
remedial actions to correct deficiencies and promote economy, efficiency and
effectiveness of MTA programs and operations;
   D.   To provide the Board of Directors and management with independent
analyses, evaluations and appraisals of the MTA's performance effectiveness,
the accuracy of its information systems, the economic and efficient utilization
of its resources, and the adequacy of its internal controls;
   E.   To report quarterly to the Board of Directors on MTA expenditures for
travel, meals and refreshments, private club dues, memberships fees and other
charges and expenditures as specified by the Board of Directors and as required
by Public Utilities Code Section 130051.28 (b);
   F.   To keep the Board of Directors and MTA management informed of issues
and deficiencies relating to compliance with applicable policies, procedures,
federal and state laws, regulations and grants, and the need for and the status
of any appropriate corrective action;
   G.   To prepare and update as necessary, a pre-qualification questionnaire
to be completed by business entities seeking to do business with the MTA as
required by Public Utilities Code Section 130051.21;
   H.   To coordinate as necessary on criminal matters with law enforcement
agencies;
   I.   To comply with the standards set forth in the Government Auditing
Standards promulgated by the Controller General of the United States; and
   J.   To report expeditiously to the District Attorney, the California
Attorney General, the United States Attorney or other appropriate prosecutorial
and investigative agencies whenever the Inspector General has reasonable
grounds to believe there has been a violation of criminal law.
2-20-030 Further Authority of Inspector General.
In addition to the authority necessary to carry out those responsibilities set
forth in section
2-20-020, the Inspector General shall have the following specific authority:
   A.   To have full, free and unrestricted access to all MTA records, reports,
audits, reviews, plans, projections, documents, files, contracts, memoranda,
correspondence, data, information and other materials, whether maintained in a
written format or contained on audio, video, electronic tape or disk, or in
some other format;
   B.   To subpoena witnesses, administer oaths or affirmations, take testimony
and compel the production of such books, papers, records and documents as may
be deemed relevant to any inquiry or investigation undertaken, as authorized in
section
2-20-050.
   C.   To select, appoint, and employ, in accordance with applicable MTA Human
Resources policies, such officers and employees as are required to carry out
the functions, powers and duties of the Inspector General;
   D.   To enter into contracts and other arrangements for audits,
investigations, studies, analyses and other services with public agencies and
with private persons to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the
Inspector General, in accordance with applicable procurement ordinances and
procedures and within the budget approved by the Board of Directors;
   E.   To have direct and prompt access to any member of the Board of
Directors, MTA officer, employee or contractor as may be necessary to carry out
the duties and responsibilities of the Inspector General; and
   F.   To make available to appropriate law enforcement officials information
and evidence which relates to criminal acts that may be obtained by the
Inspector General in carrying out his or her duties and responsibilities.
2-20-040 Confidentiality of Inspector General Investigatory Files.
All information compiled by the Inspector General as part of an investigation
is confidential and shall be considered an investigatory file under Government
Code Section 6254, subdivision (f), and shall be subject to release only as set
forth therein.
2-20-050 Subpoena Authority.
   A.   The Inspector General has the power to examine witnesses under oath, to
compel the attendance of witnesses, and to compel the production of evidence by
witnesses, within the course of an investigation authorized by this Chapter.
   B.   The Inspector General may issue a subpoena to compel the attendance of
a witness to give testimony, or to compel the attendance of a witness to
produce evidence when the subpoena is supported by affidavit from a member of
the Office of Inspector General, which states the name and address of the
witness, the exact things to be produced, and the materiality of the testimony
or tangible evidence to the issues involved. The Inspector General is
authorized to administer oaths to witnesses.
   C.   Subpoenas shall be issued in the name of the MTA, and they shall be
attested by the Board Secretary. Subpoenas shall be served in the manner
provided by law for the service of a summons. Witnesses shall be entitled to
five dollars ($5.00) per hour, to a maximum of thirty-five dollars ($35.00) per
day, plus twenty cents ($0.20) per mile for each mile traveled round trip
between the residence of the witness to the place for the witness's appearance
as set forth in the subpoena.
   D.   If a witness disobeys a subpoena, the Inspector General shall apply to
the court with jurisdiction over such matters, to compel the attendance of the
witness. The Inspector General shall seek the penalties imposed by law upon the
disobedience of a compelled subpoena.
   E.   Nothing in this ordinance shall limit or otherwise affect the power of
the Board of Directors to compel the attendance of a witness to give testimony,
or to compel the attendance of a witness to produce evidence.
2-20-060 Complaints by Employees, Disclosure of Identity, Reprisal.
   A.   The Inspector General may receive and investigate complaints or
information from
   B.   any sources, including any employees of the MTA or MTA contractors,
concerning the possible existence of activity constituting a violation of law,
rules or regulations, or mismanagement, gross waste of funds, abuse of
authority or a substantial and specific danger to the public health and safety.
   C.   The Inspector General shall not disclose the identity of an employee
from whom a complaint or information has been received, unless the employee has
consented to such disclosure or such disclosure is unavoidable during the
course of the investigation.
   D.   Any employee who makes a complaint or discloses information to the
Inspector General shall not be subject to any reprisal or threat of reprisal
for having made such a complaint or for having disclosed such information,
unless the complaint was made or the information disclosed with the knowledge
that it was false or with willful disregard for its truth or falsity.
2-20-070 Removal of the Inspector General.
The Inspector General shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors,
but may be removed during his or her four year term of office only as follows:
   A.   By a two-thirds vote of all members of the Board of Directors for any
reason, or
   B.   By a majority vote of all members of the Board of Directors if the
Inspector General violates a federal or state law or regulation, or an
ordinance, policy or practice of the MTA relative to ethical obligations,
including, but not limited to, the acceptance of gifts or contributions.
Chapter 2-25
Ethics Officer
2-25-010 Appointment of an Ethics Officer.
The Board of Directors shall appoint an Ethics Officer who shall be a full time
officer of the MTA.
2-25-020 Authority and Responsibilities of the Ethics Officer.
The Ethics Officer shall report to the Board, operate in an independent manner,
and have the following authority and responsibilities:
   A.   To provide information to members of the Board of Directors to assist
them in complying with ethics related requirements. When in doubt as to the
applicability of any provision of a code of conduct [MTA Administrative Code,
Title 5] to any particular situation, a Board Member may contact the Ethics
Officer or the General Counsel for advice. Any such contacts or advice will be
considered a confidential communication and shall be entitled to all the
applicable privileges;
   B.   To interpret relevant authorities and provide advice to the Board and
MTA relating to codes of conduct, lobbying, governmental ethics, campaign
finance, fair procurement practices, and conflicts of interest. Any advice
provided by the ethics officer shall be confidential and entitled to all
applicable privileges;
   C.   To update the MTA Conflict of Interest Code and submit the updated Code
biennially to the County of Los Angeles for approval by the Board of
Supervisors as required by state law;
   D.   To propose amendments to codes of conduct that apply to the Board, MTA
employees, and MTA contractors, when appropriate, subject to Board approval ;
   E.   To make recommendations, when appropriate, regarding potential ethics
violations for consideration by the Inspector General and to confer with the
Inspector General on such potential violations or other ethics-related rules of
laws that apply to Board members and employees;
   F.   To serve as the MTA filing officer for lobbyist registration and
reporting and to manage the lobbyist reporting administration pursuant to the
chapter 5-25;
   G.   To provide ethics related education and advice to MTA staff,
contractors, consultants, and members of the Board of Directors, and to
otherwise promote high standards of ethics within the MTA;
   H.   To develop informational materials which are consistent with the codes
of conduct in
Title 5 of this Administrative Code and which describe the requirements of
those codes in a readily understandable format, and to make such informational
materials available to MTA officers and employees and persons doing business
with the MTA;
   I.   To serve as the "Reconsideration Officer" to adjudicate an appeal from
a determination that a contractor or bidder has failed to make good faith
efforts to achieve the disadvantaged business enterprise goal; and
   J.   To retain and utilize such staff and other resources as are reasonably
necessary to carry out the responsibilities set forth in this section, that the
Board of Directors may assign or authorizes from time-to-time, and as
prescribed by the rules, laws, or procedures applicable to the MTA.
2-25-030 Removal of Ethics Officer.
The Ethics Officer shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors, but
may be removed only as follows:
   A.   By a two-thirds vote of all members of the Board of Directors for any
reason, or
   B.   By a majority vote of all members of the Board of Directors if the
Ethics Officer violates a federal or state law or regulation, a local
ordinance, or policy or practice of the MTA, relative to ethical practices,
including, but not limited to, the acceptance of gifts or contributions.
Chapter 2-30
Public Transportation Services Corporation
2-30-010 Organization and Establishment.
The Public Transportation Services Corporation, also known as the PTSC, was
established by the MTA in December 1996, as a nonprofit public benefit
corporation to perform public transportation functions in coordination with and
support of the MTA.
2-30-020 Authority and Responsibilities of PTSC.
The authority and responsibilities of the PTSC
are as set forth in its articles of incorporation and bylaws and are limited to
those assigned by the MTA as necessary to further public transportation
services and projects with the County of Los Angeles. The principal specific
responsibilities of the PTSC are:
   A.   To provide the MTA with a mechanism for achieving financial savings in
personnel and insurance costs;
   B.   To provide a means of achieving insurance premium tax savings through
the creation of a joint powers authority with the MTA;
   C.   To provide a mechanism through which former Los Angeles County
Transportation Commission employees and certain other employees providing
services to the MTA can obtain retirement benefits through the Public Employees
Retirement System;
   D.   To provide a mechanism through which employment tax savings can be
achieved through non-election of Social Security Coverage; and
   E.   To conduct other essential and helpful regional public transportation
activities, including planning, programming, administrative, operational
management, construction and security functions as may be required in
furtherance of the mission and purpose of the MTA.
2-30-030 Relationship of PTSC and MTA.
As a corporation the PTSC has legal status distinct from the MTA, but by
contract the PTSC functions solely as an organizational unit of the MTA. When
serving as an organizational unit of the MTA, the PTSC is subject to all
governmental privileges and immunities enjoyed by the MTA. Except with regard
to retirement benefits and employment taxes, the employees of the PTSC are
subject to all the privileges, immunities and responsibilities that would apply
if they were employed by the MTA. Unless the text otherwise provides, any
reference in any rule, policy, resolution or ordinance to MTA employees shall
be considered to also refer to employees of the PTSC.
Chapter 2-35
Tort Claims
2-35-010 Applicability.
Pursuant to Government Code Section 935, all claims against the Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority for money or damages which are
excepted by Section 905 of the Government Code from the provisions of Chapters
1 and 2 of Part 3 of Division 3.6 of Title 1 of the Government Code, and which
are not governed by any other statutes or regulations expressly relating
thereto, shall be governed by the procedures prescribed in this chapter.
2-35-020 Claim Prerequisites.
No suit for money or damages may be brought against the MTA on a cause of
action specified in section
2-35-010 unless a written claim therefore has first been filed and acted upon
in conformity with this chapter and Government Code Sections 945.6 and 946.
2-35-030 Claims - Time Limitation.
The claim for any cause of action specified in section
2-35-010 shall be presented in the manner provided in section
2-35-050 not later than one year after the accrual of the cause of action;
except that a claim on a cause of action for death or for injury to person or
to personal property or growing crops shall be presented not later than six
months after the accrual of the cause of action.
2-35-040 Claims - Late Filing.
The late filing of claims governed by this chapter will be subject to the
procedures set forth in those provisions of the Government Code referred to in
subdivision (e) of Government Code Section 935.
2-35-050 Claims - Presentation and Contents.
A signed, written claim shall be presented to the MTA by mailing or delivering
it to the Board Secretary by the claimant or by a person acting on the
claimant's behalf. The claim shall conform to the requirements of Government
Code Section 910 or of a form provided by the MTA.
2-35-060 Claims - Statutory Procedures for Consideration and Action Adopted.
Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, the procedure for consideration and
action upon all claims filed pursuant to this chapter shall be the same as the
procedure provided and required by Chapter 2 of Part 3 of Division 3.6 of Title
1 (commencing with Section 910) of the Government Code, which Chapter is hereby
adopted as setting forth the requirements for claims filed pursuant to this
chapter.
Chapter 2-40
Settlement of Claims
2-40-010 Chief Executive Officer Settlement Authority.
The Chief Executive Officer is delegated authority to finally settle any claim
or lawsuit brought against the MTA for monetary damages where the present value
of the settlement does not exceed $50,000 and the settlement of any workers
compensation claim where the value of the settlement does not exceed $200,000.
The Chief Executive Officer may further delegate all or a portion of such
authority to other MTA officers or employees, but any such delegation must be
made in writing.
2-40-020 Public Liability/Property Damage Claims Committee.
There shall be a Public Liability/Property Damage Claims Committee, or PL/PD
Claims Committee, composed of the following persons or their designees: the
General Counsel, the Chief Financial Officer, the administrative head of the
unit responsible for risk management and the MTA's third-party claims
administrator, if any. Except as set forth below, the PL/PD Claims Committee
shall review and approve all settlements of claims, including claims in
litigation, which seek a monetary recovery from the MTA exceeding $50,000 for
damages resulting from bus or rail accidents or other negligent actions of MTA
employees or agents acting within the course and scope of their employment or
agency, employment disputes, and construction contract and other contract
disputes. The PL/PD Claims Committee is delegated authority to finally settle
any claim brought before it pursuant to this section where the present value of
the settlement does not exceed $200,000. A claim settlement with a value
exceeding $200,000 will be reviewed and approved by the PL/PD Claims Committee,
but after approval by that Committee must be presented to the Board of
Directors for final approval.
2-40-030 Settlements Requiring Special Consideration.
Notwithstanding section
2-40-020, if the General Counsel determines that the consideration of a
proposed settlement, regardless of its value, is of particular urgency or
involves policy or other considerations not necessarily within the expertise of
the members of the PL/PD Claims Committee, the matter may be brought directly
to the Board of Directors for consideration without first having been presented
to the Claims Committee.
2-40-040 Payment of Approved Settlements.
Upon the presentation of written documentation of the approval of a claim
settlement pursuant to the procedures set forth in this chapter, the Chief
Financial Officer or his or her designee is authorized to draw a warrant on the
MTA treasury in the amount of the settlement to liquidate the claim and, if
applicable, the appropriate authorization for expenditure shall be increased by
an equal amount.
Chapter 2-45
Transit Operator Jurisdictional Disputes
2-45-010 Historical Background and Legislative Intent.
This chapter is a reenactment of Los Angles County Transportation Commission
Ordinance 10, adopted as required by Article 7 of Chapter 4 of Division 12
(commencing with Section 130370) of the Public Utilities Code, as the procedure
for the resolution of transit service disputes between operators within the
County of Los Angeles. In adopting this chapter, it is not the intent of the
Board of Directors to make significant substantive changes in Ordinance 10 but
only to update Ordinance 10 to recognize that the MTA is the successor agency
to the Los Angeles County Transportation Commission and to make other
clarifying, but essentially non- substantive, revisions.
2-45-020 Notice to Affected Operator.
A transit operator who proposes a change in its transit service which may
adversely affect another transit operator in the county shall notify the
affected other operator in writing, with a copy to the Chief Executive Officer
of the MTA, unless the affected other operator has indicated that it has no
objection to the proposed change in service. If notice is given, there shall be
no action taken to alter the service until either:
   A.   The affected operator indicates in writing that it has no objection.
The affected operator shall have up to twenty (20) working days from receipt of
the notice to respond. Failure to respond within that period shall be deemed to
be notice that the affected operator has no objection to the proposed action;
or
   B.   The matter is resolved through the procedures set forth in this
chapter.
2-45-030 Meeting of Operators.
The affected operator may request in writing a meeting with the operator
proposing the action to resolve the dispute. The meeting should normally take
place within one (1) week of the request. The MTA Chief Executive Officer shall
be notified in writing of the date, time, and place of such a meeting. The
operators shall act in good faith in an effort to reach an agreement. If the
operators reach a mutually satisfactory agreement, the Chief Executive Officer
shall be notified in writing of the nature and conditions of the agreement. Any
party to the dispute may refer the dispute to the MTA at any time after the
meeting described in this section. Any such referral shall be in writing and
shall state the nature of the dispute.
2-45-040 Mediation by MTA Chief Executive Officer.
Upon receipt of notification from one or more parties to the dispute that
agreement cannot be reached, the Chief Executive Officer, or a staff member he
or she may designate, shall make an effort to mediate the dispute and bring
about an agreement. If an agreement is not reached within ten (10) working days
from receipt of the notification, the matter shall be referred to the Board of
Directors.
2-45-050 Assignment to a Dispute Resolution Committee.
Upon referral of the dispute to the Board of Directors, the Chair shall refer
the matter to a Dispute Resolution Committee, which shall consist of no more
than five members of the Board of Directors, appointed by the Chair. In lieu of
specifically naming members to serve on a Dispute Resolution Committee, the
Chairman designates a standing committee of the Board of Directors to serve as
the Dispute Resolution Committee and to preside over a hearing on the dispute.
When the Dispute Resolution Committee has been designated, the Chief Executive
Officer shall formally notify all parties to the dispute that the MTA is
assuming jurisdiction of the dispute and that the Dispute Resolution Committee
will hold a hearing, which shall be open to the public, at a specified time and
place. Said hearing shall be conducted according to the following rules of
procedure:
   A.   The parties shall, at least five (5) days prior to the hearing date,
submit to the Dispute Resolution Committee an original and five copies, with
copies to the opposing party, of the points and authorities, affidavits,
declarations, exhibits and other evidence intended to be used at the hearing.
If affidavits or declarations under penalty of perjury are to be used, the
affiant or declarant must be present and available at the hearing for
questioning by the opposing party or by the Dispute Resolution Committee.
   B.   Arguments at the hearing will normally be limited to thirty (30)
minutes by each party.
Each party will have the right to submit additional written arguments within
one (1) week after the hearing. Service of any such additional written argument
shall be simultaneously served on the opposing party.
   C.   The Chief Executive Officer, if directed by the Dispute Resolution
Committee, shall provide the Committee, with an analysis of the dispute and a
recommendation for appropriate Committee action.
   D.   Within a reasonable time after the right to submit additional arguments
had expired, the Dispute Resolution Committee shall prepare and forward to the
Board of Directors for appropriate action its Proposed Decision and Order.
2-45-060 Action By Board of Directors.
Upon receipt of the Proposed Decision and Order the Board of Directors may take
any one of the following actions:
   A.   Approve and adopt the Proposed Decision and Order;
   B.   Refer the matter back to the Dispute Resolution Committee for further
proceedings; or
   C.   Require a transcript of the testimony and other evidence relevant to
the decision of Dispute Resolution Committee and take such action as in its
opinion is indicated by the evidence. In such case the Board of Directors'
decision may cover all phases of the matter, including the deletion or addition
of any condition; or
   D.   Set the matter for a de novo hearing before the full Board of
Directors. The decision of the Board of Directors at any such de novo hearing
shall be based upon the arguments and evidence that was before the Dispute
Resolution Commission and shall such additional argument and evidence which the
Board, in its sole discretion, agrees to receive.
   E.   The Board of Directors shall serve notice of any action taken on all
parties.
   F.   Any action of the Board of Directors under paragraphs A., C. or D.,
which decides the dispute before the Board shall be final and conclusive.
Chapter 2-50
Public Hearings
2-50-005 Definitions
   A.   Disparate impact refers to a facially neutral policy or practice that
disproportionately affects members of a group identified by race, color or
national origin (referred to as minorities) and the policy lacks a substantial
legitimate justification including one or more alternatives that would serve
the same legitimate objectives but with less disproportionate effects on the
basis of race, color or national origin
   B.   Disproportionate burden refers to a neutral policy or practice that
disproportionately affects low income populations more than non-low- income
populations. A finding of disproportionate burdens for fare and major service
changes requires Metro to evaluate alternatives and mitigate burdens where
practicable.
   C.   For major service changes a disparate impact will be analyzed using the
Metro Board adopted Title VI Equity Policies.
   D.   For any applicable fare changes a disparate impact will be analyzed
using the Metro Board adopted Title VI Equity Policies.
2-50-010 Major Service Changes
   A.   All major increases or decreases in transit service are subject to a
Title VI Equity Analysis prior to Board approval of the service change. A Title
VI Equity Analysis completed for a major service change must be presented to
the Board of Directors for their consideration and then forwarded to the FTA
with a record of the action taken by the Board.
   B.   A major service change is defined in Metro’s Board adopted Title VI
Policies as required by FTA Title VI Circular guidance.
2-50-015 Fare Changes
   A.   A Fare Equity Analysis shall be prepared for any fare change (increase
or decrease) as required by FTA Title VI Circular guidance. This does not
include fares not available to the general public such as special discount
programs for students, groups or employers because these are exempt per FTA
guidance. An Equity Analysis is not required for changes to fares set by
formulas to comply with FTA requirements (e.g.,off-peak fares for seniors,
persons with disabilities, and Medi-care card holders).
   B.   The Fare Equity Analysis shall not be limited to an analysis of changes
in price of fare products, but will also consider changes in fare media types,
or availability of outlets to purchase fare media products.
   C.   The Title VI Fare Equity Analysis shall be completed using the Board
approved Title VI Equity Policies and presented for consideration to the Board
of Directors in advance of the approval of the proposed fare or fare media
change by the Board of Directors. The Equity Analysis will then be forwarded to
the FTA with a record of action taken by the Board.
2-50-020 Public Hearings
   A.   . A Public Hearing consistent with the procedures in
2-50-025 shall be held for any new route or changes to Metro transit services
that require a Title VI Equity Analysis to be completed.
   B.    A Public Hearing consistent with the procedures in
2-50-025 shall be held for changes to Metro Transit fare prices that require a
Title VI Equity Analysis to be completed.
2-50-025 Public Hearing Procedures
   A.   Any public hearing required by section
2-50-020 shall be conducted as set forth in this section.
   B.   Notice of the hearing shall be published in at least one English
language and Spanish Language newspaper of general circulation, at least thirty
(30) days prior to the date of the hearing. Notice at least thirty (30) days
prior to the date of the hearing shall also be published in neighborhood and
foreign language and ethnic newspapers as appropriate to provide notice to the
members of the public most likely to be impacted by the proposed action.
   C.   Notice of the public hearing shall also be announced by brochures in
English, Spanish and other appropriate languages on transit vehicles serving
the areas to be impacted and at customer service centers.
   D.   In order to ensure that the view and comments expressed by the public
are taken into consideration, Metro staff shall prepare a written response to
the issues raised at the public hearing. That response should also include a
general assessment of the social, economic and environmental impacts of the
proposed change, including any impact on energy conservation.
   E.   The public hearing related to a recommendation to increase transit
fares charged to the general public shall be held before the Board of Directors
and any action to increase the fares charged to the general public must be
approved by a two-thirds vote of the members of the Board of Directors. The
Board of Directors may delegate to another body or a hearing officer appointed
by the Chief Executive Officer the authority to hold the public hearing related
to a change in transit service.
Title 3
Finance
Chapter 3-05
An Ordinance Establishing A Retail Transactions And Use Tax in the County of
Los Angeles For Public Transit Purposes
(Preliminary Note: The ordinance set forth in Chapter 3-05 was originally
enacted as Los Angeles County Transportation Commission Ordinance No. 16 and
was adopted by a vote of the electorate as Proposition A in November 1980. It
is incorporated here as enacted in 1980, except that, for convenience and
consistency, its section headings and numbering have been revised to conform to
the style of this Code. While the provisions of this ordinance may be cited by
the section headings and numbering used herein, the official ordinance remains
that enacted by the electorate in 1980. The inclusion of this ordinance in this
Code is not a reenactment or an amendment of the original ordinance, and its
inclusion in this Code does not in any way amend its provisions or alter its
application.)
A retail Transactions and Use Tax is hereby imposed in the County of Los
Angeles as follows:
3-05-010 Definitions.
The following words, whenever used in this Ordinance, shall have the meanings
set forth below:
   A.   "Commission" means the Los Angeles County Transportation Commission.
   B.   "County" means the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the
County of Los Angeles.
   C.   "Transaction" or "Transactions" have the same meaning, respectively, as
the words "Sale" or "Sales"; and the word "Transactor" has the same meaning as
"Seller", as "Sale" or "Sales" and "Seller" are used in Part 1 (commencing with
Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
3-05-020 Imposition of Retail Transactions Tax.
There is hereby imposed a tax for the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail upon every retailer in the County at a rate of one-half of
1% of the gross receipts of the retailer from the sale of all tangible personal
property sold by him at retail in the County.
3-05-030 Imposition of Use Tax.
There is hereby imposed a complementary tax upon the storage, use or other
consumption in the County of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer for storage, use or other consumption in the County. Such tax shall be
at a rate of one-half of 1% of the sales price of the property whose storage,
use or other consumption is subject to the tax.
3-05-040 Application of Sales and Use Tax Provisions of Revenue and Taxation
Code.
   A.   The provisions contained in Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation code (Sales and Use Taxes, commencing with Section 6001), insofar as
they relate to sales or use taxes and are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and taxation Code (transactions and Use Taxes,
commencing with Section 7251), shall apply and be part of this Ordinance, being
incorporated by reference herein, except that:
      1.   The commission, as the taxing agency, shall be substituted for that
of the State;
      2.   An additional transactor's permit shall not be required if a
seller's permit has been or is issued to the transactor under Section 6067 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code; and
      3.   The word "County" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the
phrase, "Retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code and in the definition of that phrase.
   B.   A retailer engaged in business in the County shall not be required to
collect use tax from the purchase of tangible personal property unless the
retailer ships or delivers the property into the County or participates within
the County in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to
soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of
business of the retailer in the County or through any representative, agent,
canvasser, solicitor, or subsidiary or person in the County under authority of
the retailer.
   C.   All amendments subsequent to January 1, 1970, to the above cited Sales
and Use Taxes provisions relating to sales or use taxes and not consistent with
this Ordinance shall automatically become a part of this Ordinance; provided,
however, that no such amendment shall operate as to affect the rate of tax
imposed by the Commission.
3-05-050 Use of Revenues Received from Imposition of the Transactions and Use
Tax.
The revenues received by the Commission from the imposition of the transactions
and use tax shall be used for public transit purposes, as follows:
   A.   Definitions:
      1.   "System" or "Rail rapid transit system" means all land and other
improvements and equipment necessary to provide an operable, exclusive right-
of-way, or guideway, for rail transit.
      2.   "Local transit" means eligible transit, paratransit, and
Transportation Systems Management improvements which benefit one jurisdiction.
   B.   Purpose of Tax. This tax is being imposed to improve and expand
existing public transit Countywide, including reduction of transit fares, to
construct and operate a rail rapid transit system hereinafter described, and to
more effectively use State and Federal funds, benefit assessments, and fares.
   C.   Use of Revenues. Revenues will be allocated as follows:
      1.   For the first three (3) years from the operative date of this
Ordinance:
         a.   Twenty-five (25) percent, calculated on an annual basis, to local
jurisdictions for local transit, based on their relative percentage share of
the population of the County of Los Angeles.
         b.   To the Southern California Rapid Transit District ("District"),
or any other existing or successor entity in the District receiving funds under
the Mills-Alquist-Deddeh Act, such sums as are necessary to accomplish the
following purposes;
            (1)   Establishment of a basic cash fare of fifty (50) cents.
            (2)   Establishment of an unlimited use transfer charge of ten (10)
cents.
            (3)   Establishment of a charge for a basic monthly transit pass of
$20.00.
            (4)   Establishment of a charge for a monthly transit pass for the
elderly, handicapped and students of $4.00.
            (5)   Establishment of a basic cash fare for the elderly,
handicapped and students of twenty (20) cents.
            (6)   Establishment of a comparable fare structure for express or
premium bus service.
         c.   The remainder to the Commission for construction and operation of
the System.
      2.   Thereafter:
         a.   Twenty-five (25) percent, calculated on an annual basis, to local
jurisdictions for local transit, based on their relative percentage share of
the population of the County of Los Angeles.
         b.   Thirty-five (35) percent, calculated on an annual basis, to the
commission for construction and operation of the System.
         c.   The remainder shall be allocated to the Commission for public
transit purposes.
      3.   Scope of Use. Revenues can be used for capital or operating
expenses.
   D.   Commission Policy.
      1.   Relative to the Local Transit Component:
         a.   Allocation of funds to local jurisdictions shall be subject to
the following conditions:
            (1)   Submission to the Commission of a description of intended use
of the funds, in order to establish legal eligibility. Such use shall not
duplicate or compete with existing transit service.
            (2)   The Commission may impose regulations to ensure the timely
use of local transit funds.
            (3)   Recipients shall account annually to the Commission on the
use of such funds.
         b.   Local jurisdictions are encouraged to use available funds for
improved transit service.
      2.   Relative to the System Component:
         a.   The Commission will determine the System to be constructed and
operated.
         b.   The System will be constructed as expeditiously as possible. In
carrying out this policy, the Commission shall use the following guidelines:
            (1)   Emphasis shall be placed on the use of funds for construction
of the System.
            (2)   Use of existing rights-of-way will be emphasized.
         c.   The System will be constructed and operated in substantial
conformity with the map attached hereto as Exhibit "A". The areas proposed to
be served are, at least, the following:
            San Fernando Valley
            West Los Angeles
            South Central Los Angeles/Long Beach
            South Bay/Harbor
            Century Freeway Corridor
            Santa Ana Free Corridor
            San Gabriel Valley
3-05-060 Exclusion of Tax Imposed Under Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and
Use Tax Law.
The amount subject to tax under this Ordinance shall not include the amount of
any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city,
city and county, or county, pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales
and Use Tax Law, or the amount of any State-administered transactions or use
tax.
3-05-070 Exemption from Retail Transactions Tax.
   A.   There are exempted from the tax imposed by this Ordinance the gross
receipts from the sale of tangible personal property to operators of waterborne
vessels to be used or consumed principally outside the County in which the sale
is made and directly and exclusively in the carriage or persons or property in
such vessels for commercial purposes.
   B.   There are exempted from the tax imposed under this Ordinance the gross
receipts from the sale of tangible personal property to the operators of
aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the County in which the
sale is made, and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government.
   C.   Sales of property to be used outside the County which are shipped to a
point outside the County pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such
point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier
for shipment to a consignee at such point, are exempt from the tax imposed
under this Ordinance.
   D.   For purposes of this Section, "delivery" of vehicles subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3
of the Vehicle code, the aircraft license in compliance with Section 21411 of
the Public Utilities Code and undocumented vessels registered under Article 2
(commencing with Section 680) of Chapter 5 of Division 3 of the Harbors and
Navigation code shall be satisfied by registration to an out-of-County address
and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating
that such address is, in fact, his principal place of residence.
   E.   "Delivery" of commercial vehicle shall be satisfied by registration to
a place of business out of County, and a declaration under penalty of perjury
signed by the buyer that the vehicle will be operated from that address.
   F.   The sale of tangible personal property is exempt from tax, if the
seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the operative date of this Ordinance. A lease of
tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property is
exempt from tax for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date
of this Ordinance. For purposes of this Section, the sale or lease of tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or
lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has
the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether
or not such right is exercised.
3-05-080 Exemptions from Use Tax.
   A.   The storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property,
the gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transaction
tax under any State administered transactions and use taxes ordinances, shall
be exempt from the tax imposed under this Ordinance.
   B.   The storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property
purchased by operators of waterborne vessels and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in the carriage of persons or property in
such vessels for commercial taxes is exempt from the use tax.
   C.   In addition to the exemption provided in Section 6366 and 6366.1 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, the storage, use, or other consumption of tangible
personal property purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by
such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State,
United States, or any foreign government, is exempt from the use tax.
   D.   The storage, use, or other consumption in the County of tangible
personal property is exempt from the use tax imposed under this Ordinance if
purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the operative date of the Ordinance. The
possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal
property under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property is
exempt from tax for any period of time for which a lessee is obligated to lease
the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this
Ordinance. For the purposes of this Section, storage, use or other consumption,
or possession, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease
for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or
not such right is exercised.
3-05-090 Place of Consummation of Retail Transaction.
For the purpose of a retail transaction tax imposed by this Ordinance, all
retail transactions are consummated at the place of business of the retailer,
unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his
agent to an out-of-State destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an
out-of-State destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include
delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the State sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has
no permanent place of business in the State, or has more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated for the
purpose of the transactions tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be determined
under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.
3-05-100 Deduction of Local Transactions Taxes on Sales of Motor Fuel.
   A.   The Controller shall deduct local transactions taxes on sales of motor
vehicle fuel which are subject to tax and refund pursuant to Part 2 (commencing
with Section 7301) of this division, unless the claimant establishes to the
satisfaction of the Controller that the claimant has paid local sales tax
reimbursement for a use tax measured by the sale price of the fuel to him.
   B.   If the claimant establishes to the satisfaction of the Controller that
he has paid transactions tax reimbursement or Commission use tax measured by
the sale price of the fuel to him, including the amount of the tax imposed by
said Part 2, the Controller shall repay to the claimant the amount of
transactions tax reimbursement or use tax paid with respect to the amount of
the motor vehicle license tax refunded. If the buyer receives a refund under
this Section, no refund shall be made to the seller.
3-05-110 Adoption and Enactment of Ordinance.
This Ordinance is hereby adopted by the Commission and shall be enacted upon
authorization of the electors voting in favor thereof at the special election
called for November 4, 1980, to vote on the measure.
3-05-120 Operative Date.
This Retail Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance shall be operative the first day
of the first calendar quarter commencing not less than 180 days after the
adoption of said Ordinance.
3-05-130 Effective Date.
The effective date of this Ordinance shall be August 20, 1980.
Chapter 3-10
An Ordinance Establishing An Additional Retail Transactions And Use Tax in the
County of Los Angeles For Public Transit Purposes
(Preliminary Note: The ordinance set forth in Chapter 3-10 was originally
enacted as Los Angeles County Transportation Commission Ordinance No. 49 and
was adopted by a vote of the electorate as Proposition C in November 1990. It
is incorporated here as enacted in 1990, except that, for convenience and
consistency, its section headings and numbering have been revised to conform to
the style of this Code. While the provisions of this ordinance may be cited by
the section headings and numbering used herein, the official ordinance remains
that enacted by the electorate in 1990. The inclusion of this ordinance in this
Code is not a reenactment or an amendment of the original ordinance, and its
inclusion in this Code does not in any way amend its provisions or alter its
application.)
A retail Transactions and Use Tax is hereby imposed in the County of Los
Angeles as follows:
3-10-010 Imposition of Retail Transactions Tax.
There is hereby imposed a tax for the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail upon every retailer in the County at a rate of one-half of
one percent of the gross receipts of the retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in the County. This tax is in addition to the
tax authorized by Ordinance No. 16, on August 20, 1980 [MTA Administrative
Code,
Chapter 3-05].
3-02-020 Imposition of Use Tax.
There is hereby imposed a complementary tax upon the storage, use or other
consumption in the County of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer for storage, use or other consumption in the County. Such tax shall be
at a rate of one-half of 1% of the sales price of the property whose storage,
use or other consumption is subject to the tax. This tax is in addition to the
tax authorized by Ordinance No. 16, on August 20, 1980 [MTA Administrative
Code,
Chapter 3-05].
3-10-030 Definitions.
The following words, whenever used in this Ordinance, shall have the meanings
as set forth below:
   A.   "Commission" means the Los Angeles County Transportation Commission or
any successor entity.
   B.   "County" means the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the
County of Los Angeles.
   C.   "Transaction" or "Transactions" have the same meaning, respectively, as
the words "Sale" or "Sales"; and the word "Transactor" has the same meaning as
"Seller", as "Sale" or "Sales" and "Seller" are used in Part 1 (commencing with
Section 6001) of Division 2 of the revenue and Taxation Code.
   D.   "Public Transit Purposes" are expenditures which maintain, improve and
expand public transit, reduce congestion, and increase mobility, and include,
but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Transit and paratransit activities, including rail, bus and advanced
technologies.
      2.   Fare Subsidies
      3.   Commuter Rail
      4.   Transit Centers
      5.   Park-and-Ride Lots
      6.   Public Information Services Technology and Systems
      7.   Freeway Bus Stations and Facilities
      8.   Rail and Bus Safety and Security
      9.   Maintenance of and Improvements to Streets and Highways used as
public transit thoroughfares, including, but not limited to, the following:
         a.   Coordination and synchronization of signalization
         b.   Provisions for prompt service to assist motorists with disabled
automobiles or trucks
         c.   Construction of high occupancy vehicle (HOV) lanes
         d.   Other activities which reduce congestion and improve air quality
by providing transportation improvements to freeways, and state highways used
as public transit thoroughfares, including construction of transit ways
including bus ways, carpool lanes, and operational and interchange
improvements.
      10.   Transportation Systems Management and Transportation Demand
Management
3-10-040 Use of Revenues Received from Imposition of the Transactions and Use
Tax.
The revenues received by the Commission from the imposition of the transactions
and use tax shall be used for public transit purposes, as follows:
   A.   Purpose of Tax. To improve transit service and operations, reduce
traffic congestion, improve air quality, efficiently operate and improve the
condition of the streets and freeways utilized by public transit, and reduce
foreign fuel dependence. The purposes of this tax include:
      1.   Meeting operating expenses; purchasing or leasing supplies,
equipment or materials; meeting financial reserve requirements; obtaining funds
for capital projects necessary to maintain service within existing service
areas;
      2.   Increasing funds for the existing public transit service programs;
      3.   Instituting or increasing passenger or commuter services on rail or
highway rights of way;
      4.   The continued development of a regional transportation improvement
program.
   B.   Use of Revenues. A Los Angeles County Anti-Gridlock Transit Improvement
fund will be created to supplement current transportation funds and help meet
the documented shortfall in funds needed to complete the Los Angeles County
transportation system.
      1.   Forty percent of the revenue from the 'A cent sales and use tax will
be used to improve and expand rail and bus transit County-wide, to provide fare
subsidies, increase graffiti prevention and removal, and increase energy-
efficient, low-polluting public transit service. Funds from this revenue source
will not be used for capital improvements for the Metro Rail Project between
Union Station and Hollywood.
      2.   Five percent of the revenue from the 1/2 cent sales and use tax will
be used to improve and expand rail and bus security.
      3.   Ten percent of the revenue from the 1/2 cent sales and use tax will
be used to increase mobility and reduce congestion by providing additional
funds for Commuter Rail and the construction of Transit Centers, Park-and-Ride
Lots, and Freeway Bus Stops.
      4.   Twenty percent of the revenue from the 1/2 cent sales and use tax
will be a Local Return Program to be used by cities and the County for public
transit, paratransit, and related services including to improve and expand
supplemental paratransit services to meet the requirements of the Federal
Americans With Disabilities Act. At the option of each city and of the County
funds can be used consistent with the County's Congestion Management Program to
increase safety and improve road conditions by repairing and maintaining
streets heavily used by public transit. Transportation system and demand
management programs are also eligible.
      Funds for the Local Return Program will be allocated to the cities and
the County on a per capita basis. Local Return funds not expended within three
years will be returned to the Commission for reallocation. Local Return funds
may not be traded or sold to other jurisdictions.
      5.   Twenty-five percent of the revenue from the 1/2 cents sales and use
tax will be used to provide essential County-wide transit-related improvements
to freeways and state highways. To facilitate transit flow, the operation of
major streets and freeways will be improved by providing preference and
priority for transit. Traffic signals may be synchronized, and coordinated and
"Smart Street" corridors may be created on those corridors served by public
transit. Transportation Systems Management techniques which assist transit
service may also be funded. Transportation improvements on freeways and State
highways may include transit ways and other improvements to facilitate and
expedite flow of transit and rideshare vehicles, and carpools.
      6.   The non-Local Return funds will be allocated in formula and
discretionary programs basis to be developed and approved by the LACTC within
six months of voter approval of this Ordinance. In no event shall
administrative costs exceed one and one-half (1 1/2 ) percent of the funds
generated by the tax.
3-10-050 Application of Sales and Use Tax Provisions of Revenue and Taxation
Code.
   A.   The provisions contained in Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code (Sales and Use Taxes, commencing with Section 6001), insofar as
they relate to sales or use taxes and are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the revenue and Taxation Code (Transactions and Use Taxes),
commencing with Section 7251), and all amendments thereto shall apply and be
part of this Ordinance, being incorporated by reference herein, except that:
      1.   The Commission, as the taxing agency, shall be substituted for that
of the State;
      2.   An additional transactor's permit shall not be required if a
seller's permit has been or is issued to the transactor under Section 6067 of
the revenue and Taxation Code; and
      3.   The word "County" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the
phrase, "Retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code and in the definition of that phrase.
   B.   A retailer engaged in business in the County shall not be required to
collect use tax from the purchase of tangible personal property unless the
retailer ships or delivers the property into the County or participates within
the County in making the sale of the property; including, but not limited to
soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of
the retailer in the County or through any representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, or subsidiary or person in the County under authority of the
retailer.
3-10-060 Adoption of Revenue and Taxation Code Sections 7261 and 7262.
Pursuant to the provisions of Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7262.2, the
required provisions of Sections 7261 and 7262 of that Code as now in effect or
as later amended are adopted by reference in this Ordinance.
3-10-070 Place of Consummation of Retail Transaction.
For the purpose of a retail transaction tax imposed by this Ordinance, all
retail transactions are consummated at the place of business of the retailer,
unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his
agent to an out-of-State destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an
out-of-State destination. The gross receipts for such sales shall include
delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the State sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has
no permanent place of business in the State, or has more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated for the
purpose of the transactions tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be determined
under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.
3-10-080 Appropriations Limit.
A Commission appropriations limit is hereby established equal to the revenues
collected and allocated during the 1990/91 fiscal year plus an amount equal to
one and a half times the taxes that would be levied or allocated on a one-half
of one percent transaction and use tax in the first full fiscal year following
enactment and implementation of this Ordinance.
3-10-090 Division of Taxes.
This Ordinance imposes a one half of one percent transactions and use tax.
Another measure imposing a one half percent transactions and use tax entitled
the Local Communities Safety Act — Los Angeles County Regional Justice
Facilities Financing Agency is scheduled to be submitted to the electorate in
the same election as this Ordinance. If both measures are approved by the
electorate, the limits of Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7251.1 would be
exceeded. In the event that both measures are approved by a majority of the
electors voting on the measures and both measures are otherwise valid, the
transactions and use tax is to be divided equally with one fourth percent going
to the Los Angeles County Transportation Commission for the purposes set forth
in this Ordinance and one fourth percent going to the Los Angeles County
Regional Justice Facilities Financing Agency for the purposes set forth in its
Ordinance provided that legislation is enacted to authorize such a division.
However, if at some future time the statutory limit on sales tax is increased,
then the full one half of one percent transactions and use tax shall be
restored to each agency.
3-10-100 Adoption and Enactment of Ordinance.
This Ordinance is hereby adopted by the Commission and shall be enacted upon
authorization of the electors voting in favor thereof at the special election
called for November 6, 1990, to vote on the measure.
3-10-110 Effective and Operative Dates.
This ordinance shall take effect on the day it is adopted by the Los Angeles
County Transportation Commission and pursuant to Public Utilities Code Section
130352 shall be operative on the first day of the first calendar quarter
commencing not less than 180 days after adoption of the ordinance.
Chapter 3-15
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) Reform and Accountability Act
of 1998
(Preliminary Note: The ordinance set forth Chapter 3-15 was originally enacted
as the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) Reform and Accountability
Act of 1998 and was adopted by a vote of the electorate as Proposition A in
November 1998. It is incorporated here as enacted in 1998, except that, for
convenience and consistency, its section headings and numbering have been
revised to conform to the style of this Code. While the provisions of this
ordinance may be cited by the section headings and numbering used herein, the
official ordinance remains that enacted by the electorate in 1998. The
inclusion of this ordinance in this Code is not a reenactment or an amendment
of the original ordinance, and its inclusion in this Code does not in any way
amend its provisions or alter its application.)
3-15-010 Title.
This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (MTA) Reform and Accountability Act of 1998 ("Act").
3-15-020 Ballot Language.
The Proposition of approving this Ordinance shall appear upon the ballot
exactly as follows:
PROPOSITION    , METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA) REFORM AND
ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 1998. Shall the ordinance be adopted to require an annual
independent audit of Metropolitan Transportation Authority spending of
transportation sales tax revenues, to establish an independent citizens'
oversight committee to monitor such spending, and to prohibit the use of
transportation sales tax revenues, to establish an independent citizens'
oversight committee to monitor such spending, and to prohibit the use of
transportation sales tax revenue for future subway construction?
3-15-030 Purpose and Intent.
The people of the County of Los Angeles hereby declare their purpose and intent
in enacting this Act to be as follows:
   A.   To restore the confidence of the citizens of Los Angeles County in the
ability of their government to provide a safe, efficient and cost-effective
public transportation system.
   B.   To provide accountability in the expenditure of transportation sales
tax revenues through an annual independent audit, and through creation of an
Independent Citizens' Advisory Oversight Committee to review transportation
sales tax expenditures, hold public hearings and issue reports thereon.
   C.   To prohibit the use of any transportation sales tax revenues for
planning, designing, constructing or operating any new subway.
3-15-040 Definitions.
   A.   "Commission" means the Los Angeles County Transportation Commission, as
predecessor to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
   B.   "Effective Date" means the date on which this Act is approved by a
majority of the electors voting on it at an election as provided by law.
   C.   "MOS-1: means that segment of the Metro Red Line known as Minimum
Operable Segment-1, consisting of a 4.4- mile segment of the Metro Red Line
including passenger vehicles, fare collection equipment, automatic train
control equipment, yards and shops required for the full construction of the
Metro Red Line alignment and five stations located between Union Station and
Alvarado Street.
   D.   "MOS-2" means that segment of the Metro Red Line known as Minimum
Operable Segment-2, totaling 6.7 miles in length, consisting of a westward
extension from the end of MOS-1 to Vermont Avenue, and thereafter splitting
into a west branch which continues west under Wilshire Boulevard to Western
Avenue, and a north branch which continues under Vermont Avenue to Hollywood
Boulevard and Vine Street.
   E.   “MOS-3-North Hollywood" means only that portion of the segment of the
Metro Red Line known as Minimum Operable Segment-3 which begins at the end of
the north branch of MOS-2 in Hollywood (Hollywood Boulevard and Vine Street)
and continues generally northward to Lankershim Boulevard and Chandler
Boulevard.
   F.   "MTA" means the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority.
   G.   "New Subway" means any Subway (including any extension or operating
segment thereof) other than MOS-1, MOS-2 and MOS-3-North Hollywood.
   H.   "Proposition A" means Ordinance No. 16 of the Commission adopted on
August 20, 1980, and approved by the voters on November 4, 1980 [MTA
Administrative Code,
Chapter 3-05].
   I.   "Proposition C" means Ordinance No. 49 of the Commission adopted on
August 8, 1990, and approved by the voters on November 6, 1990 [MTA
Administrative Code,
Chapter 3-10].
   J.   "Proposition A Sales Tax" means the ½ cent retail transactions and use
tax imposed pursuant to Proposition A.
   K.   "Proposition C Sales Tax" means the ½ cent retail transactions and use
tax imposed pursuant to Proposition C.
   L.   "Subway" means that part of any rail line which is in a tunnel below
the grade level of the earth's surface.
   M.   "Committee" shall mean the Independent Citizens' Advisory and Oversight
Committee established pursuant to this Act.
3-15-050 Independent Audit.
   A.   Within 45 days after the Effective Date, the MTA shall contract for an
independent audit to be conducted by an independent auditing firm, such audit
to be concluded not later than June 1, 1999, for the purpose of determining
compliance by the MTA with the provisions of Proposition A, Proposition C and
this Act relating to the receipt and expenditure of Proposition A Sales Tax
revenues and Proposition C Sales Tax revenues. This audit shall cover the
period from the respective effective dates of Proposition A and Proposition C
through June 30, 1998.
   B.   Commencing with the 1998-99 fiscal year, the MTA shall contract for an
annual independent audit to be conducted by an independent auditing firm, each
such audit to be completed within six months after the end of the fiscal year
being audited, for the purpose of determining compliance by the MTA with the
provisions of Proposition A, Proposition C and this Act relating to the receipt
and expenditure of Proposition A Sales Tax revenues and Proposition C Sales Tax
revenues during such fiscal year.
   C.   Prior to entering into a contract with an auditing firm to perform any
audit required under this section
3-15-050, the MTA shall solicit bids from at least three qualified firms and
shall award the contract to the firm offering to perform the audit at the
lowest price. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the cost of
performing and publishing the audit of Proposition A Sales Tax shall be paid
from Proposition A Sales Tax revenues, and the cost of performing and
publishing the audit of Proposition C Sales Tax shall be paid from Proposition
C Sales Tax revenues.
3-15-060 Independent Citizens' Advisory and Oversight Committee.
   A.   There is hereby established the Independent Citizens' Advisory and
Oversight Committee of the MTA. The Committee shall meet at least twice each
year to carry out the purposes of this Act.
   B.   The Committee shall be comprised of five persons, selected as follows:
one member shall be appointed by the Chair of the Los Angeles County Board of
Supervisors; one member shall be appointed by the Chair of the governing board
of the MTA; one member shall be appointed by the Mayor of the City of Los
Angeles; one member shall be appointed by the Mayor of the City of Long Beach;
and one member shall be appointed by the Mayor of the City of Pasadena. The
members of the Committee must be persons who live in Los Angeles County. No
elected city, county, special district, state or federal public officeholder
will be eligible to serve as a member of the Committee.
   C.   All meetings of the Committee shall be held within Los Angeles County.
All meetings of the Committee shall be held in compliance with the provisions
of the Ralph M. Brown Act (Section 54950 et seq. of the California Government
Code).
   D.   Each member of the Committee shall serve for a term of two years, and
until a successor is appointed. No member of the Committee shall be entitled to
any compensation, except that the Committee may reimburse actual expenses of
members arising out of the performance of their duties as Committee members.
   E.   The independent auditing firm referenced in section
3-15-050 shall present the results of each audit to the Committee which shall
cause a summary of the audit to be published in local newspapers and the entire
audit to be made available to every library located within Los Angeles County
for public review. The Committee shall hold a public hearing on each audit and
report the comments of the public to the MTA. Within 60 days of receipt of the
report from the Committee, the MTA shall prepare a report containing its
response to the audit and to the public comments thereon.
3-15-070 Prohibition on New Subways.
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, Proposition A Sales Tax revenues
and Proposition C Sales Tax revenues shall not be used to pay any cost of
planning, design, construction or operation of any New Subway (including debt
service on bonds, notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued for such
purposes after March 30, 1998). Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prohibit the use of such tax revenues on or after the Effective Date of this
Act to pay debt service on bonds, notes, or other evidences of indebtedness
issued prior to March 30, 1998, or on bonds, issued to refund such debt.
3-15-080 Construction of Prior Ordinances.
Commencing on the Effective Date, the MTA shall, at least annually, comply with
the revenue allocation percentages set forth in Section 5c of Proposition A
[MTA Administrative Code section
3-05-050 C] and Section 4(b) of Proposition C [MTA Administrative Code section
3-10-040 B], such compliance to be determined as part of the annual audit
described in section
3-15-080 of this Act. The MTA may, by resolution, adopt a compliance period
shorter than an entire fiscal year, but may not adopt a longer compliance
period.
3-15-090 Improvement of Railroad Rights-of-Way.
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, Proposition C Sales Tax revenues
required to be used to provide essential county-wide transit- related
improvements to freeways and State highways may also be used to provide public
mass transit improvements to railroad rights-of-way.
3-15-100 Effective Date of Act.
This Act shall be enacted and take effect immediately on the Effective Date.
3-15-110 Construction of Act.
This Act is intended to be construed liberally to effectuate its purpose of
prohibiting the use of sales tax revenues to fund New subways.
3-15-120 Effect on Existing Ordinances.
Proposition A and Proposition C shall remain in full force and effect, except
as provided in this Act, and in the event of any conflict between the
provisions of Proposition A or Proposition C, respectively, and this Act, the
provisions of this Act shall control.
3-15-130 Severability Clause.
If any provision of this Act, or part thereof, is for any reason held to be
invalid, illegal or unconstitutional, the remainder of this act shall not be
affected, but shall remain in full force and effect, and to such end the
provisions of this Act are severable.
Chapter 3-20
Traffic Relief and Rail Expansion Measure R of 2008
(Preliminary Note: The ordinance set forth in Chapter 3-20 was originally
enacted as Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority Ordinance
No. 08-01 as adopted by the Board of Directors on July 24, 2008 and approved by
a more than two-thirds vote of the electorate as Measure R on November 4, 2008.
It is incorporated here as enacted in 2008, except that, for convenience and
consistency, its section headings and numbering have been revised to conform to
the style of this Code. While the provisions of this ordinance may be cited by
the section headings and numbering used herein, the official ordinance remains
that enacted by the electorate in 2008. The inclusion of this ordinance in this
Code is not a reenactment or an amendment of the original ordinance, and its
inclusion in this Code does not in any way amend its provisions or alter its
application.)
PREAMBLE
Mobility in Los Angeles County is a necessity and requires an aggressive,
responsible and accountable plan to meet the transportation needs of its more
than 10 million residents.
1.   RAIL EXPANSION:
Expand the county's Metro rail system, including direct airport connection
2.   LOCAL STREET IMPROVEMENTS:
Synchronize signals, fill potholes, repair streets, and make neighborhood
streets and intersections safer for drivers, bicyclists, and pedestrians in
each community
3. TRAFFIC REDUCTION:
Enhance safety and improve flow on L.A. County freeways and highways
4. BETTER PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION:
Make public transportation more convenient and affordable - especially for
seniors, students, disabled and commuters
5. QUALITY OF LIFE:
Provide alternatives to high gas prices, stimulate the local economy, create
jobs, reduce pollution and decrease dependency on foreign oil
3-20-010 Section 1. Title.
This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the Traffic Relief and Rail
Expansion Ordinance, Imposing a Transactions and Use Tax to be administered by
the State Board of Equalization. The word “Ordinance,” as used herein, shall
include Attachment A entitled “Expenditure Plan” which is attached hereto and
incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
3-20-020 Section 2. Summary.
This Ordinance provides for the establishment and implementation of a retail
transactions and use tax at the rate of one-half of one percent (.5%) for a
period of thirty (30) years and an expenditure plan.
3-20-030 Section 3. Definitions.
The following words, whenever used in this Ordinance, shall have the meanings
as set forth below:
   "Board of Equalization" means the California State Board of Equalization.
   "Capital Project" means a project or program described in Attachment A as a
"Capital Project."
   "Expenditure Plan" means that expenditure plan for the revenues derived from
a Sales Tax imposed pursuant to this Ordinance, and any other identified state
and local funding, as required under proposed amended Section 130350.5(f) of
the Public Utilities Code.
   "Gross Sales Tax" means the amount of Sales Tax collected by the Board of
Equalization pursuant to this Ordinance.
   "Interest" means interest and other earnings on cash balances.
   "Metro" or "MTA" means the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority or any successor entity.
   "Net Revenues" means Sales Tax Revenues minus any amount expended on
administrative costs pursuant to Section 10.
   "Sales Tax" means a retail transactions and use tax.
   "Sales Tax Revenues" means the Gross Sales Tax minus any refunds and any
fees imposed by the Board of Equalization for the performance of functions
incident to the administration and operation of this Ordinance.
3-20-040 Section 4. Statutory Authority.
This Ordinance is enacted, in part, pursuant to:
   a.   Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code;
   b.   Division 12 (commencing with Section 130000) of the California Public
Utilities Code;
   c.   Proposed amendments to Section 130350.5 of the California Public
Utilities Code adopted during the 2007-2008 legislative session.
3-20-050 Section 5. Imposition of Retail Transactions and Use Tax.
   a.   Subject to the limits imposed by this Ordinance, Metro hereby imposes,
in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of Los Angeles County, a Sales
Tax at the rate of one- half of one percent (.5%) for a period of thirty (30)
years beginning on the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing not
less than 180 days after the adoption of this Ordinance by the voters.
   b.   This Sales Tax shall be in addition to any other taxes authorized by
law, including any existing or future state or local Sales Tax. The imposition,
administration and collection of the tax shall be in accordance with all
applicable statutes, laws, and rules and regulations prescribed and adopted by
the Board of Equalization.
   c.   Pursuant to proposed amended Section 130350.5(d) of the Public
Utilities Code, the tax rate authorized by this section shall not be considered
for purposes of the combined rate limit established by Section 7251.1 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.
   d.   Pursuant to the provisions of Section 7262.2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, the required provisions of Sections 7261 and 7262 of that Code
as now in effect or as later amended are adopted by reference in this
Ordinance.
   e.   This Ordinance incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales
and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
   f.   The Sales Tax shall be administered and collected by the Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.
   g.   This Sales Tax shall be administered in a manner that will be, to the
greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting
the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of
record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this
Ordinance.
3-20-060 Section 6. Administration by board of Equalization.
   a.   Contract with State. Prior to the operative date, Metro shall contract
with the Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this Ordinance; provided, that if Metro shall
not have contracted with the Board of Equalization prior to the operative date,
it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall
be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such
a contract.
   b.   Transactions Tax Rate. For the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the
incorporated and unincorporated territory of Los Angeles County at the rate of
one half of one percent (.5%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the
sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and
after the operative date of this Ordinance.
   c.   Place of Sale. For the purposes of this Ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible
personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-
state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state
destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges,
when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the
place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place
of business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or
places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under
rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the Board of
Equalization.
   d.   Use Tax Rate. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or
other consumption in Los Angeles County of tangible personal property purchased
from any retailer on and after the operative date of this Ordinance for
storage, use or other consumption in Los Angeles County at the rate of one half
of one percent (.5%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall
include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use
tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.
   e.   Adoption of Provisions of State Law. Except as otherwise provided in
this Ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions
of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this Ordinance
as though fully set forth herein.
   f.   Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes. In
adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:
      1.   Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the
taxing agency, the name of Metro shall be substituted therefore. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:
         A.   The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of
Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;
         B.   The result of that substitution would require action to be taken
by or against Metro or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by
or against the Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to
the administration or operation of this Ordinance.
         C.   In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where
the result of the substitution would be to:
            i   Provide an exemption from this Sales Tax with respect to
certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property
which would not otherwise be exempt from this Sales Tax while such sales,
storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;
            ii   Impose this Sales Tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be
subject to this Sales Tax by the state under the said provision of that code.
         D.   In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof),
6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
      2.   The phrase "Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
or any successor entity" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the
phrase "retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in Section 6203 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
   g.   Permit Not Required. If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer
under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's
permit shall not be required by this Ordinance.
   h.   Exemptions and Exclusions.
      1.   There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and
the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of
California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-
Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-
administered transactions or use tax.
      2.   There are exempted from the computation of the amount of
transactions tax the gross receipts from:
         A.   Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside
the County in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of
the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.
         B.   Sales of property to be used outside Los Angeles County which is
shipped to a point outside Los Angeles County, pursuant to the contract of
sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by
the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the
purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside Los Angeles County
shall be satisfied:
            i.   With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration
to an address outside Los Angeles County and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her
principal place of residence; and
            ii.   With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a
place of business outside Los Angeles County and declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that
address.
         C.   The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated
to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into
prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.
         D.   A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale
of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date
of this Ordinance.
         E.   For the purposes of subparagraphs (C) and (D) of this section,
the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be
obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any
party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.
      3.   There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Ordinance, the
storage, use or other consumption in Los Angeles County of tangible personal
property:
         A.   The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.
         B.   Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.
         C.   If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a
fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of
this Ordinance.
         D.   If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this Ordinance.
         E.   For the purposes of subparagraphs (C) and (D) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right
or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.
         F.   Except as provided in subparagraph (G), a retailer engaged in
business in Los Angeles County shall not be required to collect use tax from
the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or
delivers the property into the County or participates within the County in
making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or
receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of
the retailer in County or through any representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the County under the authority of the
retailer.
         G.   "A retailer engaged in business in Los Angeles County" shall also
include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be
required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in Los Angeles County.
      4.   Any person subject to use tax under this Ordinance may credit
against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax
paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant
to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the
sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of
which is subject to the use tax.
   I.   Amendments. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
Ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to
sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6
and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall
automatically become a part of this Ordinance, provided however, that no such
amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this
Ordinance.
   J.   Enjoining Collection Forbidden. No injunction or writ of mandate or
other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding
in any court against the State or Metro, or against any officer of the State or
Metro, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this Ordinance, or Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax
required to be collected.
3-20-070 Section 7. Use of Revenues.
   a.   All of the Net Revenues generated from the Sales Tax plus any Interest
or other earnings thereon, less any funds necessary for satisfaction of debt
service and related requirements of all bonds issued pursuant to this Ordinance
that are not satisfied out of separate allocations, shall be allocated solely
for the transportation purposes described in this Ordinance.
   b.   Metro shall establish and administer a sales tax revenue fund with
appropriate subfunds to account for the allocation categories defined in this
Ordinance. All Net Revenues and Interest on Sales Tax Revenues shall be
credited into the sales tax revenue fund and credited to the appropriate
subfunds pursuant to the allocation ratios described on page 1 of Attachment
   A.   The moneys in the sales tax revenue fund shall be available to Metro to
meet expenditure and cashflow needs of the projects and programs described in
Attachment A. Metro may expend additional funds from sources other than the
Sales Tax imposed pursuant to this Ordinance on the projects and programs
described in Attachment A. Funds shall be available for projects and programs
described in Attachment A beginning in the fiscal years identified in
Attachment A as "Funds Available Beginning."
   c.   Metro shall establish the following subfunds of the sales tax revenue
fund:
      1.   Transit Capital Subfund
      2.   Highway Capital Subfund
      3.   Operations Subfund
      4.   Local Return Subfund
   d.   Funds in the Transit Capital Subfund shall be allocated to Capital
Projects identified in Attachment A as "Transit Projects."
      1.   For those Capital Projects identified in Attachment A as "Transit
Projects" and identified as "Escalated $," Metro shall expend no less than the
amount of Net Revenues identified in Attachment A as "New Sales Tax — Total"
for each Capital Project so identified.
      2.   For those Capital Projects identified in Attachment A as "Transit
Projects" and identified as "Current 2008 $,'' Metro shall expend no less than
an amount of Net Revenues equal to the value of the amount identified in
Attachment A as "New Sales Tax — Total" for each Capital Project so identified.
The amount of Net Revenues equal to the value of the amount identified in
Attachment A as "New Sales Tax — Total" shall be determined by adjusting the
amount identified as follows, at the discretion of Metro:
         A.   Up to four percent (4%) annually for the fiscal years 2010
through 2014; and
         B.   Up to three percent (3%) annually for the fiscal year 2015 and
all fiscal years thereafter.
      3.   Metro shall allocate no less than the amount of Net Revenues
identified in Attachment A as "New Sales Tax — Total" for the project
identified in Attachment A as "Capital Project Contingency (Transit)." Funds
allocated to "Capital Project Contingency (Transit)" shall be expended as
needed to provide additional funding for Capital Projects identified in
Attachment A as "Transit Projects." Metro may expend such funds for debt
service, excluding payments for principal, to offset the costs of inflation, or
for any other purpose. Metro shall not expend an amount of Net Revenues from
Capital Project Contingency (Transit) that is greater than the amount permitted
in paragraph (d)(2) for any Capital Project.
      4.   In the event that a Capital Project identified in Attachment A as a
"Transit Project" is completed without the expenditure of the amount of Net
Revenues allocated by this Ordinance, any surplus Net Revenues allocated to
that Capital Project shall be credited to the Transit Capital Subfund and
expended for Capital Projects located within the same subregion as the project
so completed. The Board of Directors of Metro shall determine by a two-thirds
vote whether a Capital Project is complete.
   e.   Funds in the Highway Capital Subfund shall be allocated to Capital
Projects identified in Attachment A as "Highway Projects."
      1.   For those Capital Projects identified in Attachment A as "Highway
Projects" and identified as "Escalated $," Metro shall expend no less than the
amount of Net Revenues identified in Attachment A as "New Sales Tax — Total"
for each Capital Project so identified.
      2.   For those Capital Projects identified in Attachment A as "Highway
Projects" and identified as "Current 2008 $," Metro shall expend no less than
an amount of Net Revenues equal to the value of the amount identified in
Attachment A as "New Sales Tax — Total" for each Capital Project so identified.
The amount of Net Revenues equal to the value of the amount identified in
Attachment A as "New Sales Tax — Total" shall be determined by adjusting the
amount identified as follows, at the discretion of Metro:
         A.   Up to four percent (4%) annually for the fiscal years 2010
through 2014; and
         B.   Up to three percent (3%) annually for the fiscal year 2015 and
all fiscal years thereafter.
      3.   Metro shall allocate no less than the amount of Net Revenues
identified in Attachment A as "New Sales Tax — Total" for the project
identified in Attachment A as "Capital Project Contingency (Highway)." Funds
allocated to "Capital Project Contingency (Highway)" shall be expended as
needed to provide additional funding for Capital Projects identified in
Attachment A as "Highway Projects." Metro may expend such funds for debt
service, excluding payments for principal, to offset the costs of inflation, or
for any other purpose. Metro shall not expend an amount of Net Revenues from
Capital Project Contingency (Highway) that is greater than the amount permitted
in paragraph (e)(2) for any Capital Project.
      4.   In the event that a Capital Project identified in Attachment A as a
"Highway Project" is completed without the expenditure of the amount of Net
Revenues allocated by this Ordinance, any surplus Net Revenues allocated to
that Capital Project shall be credited to the Highway Capital Subfund and
expended for Capital Projects located within the same subregion as the project
so completed. The Board of Directors of Metro shall determine by a two-thirds
vote whether a Capital Project is complete.
   f.   Funds in the Operations Subfund shall be allocated to the projects and
programs described in Attachment A as "Operations." Metro shall expend the
percentage of Net Revenues identified in Attachment A as "Percent of New Sales
Tax" for each project and program described in Attachment A as "Operations."
   g.   Funds in the Local Return Subfund shall be allocated to the projects
and programs described in Attachment A as "Local Return." Metro shall expend
the percentage of Net Revenues identified in Attachment A as "Percent of New
Sales Tax" for each project and program described in Attachment A as "Local
Return."
      1.   No Net Revenues distributed to a local jurisdiction pursuant to
Paragraph (g) shall be used for other than transportation purposes. Any
jurisdiction that violates this provision must fully reimburse Metro, including
Interest thereon, for the Net Revenues misspent and shall be deemed ineligible
to receive Net Revenues for a period of three (3) years.
      2.   To the extent that funds are returned to local jurisdictions
pursuant to this paragraph, the receipt, maintenance and expenditure of such
funds shall be distinguishable in each jurisdiction's accounting records from
other funding sources, and expenditures of such funds shall be distinguishable
by program or project. Interest earned on funds allocated pursuant to this
paragraph shall be expended only for those purposes for which the funds were
allocated.
   h.   Metro may enter into an agreement with the Board of Equalization to
transfer Sales Tax Revenues directly to a bond trustee or similar fiduciary, in
order to provide for the timely payment of debt service and related
obligations, prior to Metro's receipt and deposit of such Sales Tax Revenues
into the sales tax revenue fund; provided, however, that such payments of debt
service and related obligations shall be allocated to the appropriate Capital
Project Contingency line item or to such subfund within the sales tax revenue
fund consistent with the expenditure of the proceeds of the corresponding debt.
   i.   Metro shall propose the projects and programs in Attachment A for
inclusion in the Long Range Transportation Plan.
3-20-080 Section 8. Oversight.
   a.   Commencing with the 2009-2010 fiscal year, and in accordance with
Section 8(a)(1) of this Ordinance, Metro shall contract for an annual audit, to
be completed within six months after the end of the fiscal year being audited,
for the purpose of determining compliance by Metro with the provisions of this
Ordinance relating to the receipt and expenditure of Sales Tax Revenues during
such fiscal year.
      1.   Prior to entering into a contract with an auditing firm to perform
any audit required under Section 8(a), Metro shall solicit bids from at least
three qualified firms. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the cost of
performing and publishing any audit required under Section 8(a) of this
Ordinance shall be paid from Sales Tax Revenues.
   b.   There is hereby established a Proposition R Independent Taxpayers
Oversight Committee of Metro ("Committee"). The Committee shall meet at least
twice each year to carry out the purposes of this Ordinance.
   c.   The Committee shall be comprised of three persons, each of whom shall
be a retired Federal or State Judge. Committee members shall be selected as
follows: one member shall be appointed by the Los Angeles County Board of
Supervisors; one member shall be appointed by the Mayor of the City of Los
Angeles; and one member shall be appointed by the Los Angeles County City
Selection Committee. The members of the Committee must reside in Los Angeles
County. No person currently serving as an elected or appointed city, county,
special district, state, or federal public officeholder shall be eligible to
serve as a member of the Committee.
   d.   The Committee shall select and consult with an advisory panel when
performing its responsibilities required under this Ordinance. The advisory
panel shall consist of at least one representative, and not more than two, of
the following professions or areas of expertise:
      1.   Construction trade labor union representative
      2.   Environmental engineer or environmental scientist
      3.   Road or rail construction firm project manager
      4.   Public and private finance expert
      5.   Regional association of businesses representative
      6.   Transit system user
   e.   All meetings of the Committee shall be held within Los Angeles County.
All meetings of the Committee shall be held in compliance with the provisions
of the Ralph M. Brown Act (Section 54950 et seq. of the California Government
Code).
   f.   Each member of the Committee shall serve for a term of two years, and
until a successor is appointed. No member of the Committee shall be entitled to
any compensation, except that Metro may reimburse actual expenses of members
arising out of the performance of their duties as Committee members.
   g.   Members of the advisory panel may be replaced by the Committee at any
time by a majority vote of the Committee. No member of the advisory panel shall
be entitled to any compensation, except that Metro may reimburse actual
expenses of members arising out of the performance of their duties as advisory
panel members.
   h.   Metro may adopt further guidelines to govern the operations of the
Committee.
   i.   The Committee shall have the following responsibilities:
      1.   Review the results of the audit performed pursuant to Section 8(a)
of this Ordinance and make findings as to whether Metro has complied with the
terms of the Ordinance. Such findings shall include a determination as to
whether recipients of Net Revenues allocated to the Local Return Subfund have
complied with this Ordinance and any additional guidelines developed by Metro
pursuant to Section 9(b).
      2.   Prepare an annual report to the Metro Board of Directors presenting
the results of the annual audit process and any findings made. The report shall
include an assessment of the consistency of the expenditures of Sales Tax
Revenues with this Ordinance, including Attachment A. The Committee shall cause
a summary of the report to be published in local newspapers and the entire
report and annual audit to be made available to every library located within
Los Angeles County for public review. The Committee shall hold a public hearing
on each audit and annual report and shall report the comments of the public to
Metro.
      3.   Review any proposed amendments to this Ordinance, including the
expenditure plan, and make a finding as to whether the proposed amendments
further the purpose of this Ordinance. Metro shall make any proposed amendments
available to the Committee at least 30 days prior to any vote to adopt the
proposed amendments.
      4.   Review all proposed debt financing and make a finding as to whether
the benefits of the proposed financing for accelerating project delivery,
avoiding future cost escalation, and related factors exceed issuance and
interest costs.
      5.   Any findings made by the Committee shall be submitted to the Metro
Board of Directors in advance of the next regular Board meeting.
3-20-090 Section 9. Maintenance of Effort Requirements.
   a.   It is the intent of the Legislature, as stated in Public Utilities Code
proposed amended Section 130350.5(e), and Metro, that revenues provided from
this Ordinance to local jurisdictions in Los Angeles County under the projects
and programs described in Attachment A as "Local Return" be used to augment,
not supplant, existing local revenues being used for transportation purposes.
   b.   Metro shall develop guidelines which, at a minimum, specify maintenance
of effort requirements for the local return program, matching funds, and
administrative requirements for the requirements for the recipients of revenue
derived from the Sales Tax.
3-20-100 Section 10. Costs of Administration.
Gross Sales Tax revenues may be appropriated by Metro for administrative costs,
including contractual services; however in no case shall the Gross Sales Tax
revenues appropriated for such costs exceed more than one and one-half percent
(1.5%) of the Gross Sales Tax revenues in any year.
3-20-110 Section 11. Amendments.
   a.   Metro may amend this Ordinance, including Attachment A, with the
exception of Section 11, for any purpose, including as necessary to account for
the results of any environmental review required under the California
Environmental Quality Act of the individual specific projects listed in
Attachment A. Any such amendments shall be approved by a vote of not less than
two-thirds (2/3) of the Metro Board of Directors. Metro shall hold a public
meeting on proposed amendments prior to adoption. Metro shall provide notice to
the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors, the city council of each city in
Los Angeles County, and the public of the public meeting and proposed
amendments, and provide them with a copy of the proposed amendments, at least
30 days prior to the public meeting. Amendments shall become effective forty-
five days after adoption.
   b.   Notwithstanding Section 11(a) of this Ordinance, Metro shall not adopt
any amendment to this Ordinance, including Attachment A, that reduces total Net
Revenues allocated to the sum of the Transit Capital Subfund and the Highway
Capital Subfund. Not more than once in any ten (10) year period commencing
after the year 2019, Metro may adopt an amendment transferring Net Revenues
between the Transit Capital Subfund and the Highway Capital Subfund.
   c.   Notwithstanding Section 11(a) of this Ordinance, Metro shall not adopt
any amendment to this Ordinance, including Attachment A, that reduces Net
Revenues allocated to the Operations Subfund or the Local Return Subfund.
   d.   Metro may amend Section 11 of this Ordinance if such amendments are
approved by a vote of not less than two-thirds (2/3) of the Metro Board of
Directors and are approved by a simple majority vote of the electors voting on
a measure to approve the amendment. Metro shall hold a public meeting on
proposed amendments prior to adoption by the Board. Metro shall provide notice
to the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors, the city council of each city
in Los Angeles County, and the public of the public meeting and proposed
amendments, and provide them with a copy of the proposed amendments, at least
30 days prior to the public meeting. Amendments shall become effective forty-
five days after adoption by the electors.
3-20-120 Section 12. Establishment of Bonding Authority.
Metro is authorized to issue limited tax bonds, from time to time, payable from
and secured by Sales Tax Revenues to finance any program or project in the
Expenditure Plan, pursuant to Sections 130500 et seq. of the Public Utilities
Code, and any successor act. As additional security, such bonds may be further
payable from and secured by farebox revenues or general revenues of Metro, on a
basis subordinate to Metro's existing General Revenue Bonds, or any other
available source of Metro's revenues, in each case as specified in a resolution
adopted by a majority of Metro's Board of Directors. The maximum bonded
indebtedness, including issuance costs, interest, reserve requirements and bond
insurance, shall not exceed the total amount of the Gross Sales Tax. Nothing
herein shall limit or restrict in any way the power and authority of Metro to
issue bonds, notes or other obligations, to enter into loan agreements, leases,
reimbursement agreements, standby bond purchase agreements, interest rate swap
agreements or other derivative contracts or to engage in any other transaction
under the Government Code, the Public Utilities Code or any other law.
3-20-130 Section 13. Appropriations Limit.
Article XIIIB of the California Constitution requires certain governmental
entities to establish an annual appropriations limit. This appropriations limit
is subject to adjustment as provided by law. To the extent required by law,
Metro shall establish an annual appropriations limit and expenditures of the
retail transactions and use tax shall be subject to such limit.
3-20-140 Section 14. Election.
Pursuant to California Public Utilities Code Section 130350, Metro hereby calls
a special election to place this Ordinance before the voters. The ballot
language shall read as follows:
Traffic Relief. Rail Extensions. Reduce Foreign Oil Dependence. To:
   •   Synchronize traffic signals;
   •   Repair potholes;
   •   Extend light rail with airport connections;
   •   Improve freeway traffic flow (5, 10, 14, 60, 101, 110, 138, 210, 405,
605, 710);
   •   Keep senior / student / disabled fares low;
   •   Provide clean-fuel buses;
   •   Expand subway / Metrolink / bus service;
   •   Dedicate millions for community traffic relief;
Shall Los Angeles County's sales tax increase one-half cent for 30 years with
independent audits, public review of expenditures, all locally controlled?
3-20-150 Section 15. Statutory References.
References in this Ordinance to proposed amendments to Section 130350.5 of the
Public Utilities Code are to Section 130350.5 as amended or added by Assembly
Bill 2321 of the 2007-2008 legislative session.
3-20-160 Section 16. Effective and Operative Dates.
   a.   This Ordinance shall be effective on January 2, 2009, if:
      1.   Two-thirds (2/3) of the electors voting on the measure authorizing
the imposition of the Sales Tax vote to authorize its enactment at the
statewide general election scheduled for November 4, 2008; and
      2.   A California state statute that provides for all of the following is
a dopted by the California Legislature and becomes effective prior to January
2, 2009:
         A.   Requires Metro to include in Attachment A the following projects,
programs, and funding levels:,
            i.   Exposition Boulevard Light Rail Transit Project from downtown
Los Angeles to Santa Monica. The sum of nine hundred twenty-five million
dollars ($925,000,000).
            ii.   Crenshaw Transit Corridor from Wilshire Boulevard to Los
Angeles International Airport along Crenshaw Boulevard. The sum of two hundred
thirty-five million five hundred thousand dollars ($235,500,000).
            iii.   San Fernando Valley North-South Rapidways. The sum of one
hundred million five hundred thousand dollars ($100,500,000).
            iv.   Metro Gold Line (Pasadena to Claremont) Light Rail Transit
Extension. The sum of seven hundred thirty-five million dollars ($735,000,000).
            v.   Metro Regional Connector. The sum of one hundred sixty million
dollars ($160,000,000).
            vi.   Metro Westside Subway Extension. The sum of nine hundred
million dollars ($900,000,000).
            vii.   State Highway Route 5 Carmenita Road Interchange
Improvement. The sum of one hundred thirty-eight million dollars
($138,000,000).
         viii.   State Highway Route 5 Capacity Enhancement (State Highway
Route 134 to State Highway Route 170, including access improvement for Empire
Avenue). The sum of two hundred seventy-one million five hundred thousand
dollars ($271,500,000).
         ix.   State Highway Route 5 Capacity Enhancement (State Highway Route
605 to the Orange County line, including improvements to the Valley View
Interchange). The sum of two hundred sixty-four million eight hundred thousand
dollars ($264,800,000).
         x.   State Highway Route 5/State Highway Route 14 Capacity
Enhancement. The sum of ninety million eight hundred thousand dollars
($90,800,000).
            xi.   Capital Project Contingency Fund. The sum of one hundred
seventy-three million dollars ($173,000,000).
            xii.   Alameda Corridor East Grade Separations. The sum of two
hundred million dollars ($200,000,000).
            xiii.   MTA and Municipal Regional Clean Fuel Bus Capital
(Facilities and Rolling Stock). The sum of one hundred fifty million dollars
($150,000,000).
            xiv.   Countywide Soundwall Construction (MTA Regional List and
Monterey Park/State Highway Route 60). The sum of two hundred fifty million
dollars ($250,000,000).
            xv.   Local return for major street resurfacing, rehabilitation,
and reconstruction. The sum of two hundred fifty million dollars
($250,000,000).
            xvi.   Metrolink Capital Improvements. The sum of seventy million
dollars ($70,000,000).
            xvii   Eastside Light Rail Access. The sum of thirty million
dollars ($30,000,000).
         B.   Authorizes Metro to impose an additional one-half of one percent
(.5%) Sales Tax in the incorporated and unincorporated areas of Los Angeles
County.
         C.   Provides that any tax imposed by Metro pursuant to the authority
granted in the statute shall not be considered for the purposes of the combined
rate limit established by Section 7251.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code; and
      3.   No California state statute that requires Metro to provide funding
from revenues derived from the Sales Tax imposed pursuant to this Ordinance for
any projects or programs other than those listed in this Section or provide a
level of funding greater than described in this Section, is adopted by the
California Legislature in the 2007-2008 legislative session and becomes law.
   b.   The operative date of the Sales Tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be
July 1, 2009, which is the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing
not less than 180 days after the adoption of this Ordinance by the voters.
3-20-170 Section 17. Severability.
If any tax or provision of this Ordinance is for any reason held invalid or
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, that holding shall not
affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining taxes or provisions, and
Metro declares that it would have passed each part of this Ordinance
irrespective of the validity of any other part.
3-20-180 – Section 18 Transferring Net Revenues Between Subfunds
   a.   Net Revenues not to exceed $400,000,000 shall be transferred from the
Highway Capital Subfund to the Transit Capital Subfund no later than January
2030 for use on eligible Transit Capital Projects within the South Bay
subregion. The amount of Net Revenues for the "Interstate 405, I-110, I-105,
and SR-91 Ramp and Interchange Improvements (South Bay)” project on line 33 in
Attachment A is reduced from $906,000,000 to $506,000,000. The "South Bay
Transit Investments" project is added to the Transit Capital Projects as shown
in Amended Attachment A.
   b.   Any surplus Net Revenues under Section 7(d)(4) may be transferred from
the Transit Capital Subfund to the Highway Capital Subfund no later than
January 2030 for one or more Highway Projects within the same subregion as the
completed Transit Project.
   c.   Any surplus Net Revenues under Section 7(e)(4) may be transferred from
the Highway Capital Subfund to the Transit Capital Subfund no later than
January 2030 for one or more Transit Projects within the same subregion as the
completed Highway Project.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/45baa1e32ffebd0b8c3edeaa80ea338a82bf5f51/
IMAGES/0-0-0-25.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/45baa1e32ffebd0b8c3edeaa80ea338a82bf5f51/
IMAGES/0-0-0-27.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/45baa1e32ffebd0b8c3edeaa80ea338a82bf5f51/
IMAGES/0-0-0-29.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/45baa1e32ffebd0b8c3edeaa80ea338a82bf5f51/
IMAGES/0-0-0-31.png]
 
Chapter 3-25
Ordinance 16-01
Measure M
Los Angeles County Traffic Improvement Plan
(Preliminary Note: The ordinance set forth in Chapter 3-25 was originally
enacted as Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority Ordinance
No. 16-01 as adopted by the Board of Directors on June 23, 2016 and approved by
a more than two-thirds vote of the electorate as Measure R on November 8, 2016.
It is incorporated here as enacted in 2016, except that, for convenience and
consistency, its section headings and numbering have been revised to conform to
the style of this Code. While the provisions of this ordinance may be cited by
the section headings and numbering used herein, the official ordinance remains
that enacted by the electorate in 2016. The inclusion of this ordinance in this
Code is not a reenactment or an amendment of the original ordinance, and its
inclusion in this Code does not in any way amend its provisions or alter its
application.)
PREAMBLE
Los Angeles County’s comprehensive plan to improve transportation and ease
traffic congestion through the following core goals:
Improve freeway traffic flow; reduce bottlenecks and ease traffic congestion.
Expand the rail and rapid transit system; accelerate rail construction and
build new rail lines; enhance local, regional, and express bus service; and
improve system connectivity.
Repave local streets, repair potholes, synchronize signals; improve
neighborhood streets and intersections, and enhance bike and pedestrian
connections.
Keep the transit and highway system safe; earthquake-retrofit bridges, enhance
freeway and transit system safety, and keep the transportation system in good
working condition.
Make public transportation more accessible, convenient, and affordable for
seniors, students, and the disabled and provide better mobility options for our
aging population.
Embrace technology and innovation; incorporate modern technology, new
advancements, and emerging innovations into the local transportation system.
Create jobs, reduce pollution, and generate local economic benefits; increase
personal quality time and overall quality of life.
Provide accountability and transparency; protect and monitor the public’s
investments through independent audits and oversight.
SECTION 1. TITLE
This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the “Los Angeles County
Traffic Improvement Plan” (“Ordinance”). The Ordinance shall include Attachment
A entitled “Expenditure Plan” and Attachment B entitled “Subregional Maps”
which are attached hereto and incorporated by reference as if fully set forth
herein.
SECTION 2. SUMMARY
This Ordinance imposes a retail transactions and use tax at the rate of one-
half of one percent (.5%) within Los Angeles County to be operative on the
first day of the first calendar quarter commencing not less than 180 days after
the adoption of this Ordinance by the voters. The rate of this tax shall
increase to one percent (1.0%) on July 1, 2039 immediately upon the expiration
of the .5% tax imposed by Ordinance No. 08-01 of the Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Measure R).
SECTION 3. DEFINITIONS
The following terms, whenever used in this Ordinance, shall have the meanings
set forth below: “Active Transportation” means projects that encourage,
promote, or facilitate environments that promote walking, bicycling, rolling
modes, or transit use.
   “ADA Paratransit” means paratransit service for the disabled as provided for
by the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. § 12101 et seq.).
   “Board of Equalization” means the California State Board of Equalization.
   “Capital” means any project or program described in Attachment A that
qualifies as a capital improvement expenditure.
   “Capital Improvement Expenditures” means expenditures for the purpose of
acquiring, upgrading, or maintaining transportation physical assets such as
property, transportation facilities, rail improvements, highways, or equipment,
so long as any such expenditures for maintenance substantially extend the
useful life of the project. This also includes any physical improvement and any
preliminary studies, design, or surveys relative thereto, including, but not
limited to, any property of a permanent nature and equipment needed in
connection with such improvements.
   “Complete Streets” means a comprehensive, integrated transportation network
with infrastructure and design that allows safe and convenient travel along and
across streets for all users, including pedestrians, users and operators of
public transit, bicyclists, persons with disabilities, seniors, children,
motorists, users of green modes, and movers of commercial goods.
   “Expected Opening Date” means the date that a project is expected to be open
for use by the public, which is expressed as the first year of a three-year
range. With respect to programs, the expected opening date is the last year in
which funds are anticipated to be made available for use on the projects that
comprise the program.
   “Expenditure Plan” means that expenditure plan which is attached hereto as
Attachment A.
   “First/Last Mile” means infrastructure, systems, and modes of travel used by
transit riders to start or end their transit trips. This includes but is not
limited to infrastructure for walking, rolling, and biking (e.g. bike lanes,
bike parking, sidewalks, and crosswalks), shared use services (e.g. bike share
and car share), facilities for making modal connections (e.g. kiss and ride and
bus/rail interface), signage and way-finding, and information and technology
that eases travel (e.g. information kiosks and mobile apps).
   “Green Streets” means urban transportation rights-of-way integrated with
storm water treatment techniques that use natural processes and landscaping and
quantitatively demonstrate that they capture and treat storm water runoff from
their tributary watershed through infiltration or other means and are included
within the respective Enhanced Watershed Management Plan.
   “Gross Sales Tax” means the amount of Sales Tax collected by the Board of
Equalization pursuant to this Ordinance.
   “Groundbreaking Start Date” means the first year of a three-year period by
which the applicable project sponsor is expected to award a construction
contract enabling the beginning of construction. In alternative project
delivery methods, such as design-build and public-private partnership
contracts, it means the start of the actual construction phase or phases of the
project.
   “Highway Construction” means a capital only project or program that includes
all environmental, design, and construction work in public highway and street
rights-of-way. This includes Complete Streets, Green Streets, and active
transportation improvements such as bikeways and pedestrian improvements.
   “Interest” means interest and other earnings on cash balances.
   “Local Return” means funds returned to the cities within Los Angeles and Los
Angeles County, based on population, for eligible transportation-related uses
as defined by the Local Return Guidelines to be developed in coordination with
such cities and Los Angeles County and adopted by the Metro Board of Directors.
Funds will be eligible for communities’ transportation needs, including
transit, streets and roads, storm drains, Green Streets, Active Transportation
Projects, Complete Streets, public transit access to recreational facilities,
Transit Oriented Community Investments, and other unmet transit needs.
   “Measure R” means Ordinance No. 08-01, including the attached expenditure
plan, of the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, as
adopted by the Metro Board of Directors on July 24, 2008.
   “Measure R Projects” means those projects and programs identified in the
expenditure plan attached to Ordinance No. 08-01.
   “Metro” means the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
or any successor entity.
   “Metro Rail Operations” means service delivery for operating and regular and
preventative maintenance for Metro Rail Lines as defined in guidelines adopted
by the Metro Board of Directors, as well as Metro State of Good Repair.
   “Metro State of Good Repair” means the repair, rehabilitation, and
replacement required to maintain reliable, safe, effective, and efficient rail
transit services.
   “Multi-Year Subregional Programs” means multiple capital projects defined by
guidelines adopted pursuant to Section 7(c).
   “Net Revenues” means Sales Tax Revenues minus any amount expended on
administrative costs pursuant to Section 10.
   “Regional Rail” means regional commuter rail service within Los Angeles
County, including operating, maintenance, expansion, and state of good repair.
   “Sales Tax” means a retail transactions and use tax.
   “Sales Tax Revenues” means the Gross Sales Tax minus any refunds and any
fees imposed by the Board of Equalization for the performance of functions
incident to the administration and operation of this Ordinance.
   “Schedule of Funds Available” means the anticipated schedule for releasing
funds to complete projects included in the Expenditure Plan.
   “Subregion” means “subregional planning area” as shown by the boundaries in
“Subregional Maps” attached hereto as Attachment B.
   “Transit Construction” means a capital only project or program including
environmental, design, and construction work in public transit rights-of-way or
in support of the capital needs of the public transit system, such as rolling
stock, transit stations, or transit stop improvements. Transit construction can
also include first/last mile improvements.
   “Transit Operations” means countywide transit service operated by Metro and
the Included and Eligible Municipal Operators receiving funds allocated through
a Board-adopted Formula Allocation Procedure (FAP).
SECTION 4. STATUTORY AUTHORITY
This Ordinance is enacted, in part, pursuant to:
   a.   Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code; and
   b.   Division 12 (commencing with Section 130000) of the California Public
Utilities Code.
SECTION 5. IMPOSITION OF RETAIL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
   a.   Subject to the limits imposed by this Ordinance, Metro hereby imposes,
in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of Los Angeles County, a
Transactions and Use tax at the rate of one- half of one percent (.5%)
beginning on the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing not less
than 180 days after the adoption of this Ordinance by the voters. The rate of
this tax shall increase to one percent (1.0%) on July 1, 2039 immediately upon
the expiration of the .5% tax imposed by Ordinance No. 08-01 of the Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Measure R).
   b.   This Transactions and Use tax shall be in addition to any other taxes
authorized by law, including any existing or future state or local Transactions
and Use tax. The imposition, administration, and collection of the tax shall be
in accordance with all applicable statutes, laws, and rules and regulations
prescribed and adopted by the Board of Equalization.
   c.   Pursuant to Section 130350.7(h) of the Public Utilities Code, the tax
rate authorized by this section shall not be considered for purposes of the
combined rate limit established by Section 7251.1 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.
   d.   Pursuant to the provisions of Section 7262.2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, the required provisions of Sections 7261 and 7262 of that Code
as now in effect or as later amended are adopted by reference in this
Ordinance.
   e.   This Ordinance incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales
and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
   f.   The Transactions and Use tax shall be administered and collected by the
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable
to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.
   g.   This Transactions and Use tax shall be administered in a manner that
will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimizes the cost of
collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimizes the
burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions
of this Ordinance.
SECTION 6. ADMINISTRATION BY BOARD OF EQUALIZATION
   a.   CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, Metro shall contract
with the Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this Ordinance; provided, that if Metro shall
not have contracted with the Board of Equalization prior to the operative date,
it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall
be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such
a contract.
   b.   TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the
incorporated and unincorporated territory of Los Angeles County at the rate of
one half of one percent (.5%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the
sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and
after the operative date of this Ordinance. The rate of this tax shall increase
to one percent (1.0%) of the gross receipts on July 1, 2039 immediately upon
the expiration of the .5% tax imposed by Ordinance No. 08-01 of the Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Measure R).
   c.   PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this Ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible
personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-
state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state
destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges,
when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the
place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place
of business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or
places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under
rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the Board of
Equalization.
   d.   USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or
other consumption in Los Angeles County of tangible personal property purchased
from any retailer on and after the operative date of this Ordinance for
storage, use, or other consumption in Los Angeles County at the rate of one
half of one percent (.5%) of the sales price of the property. The rate of this
tax shall increase to one percent (1.0%) of the sales price of the property on
July 1, 2039 immediately upon the expiration of the .5% tax imposed by
Ordinance No. 08-01 of the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority (Measure R). The sales price shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which
delivery is made.
   e.   ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise provided in
this Ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions
of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this Ordinance
as though fully set forth herein.
   f.   LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In
adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:
      1.   Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the
taxing agency, the name of Metro shall be substituted therefor. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:
         A.   The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board,
State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State
of California;
         B.   The result of that substitution would require action to be taken
by or against Metro or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by
or against the Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to
the administration or operation of this Ordinance.
         C.   In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where
the result of the substitution would be to:
            i.   Provide an exemption from this Sales Tax with respect to
certain sales, storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal property
which would not otherwise be exempt from this Sales Tax while such sales,
storage, use, or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code; or
            ii.   Impose this Sales Tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use, or other consumption of tangible personal property that would not be
subject to this Sales Tax by the state under the said provision of that code.
         D.   In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof),
6711, 6715, 6737, 6797, or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
      2.   The phrase “Los Angeles County” shall be substituted for the words
“this state” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this state” in
Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.
   g.   PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer
under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's
permit shall not be required by this Ordinance.
   h.   EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.
      1.   There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and
the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of
California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-
Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-
administered transactions or use tax.
      2.   There are exempted from the computation of the amount of
transactions tax the gross receipts from:
         A.   Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside
the County in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of
the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.
         B.   Sales of property to be used outside Los Angeles County which is
shipped to a point outside Los Angeles County, pursuant to the contract of
sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by
the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the
purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside Los Angeles County
shall be satisfied:
            i.   With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration
to an address outside Los Angeles County and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her
principal place of residence; and
            ii.   With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a
place of business outside Los Angeles County and declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that
address.
         C.   The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated
to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into
prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.
         D.   A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale
of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date
of this Ordinance.
         E.   For the purposes of subparagraphs (C) and (D) of this section,
the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be
obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any
party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.
      3.   There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Ordinance, the
storage, use, or other consumption in Los Angeles County of tangible personal
property:
         A.   The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.
         B.   Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.
         C.   If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a
fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of
this Ordinance.
         D.   If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this Ordinance.
         E.   For the purposes of subparagraphs (C) and (D) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right
or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.
         F.   Except as provided in subparagraph (G), a retailer engaged in
business in Los Angeles County shall not be required to collect use tax from
the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or
delivers the property into the County or participates within the County in
making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or
receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of
the retailer in County or through any representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the County under the authority of the
retailer.
         G.   “A retailer engaged in business in Los Angeles County” shall also
include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be
required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in Los Angeles County.
      4.   Any person subject to use tax under this Ordinance may credit
against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax
paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant
to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the
sale to the person of the property the storage, use, or other consumption of
which is subject to the use tax.
   i.   AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
Ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to
sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6
and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall
automatically become a part of this Ordinance, provided however, that no such
amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this
Ordinance.
   j.   ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or
other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action, or proceeding
in any court against the State or Metro, or against any officer of the State or
Metro, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this Ordinance, or Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax
required to be collected.
SECTION 7. USE OF REVENUES
   a.   All Net Revenues generated from the Sales Tax imposed pursuant to this
Ordinance plus any Interest, less any funds necessary for satisfaction of debt
service and related requirements of all bonds issued and obligations incurred
pursuant to this Ordinance that are not satisfied out of separate allocations,
shall be allocated solely for the transportation purposes described in this
Ordinance.
   b.   Metro shall establish and administer a sales tax revenue fund and such
subfunds as established in this Ordinance. All Net Revenues and Interest on
Sales Tax Revenues shall be credited into the sales tax revenue fund and
credited to the appropriate subfunds and programs in accordance with the
percentages in the column entitled “% of Sales Tax (net of Admin)” on page 1 of
Attachment A. All sums in the sales tax revenue fund shall be expended by Metro
for the projects and programs described in Attachment A. Metro may expend
additional funds from sources other than the Sales Tax imposed pursuant to this
Ordinance on the projects and programs described in Attachment A.
      1.   Metro shall establish the following subfunds of the sales tax
revenue fund:
         A.   Transit Operating and Maintenance Subfund, for Metro Rail
Operations program funds, Transit Operations (Metro and Municipal Providers)
program funds, ADA Paratransit for the disabled and Metro discounts for seniors
and students program funds.
            i.   Metro Rail Operations program funds are eligible to be used
for Metro Rail State of Good Repair.
            ii.   Transit Operations program funds are eligible to be used for
Metro State of Good Repair.
         B.   Transit, First/Last Mile (Capital) Subfund, for Transit
Construction (including System Connectivity Projects – Airports, Union Station,
and Countywide BRT) program funds and Metro State of Good Repair program funds.
This subfund shall include a Transit Contingency Subfund.
            i.   Transit Contingency Subfund. All Net Revenues allocated to the
Transit, First/Last Mile (Capital) Subfund, except those allocated to Metro
State of Good Repair, that are not assigned to a specific project or program
coded “T” in the “modal code” column of Attachment A shall be credited to the
Transit Contingency Subfund.
         C.   Highway, Active Transportation, Complete Streets (Capital)
Subfund, for Highway Construction (including System Connectivity Projects –
Ports, Highway Congestion Programs and Goods Movement) program funds and Metro
Active Transportation (Bicycle, Pedestrian, Complete Streets) program funds.
This subfund shall include a Highway Contingency Subfund.
            i.   Highway Contingency Subfund. All Net Revenues allocated to the
Highway, Active Transportation, Complete Streets (Capital) Subfund, except
those allocated to Metro Active Transportation Program, that are not assigned
to a specific highway capital project or program coded “H” in the “modal code”
column of Attachment A shall be credited to the Highway Contingency Subfund.
         D.   Local Return/Regional Rail Subfund, for Local Return program
funds and Regional Rail program funds.
      2.   For each project identified in the “Expenditure Plan Major Projects”
section of Attachment A, Metro shall expend the amount of Net Revenues
specified in the column entitled “Measure M Funding 2015$” for each project.
Such expenditures shall commence in the fiscal year identified in the column
“Groundbreaking Start Date,” or in the subsequent two fiscal years, except that
expenditures for preconstruction costs may commence sooner.
         A.   Metro may expend funds from the Contingency Subfunds for
inflation adjustments for any project identified in the “Expenditure Plan Major
Projects” section of Attachment A if less than two-thirds (2/3) of the amount
allocated in the “Measure M Funding 2015$” column has been expended prior to
the first day of Fiscal Year 2027. Such expenditures shall be deducted from the
Highway Contingency Subfund if the project is coded “H” in the “modal code”
column of Attachment A or from the Transit Contingency Subfund if the project
is coded “T” in the “modal code” column of Attachment A. Such expenditures
shall not exceed the actual amount of inflation since 2015 as determined by an
index selected by the Metro Board of Directors.
      3.   For each program identified in the “Multi-Year Subregional Programs”
section of Attachment A, Metro shall expend the amount of Net Revenues
specified in the column entitled “Measure M Funding 2015$” for each program.
Such expenditures shall commence in the fiscal year identified in the column
“Groundbreaking Start Date,” or in the subsequent two fiscal years, except that
expenditures for preconstruction costs may commence sooner.
         A.   Metro may expend funds from the Contingency Subfunds for
inflation adjustments for any project identified in the “Multi-Year Subregional
Programs” section of Attachment A beginning in Fiscal Year 2027. Such
expenditures shall be deducted from the Highway Contingency Subfund if the
project is coded “H” in the “modal code” column of Attachment A or from the
Transit Contingency Subfund if the project is coded “T” in the “modal code”
column of Attachment A. Such expenditures shall not exceed the actual amount of
inflation since 2015 as determined by an index selected by the Metro Board of
Directors.
      4.   Metro shall expend funds allocated to the Contingency Subfunds, to
the extent necessary, to service the debt of any bonds issued or other
obligations incurred pursuant to Section 12 of this Ordinance.
      5.   Metro may expend funds from the Contingency Subfunds for Expenditure
Plan Major Projects or Multi-Year Subregional Programs in any fiscal year in
which Net Revenues received are not sufficient to meet Metro’s funding
obligations for that year for such projects.
      6.   No earlier than July 1, 2039, the Metro Board of Directors shall
increase the percentage of Net Revenues allocated to the Regional Rail program
of the Local Return and Regional Rail Subfund from one percent (1%) to two
percent (2%) provided that the recipient(s) satisfy certain performance
criteria, which shall be adopted by the Metro Board of Directors. Any such
increase in Net Revenues allocated to Regional Rail shall be offset by
corresponding reductions in Net Revenues allocated to either the Transit,
First/Last Mile (Capital) Subfund or Highway, Active Transportation, Complete
Streets (Capital) Subfund, or both. No reduction shall delay any projects in
Attachment A.
      7.   On July 1, 2039, the percentage of Net Revenues allocated to the
Local Return program shall increase by three percent of Net Revenues. The Metro
Board of Directors shall make corresponding reductions to either the Transit
Construction or Highway Construction programs, or both. No reduction shall
delay any projects in Attachment A.
   c.   The Metro Board of Directors shall adopt guidelines regarding Multi-
Year Subregional Programs identified in Attachment A. The guidelines shall, at
minimum, specify definitions of active transportation, first/last mile,
visionary seed project studies, street car and circulator projects, greenway
projects, mobility hubs, highway efficiency and operational improvement
projects, bus system improvements, highway demand-based programs (such as high
occupancy vehicle extensions and connections), transit capital projects,
transportation system and mobility improvements, bus rapid transit capital
improvements, safe route to schools, multi-modal connectivity projects,
arterial street improvements, freeway interchange improvements, goods movement
improvements, highway and transit noise mitigations, intelligent transportation
systems, transportation technology improvements, streetscape enhancements and
Great Streets, public transit state of good repair, and traffic congestion
relief improvements.
   d.   Metro may enter into an agreement with the Board of Equalization to
transfer Sales Tax Revenues directly to a bond trustee or similar fiduciary, in
order to provide for the timely payment of debt service and related
obligations, prior to Metro's receipt and deposit of such Sales Tax Revenues
into the sales tax revenue fund; provided, however, that such payments of debt
service and related obligations shall be allocated to the appropriate subfund
consistent with the expenditure of the proceeds of the corresponding debt.
   e.   Metro shall include the projects and programs in Attachment A in the
Long Range Transportation Plan within one year of the date the Ordinance takes
effect. The revised and updated Long Range Transportation Plan shall also
include capital projects and capital programs that are adopted by each
subregion that are submitted to Metro for inclusion in the revised and updated
Long Range Transportation Plan, if the cost and schedule details are provided
by the subregions, in a manner consistent with the requirements of the plan.
   f.   Three percent (3%) of the total project cost of any Expenditure Plan
Major Project coded “T” in Attachment A shall be paid by each incorporated city
within Los Angeles County, and Los Angeles County for those projects in
unincorporated areas, based upon the percent of project total centerline track
miles to be constructed within that jurisdiction’s borders if one (1) or more
stations are to be constructed within the borders of said jurisdiction. An
agreement approved by both Metro and the governing board of the jurisdiction
shall specify the total project cost determined at the conclusion of thirty
percent (30%) completion of final design (which shall not be subject to future
cost increases), the amount to be paid, and a schedule of payments. If the
total project cost estimate is reduced after the conclusion of thirty percent
(30%) completion of final design, the proportionate cost to the jurisdiction
shall be reduced accordingly. The jurisdiction may request a betterment for a
project. The jurisdiction, however, shall incur the full cost of any such
betterment. Such agreements shall be in accordance with guidelines adopted by
the Metro Board of Directors.
      1.   If no agreement is entered into and approved prior to the award of
any contract authorizing the construction of the project within the borders of
the jurisdiction, or if at any time the local jurisdiction is in default of any
sums due pursuant to the approved agreement, all funds contained in the Local
Return/Regional Rail Subfund allocated to that jurisdiction may, at Metro’s
sole discretion, be withheld for not longer than fifteen (15) years and used to
pay for the project until the three percent (3%) threshold is met.
   g.   Once every ten (10) years, beginning in Fiscal Year 2027, Metro shall
conduct a comprehensive assessment of each project and program identified in
Attachment A as an “Expenditure Plan Major Project” or “Multi-Year Subregional
Program.” This assessment shall determine which projects or programs are either
completed, or anticipated to be completed during the next ten-year period. The
Measure M Independent Taxpayer Oversight Committee of Metro, established
pursuant to Section 8, shall review and comment on the assessment. Metro shall
also conduct a public review prior to the assessment’s approval. Upon approval
of this assessment by a two- thirds vote, the Metro Board of Directors may:
      1.   Add “Expenditure Plan Major Projects” and “Multi- Year Subregional
Programs” to the Expenditure Plan by a two-thirds (2/3) vote so long as such
additions do not delay the Groundbreaking Start Date, Expected Opening Date, or
amount of “Measure M Funding 2015$” of any other “Expenditure Plan Major
Project” or “Multi-Year Subregional Program.” No “Expenditure Plan Major
Projects” or “Multi-Year Subregional Programs” may be added to the Expenditure
Plan except through the decennial process described herein.
         A.   Should an “Expenditure Plan Major Project” or “Multi-Year
Subregional Program”, except for those coded “sc” in the “subregion” column of
Attachment A, be completed without the expenditure of all Net Revenues
allocated to that project or program in Attachment A, the surplus Net Revenues
shall be expended on projects or programs in the same subregion as the project
or program so completed. The Metro Board of Directors shall determine by a two-
thirds (2/3) vote whether a project or program is complete.
         B.   Should an “Expenditure Plan Major Project” or “Multi-Year
Subregional Program” coded “sc” in the “subregion” column of Attachment A be
completed without the expenditure of all Net Revenues allocated to that project
or program in Attachment A, the surplus Net Revenues shall be expended on
another “Expenditure Plan Major Project” or “Multi-Year Subregional Program”
coded “sc” in the “subregion” column of Attachment A. The Metro Board of
Directors shall determine by a two-thirds (2/3) vote whether a project or
program is complete.
      2.   Adopt an amendment to transfer Net Revenues between the Transit,
First/Last Mile (Capital) Subfund and the Highway, Active Transportation,
Complete Streets (Capital) Subfund pursuant to Section 11(c). No such amendment
shall be adopted except through the decennial process described herein.
      3.   Adopt an amendment to Attachment B pursuant to Section 11(a). No
such amendment shall be adopted except through the decennial process described
herein provided, however, the Metro Board of Directors shall not adopt an
amendment to Attachment B prior to the comprehensive assessment in Fiscal Year
2047.
   h.   No Net Revenues generated from the Sales Tax shall be expended on the
State Route 710 North Gap Closure Project.
   i.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Ordinance, no recipient of
Local Return program funds may expend more than thirty-three and one-third
percent (33 %) of total funds received in any fiscal year on Green Streets.
SECTION 8. OVERSIGHT
   a.   There is hereby established a Measure M Independent Taxpayer Oversight
Committee of Metro (“Committee”) to provide an enhanced level of accountability
for expenditures of sales tax revenues made under the Expenditure Plan. The
Committee shall meet at least four (4) times each year to carry out the
purposes of this Ordinance. The Committee reports directly to the Metro Board
of Directors and the public.
   b.   It is the intent that the Committee will assist Metro and take
advantage of changing situations in the future with regard to technologies and
transportation developments. Therefore, the provisions contained in this
Ordinance are based on a 2016 perspective and are not meant to be unduly
restrictive on the Committee’s and Metro’s roles and responsibilities.
   c.   Committee Membership. The Committee Members established for oversight
shall carry out the responsibilities laid out in this Ordinance and play a
valuable and constructive role in the ongoing improvement and enhancement of
this Ordinance.
      1.   As such, the Committee Members shall be comprised of seven (7)
voting members representing the following professions or areas of expertise:
         A.   A retired Federal or State judge
         B.   A professional from the field of municipal/public finance and/or
budgeting with a minimum of ten (10) years of relevant experience
         C.   A transit professional with a minimum of ten (10) years of
experience in senior-level decision making in transit operations and labor
practices
         D.   A professional with a minimum of ten (10) years of experience in
management and administration of financial policies, performance measurements,
and reviews
         E.   A professional with demonstrated experience of ten (10) years or
more in the management of large-scale construction projects
         F.   A licensed architect or engineer with appropriate credentials in
the field of transportation project design or construction and a minimum of ten
(10) years of relevant experience
         G.   A regional association of businesses representative with at least
ten (10) years of senior-level decision making experience in the private sector
      2.   The intent is to have one member representing each of the specified
areas of expertise. If, however, after a good faith effort, qualified
individuals have not been identified for one (1) or more of the areas of
expertise, then no more than two (2) members from one (1) or more of the
remaining areas of expertise may be selected.
      3.   The members of the Committee must reside in Los Angeles County and
be subject to conflict of interest provisions. No person currently serving as
an elected or appointed city, county, special district, state, or federal
public officeholder shall be eligible to serve as a member of the Committee.
   d.   Conflict of Interest. The Committee members shall be subject to Metro’s
conflict of interest policies. The members shall have no legal action pending
against Metro and are prohibited from acting in any commercial activity
directly or indirectly involving Metro, such as being a consultant to Metro or
to any party with pending legal actions against Metro during their tenure on
this Committee. Committee members shall not have direct commercial interest or
employment with any public or private entity, which receives sales tax funds
authorized by this Ordinance.
   e.   Committee Membership Selection Panel. The Selection Panel (“Panel”)
shall select for approval the Oversight Committee Members, who will be
responsible for performing the responsibilities under this Ordinance. The Panel
will be comprised of three (3) persons, each of whom shall be members of the
Metro Board of Directors, or their designee.
      1.   The Panel shall be selected as follows, and will represent the
existing leadership of Metro’s Board (Chair, Vice Chair, and second Vice
Chair):
         A.   One representative from the Los Angeles County Board of
Supervisors ; and Angeles; and
         B.   One representative selected by the Mayor of the City of Los
         C.   One representative from the Los Angeles County Cities
      2.   The Panel shall screen and recommend potential candidates for
Committee Membership. The Panel will develop guidelines to solicit, collect,
and review applications of potential candidates for membership on the
Committee. The filling of membership vacancies, due to removals and
reappointments will follow these same guidelines.
      3.   The recommended candidates for Committee Membership shall be
approved by the Metro Board by a simple majority.
   f.   Term. Each member of the Committee shall serve for a term of five (5)
years, and until a successor is appointed, except that initial appointments may
be staggered with terms of three (3) years. A Committee member may be removed
at any time by the appointing authority. Term limits for Committee members will
be staggered to prevent significant turnover at any one time. There is no limit
as to the number of terms that a Committee member may serve. Members will be
compensated through a stipend and they may choose to waive.
   g.   Resignation. Any member may, at any time, resign from the Committee
upon written notice delivered to the Metro Board. Acceptance of any public
office, the filing of intent to seek public office, including a filing under
California Government Code Section 85200, or change of residence to outside the
County shall constitute a Member’s automatic resignation.
   h.   Committee Responsibilities. The Committee shall, at a minimum, meet on
a quarterly basis to carry out its responsibilities and is hereby charged with
the following responsibilities:
      1.   General Responsibilities
         A.   The Committee will have the responsibility for approving the
scope of work and direct the work of the auditors, to include at minimum the
above mentioned areas. Selection of the auditors will follow the Board approved
procurement and solicitation policies. The Committee will be involved in the
solicitation and selection process of the auditors.
         B.   The Committee shall prepare an annual report on the results of
the annual audit per Section 8(h)(3)(B), any findings made, and report the
comments to the Metro Board of Directors.
         C.   The Committee shall review all proposed debt financing and make a
finding as to whether the benefits of the proposed financing for accelerating
project delivery, avoiding future cost escalation, and related factors exceed
issuance and interest costs.
         D.   The Committee shall review any proposed amendments to the
Ordinance, including the Expenditure Plan, and make a finding as to whether the
proposed amendments further the purpose of the Ordinance.
      2.   Quarterly Responsibilities. The Committee shall at minimum review
the following: of funds.
         A.   For each Subfund, make findings on the effective and efficient
use
         B.   For Local Return funds, review the programmed revenues and uses
for each of the local jurisdictions.
         C.   For Transit and Highway (Capital), review comparison of budget
expended to project milestone completion, comparison of contingency spent to
project completion, and review of soft costs expended.
         D.   For Active Transportation Program, review programmed revenues and
uses.
         E.   For State of Good Repair, review budget and expenses.
         F.   For Transit Operating and Maintenance (which includes Metro Rail
Operations, Transit Operations, ADA Paratransit for the disabled/Metro
discounts for seniors and students, and Regional Rail), review budget and
expenses.
      3.   Annual Responsibilities
         A.   The Committee shall review the results of the audit performed and
make findings as to whether Metro is in compliance with the terms of the
Ordinance. Such findings shall include a determination as to whether recipients
of Net Revenues allocated and funds were expended for all the Subfunds (listed
in Attachment A) and have complied with this Ordinance and any additional
guidelines developed by Metro.
         B.   Annual Financial and Compliance Audit. Metro shall contract for
an annual audit, to be completed within six (6) months after the end of the
fiscal year being audited, for the purpose of determining compliance by Metro
with the provisions of this Ordinance relating to the receipt and expenditure
of Sales Tax Revenues during such fiscal year. The audit should include a
determination as to whether recipients of Net Revenues allocated from these
Subfunds have complied with this Ordinance and any additional guidelines
developed by Metro for these Subfunds.
         C.   For major corridor projects, included in the Expenditure Plan,
the Committee shall review at least once a year:
            i.   Project costs, established LOP budgets, and any significant
cost increases and/or major scope changes of the major corridor projects
identified in the Expenditure Plan.
            ii.   The funding available and programmed for the projects
included in the Expenditure Plan, as well as any funding gaps for each of these
projects. The Committee shall provide recommendations on possible improvements
and modifications to deliver the Plan.
            iii.   Performance in terms of project delivery, cost controls,
schedule adherence, and related activities.
      4.   Five-Year Responsibilities
         A.   The Committee shall review the Comprehensive Program Assessment
of the Expenditure Plan every five (5) years or every ten (10) years in
accordance with Section 7(g) and make findings and/or provide recommendations
for improving the program. The results of this assessment will be presented to
the Metro Board of Directors.
         B.   Comprehensive Program Assessment. Metro shall conduct every five
(5) years a comprehensive review of all projects and programs implemented under
the Plan to evaluate the performance of the overall program and make
recommendations to improve its performance on current practices, best
practices, and organizational changes to improve coordination.
   i.   Accountability to the Public and the Metro Board. All audit reports,
findings, and recommendations will be available and accessible to the public
(through various types of media) prior to the public hearing and upon request.
Metro will establish a website dedicated to the Oversight of this Measure and
include all pertinent Ordinance information for the public. The Committee shall
review all audits and hold an annual public hearing to report on the results of
the audits.
SECTION 9. MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT REQUIREMENTS
   a.   It is the intent of Metro that any Sales Tax Revenues provided to local
jurisdictions in Los Angeles County under the program described in Attachment A
as “Local Return” be used to augment, not supplant, existing local revenues
being used for transportation purposes.
   b.   Metro shall develop guidelines that, at a minimum, specify maintenance
of effort requirements for the local return program, matching funds, and
administrative requirements for the recipients of revenue derived from the
Sales Tax.
SECTION 10. COSTS OF ADMINISTRATION
Metro shall establish an Administration/Local Return fund and one and one-half
percent (1.5%) of Gross Sales Tax revenues shall be credited into this fund. As
funds are received by Metro and credited to this fund, one percent (1%) of Net
Revenues shall be immediately transferred to the Local Return/Regional Rail
Subfund of the sales tax revenue fund to be used solely for the Local Return
program. All other amounts in the Administration/Local Return fund shall be
available to Metro for administrative costs, including contractual services.
SECTION 11. AMENDMENTS
   a.   The Metro Board of Directors may amend this Ordinance, including
Attachment A and Attachment B, with the exception of Section 11, for any
purpose subject to the limitations contained in Section 7(g), including as
necessary to account for the results of any environmental review required under
the California Environmental Quality Act or the National Environmental Policy
Act and any related federal statute of the projects listed in Attachment A. Any
such amendments shall be approved by a vote of not less than two-thirds (2/3)
of the Metro Board of Directors. Metro shall hold a public meeting on proposed
amendments prior to adoption. Metro shall provide notice of the public meeting
to the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors, the city council of each city
in Los Angeles County, and the public, and shall provide them with a copy of
the proposed amendments, at least 60 days prior to the public meeting.
   b.   By two-thirds (2/3) vote, the Metro Board of Directors may amend the
“Schedule of Funds Available” columns listed in Attachment A to accelerate a
project, provided that any such amendments shall not reduce the amount of funds
assigned to any other project or program as shown in the “Measure M Funding
2015$” column of Attachment A or delay the Schedule of Funds Available for any
other project or program. Metro shall hold a public meeting on proposed
amendments prior to adoption. Metro shall provide notice of the public meeting
to the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors, the city council of each city
in Los Angeles County, and the public, and shall provide them with a copy of
the proposed amendments, at least 30 days prior to the public meeting.
   c.   The Metro Board of Directors shall not adopt any amendment to this
Ordinance, including Attachment A, that reduces total Net Revenues allocated to
the sum of the Transit, First/Last Mile (Capital) Subfund and the Highway,
Active Transportation, Complete Streets (Capital) Subfund. Not more than once
in any ten (10) year period commencing in FY2027, Metro may adopt an amendment
transferring Net Revenues between the Transit, First/Last Mile (Capital)
Subfund and the Highway, Active Transportation, Complete Streets (Capital)
Subfund. This subparagraph shall not apply to adjustments to the Net Revenues
allocated to the Transit, First/Last Mile (Capital) Subfund and the Highway,
Active Transportation, Complete Streets (Capital) Subfund pursuant to Section 7
(b)(6) or Section 7(b)(7). Such adjustments shall not require an amendment to
this Ordinance or Attachment A.
   d.   Notwithstanding Section 11(a) of this Ordinance, the Metro Board of
Directors shall not adopt any amendment to this Ordinance, including Attachment
A, that reduces Net Revenues allocated to the Transit Operating & Maintenance
Subfund or the Local Return/Regional Rail Subfund.
   e.   The Metro Board of Directors may amend Section 11 of this Ordinance if
such amendments are approved by a vote of not less than two-thirds (2/3) of the
Metro Board of Directors and are approved by a majority of the voters voting on
a measure to approve the amendment. Metro shall hold a public meeting on
proposed amendments prior to adoption. Metro shall provide notice of the public
meeting to the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors, the city council of
each city in Los Angeles County, and the public, and shall provide them with a
copy of the proposed amendments, at least 60 days prior to the public meeting.
Amendments shall become effective immediately upon approval by the voters.
SECTION 12. ESTABLISHMENT OF BONDING AUTHORITY
   a.   Metro is authorized to issue limited tax bonds and incur other
obligations, from time to time, payable from and secured by all or any portion
of the Sales Tax Revenues to finance any program or project in the Expenditure
Plan, pursuant to Sections 130500 et seq. of the Public Utilities Code, and any
successor act, or pursuant to any other applicable sections of the Public
Utilities Code or the Government Code. As additional security, such bonds and
other obligations may be further payable from and secured by farebox revenues
or general revenues of Metro, on a basis subordinate to Metro’s existing
General Revenue Bonds, or any other available source of Metro’s revenues, in
each case as specified in a resolution adopted by a majority of Metro’s Board
of Directors. The maximum bonded indebtedness, including issuance costs,
interest, reserve requirements and bond insurance, shall not exceed the total
amount of the Gross Sales Tax. Nothing herein shall limit or restrict in any
way the power and authority of Metro to issue bonds, notes or other
obligations, to enter into loan agreements, leases, reimbursement agreements,
standby bond purchase agreements, interest rate swap agreements or other
derivative contracts or to engage in any other transaction under the Government
Code, the Public Utilities Code or any other law.
   b.   The Metro Board of Directors shall adopt guidelines regarding the
issuance of bonds and the incurrence of other obligations pursuant to this
Section 12. The guidelines shall, at a minimum, establish methods for taking
into account (a) the expenditure of proceeds of such bonds and other
obligations and (b) the payment of debt service and other amounts with respect
to such bonds and other obligations, for purposes of meeting the program
expenditure requirements of Section 7 hereof.
SECTION 13. APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT
Article XIIIB of the California Constitution requires certain governmental
entities to establish an annual appropriations limit. This appropriations limit
is subject to adjustment as provided by law. To the extent required by law,
Metro shall establish an annual appropriations limit and expenditures of the
retail transactions and use tax shall be subject to such limit.
SECTION 14. ELECTION
Pursuant to California Public Utilities Code Section 130350.7(d), Metro hereby
calls a special election to place this Ordinance before the voters. The ballot
language shall read as follows:
Los Angeles County Traffic Improvement Plan.
To improve freeway traffic flow/safety; repair potholes/sidewalks; repave local
streets; earthquake retrofit bridges; synchronize signals; keep senior/
disabled/student fares affordable; expand rail/subway/bus systems; improve job/
school/airport connections; and create jobs; shall voters authorize a Los
Angeles County Traffic Improvement Plan through a ½ ¢ sales tax and continue
the existing ½ ¢ traffic relief tax until voters decide to end it, with
independent audits/oversight and funds controlled locally?
SECTION 15. EFFECTIVE DATE
   a.   This Ordinance shall be effective on January 1, 2017, if:
      1.   Two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting on the measure vote to approve
this Ordinance at the statewide general election scheduled for November 8,
2016; and
      2.   No California state statute that requires Metro to provide funding
from revenues derived from the Sales Tax imposed pursuant to this Ordinance for
any project or program other than those in the Expenditure Plan, or provide a
level of funding greater than described in the Expenditure Plan, or on a
different schedule than described in the Expenditure Plan, is adopted by the
California Legislature subsequent to the adoption of this Ordinance by the
Metro Board of Directors and becomes law.
SECTION 16. SEVERABILITY
If any tax or provision of this Ordinance is for any reason held invalid or
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, that holding shall not
affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining taxes or provisions, and
Metro declares that it would have passed each part of this Ordinance
irrespective of the validity of any other part.
Los Angeles County Transportation Expenditure Plan Outline of Expenditure
Categories
Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 - 2057, Escalated Dollars (millions)
ATTACHMENT A
                %of     First
                Sales   Year   FY 2018 • FY 2033 • FY 2048 • FY 2018 •
Subfund Program Tax     Amount FY 2032     FY 2047     FY 2057     FY 2057
                (net of (FY    (15 Years)  (15 Years)  (10 Years)  (40 Years)
                Admin)  2018)
                               %of    First
                               Sales  Year    FY 2018 • FY 2033 • FY 2048 •   FY 2018 •
Subfund         Program        Tax    Amount  FY 2032     FY 2047     FY 2057       FY 2057
                               (net   (FY     (15 Years)  (15 Years)  (10 Years)    (40 Years)
                               of     2018)
                               Admin)
                Metro Rail     5%     $   4$   850  $   2,320$   2,810  $   5,980
                Operations 1
                Transit
                Operations 2
                (Metro &       20%    $   1$   3,400$   9,280$   11,240 $   23,920
                Municipal
Transit         Providers)
Operating &     ADA
Maintenance     Paratransit
                for the
                Disabled;      2%     $   1$   340  $   930  $   1,120  $   2,390
                Metro
                Discounts for
                Seniors and
                Students
                Transit
                Construction
                (Includes
                System
Transit, First/ Connectivity   35%    $   2$   5,960$   16,23$   19,670 $   41,860
Last Mile       Projects -
(Capital)       Airports,
                Union Station,
                and Countywide
                BRT)
                Metro State of 2%     $   1$   340  $   930  $   1,120  $   2,390
                Good Repair 5
                Highway
                Construction
                (includes
                System
                Connectivity
                Projects -     17%    $   1$   2,890$   7,880$   9,560  $   20,330
Highway, Active Ports, Highway
Transportation, Congestion
Complete        Programs,
Streets         Goods
(Capital)       Movement)
                Metro Active
                Transportation
                Program
                (Bicycle,      2%     $   1$   340  $   930  $   1,120  $   2,390
                Pedestrian,
                Complete
                Streets)
                Local Return -
                Base 3
                (Local         16%    $   1$   2,720$   7,420$   8,990  $   19,130
                Projects and
                Transit
Local Return /  Services\
Regional Rail   Local Return I
                Regional Rail                             3%11%                    
                (Beginning FY
                2040) 4
                                                          $   690  $   2,240  $   2,930
                Regional Rail  1%     $   8$   170  $   460  $   560    $   1,200
                TOTAL PROGRAMS        $   8$   17,01$   46,38$   56,190 $ 119,590
                0.5% for       0.5%   $   4$   85   $   230  $   280    $   600
Administration  Administration
/Local Return   1.0% Local     1.0%   $   8$   170  $   460  $   560    $   1,200
                Return 3
                GRAND TOTAL           $   8$   17,26$   47,07$   57,030 $ 121,390
 
1.   Funds are eligible to be used for Metro Rail State of Good Repair.
2.   Funds are eligible to be used for Metro State of Good Repair.
3.   1% Administration to supplement Local Return, increasing the Local Return-
Base to 17%of net revenues.
4.   To be funded by Highway/Transit Capital Subfunds in FY 2040 and beyond.
5.   The Metro Board of Directors will prioritize the Wardlow Grade Separation
project to receive new funding and/or grants and assign this project to be
included in Metro's State of Good Repair program.
All totals are rounded; numbers presented in this document may not always add
up to the totals provided. Based on January 2016 revenue projections.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/45baa1e32ffebd0b8c3edeaa80ea338a82bf5f51/
IMAGES/0-0-0-33.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/45baa1e32ffebd0b8c3edeaa80ea338a82bf5f51/
IMAGES/0-0-0-35.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/45baa1e32ffebd0b8c3edeaa80ea338a82bf5f51/
IMAGES/0-0-0-37.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/45baa1e32ffebd0b8c3edeaa80ea338a82bf5f51/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1015.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/45baa1e32ffebd0b8c3edeaa80ea338a82bf5f51/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1017.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/45baa1e32ffebd0b8c3edeaa80ea338a82bf5f51/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1019.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/45baa1e32ffebd0b8c3edeaa80ea338a82bf5f51/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1021.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/45baa1e32ffebd0b8c3edeaa80ea338a82bf5f51/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1023.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/45baa1e32ffebd0b8c3edeaa80ea338a82bf5f51/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1025.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/45baa1e32ffebd0b8c3edeaa80ea338a82bf5f51/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1027.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/45baa1e32ffebd0b8c3edeaa80ea338a82bf5f51/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1029.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/45baa1e32ffebd0b8c3edeaa80ea338a82bf5f51/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1031.jpg]
 
Title 4
Procurement
Chapter 4-05
Pre-Qualification of Bidders
4-05-010 Purpose.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish rules and procedures for the
contractor pre-qualification program of the MTA authorized by Public Utilities
Code §130051.21.
4-05-020 Objective and Scope of Pre-Qualification Program.
The objective of the pre-qualification program is to make a preliminary
assessment of the integrity and responsibility of business entities seeking to
do business with the MTA. A determination of pre-qualification allows the
business entity which has been pre-qualified to proceed with the procurement
process in seeking a contract with the MTA. The pre-qualification of a business
entity does not preclude the MTA from making a further responsibility
determination as a part of the procurement process. During any period for which
pre-qualification has been denied, the business entity may not compete for or
otherwise seek a contract with the MTA.
4-05-030 Definitions.
The following terms, whenever used in this chapter, shall be construed as
defined in this section:
   A.   "Business Entity" means a construction company, engineering firm,
consultant, legal firm, product vendor, and any other business entity seeking a
contract with the MTA for the furnishing of goods or services.
   B.   "Certificate of Pre-Qualification" refers to the written notification
granting pre- qualification to a business entity which has applied to the MTA
for such status.
   C.   "Contract Value Threshold" means in excess of one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000) in total expenditures by the MTA under one contract and any
amendments thereto.
   D.   "Executive Review Committee" or "ERC" means a panel of at least three
MTA employees serving in management positions appointed by the Chief Executive
Officer as a committee to adjudicate an appeal of a denial of pre-qualification
made by the Pre- Qualification Manager. Executive Review Committee or ERC also
means any retired Superior Court Judge appointed by the Chief Executive Officer
in lieu of a panel of MTA employees as authorized by paragraph D. of section
4-05-040.
   E.   "Notice of Denial of Pre-Qualification" refers to the written
notification issued to a business entity which has applied to the MTA for pre-
qualification that the business entity has been denied pre-qualification.
   F.   "Pre-Qualification" refers to a determination made by the MTA that a
business entity has demonstrated sufficient integrity and responsibility to be
permitted to be considered for a contract with the MTA. It also includes any
validation process whereby a previously pre-qualified business entity updates
its pre-qualification file for a specific contracting opportunity.
   G.   "Pre-Qualification Manager" means the MTA employee who has been
designated by the Chief Executive Officer as the administrative manager of the
MTA contractor pre-qualification program.
4-05-040 Administrative Oversight of Pre-Qualification Program.
   A.   The Chief Executive Officer, in consultation with the Inspector
General, is responsible for the administrative oversight of the pre-
qualification program.
   B.   The Chief Executive Officer is authorized to prepare procedures
consistent with this chapter as needed to implement the pre-qualification
program.
   C.   The Chief Executive Officer shall assign responsibility for the day to
day administrative management of the pre-qualification program to an MTA
management employee who will serve as Pre-Qualification Manager.
   D.   The Chief Executive Officer shall appoint a panel of at least three
management level employees of the MTA to serve as the Executive Review
Committee to adjudicate appeals by business entities from denials of pre-
qualification. The Chief Executive Officer may appoint a separate ERC for each
appeal or may appoint one ERC to serve for a specified period of time to hear
appeals filed during that period. If the Chief Executive Officer determines for
any reason that it would not be efficient to have a panel of MTA employees
serve as the Executive Review Committee for any particular appeal, the Chief
Executive Officer may appoint a retired Superior Court Judge to serve in lieu
of the panel of MTA employees. Any reference in this chapter to an Executive
Review Committee or to an ERC shall also be a reference to a Superior Court
Judge appointed pursuant to this paragraph.
4-05-050 Pre-Qualification Questionnaire.
   A.   The MTA Inspector General, in consultation with the Pre-Qualification
Manager, shall prepare pre-qualification questionnaires to be used in the MTA
pre-qualification program. Different forms of the questionnaire, each tailored
to the type of contract being sought, may be developed.
   B.   At a minimum, each pre-qualification questionnaire shall seek
information from the business entity regarding the following:
      1.   The experience of the business entity;
      2.   The quality and timeliness of the past performance of the business
entity when contracting with the MTA or other agencies for similar work;
      3.   The reliability and responsibility of the business entity;
      4.   The business entity's compliance with equal employment requirements;
      5.   The business entity's compliance with wage, hours, and other fair
labor standards;
      6.   The subcontractors to be used by the business entity;
      7.   The integrity of the key personnel of the business entity; and
      8.   Any gifts given, or contributions made, by or on behalf of the
business entity to members of the MTA Board of Directors or to MTA employees.
   C.   The questionnaire used in the pre-qualification program may seek
information in addition to that described in paragraph B. However, in order to
ensure that the pre- qualification program operates in as efficient a manner as
possible consistent with the program objectives, information in addition to
that required under paragraph B may be sought only if it is reasonably required
to make a determination of integrity and responsibility relevant to the goods
or services the business entity is likely to provide to the MTA if awarded a
contract. The questionnaire used for the pre- qualification of a business
entity whose services to the MTA will be as a subcontractor to another entity
contracting directly with the MTA shall be in an abbreviated format which
supports an expedited pre-qualification process, but which still provides the
MTA with the information necessary to make a reasonable assessment regarding
the integrity and responsibility of the business entity. Provided, however, any
business entity may be required to complete any form of pre-qualification
questionnaire if the MTA, in its sole discretion based upon the available
information, determines that a more intensive than normal pre-qualification
review is necessary for any particular business entity or any particular
contract.
4-05-060 Completion of Pre-Qualification Questionnaire.
Except as otherwise exempted by this chapter, each business entity seeking a
contract with the MTA which, at the time of initial award, is reasonably
expected to exceed the contract value threshold shall complete a pre-
qualification questionnaire prepared as set forth in section
4-05-050.
4-05-070 Exceptions to Pre-Qualification Program.
For certain solicitations, because of the nature of the goods or services to be
obtained, the nature of the business relationship between the MTA and the
business entity, or because of exigent circumstances, there is insufficient
advantage to the MTA to justify the expenditure of the resources necessary to
conduct a pre-qualification. The types of procurements or types of business
entities described in paragraphs A through J of this section are found to be
procurements of this nature and pre-qualification is not required:
   A.   Media or advertising contracts, including artists hired on a one-time
basis to provide pictorial representation of MTA property;
   B.   The purchase of goods from a department store or a home improvement
store where:
      1.   The store make the same goods available to the general public; and
      2.   The terms and prices for the MTA are no less favorable than the
terms and prices available to the general public;
   C.   The purchase of goods from a business entity if that business entity
will:
      1.   Have no legal obligation to warrant the goods sold, other than to
pass on the manufacturer's warranty; and
      2.   Have no obligation after the sale to provide any maintenance or
repairs for the goods sold;
   D.   Licensing and multiple-user agreements with software companies for
existing software;
   E.   Purchases of off-the-shelf computer software provided the seller does
not enter into a contract for continuing maintenance or enhancements of the
software program;
   F.   Real estate purchase contracts, leases, licenses or other similar kinds
of agreements;
   G.   Goods or services for which there is only one known source if not
obtaining such goods or services is not a reasonable option for the MTA;
   H.   Emergency expenditures in case of public calamity pursuant to Public
Utilities Code § 130234; and
   I.   Expenditures for immediate remedial measures pursuant to Public
Utilities Code §130235.
   J.   A business entity whose relationship with the MTA will be as a
subcontractor at the second tier or below. Nothing herein prevents the MTA from
requiring any subcontractor at any level to obtain pre-qualification if the
MTA, in its sole discretion based upon the available information, determines
that pre-qualification of that subcontractor is in the best interest of the
MTA.
4-05-080 Mandatory Denial of Pre-Qualification.
A business entity shall be denied pre-qualification if the evidence supports a
finding as to any of the following:
   A.   The business entity, or any of its officers or principal owners, are
currently debarred by a federal, state or local public authority;
   B.   The business entity has knowingly submitted false information on the
pre- qualification questionnaire or in response to any follow-up inquiries from
the MTA; or
   C.   The business entity has declined to submit to the MTA information
requested by the Pre-Qualification Manager as part of the pre-qualification
process.
4-05-090 Permissive Denial of Pre-Qualification.
The MTA may, in its sole discretion, deny pre-qualification to a business
entity or any of its planned subcontractors, if the evidence supports a finding
as to the business entity or as to a subcontractor, or their principals or
officers, of any of the following:
   A.   Commission of civil or criminal fraud in connection with obtaining,
attempting to obtain, or performing a public contract, agreement or
transaction;
   B.   Violation of federal or state antitrust statutes, including, but not
limited to, those proscribing price fixing between competitors, allocation of
customers between competitors, and bid rigging;
   C.   Commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, making false
statements, submitting false information, attempting to commit a fraud against
the MTA or other public entity, receiving stolen property, making false claims
to any public entity, obstructing justice or fraudulently obtaining public
funds;
   D.   Violation of federal guidelines for disadvantaged business entity
status including, but not limited to, a violation of 49 CFR part 26 et seq., or
misrepresenting minority or disadvantaged business entity status with regard to
itself or one of its subcontractors;
   E.   Conviction for non-compliance with the prevailing wage requirements of
the California labor law, or similar laws of any other state;
   F.   Violation of any law, regulation or agreement relating to a conflict of
interest with respect to a government funded procurement;
   G.   Falsification, concealment, withholding and/or destruction of records
relating to a public agreement or transaction;
   H.   Commission of any act or omission, or engaging in a pattern or
practice, which tends to demonstrate that the business entity lacks the
quality, fitness or capacity to perform a contract with the MTA, including, but
not limited to, deficiencies in on-going contracts, false certifications or
statements, fraud in performance or billing, or the lack of the financial
resources necessary to perform contractual obligations;
   I.   Indictment or conviction for an offense which indicates a lack of
business integrity or business honesty;
   J.   Willful failure to perform in accordance with the terms of one or more
contracts;
   K.   Violation of a statutory or regulatory provision or requirement
applicable to a public or private agreement or transaction;
   L.   Performance or conduct on one or more private or public agreements or
transactions in a manner which negatively impacts or threatens the health or
safety of the business entity's employees, the employees of any other entity
involved with the transaction, the general public or any real property;
   M.   Knowingly has entered into a business relationship with a business
entity while that entity was debarred by the MTA;
   N.   Violation of MTA policy regarding a drug-free workplace;
   O.   Violation of any non-discrimination laws or provisions included in any
public agreement or transaction;
   P.   Violation of any labor laws, including, but not limited to, child labor
violations, failure to pay wages, failure to pay into a trust account, failure
to remit or pay withheld taxes to tax authorities or unemployment insurance tax
delinquencies;
   Q.   Violation of a licensing, sub-letting or subcontractor-listing law;
   R.   Failure to comply with California corporate registration, federal,
state and local licensing requirements;
   S.   Violation of a material provision of any settlement of a denial of pre-
qualification or validation action;
   T.   A history of failure to perform, or of unsatisfactory performance of
one or more contracts including, without limitation, default on contracts with
the MTA or another public agency;
   U.   Has had its corporate status, business entity's license or any
professional certification, suspended, revoked, or has otherwise been
prohibited from doing business in the State of California in the past three
years;
   V.   Has undisputed or finally adjudicated and unresolved tax liens with
federal, state or local taxing authorities; or
   W.   Any other cause so serious or compelling in nature that it affects the
present responsibility of the business entity, the quality of its work, and/or
its fitness or capacity to perform on a contract with the MTA.
4-05-100 Investigations, Determinations and Referrals.
   A.   The Pre-Qualification Manager shall review the available information
related to each business entity seeking pre-qualification and may conduct such
further investigation as he or she deems necessary. MTA officials having
information regarding a business entity they know to be seeking pre-
qualification where such information is reasonably likely to bear on the pre-
qualification determination shall promptly provide such information to the Pre-
Qualification Manager for consideration.
   B.   Based upon all of the information obtained by the Pre-Qualification
Manager, the Pre-Qualification Manager shall make a determination consistent
with this chapter and any procedures adopted pursuant to section
4-05-040 as to whether a business entity seeking pre-qualification shall be
granted pre-qualification.
   C.   If information obtained during the pre-qualification process is of a
sufficiently serious nature to warrant further investigation and possible
action beyond the denial of pre-qualification, the Pre-Qualification Manager
shall refer the matter to the Inspector General, the General Counsel and/or
other appropriate official for possible debarment or suspension under
chapter 4-10.
   D.   The Office of the General Counsel shall advise and assist the Pre-
Qualification Manager in reviewing for legal sufficiency any prospective denial
of Pre-qualification and the notice of denial, and for providing any necessary
coordination with MTA staff regarding legal issues that may arise during the
pre-qualification review process.
   E.   All actions of the Pre-Qualification Manager pursuant to this chapter
shall be considered to be actions with the course and scope of the Pre-
Qualifications Manager's employment with the MTA and shall be subject to the
protections for public employees set forth in Division 3.6 of the Government
Code.
4-05-110 Certificate of Pre-Qualification.
Upon a finding that a business entity is approved for pre-qualification, the
Pre-Qualification Manager shall promptly provide that business entity with a
certificate of pre-qualification.
4-05-120 Notice of Denial of Pre-qualification.
   A.   If the Pre-Qualification Manager denies pre-qualification a notice
shall be promptly given by letter to the business entity.
   B.   Such notice, or any other notice authorized or required by this
chapter, shall be deemed sufficient notice if served personally or by mail by
any of the means authorized by California Code of Civil Procedure §§ 1012 and
1013. Any attempt by a business entity to avoid service shall not prevent the
denial of pre-qualification from becoming effective as of the date the MTA
attempts notice as set forth in this paragraph.
4-05-130 Effect of Pre-Qualification Denial.
   A.   A denial of pre-qualification for a business entity shall constitute a
denial of the right to obtain or compete for a contract with the MTA, including
contracts below the contract value threshold, until such time as the business
entity is granted pre-qualification. Whether a denial of pre-qualification will
extend to every division or other organizational element of the business entity
will depend upon the structure of the business entity. However, if the
application for pre-qualification is not limited to specific divisions or
organizational elements of the business entity, a denial of pre-qualification
shall apply to all affiliates, divisions, organizational elements.
   B.   A denial of pre-qualification to a particular business entity for a
particular solicitation shall not necessarily result in the suspension or
deferral of the solicitation schedule, regardless of whether an appeal from a
denial of pre- qualification has been filed. Any suspension or deferral of the
solicitation schedule will be within the sole discretion of the MTA's
procurement management.
   C.   A denial of pre-qualification for a business entity then under contract
with the MTA, where the denial of pre- qualification is based upon evidence
which could support a cause for debarment under section
4-10-070, shall result in an immediate review of the status of that business
entity's existing contracts with the MTA to determine whether action under
chapter 4-10 is appropriate.
   D.    A denial of pre-qualification shall extend for an indefinite period of
time unless the denial is overturned through an appeal under this chapter. A
business entity subject to a denial of pre-qualification may again apply for
pre-qualification after six months have elapsed from the date of notice of
denial of pre-qualification, or at any time upon a showing of changed
circumstances.
4-05-140 Appeal of Pre-Qualification Denial.
   A.   Any business entity that has been issued a notice of denial of pre-
qualification may appeal that decision to the ERC. The appeal letter, together
with all supporting documentation shall be submitted to the Pre-Qualification
Manager within ten (10) working days of receipt of the notice of denial of pre-
qualification.
   B.   If a business entity which has been served with a notice of denial of
pre-qualification fails to file a timely written appeal as described in this
section, the denial of pre-qualification shall become final.
4-05-150 Executive Review Committee.
The ERC hears appeals of denials of pre-qualification. Each person serving as a
member of the ERC pursuant to this chapter shall be considered to be acting
within the course and scope of employment with the MTA for such service and
shall be subject to the protections for public employees set forth in Division
3.6 of the Government Code.
4-05-160 Hearing Procedures.
   A.   The ERC shall have the power to review and/or hold a hearing on any
appeal received from a business entity that has been denied pre-qualification.
The ERC may only affirm or reverse the denial decision of the Pre-Qualification
Manager.
   B.   For a denial of pre-qualification for a reason set forth in section
4-05-080, the decision of the ERC shall be limited to a determination as to
whether there is factual support for the finding of at least one of the
mandatory causes for denial of pre- qualification. For a denial of pre-
qualification under section
4-05-090 the decision of the ERC shall be based upon its independent judgment
as to whether one or more of the permissive bases for denial of pre-
qualification has been established and, if so, whether it constitutes
sufficient reason for the MTA to decline to do business with the business
entity.
   C.   The Business Entity may elect to waive its right to a hearing and rely
solely on a written response. If the Business Entity elects in its appeal to
waive a hearing, such a waiver must be clearly stated in its appeal. The ERC
will set the dates for the submission of written materials and, if a hearing is
requested, will set the time and date for the hearing.
   D.   In each appeal, the Pre-Qualification Manager shall present the reasons
for denial of pre-qualification and the evidence supporting that determination.
The business entity will then be provided an opportunity to submit relevant
evidence challenging the determination of the Pre-Qualification Manager. If
there is a hearing on the appeal, the hearing will be conducted in an informal
manner, but may be recorded for the sole use of the ERC in preparation of its
decision.
   E.   The ERC shall perform no independent collection of evidence and shall
render a decision based solely on the evidence submitted by the Pre-
Qualification Manager and the business entity. In conducting the hearing the
ERC shall follow evidence rules similar to those described in section
4-10-170. The ERC may take judicial notice of common, uncontroverted facts.
   F.   The decision of the ERC is the final decision of the MTA. The business
entity may seek judicial review of an ERC decision in Los Angeles County
Superior Court. The appropriate party respondent in any such action shall be
the MTA and not the individual members of the ERC, the Pre-Qualification
Manager or any other MTA officer or employee.
   G.   If the ERC reverses the denial of pre-qualification, the Pre-
Qualification Manager shall issue a pre-qualification certificate within
fifteen (15) business days from the date of the reversal. If the ERC affirms
the denial decision and has notified all interested parties, the Pre-
Qualification Manager will take no further action.
   H.   An appeal from a decision of the ERC which upholds a denial of pre-
qualification shall be filed with the time limits set forth in Code of Civil
Procedure §§ 1094.5 and 1094.6.
   I.   Each notice of final denial of pre-qualification after an appeal to the
ERC shall include the following statement:
THE MTA HAS REACHED A FINAL DECISION IN THE ADMINISTRATIVE MATTER PENDING
BEFORE THE MTA. IF YOU CHOOSE TO SEEK JUDICIAL REVIEW OF MTA'S FINAL DECISION,
SUCH ACTION MUST BE INITIATED IN ACCORDANCE WITH CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE
§§1094.5 AND 1094.6. IT IS YOUR SOLE RESPONSIBILITY TO TAKE WHATEVER ACTION AND
TO OBTAIN WHATEVER ADVICE YOU DEEM APPROPRIATE IN RESPONSE TO THIS NOTICE.
Chapter 4-10
Debarment and Suspension
4-10-010 Statutory Authority.
As a local public entity which is the single successor agency to the Southern
California Rapid Transit District and the Los Angeles County Transportation
Commission, the MTA possesses the authority to determine its organizational
structure [Public Utilities Code Section 130051.11] and to exercise the powers
and responsibilities necessary for the performance of its goals and objectives
[Public Utilities Code Section 130051.12]. The determination of business entity
responsibility is required before the MTA may contract for goods and services.
[Public Utilities Code Sections 130051.21; 130232; and Federal Procurement
Regulations (where applicable)]
4-10-020 Findings and Objectives.
   A.   The Board of Directors of the Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority finds that in order to promote integrity in the public
contracting processes and to protect the public interest it will contract only
with responsible individuals and entities. Debarment and suspension are
discretionary actions that, taken in accordance with this chapter, are among
the appropriate means to effectuate this policy.
   B.   Toward this end, the MTA shall have, through this chapter, the
discretion to exclude from contracting with the MTA a contractor who is
debarred pursuant to the debarment procedure or suspended pursuant to the
suspension procedure in this chapter or who appears on any suspended, excluded
or debarment list by any local, state or federal government.
   C.   To protect the public interest the Board of Directors finds that
procedures and processes are necessary to ensure that businesses found to be
non-responsible be prevented from contracting with the MTA.
   D.   To promote integrity in the public contracting process the MTA is
specifically authorized and required by statute to prequalify businesses
seeking to do business with the MTA. The statute authorizing and directing
prequalification of contractors does not preclude denial of prequalification
for an extended period or repeated prequalification denials. When a contractor
is denied prequalification for an extended period, or repeatedly denied
prequalification, defacto debarment may occur. To assure that contractors doing
business with the MTA are provided proper safeguards and procedures and to
avoid the occurrence of defacto debarments, a formal suspension and debarment
procedure is necessary.
   E.   To ensure compliance with 49 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 26 in
federally funded projects, the MTA has established a Disadvantaged Business
Enterprise Program and qualifies businesses seeking status with the MTA as a
Disadvantaged Business Entity.
   F.   As a grantee of federal funds the MTA is accountable for the use of the
funds provided and must comply with the requirements and standards set forth by
the Federal Government including the determination of contractor
responsibility.
   G.   The serious nature of debarment and suspension requires such sanctions
to be imposed only if in the public interest for the MTA's protection and not
for the purpose of punishment. The MTA shall impose suspension and debarment to
protect its interest only for the causes and in accordance with the procedures
set forth in this chapter.
4-10-030 Definitions.
The following terms, whenever used in this chapter, shall be construed as
defined in this section.
   A.   "Affiliate". Entities and/or persons are affiliates of each other if,
directly or indirectly, either one controls or has the power to control the
other, or, a third person or entity controls or has the power to control both.
Indicia of control include, but are not limited to: interlocking management or
ownership, identity of interests among family members, shared facilities and
equipment, common use of employees or a business entity organized following the
debarment, bankruptcy, dissolution, or reorganization of a contractor or entity
which has the same or similar management, ownership, or principal employees as
the, debarred, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded entity or person.
   B.   "Benefits" means money or any other thing of value provided by or
realized because of, a contract with the MTA. A thing of value includes
insurance or guarantees of any kind.
   C.   "Civil Judgment" means a decision in a civil action at the trial or
appellate level by any court of competent jurisdiction, whether entered by
verdict, settlement, stipulation or otherwise creating a civil liability for
the wrongful acts complained of.
   D.   "Consent Decree" means a settlement between the MTA and a contractor
whereby the contractor promises to refrain from certain acts or omissions.
   E.   "Contract" means any agreement to provide goods to, or perform services
for or on behalf of, the MTA.
   F.   "Contractor" includes persons, partnerships, corporations, joint
ventures or other entities who contract directly or indirectly (e.g. through an
affiliate) with, or is seeking to contract with, the MTA to provide goods to,
or perform services for or on behalf of, the MTA. A contractor includes a
contractor, subcontractor, vendor, affiliate or any person or entity who or
which owns an interest of ten (10) percent or more or has a position of
significance with a contractor, subcontractor or vendor.
   G.   "Contracting Officer" means the MTA's administrative head of
procurement or the person serving in any successor position or his or her
designee.
   H.   "Covered Transaction" means any procurement program, activity,
agreement or transaction with the MTA, regardless of type, amount or source of
funding.
   I.   "Conviction" means a judgment or conviction of a criminal offense of a
type which would give rise to debarment of the convicted party under the terms
of this chapter by any court of competent jurisdiction at the trial or
appellate level whether entered upon a verdict or a plea, and includes a
conviction upon a plea of nolo contendere.
   J.   "Debarment" means an action taken by the MTA which results in a
contractor, and any affiliate of the contractor, being prohibited from bidding
upon, being awarded, and/or performing work on a covered transaction or related
transactions with the MTA for a period of up to five (5) years. A contractor
who has been determined by the MTA to be subject to such a prohibition is
"debarred."
   K.   "Debarring Official" means the Chief Executive Officer of the MTA who
may delegate any of his or her functions under this chapter and authorize
successive delegations. The Debarring Official is responsible for initiating
recommended debarment actions and obtaining concurrence of the Office of the
General Counsel.
   L.   "Ex Parte Communication" means any communication with a member of the
Executive Review Panel, other than by Panel member's staff, which is direct, or
indirect, oral or written, concerning the merits or procedures of any pending
proceeding which is made by a party in the absence of any other party.
   M.   "Executive Review Panel" means the three-member panel designated by the
Debarring Official or the Suspending Official, as the case may be, to preside
over contractor debarment or suspension hearings and make findings. Members of
the panel shall not have been involved in the investigation of the grounds for
debarment. The term "Executive Review Panel" shall also mean the retired judge
appointed in lieu of the three member panel by the Debarring Official, as
authorized by paragraph B. of section
4-10-120, or by the Suspending Official as authorized by paragraph A. of
section
4-10-310.
   N.   "Indictment" means indictment for a criminal offense. Any information
or other filing by competent authority charging a criminal offense shall be
given the same effect as an indictment.
   O.   "Ineligible" means excluded from MTA contracting (and subcontracting,
if appropriate) pursuant to statutory, Executive Order, or regulatory authority
(including the Federal Government).
   P.   "MTA" means the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority acting through its Board of Directors, or through any officer with
powers delegated by the Board of Directors or authorized by law.
   Q.   "Notice" means the written communication served on a contractor, its
bonding companies and affiliates in accordance with section
4-10-080, to initiate a debarment action. Notice shall be considered to have
been received by the contractor, its bonding companies and affiliates five (5)
days after being deposited in the US Mail, postage pre-paid, and addressed by
the MTA to the contractor, its bonding companies and affiliates' last known
address based on information provided by the contractor, its bonding companies
and/or affiliates.
   R.   "Participant" means any person who submits a bid or proposal for,
enters into, or reasonably may be expected to enter into a covered transaction.
This term also includes any person who is legally authorized to act on behalf
of or to commit a participant in a covered transaction.
   S.   "Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, association,
member of a joint venture, unit of government or legal entity, however
organized.
   T.   "Preponderance of the Evidence" means proof by information that,
compared with that opposing it, tends to the conclusion that the fact at issue
is more probably true than not.
   U.   "Principal" means officer, director, owner, partner, key employee or
other person within a contractor with significant management or supervisory
responsibilities; a person who has a critical influence on or substantive
control over a covered transaction, whether or not employed by the participant
or any affiliate of a participant, the operations of which are so intertwined
with the participant that the separate corporate identities may be disregarded.
   V.   "Proposal" means any response to a solicitation, application, request
for proposal, invitation to submit a proposal or similar communication by or on
behalf of a contractor seeking to participate or receive a benefit, directly or
indirectly, in or under a covered transaction.
   W.   "Related Transaction" means a transaction directly related to a covered
transaction, which assists the participant in executing a covered transaction,
regardless of the extent of the influence on or substantive control over the
covered transaction by the person performing the related transaction. Related
transactions include, but are not limited to, transactions of the participant
with any of the following persons:
      1.   Contractors (including direct subcontractors);
      2.   Principal investigators;
      3.   Loan officers;
      4.   Staff appraisers and inspectors;
      5.   Underwriters;
      6.   Bonding companies;
      7.   Appraisers and inspectors;
      8.   Real estate agents and brokers;
      9.   Management and marketing agents;
      10.   Accountants, consultants, investment bankers, architects,
engineers, attorneys and others in a business relationship with participants in
connection with a covered transaction under an MTA procurement or agreement or
activity;
      11.   Vendors of materials and equipment in connection with an MTA
procurement, agreement or activity;
      12.   Closing agents;
      13.   Turnkey developers of projects;
      14.   Title companies;
      15.   Escrow agents;
      16.   Project owners; and
      17.   Employees or agents of any of the above.
   X.   "Respondent" means a person against whom a debarment action has been
initiated.
   Y.   "Suspension" means action taken by the Suspending Official to
disqualify a contractor temporarily from participating in covered transactions
and/or related transactions with the MTA. A contractor so disqualified is
"suspended."
   Z.   "Suspending Official" means the administrative head of procurement for
the MTA or his or her designee. The Suspending Official is responsible for
suspending a contractor with the concurrence of the Office of the General
Counsel.
   AA.   "Voluntary Exclusion or Voluntarily Excluded" means a status, assumed
by a person, who is excluded from participating in covered transactions and
related transactions with the MTA in accordance with the terms of a settlement
with the MTA.
   BB.   "Warning Letter" means a written communication from the MTA to one or
more persons concerning acts and omissions prohibited by this chapter.
4-10-040 Coverage.
This chapter applies to:
   A.   Any contractor who has participated, is currently participating, or may
reasonably be expected to participate, in a covered transaction, irrespective
of the source of funding;
   B.   Any contractor who has participated, is currently participating, or may
reasonably be expected to participate, in a related transaction, irrespective
of the source of funding;
   C.   Any principal of the contractors described in paragraphs A. or B.; and
   D.   Any affiliate of the contractors described in paragraphs A., B. or C.
4-10-050 General.
   A.   The MTA, after consultation with the Office of the General Counsel,
shall decide whether to proceed with the debarment of a contractor by seeking a
Declaration and Order of the Superior Court that the contractor is an
irresponsible contractor and debarred for a period up to five (5) years, or to
proceed with administrative debarment as provided for in this chapter.
   B.   The causes of debarment set forth in section
4-10-070 are not intended to be an exhaustive list of the acts or omissions for
which a person may be debarred; grounds other than those enumerated in this
section may be a basis for debarment.
   C.   The MTA may debar a contractor for any of the causes set forth in
section
4-10-070 using the procedures set forth in this chapter. The existence of a
cause for debarment, however, does not necessarily require that the contractor
be debarred; the seriousness of the contractor's acts or omissions and any
mitigating factors shall be considered in making any debarment decision.
   D.   Debarment constitutes debarment of all divisions or other
organizational elements of the contractor named in the debarment proceedings,
unless the debarment decision is limited by its terms to specific affiliates,
divisions, organizational elements and individuals. The Debarring Official may
extend the debarment decision to include any affiliates of the contractor and
persons if they are:
      1.   Specifically named, and
      2.   Given written notice of the proposed debarment and an opportunity to
respond
   E.   The MTA Board of Directors hereby delegates the debarment of
contractors to the Chief Executive Officer or his or her designee.
4-10-060 Investigation and Referral.
   A.   It is the responsibility of all MTA employees to report to the
Debarring Official any information which would support a cause for debarment.
   B.   The Office of the Inspector General shall report to the Debarring
Official the results of any investigation by the Inspector General which would
support a cause for debarment, except for those investigations protected by
rules of confidentiality.
   C.   The MTA shall utilize MTA personnel, or other appropriate resources, to
conduct the inquiry into the cause for debarment and develop the documentation
required by paragraph A. of this section.
   D.   Information concerning the existence of a cause for debarment from any
source shall be promptly reported, and referred simultaneously to both the
Debarring Official and the Office of the Inspector General for consideration.
The Debarring Official shall be responsible for deciding whether or not to
proceed with debarment. After consideration, the Debarring Official may issue a
notice of proposed debarment, pursuant to section
4-10-080.
   E.   Nothing in this chapter is intended to limit the existing authority of
the Inspector General to make criminal referrals to prosecutorial agencies.
   F.   MTA staff shall develop basic documentation that includes but, is not
limited to:
      1.   The name of the specific respondent(s) against whom the action is
being taken;
      2.   The reason(s) for proposing the debarment;
      3.   A short narrative stating the facts and/or describing other evidence
supporting the reason(s) for the need to debar;
      4.   The recommended time period for the debarment;
      5.   Copies of any relevant supporting documentation identified under
this section.
   G.   The Office of the General Counsel is responsible for reviewing the
documentation and notices for legal sufficiency.
   H.   If as a result of an inquiry into the existence of a cause for
debarment it is the opinion of the Inspector General and/or the General Counsel
that a criminal referral should be made to one or more prosecutorial agencies,
they shall cooperate and coordinate in the referral.
4-10-070 Debarment of Contractors.
   A.   The MTA may debar a contractor if the MTA finds, in its discretion,
that the contractor is responsible for any of the following:
      1.   Commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with
obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public agreement or
transaction;
      2.   Violation of federal or state antitrust statutes, including those
prescribing price fixing between competitors, allocation of customers between
competitors, and bid rigging;
      3.   Commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, making false
statements, submitting false information, attempting to commit a fraud against
the MTA receiving stolen property, making false claims to any public entity,
obstructing justice, fraudulently obtaining public funds;
      4.   Performance or conduct on one or more private or public agreements
or transactions that caused or may have caused a threat to the health or safety
of the contractor's employees, any other persons involved with the transaction,
the general public or property;
      5.   Debarment by any other governmental agency;
      6.   Violation of federal guidelines for disadvantaged business entity
status on federally funded projects including, but not limited to, violation of
49 Code of Federal Regulations, part 26, et seq., and misrepresenting minority
or disadvantaged business entity status;
      7.   Noncompliance with the prevailing wage requirements of the labor
law, including any pending violations by the contractor, or any affiliate of
the contractor;
      8.   Violation of any MTA requirements for providing a drug-free
workplace;
      9.   Violation of any nondiscrimination provisions included in any public
agreement or transaction;
      10.   Any other significant labor law violations, including, but not
limited to, child labor violations, failure to pay wages, or unemployment
insurance tax delinquencies;
      11.   A violation of a statutory or regulatory provision or requirement
applicable to a public or private agreement or transaction, including, but not
limited to, any violation of
Chapter 5-20 [MTA Contractor Code of Conduct];
      12.   Violation of any licensing, subletting or sublisting laws;
      13.   Falsification, concealment, withholding and/or destruction of
records;
      14.   Violation of settlement agreements and/or consent decrees which
impose obligations on the contractor to perform certain activities and/or to
refrain from certain acts;
      15.   Violation of any law, regulation or agreement relating to conflict
of interest with respect to government funded procurement;
      16.   Knowingly or negligently doing business with a debarred, suspended,
ineligible, or voluntarily excluded contractor in connection with a covered
transaction or a related transaction;
      17.   Violation of a material provision of any settlement of a debarment
action;
      18.   Commission of an act or offense which indicates a lack of business
integrity or business honesty;
      19.   Willful failure to perform in accordance with the terms of one or
more contracts;
      20.   A history of failure to perform, or of unsatisfactory performance
of one or more contracts including, without limitation, default on contracts
with the MTA or any other public agency;
      21.   Commission of any act or omission which negatively reflects on the
contractor's quality, fitness or capacity to perform a contract with the MTA or
any other public entity, or engagement in a pattern or practice which
negatively reflects on same including, but not limited to, deficiencies in on-
going contracts, false certifications or statements, fraud in performance or
billing or lack of financial or technical resources;
      22.   Any other cause of so serious or compelling a nature that it
affects the present responsibility of a contractor.
4-10-080 Notice of Proposed Debarment.
   A.   A debarment proceeding shall be initiated by notice to the contractor,
its bonding companies and affiliates, at least ninety (90) days prior to the
date of the debarment hearing advising:
      1.   That debarment is being considered;
      2.   Of the specific debarment action proposed;
      3.   Of the reasons for the proposed debarment in terms sufficient to put
the contractor, its bonding companies and affiliates on notice of the conduct
or transaction(s) upon which it is based;
      4.   Of the cause(s) relied upon under section
4-10-070 for proposing debarment;
      5.   Of the provisions of sections
4-10-080 and
4-10-090, and any other procedures, if applicable, governing debarment decision
making;
      6.   That the contractor, its bonding companies and/or affiliates must
submit a written response within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the Notice
of Proposed Debarment and the consequence of not providing a response;
      7.   Of the date, time and place of the debarment hearing;
      8.   Of the potential effect of a debarment;
      9.   Of the right to a hearing before the Executive Review Panel;
      10.   That the contractor, its bonding companies and/or affiliates, may
appear at the debarment hearing to challenge the debarment action and that
failure to appear may result in a waiver of the contractor's, its bonding
companies' and/or affiliates' defenses to the debarment action, and be taken as
an admission by the party failing to appear that the basis for the debarment is
accurate, except to the extent the contractor, its bonding companies and/or
affiliates challenge the debarment action solely by means of a written
submission; and
      11.   That the MTA may submit a reply to the written response of the
contractor, its bonding companies and/or affiliates within (30) days following
receipt of the response made by or on behalf of the contractor, its bonding
companies and/or affiliates.
   B.   The notice to the contractor, its bonding companies and affiliates
shall be signed by the Debarring Official and transmitted by certified mail,
return receipt requested to the last known address provided the MTA by the
contractor, its bonding companies and affiliates.
   C.   The Office of the General Counsel will be consulted on all proposed
debarment actions prior to the notice being sent to the respondent.
   D.   Notice to the contractor, its bonding companies and affiliates shall be
deemed sufficient if it is served by any of the means, authorized by Code of
Civil Procedure Section 1013, or as otherwise specified in sections
4-10-080 and
4-10-100.
   E.   Any attempt by the contractor, its bonding companies and/or affiliates
to affirmatively avoid service by way of example, and not limitation, refusing
to pick-up a certified letter, shall be deemed ineffective and shall not
prevent the debarment proceeding from going forward.
4-10-090 Documents Submitted to the Executive Review Panel.
   A.   Respondent's Response.
      1.   The Respondent shall submit to the Executive Review Panel and serve
in accordance with section
4-10-100, a response to the Notice of Proposed Debarment within thirty (30)
days of receipt of the Debarring Official's notice which response shall:
         a.   State whether the Respondent will appear at the hearing;
         b.   Respond to the allegations of the MTA. Allegations by the MTA
contained in the notice to the Respondent may be deemed admitted by the
Executive Review Panel when not specifically denied in the Respondent's
response.
         c.   Be certified under oath and pursuant to the laws of the State of
California by the Respondent, or an officer or director of Respondent that the
contents of the Response are true and correct.
      2.   The response may set forth any affirmative defenses and any
evidentiary support therefore, to the allegations by the MTA. Where a
Respondent intends to rely onany affirmative defense, it must be set forth in
the response.
      3.   If the Respondent intends to waive its right to a hearing and rely
solely on the response in support of its position, the response must clearly
state such intention. Failure to clearly state such intention may be deemed a
waiver of the Respondent's defenses to the debarment action if the Respondent
does not appear at the hearing.
      4.   In the event that the Respondent fails to file a written response
within thirty (30) days of receipt of the Debarring Official's notice in
accordance with this section, the allegations of the MTA may be deemed
admitted, the Executive Review Panel may enter an order of default and transmit
it to the Debarring Official. The Debarring Official's decision shall
thereafter issue, with service on the parties.
   B.   Reply by the MTA. The MTA may submit to the Executive Review Panel and
serve in accordance with section
4-10-100, a reply to the Respondent's response not later than thirty (30) days
after receiving the Respondent's response.
   C.   Stipulations. The parties are encouraged to meet and resolve as many
matters as possible by stipulated agreement prior to the hearing. The parties
may stipulate as to any relevant matters of fact or law. Stipulations may be
received in evidence at the hearing, and when received shall be binding on the
parties with respect to the matter stipulated.
   D.   Document and Submission Requirements.
      1.   An original and one copy of all documents to be presented to the
Executive Review Panel and a list of all witnesses to be called at the
debarment hearing shall be served on the Executive Review Panel no later than
ten (10) days before the scheduled hearing, and copies of all documents served
on the Executive Review Panel shall be served simultaneously on the opposing
party at the specific location designated on the notice of debarment.
      2.   All documents required or permitted under this chapter, in addition
to being served on Executive Review Panel in accordance with this section,
shall be served upon:
         a.   The Office of the MTA General Counsel;
         b.   The Respondent or Respondent's representative;
      3.   Documents served in accordance with this section and section
4-10-100 shall state clearly the party's name and the title of the document.
All documents should be typewritten or printed in clear, legible form.
4-10-100 Service.
   A.   Service of documents on the Respondent, including the notice, shall be
made by any reasonable means, including by first class mail, fax, e-mail or
delivery to:
      1.   The Respondent to be served or that Respondent's designated
representative or agent, at the last known address;
      2.   The Respondent's last known place of business; or
      3.   A principal of the Respondent.
   B.   Proof of service shall not be required unless the fact of service is
denied under oath and put in issue by appropriate objection on the part of the
Respondent allegedly served. In such cases, service may be established by
written receipt signed or on behalf of the Respondent to be served, or may be
established prima facie by any responsible means, including, but not limited to
affidavit or certificate of service of mailing.
   C.   Service of documents on bonding companies and affiliates shall follow
the procedures set forth in paragraphs A. and B.
4-10-110 Time Computation.
Any period of time prescribed or allowed by this chapter shall include in its
computation of the prescribed period, Saturdays, Sundays and national holidays,
except that when the last day of the period is Saturday, Sunday, national
holiday or other day that the MTA is closed, the period shall run until the end
of the next following business day.
4-10-120 Executive Review Panel Powers and Responsibilities.
   A.   Debarment proceedings shall be presided over by the Executive Review
Panel, as defined in paragraph M. of section
4-10-040. The Debarring Official shall appoint the three members of the
Executive Review Panel.
   B.   The Debarring Official, in his or her sole discretion and after
consultation with the Office of the General Counsel, may appoint counsel to
advise the Executive Review Panel during the debarment hearing.
   C.   If the Debarring Official determines in his or her sole discretion that
the debarment proceeding will be unusually complex or is expected to be of
extended duration, or for any other reason, he or she may appoint a retired
judge to conduct the hearing. Any retired judge so appointed shall have all of
the powers and duties otherwise reserved to the Executive Review Panel.
   D.   To ensure that the proceedings before the Executive Review Panel are
not only fair and impartial, but are conducted expeditiously, it shall have the
power to:
      1.   Regulate the course of the hearing and the conduct of the parties
and their counsel;
      2.   Consider and rule upon all evidentiary and procedural matters
pertaining to the hearing, including, but not limited to, setting page limits
on documents that may be submitted;
      3.   Receive evidence and rule on offers of proof; and
      4.   Take any other action necessary to protect each party's rights, to
avoid delay in the disposition of the debarment proceeding and to maintain
order.
   E.   Further Powers of the Executive Review Panel.
      1.   The Executive Review Panel shall conduct a fair and impartial
hearing and, to that end, shall, in addition to the powers set forth in
paragraph D., have the power to:
         a.   Schedule the debarment hearing date, time and place;
         b.   Postpone the debarment hearing date;
         c.   Hold conferences to facilitate the settlement or simplification
of the issues by consent of the parties or at the request of a party;
         d.   Make findings of fact and take notice of any material fact not
appearing in evidence in the record which would properly be a matter of
judicial notice;
         e.   Administer oaths and affirmations;
         f.   Issue a decision imposing debarment of the Respondent with
respect to future MTA transactions, or imposing no sanction;
         g.   Recommend to the MTA staff, if so requested, a course of action
to remedy Respondent's past actions which gave rise to the debarment action;
and
         h.   Recommend to the Debarring Official that a contractor should or
should not be debarred.
   F.   Prohibition Against Ex-parte Communications. Ex-parte communications
are prohibited unless:
      1.   The purpose and content of the communication have been disclosed in
advance or simultaneously to all parties involved; or
      2.   The communication is a request for information to the Executive
Review Panel's staff concerning the status of the debarment action.
4-10-130 Debarment Hearing Procedure.
   A.   Right to Hearing.
      1.   All Respondents subject to debarment pursuant to this chapter shall
be entitled to a hearing at the date, time and place set forth in the notice.
      2.   The Respondent may elect to waive its right to a hearing and rely
solely on a written response. If the Respondent elects to waive its right to a
hearing, such waiver must be clearly stated in the Respondent's response.
However, if the Respondent fails to file a written response as required under
section
4-10-090, the allegations of the MTA shall be deemed admitted, and an order of
default shall be entered pursuant to section
4-10-090 A. 4.
      3.   The Executive Review Panel shall perform no independent collection
of evidence and shall render a decision based on the evidence as submitted by
the parties, although the Executive Review Panel may take judicial notice of
common, uncontested facts.
   B.   Conduct of Hearing.
      1.   The hearing shall be informal in nature and members of the Executive
Review Panel may ask questions at any time.
      2.   The hearing shall proceed with all reasonable speed. The Executive
Review Panel may order the hearing be recessed for good cause, stated on the
record. The Executive Review Panel may, for convenience of the parties, or in
the interest of justice, order that the hearing be continued or extended to a
later date.
   C.   Representation of the Parties.
      1.   The MTA may be represented by a member of the staff of the Office of
the General Counsel and/or by an attorney assigned by the Office of the General
Counsel, as may be appropriate in a particular case.
      2.   The Respondent may be represented at the hearing as follows:
         a.   Individuals may appear on their own behalf;
         b.   A member of a partnership or joint venture may appear on behalf
of the partnership or joint venture;
         c.   A bona fide officer may appear on behalf of a corporation or
association upon a showing of adequate authorization;
         d.   An attorney who submits a notice of appearance and representation
with the Executive Review Panel may represent the Respondent; or
         e.   An individual not included within subparagraphs a. through d.,
above, may represent the respondent upon an adequate showing, as determined by
the Executive Review Panel, that the individual possesses the legal, technical
or other qualifications necessary to advise and assist in the presentation of
the Respondent's case.
   D.   All testimony provided at the hearing shall be under oath.
   E.   At the request of either the Respondent or the MTA, the proceedings
shall be transcribed by an authorized court reporter. The cost of the
transcript of the proceedings shall be paid by the party requesting the
transcript, or in the event both parties request the transcript, the cost shall
be divided evenly between them.
4-10-140 Standard of Proof.
The cause for debarment must be established by a preponderance of the evidence.
4-10-150 Burden of Proof.
   A.   The MTA has the burden of proof to establish the cause for debarment.
The Respondent has the burden of proof to establish mitigating circumstances.
   B.   Where the proposed debarment is based upon a conviction, civil
judgment, or a debarment by another governmental agency and the MTA submits
evidence as to the existence of such, the MTA shall be deemed to have met its
burden of proof to establish cause for debarment.
4-10-160 Closing of the Hearing Record.
   A.   The closing of the hearing record may be postponed by the Executive
Review Panel, in its discretion, in order to permit the admission of other
evidence into the record. In the event further evidence is admitted, each party
shall be given an opportunity within a reasonable time to respond to such
evidence.
   B.   Once the Executive Review Panel deems the hearing to be concluded there
shall be no further proceedings before it or evidence accepted by it on the
cause for debarment unless a request is made in writing within three (3) days
following the conclusion of the hearing, and good cause shown.
4-10-170 Rules of Evidence.
   A.   Every party shall have the right to present its case or defense by oral
or documentary evidence and to submit rebuttal evidence. The Executive Review
Panel may, within its discretion, permit cross-examination of witnesses on
request. The Executive Review Panel may exclude irrelevant, immaterial or
unduly repetitious evidence.
   B.   The debarment hearing need not be conducted according to technical
rules relating to evidence and witnesses except as hereinafter provided. Any
relevant evidence shall be admitted if it is the sort of evidence on which
responsible persons are accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious affairs,
regardless of the existence of any common law statutory rule which might make
improper the admission of the evidence over objection in civil actions.
   C.   Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of supplementing or
explaining other evidence, but, over timely objection, shall not be sufficient
in itself to support a finding unless it would be admissible over objection in
civil actions. An objection is timely if made before submission of the case or
on reconsideration.
   D.   The rules of privilege as set forth in the Code of Civil Procedure
shall apply.
   E.   The Executive Review Panel has discretion to exclude evidence if its
probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its
admission will necessitate undue consumption of time.
   F.   The Executive Review Panel shall not have the power or authority to
compel any witness or party to give evidence in contravention of any
evidentiary privilege recognized under applicable law, including, but not
limited to, the Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination under the
Constitution of the United States of America and the attorney-client privilege.
4-10-180 Scope of Debarment.
   A.   Debarment of a contractor and its affiliates under this chapter
constitutes debarment of all its specifically identified principals,
individuals, divisions and other organizational elements from all covered
transactions and related transactions with the MTA, unless the debarment
decision is limited by its terms to one or more principals, individuals,
divisions or other organization elements or to specific types of transactions.
   B.   As may be appropriate, the debarment action may include any affiliate
of the participant that is specifically named and given notice of the proposed
debarment and an opportunity to respond.
   C.   The debarment of a contractor and its affiliates under this chapter may
include the debarment of any other business that is, has been or will be
controlled or owned by the contractor and its affiliates or by any entity owned
or controlled by a person or persons who own a controlling interest in a
contractor and its affiliates then or at the time the debarment was imposed.
4-10-190 Period of Debarment.
Debarments shall be for a period commensurate with the seriousness of the
Respondent's conduct, up to a maximum of five (5) years.
4-10-200 Debarment Decision.
   A.   The debarment decision shall be made within forty-five (45) days after
conclusion of the hearing, unless the Executive Review Panel extends this
period for good cause.
   B.   In debarment actions where respondent(s) fail(s) to provide any
submission in opposition by the time provided in paragraph A. of section
4-10-090, the Executive Review Panel may, in its discretion, decide against the
Respondent, and notice shall be provided by the Debarring Official;
   C.   Written findings of fact shall be prepared if requested by the parties.
The Executive Review Panel shall base its decision on the facts as found,
together with any information and argument submitted by the parties and any
other information in the administrative record.
   D.   If the Executive Review Panel decides to impose debarment, it shall
forward its recommendation to the Debarring Official.
   E.   The Debarring Official shall review the recommendation of the Executive
Review Panel and either affirm or modify the recommendation.
   F.   The Debarring Official shall, within forty-five (45) days of the close
of the hearing, provide notice to the Respondent which notice shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Reference to the notice of proposed debarment;
      2.   Whether the cause for debarment has been established; and
      3.   If the cause for debarment has been established:
         a.   Specifying the reasons for debarment;
         b.   Stating the period of debarment, including effective dates;
         c.   Advising of the scope of the debarment; and
         d.   Stating the time period in which the Respondent may submit an
appeal.
   G.   The notice to the Respondent shall be in writing, signed by the
Debarring Official, and transmitted by certified mail, return receipt
requested. The Office of the General Counsel will be consulted on all debarment
actions prior to the notice being sent to the Respondent.
4-10-210 Appeal of Final Determination.
   A.   Any party may request review of the debarment decision by filing a
written appeal with the Debarring Official within twenty-one (21) days of
receipt of the final debarment decision. The appeal shall specifically identify
the issues and the bases upon which appeal is based and shall be served in
accordance with section
4-10-010.
   B.   Any party to the debarment hearing opposing the appeal may submit a
response opposing review. The response must be submitted to the Debarring
Official and served in accordance with section
4-10-010 within fourteen (14) days of the receipt of the appeal.
   C.   Each complete and timely filed appeal shall be reviewed by the
Debarring Official whose determination shall result in one of the following
findings:
      1.   Affirming the decision of the Executive Review Panel;
      2.   Overturning the decision of the Executive Review Panel;
      3.   Directing a modification of the decision, including, but not limited
to, the scope of duration of any debarment; or
      4.   Referring the matter back to the Executive Review Panel for
additional investigation or findings.
D.   The Debarring Official shall issue a determination within thirty (30) days
of submission of the appeal, unless notice is given to the Executive Review
Panel and the parties extending the period for submitting a determination. The
Debarring Official's review shall be limited to the factual record produced
before the Executive Review Panel. The determination of the Debarring Official
need not be a formal written determination; rather a letter, served upon all
parties in accordance with section
4-10-010, setting forth the determination of the appeal.
E.   The submission of an appeal shall have no effect on the decision of the
Executive Review Panel, unless and until the Debarring Official issues a
determination modifying the Executive Review Panel's determination.
4-10-220 Review of Debarment Period.
   A.   After the period for appeal has lapsed, a debarred Respondent may
request that the Debarring Official withdraw or modify the terms of the
debarment, if any of the following circumstances arise:
      1.   Newly discovered material evidence;
      2.   Reversal of a conviction or civil judgment upon which a debarment
was based;
      3.   A meaningful change in ownership or management;
      4.   Elimination of other causes for which the debarment was imposed; or
      5.   Any other reason that is in the best interests of the MTA.
   B.   A request for review shall be in writing, supported by documentary
evidence and served in accordance with section
4-10-010.
4-10-230 The Parties Excluded From Procurement Programs List.
   A.   The MTA shall maintain a Parties Excluded From Procurement Programs
List. Such list shall contain the names of all contractors currently suspended
or debarred by the MTA.
   B.   The MTA shall periodically, but in no case less than twice annually,
forward to the appropriate agency with the state and federal governments the
then current Parties Excluded From Procurement Programs List.
4-10-240 Effect of Suspension or Debarment.
   A.   Contractors on the Parties Excluded From Procurement Programs List are
excluded from covered transactions and related transactions as either
participants or principals, and the MTA shall not solicit or accept offers
from, award contracts to, or consent to subcontracts with any such contractors.
Contractors on the Parties Excluded From Procurement Programs List are also
excluded from conducting business with the MTA as agents, or affiliates of
other persons.
   B.   Contractors included on the Parties Excluded From Procurement Programs
List as having been declared ineligible from receiving contracts from the MTA,
and if applicable, subcontracts, are ineligible under the conditions and for
the period set forth in the Parties Excluded From Procurement Programs List.
The MTA shall not solicit offers from, award contracts to, or consent to
subcontracts with these contractors under those conditions and for that period.
   C.   Contractors included on the Parties Excluded From Procurement Programs
List are excluded from acting as individual sureties to any person, contractor,
principal or participant.
   D.   Each time bids or proposals are received for any procurement, the
Contracting Officer shall review the list of Parties Excluded from Procurement
Programs. Any bid or proposal received from any contractor included on the
Parties Excluded From Procurement Programs shall be rejected.
   E.   Proposals, quotations, or offers received from any contractor included
on the Parties Excluded From Procurement Programs List shall not be evaluated
for award nor shall discussions be conducted with any such contractor during a
period of ineligibility. If the period of ineligibility expires or is
terminated prior to award, the Contracting Officer may, but is not required to,
consider such bids, proposals or offers.
   F.   Immediately prior to award, the Contracting Officer shall again review
the Parties Excluded from Procurement Programs List to ensure that no award is
made to a contractor on such List.
   G.   Contractors included on the Parties Excluded From Procurement Programs
List who participate in MTA transactions during the period of their debarment
or suspension will not be paid for goods and services provided and their
contracts shall be deemed void.
4-10-250 Imputed Conduct.
   A.   Conduct of the type described in section
4-10-070 by an officer, director, shareholder, partner, employee, principal,
affiliate or other individual associated with a contractor may be imputed to
the contractor when the conduct occurred in connection with the individual's
performance or duties for or on behalf of the contractor, or with the
contractor's knowledge, approval or acquiescence. The contractor's acceptance
of the benefits derived from the conduct shall constitute evidence of such
knowledge, approval or acquiescence.
   B.   Conduct of the type described in section
4-10-070 by a contractor may be imputed to any officer, director, shareholder,
partner, employee, or other individual associated with the contractor who
participated in, knew of, or had reason to know of the contractor's conduct.
   C.   Conduct of the type described in section
4-10-070 by one contractor participating in a joint venture or similar
arrangement may be imputed to the other participating contractors if the
conduct occurred for or on behalf of the joint venture or similar arrangement,
or with the knowledge, approval, or acquiescence of these contractors.
Acceptance of the benefits derived from the conduct shall be evidence of such
knowledge, approval or acquiescence.
4-10-260 Continuation of Current Contracts.
   A.   Notwithstanding the debarment, suspension or proposed debarment or
suspension, the MTA may continue contracts or subcontracts in existence at the
time the person was debarred, suspended or proposed for suspension or debarment
unless the Chief Executive Officer or his or her designee, directs otherwise. A
decision as to the type of termination action, if any, to be taken should be
made only after review by MTA contracting and technical personnel and by the
Office of the General Counsel to ensure the propriety of the proposed action.
   B.   The MTA shall not award options to contracts or in any way extend the
duration of current contracts, or consent to additional subcontracts, with
contractors proposed for suspension or debarment or included on the Parties
Excluded From Procurement Programs List unless specifically approved in writing
by the Chief Executive Officer for good cause shown.
4-10-270 Restrictions on Subcontracting.
When a person debarred, suspended or proposed for suspension or debarment is
proposed as a subcontractor for any subcontract subject to MTA consent,
contracting officers shall not consent to any such subcontracts.
4-10-280 Actions Other Than Debarment.
In the event that it is determined that the Respondent's acts or omissions are
insufficient to warrant debarment, one or more of the following actions may be
taken:
   A.   Voluntary Exclusion.
      1.   The MTA and a contractor may agree to a voluntary exclusion of the
contractor and any of its principals and/or affiliates from MTA activities and
transactions for a period of up to five (5) years.
      2.   Contractors and any of its principals and/or affiliates who are
voluntarily excluded from participation in MTA transactions shall be placed on
the Parties Excluded From Procurement Programs List.
      3.   Contractors and any of its principals and/or affiliates who
participate in MTA transactions during the period of their voluntary exclusion
will not be paid for goods and services provided, and may be considered for
debarment.
   B.   Consent Decree. Contractors and any of its principals and/or affiliates
found to be in violation of one or more provisions of this chapter may enter
into a settlement in the form of a consent decree with the MTA. The consent
decree will specifically provide that the person will refrain from the act(s)
or omission(s) that had been found to be in violation of this chapter. A
consent decree may be entered into alone or in conjunction with one or more of
the procedures described in this section.
   C.   Warning Letter. Where there appears to be an act or omission in
violation of this chapter, a warning letter may be issued to the contractor and
any of its principals and/or affiliates. In all subsequent transactions between
the contractor and any of its principals and/or affiliates and the MTA, the
warning letter will be considered notice concerning such acts or omissions and
may be evidence in a subsequent debarment proceeding.
4-10-290 Suspension of Contractors.
   A.   The Suspending Official may, to protect the public interest, suspend a
contractor or contractor's affiliate suspected, upon sufficient evidence, of
committing of any act described in section
4-10-070, or subject to an indictment for any of the causes set forth in
section 4-10070.
   B.   The MTA may modify or terminate the suspension at any time. The MTA
reserves the discretion to lift a suspension on the basis that it finds
insufficient grounds to proceed with debarment.
   C.   Suspension is a serious action to be imposed on the basis of sufficient
evidence, pending completion of an investigation or legal proceedings, when it
has been determined that immediate action is necessary to protect the interest
of the MTA.
   D.   Suspension constitutes suspension of all divisions or other
organizational elements of the contractor, unless the suspension decision is
limited by its terms to specific divisions or organizational elements. The
Suspending Official may extend the suspension decision to include any
affiliates of the contractor if they are:
      1.   Specifically named;
      2.   Given written notice of the suspension and an opportunity to
respond.
4-10-300 Notice of Suspension.
When a contractor is suspended, it and its bonding companies shall be
immediately notified of the suspension by certified mail, return receipt
requested. The Notice of Suspension shall include the following information:
   A.   That the contractor has been suspended and that the suspension is based
upon an indictment or other sufficient evidence that the contractor has
committed an act described in section
4-10-070;
   B.   A description of the actions of the contractor giving rise to the
suspension sufficient to place the contractor on notice without disclosing the
MTA's evidence;
   C.   That the suspension is for a temporary period pending the completion of
an investigation and such legal proceedings as may ensue;
   D.   The effect of the suspension;
   E.   That, within 30 days after receipt of the Notice of Suspension, the
contractor may submit, in writing, information and argument in opposition to
the suspension; and
   F.   Except for suspensions based upon an indictment, that additional
proceedings shall be conducted if the contractor disputes any material facts
supporting the suspension.
4-10-310 Suspension Procedures.
   A.   Following the imposition of suspension, the contractor may, within 30
days, submit written information and argument to the Suspending Official in
opposition to the suspension. If it is found that the contractor's submission
in opposition raises a genuine dispute over facts material to the suspension,
the Suspending Official shall:
      1.   Constitute the Executive Review Panel or, in lieu thereof, appoint a
retired judge who will exercise all of the powers of an Executive Review Panel;
and
      2.   Notify the contractor as to the date certain of the hearing on the
facts supporting the suspension.
   B.   The suspended contractor shall, no later than ten (10) days before the
hearing before the Executive Review Panel, provide a written list of proposed
witnesses to be presented at the hearing and a description of each writing to
be submitted for consideration by the Executive Review Panel. Failure by the
suspended contractor to provide the required information within the time
required by this paragraph shall be sufficient cause for continuance of the
hearing.
   C.   The suspended contractor and/or its attorney or other authorized
representative shall be given an opportunity to appear at the suspension
hearing and to submit documentary evidence, present witnesses, and offer
rebuttal evidence at the hearing. All testimony provided at the hearing shall
be under oath. Failure to dispute all the bases for the suspension either in
writing or at the time of the hearing shall be deemed an admission that each
undenied basis for suspension is true.
   D.   At the request of either the suspended contractor or the MTA the
proceedings shall be transcribed by an authorized court reporter. The cost of
the transcript of the proceedings shall be paid by the party requesting the
transcript, or in the event both parties request the transcript, the cost shall
be divided evenly between them.
   E.   The cause for suspension must be established by a preponderance of the
evidence. Where the proposed suspension is based upon a conviction or civil
judgment, the standard shall be deemed to have been met.
   F.   Once the Executive Review Panel or retired judge deems the hearing to
be concluded there shall be no further proceedings before it or evidence
accepted by it relating to the suspension.
4-10-320 Suspension Decision.
   A.   Within ten (10) days of the conclusion of the suspension hearing, the
Executive Review Panel shall submit to the Suspending Official recommendations
whether the suspension shall be upheld, modified or terminated.
   B.   The Suspending Official shall review the findings of the Executive
Review Panel and may uphold or modify the recommendation.
   C.   The notice to the suspended contractor and any affiliates and bonding
companies shall be in writing, signed by the Suspending Official, and
transmitted by certified mail, return receipt requested. The Office of the
General Counsel will be consulted on all suspension actions prior to any
notices being sent to the respondent.
4-10-330 Period of Suspension.
   A.   Suspension shall be for a temporary period pending the completion of
the MTA's investigation and any ensuing legal proceedings, unless sooner
terminated by the Suspending Official.
   B.   If the MTA does not initiate debarment proceedings within twelve (12)
months after the date of the suspension notice, the suspension will terminate
automatically unless there are pending legal proceedings. However, once
debarment proceedings have been initiated, the suspension may continue
indefinitely pending resolution of the debarment proceeding.
4-10-340 Scope of Suspension.
The scope of suspension shall be the same as that for debarment.
4-10-350 Preemption.
In the event any contract is subject to federal and/or state laws that are
inconsistent with the terms of this chapter, such laws shall control.
4-10-360 Severability.
If any section, subsection, subpart or provision of this chapter, or the
application thereof to any person or circumstances, is held invalid, the
remainder of the provisions of this chapter and the application of such to
other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
4-10-370 Judicial Review.
   A.   Judicial review of any final decision reached by the MTA under this
chapter shall be conducted by the Superior Court of the County of Los Angeles,
Central District, pursuant to an administrative writ of mandate as described
under Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.5, but only if the petition for writ
of mandate is filed within the time limits set forth in Code of Civil Procedure
Section 1094.6.
   B.   In every final decision reached under this chapter, notice of such
final decision shall only be given directly to the Respondent and its bonding
companies and such notice shall explain that Code of Civil Procedure Section
1094.6 governs the time period within which judicial review of any such final
decision must be sought. Final notice to the applicant or party and its bonding
companies shall include the following statement:
THE MTA HAS REACHED A FINAL DECISION IN THE ADMINISTRATIVE MATTER PENDING
BEFORE THE MTA. IF YOU CHOOSE TO SEEK JUDICIAL REVIEW OF MTA'S FINAL DECISION
IN THIS MATTER, SUCH ACTION SHALL BE INITIATED UNDER CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE
SECTION 1094.5 AND TIME LIMITS FOR FILING SUCH AN ACTION ARE SET FORTH IN CODE
OF CIVIL PROCEDURE SECTION 1094.6. IT IS YOUR SOLE RESPONSIBILITY TO TAKE
WHATEVER ACTION YOU DEEM APPROPRIATE IN RESPONSE TO THIS NOTICE.
Chapter 4-15
Construction Change Orders
4-15-010 Purpose and Coverage.
The purpose of this Chapter is to adopt a change order procedure as required by
Public Utilities Code § 130243. The MTA construes the term "change order" as
used in § 130243 as referring only to a modification of the work to be
performed under a contract for construction of a public works project, where
the modification of work will result in an increase in the cost to the MTA over
the then current base contract amount as modified by any already approved
change orders. It is the intent of the MTA that any other contract
modification, regardless of how that modification is described or denominated,
is not a "change order" as that term is used in Public Utilities Code § 130243,
and is not subject to this chapter.
4-15-020 Identification of Changes.
Whenever any party proposes a change to a construction contract which will
involve the expenditure of MTA funds above the amounts contemplated by the
existing contract, the MTA contract administrator shall consult with the MTA
General Counsel, and technical experts if necessary, to determine whether the
proposed change includes work within the scope of the statement of work in the
base construction contract as modified by already approved change orders. If it
is determined that the proposed change includes work within the scope of the
statement of work in the base construction contract as modified by already
approved change orders, the requested change order shall be denied. If it is
determined that the proposed change includes work which is not covered by the
statement of work in the base construction contract as modified by already
approved change orders, the change order shall be priced as set forth in this
chapter.
4-15-030 Establishing the Price for a Construction Change Order.
When a change to a construction contract is identified, as set forth in section
4-15-020, the value for the change shall be established as follows:
   A.   If the contract was awarded as a design-build contract, the MTA will
submit to the contractor a change notice describing the scope of the proposed
change.
      1.   If the MTA determines that the cost to complete the work described
in the change notice can be determined based upon an evaluation of the scope of
the work set forth in the change notice and without the need for detailed plans
and specification, the total price for the proposed change, including both
design and construction, will be included in a single change order. The actual
price to be paid for the change order work will be determined in accordance
with paragraphs C, D, E and F.
      2.   If the cost to complete the work described in the change notice
cannot reasonably be determined without detailed plans and specifications, the
price for the design of the proposed work and the price to fully complete the
work as set forth in the design will each be set forth in separate change
orders. The actual price to be paid for each change order will be determined in
accordance with paragraphs C, D, E and F.
   B.   If the contract was awarded as a design-bid-build contract the MTA
shall submit to the contractor a change notice describing the scope of the
proposed change which shall include plans and specifications describing the
specific work to be done under the proposed change order in sufficient detail
to reasonably permit the contractor to evaluate the cost of the additional work
and to complete it if approved. The actual price to be paid for the change
order will be determined in accordance with paragraphs C, D, E and F.
   C.   Regardless of whether a proposed change is to be added to the contract
under a single change order as described in paragraphs A.1 or B., or two change
orders as described in paragraph A.2., the MTA and the contractor will
separately determine the appropriate value of each proposed change. The MTA
independent estimate of the value of the proposed change shall be made by its
estimating unit, which shall be organizationally independent of the MTA
administrative head of construction. The MTA independent estimate shall be a
determination of the estimated cost to the contractor to complete any necessary
design work and the actual construction work for the proposed change, plus any
contractor markup allowed by the base construction contract. The cost of design
and cost of construction may be determined through separate change orders as
described in paragraph A.2. If separate change orders are issued, the change
order for the construction work shall not be issued until sufficient design
work has been completed to enable a reasonable estimate of the cost of the
construction work. To the extent federal cost principles are applicable to the
change order, the separate cost elements that comprise the estimate shall be
consistent with federal cost principles. The MTA independent estimate of the
value of the proposed change shall be audited for accuracy, completeness and
consistency with federal cost principles, if applicable, by the MTA management
audit services unit if the amount of the independent estimate exceeds $100,000.
The MTA independent estimate of the value of the proposed change shall be
provided to the MTA contract administrator, but shall be kept confidential and
not provided to the contractor.
   D.   The contractor shall submit to the MTA contract administrator the
contractor's proposed price to perform all of the work under the proposed
change. The contractor's price shall include a submittal of certified cost and
pricing data in the form of the separate cost elements, including profit, which
make up the contractor's proposed price. The contractor's proposed price may be
for the cost of construction as described in paragraph B for a design- bid-
build contract, or, in the case of a design-build contract, may be for the cost
of design, the cost of construction, or the cost of both, depending upon
whether the MTA selects, at its sole discretion, to issue one change order for
both design and construction as described in paragraph A.1., or separate change
orders for design and construction, respectively, as described in paragraph
A.2. The MTA contract administrator shall conduct an analysis which compares
the separate cost elements in the contractor's proposal with the separate cost
elements in the MTA independent estimate. If the contract administrator finds
that the contractor's and the MTA's separate cost elements are reasonably
consistent and that the contractor's total price for the change does not exceed
by more than five percent the MTA independent estimate determined pursuant to
paragraph C., the change order(s) shall be issued, or recommended to the Board
of Directors if beyond the approval authority of MTA staff, at the price
proposed by the contractor.
   E.   If the contract administrator finds that the contractor's separate cost
elements are not reasonably consistent with those in the MTA independent
estimate, or that the contractor's proposed price for the change exceeds by
more than five percent the MTA independent estimate determined pursuant to
paragraph C., the contractor shall be offered the opportunity to execute a
change order to do the work in the proposed change for a price equal to, and
consistent with the cost elements in, the MTA independent estimate. If the
contractor rejects this offer and demands a higher price for the change, the
contractor shall submit to the MTA such additional cost and pricing data to
support the contractor's price as is reasonably required by the contract
administrator to support the contractor's price. Any such additional cost and
pricing data submitted by the contractor must be certified by the contractor as
current, complete and accurate. If the contractor's proposed price exceeds
$100,000, the MTA's management audit services unit shall conduct an audit of
the cost and pricing data required by the contract administrator and submitted
by the contractor. If upon review and audit, if required, of the contractor's
certified cost and pricing data, the MTA determines that the contractor's
proposed value for the change is reasonable, the change order shall be issued,
or recommended to the Board of Directors if beyond the approval authority of
MTA staff, at the value proposed by the contractor.
   F.   If after the completion of the procedures set forth above, the MTA and
the contractor are not able to agree on the price for the change, the price
shall be determined through further negotiations or, if necessary, through
legal action or any alternative dispute resolution process which the parties
have agreed to utilize. In order to allow continuation of work under the
construction contract during any period where a dispute as to the value of the
change is being resolved, the MTA may issue a unilateral change order in the
amount of the MTA independent estimate of the value of the proposed change as
determined pursuant to paragraph C.
   G.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the MTA from using any
alternative method allowed by law for pricing a proposed change order, if the
MTA, in its sole discretion, determines that such alternative method is in the
best interest of the MTA, will produce a price which reasonably reflects the
actual value of the work, and the method of valuation set forth in this chapter
is impractical under the circumstances.
4-15-040 Administrative Policies.
The CEO may develop administrative policies not inconsistent with this chapter,
governing the change order review and approval process, which may include, but
are not limited to, policies establishing reasonable time deadlines for the
completion of the administrative steps set forth in this chapter.
Title 5
Ethics
Chapter 5-05
General Provision and Definitions
5-05-010 Codes of Conduct.
This title sets forth the codes of conduct for MTA officers and employees and
for those doing business with the MTA. The Ethics Officer is authorized to
prepare and publish informational materials describing the requirements of this
title in a readily understandable format and to make copies of such
informational materials available to all affected and interested persons.
5-05-020 Waiver.
Any provision of this title not mandated by statute may be waived by the Board
of Directors if it finds, based upon the facts applicable in a particular
instance, that such a waiver is in the best interest of the MTA.
5-05-030 Definitions.
The terms used in this title shall be construed as defined in this chapter.
5-05-040 Activity Expense.
“Activity Expense” means payment, including any gift, made to, or directly
benefiting, any authority official or member of their immediate family, made by
a lobbyist, lobbying firm, or lobbyist employer. Activity expenses include, but
are not limited to, contributions made to the campaign committees, ballot
measure committees, legal defense funds, office holder accounts, and to other
committees controlled by an MTA official.
5-05-050 Administrative Testimony.
"Administrative testimony" means influencing or attempting to influence MTA
action undertaken by any person or entity who does not seek to enter into a
contract or other arrangement with the MTA by acting as counsel in, appearing
as a witness in, or providing written submissions, including answers to
inquiries, which become a part of the record of any proceeding of the MTA that
is conducted as an open public hearing for which public notice is given.
5-05-060 Board Member.
"Board Member" means a member of the MTA Board of Directors.
5-05-070 Contribution.
"Contribution” has the same meaning as set forth in Government Code Section
82015.
5-05-080 Consultant.
"Consultant" has the same meaning as set forth in Title 2 California Code of
Regulations, Section 18701(a)(2).
5-05-090 Contact
   A.   “Contact” means any communication, oral or written, including
communication made through an agent, associate, or employee, for the purpose of
influencing authority action, except as provided in B.
   B.   The following activities are not “contacts” for purposes of this
section:
      i.   Attending or participating in a prebid or preproposal conference.
      ii.   Submitting a response to a solicitation issued by the MTA or MTA
official.
      iii.   Participating in an interview regarding a solicitation at the
request of the MTA or MTA official.
      iv.   Responding to a request for information from the MTA or MTA
official regarding a solicitation or existing contract.
      v.   A representative of a news media organization gathering news and
information or disseminating the same to the public, even if the organization,
in the ordinary course of business, publishes news items, editorials or other
commentary, or paid advertisements, that urge action upon MTA matters.
      vi.   Providing oral or written testimony that becomes part of the record
of a public hearing. A person providing testimony pursuant to this clause who
has already qualified as a lobbyist under this section and is testifying on
behalf of a client shall identify the client on whose behalf the lobbyist is
testifying.
      vii.   A communication from an elected public official acting in their
official capacity.
5-05-100 Contractor.
"Contractor" means any construction company, engineering firm, consultant,
legal firm, or any company, supplier, or business entity who is presently
engaging in any business with the MTA or any owner or employee of such entities
and all entities who have submitted a bid or proposal for an MTA contract.
"Contractor" shall also include any consultant and any subcontractor to a
contractor.
5-05-110 Designated MTA Employee.
"Designated MTA Employee means an MTA official whose position with the MTA
entails the making or the participation in the making of decisions which could
foreseeably have a material effect on a financial interest of that official.
Such persons are designated in the MTA's Conflict of Interest Code.
5-05-120 Financial Interest.
“Financial interest” on the part of a Board Member or MTA employee which would
preclude participation in an MTA decision means any interest which would
constitute a financial interest under Government Code Section 87103 and any
regulations of the California Fair Political Practices Commission interpreting
that section.
5-05-130 Gift.
"Gift" has the same meaning as set forth in Government Code Section 82028 and
any regulations of the California Fair Political Practices Commission
interpreting that section.
5-05-140 Lobbying and Lobbying Services.
“Lobbying” and “lobbying services” mean any action by a lobbyist or lobbying
firm to influence or attempt to influence MTA action through direct or indirect
contact, other than administrative testimony, with an MTA official, as
described in
5-05-170 .
5-05-150 Lobbying Activity.
“Lobbying activity” includes any of the following conduct when that conduct is
related to a contact to influence any MTA action:
   A.   Engaging in, either personally or through an agent, written or oral
communication with an MTA official.
   B.   Providing advice or recommending strategy to a person or other entity
that may have business in front of the MTA.
   C.   Research, investigation, and information gathering.
   D.   Seeking to influence the position of a third party on issues related to
the MTA action by any means, including but not limited to, engaging in
community, public, or press relations activities.
   E.   Attending or monitoring MTA meetings or other events.
5-05-160 Lobbying Firm.
"Lobbying firm" means any business entity, including an individual lobbyist,
that meets either of the following criteria:
   A.   The business entity receives or becomes entitled to receive any
compensation, other than reimbursement for reasonable travel expenses, for the
purpose of influencing MTA action on behalf of any other person, and any
partner, owner, officer, or employee of the business entity is a lobbyist; or
   B.   The business entity receives or becomes entitled to receive any
compensation, other than reimbursement for reasonable travel expenses, to
communicate directly with any MTA official for the purpose of influencing MTA
action on behalf of any other person, if a substantial or regular portion of
the activities for which the business entity receives compensation is for the
purpose of influencing MTA action.
   C.   A business entity shall not be considered a lobbying firm by reason of
engaging in activities described in paragraph
5-05-090.B.
5-05-170 Lobbyist.
“Lobbyist” means any individual who receives compensation, other than
reimbursement for reasonable travel expenses, and who meets both of the
following criteria in a consecutive three-month period:
   A.   The individual has at least one contact with an MTA official or
employee in an attempt to influence MTA action.
   B.   The individual is compensated to engage in at least 15 hours of
lobbying activity in connection with attempts to influence MTA action.
5-05-180 Lobbyist Employer.
"Lobbyist employer" means any person, other than a lobbying firm, who does
either of the following:
   A.   Employs one or more lobbyists for the purpose of influencing MTA
action; or
   B.   Contracts for the services of a lobbyist or lobbying firm for economic
consideration for the purpose of influencing MTA action.
5-05-190 MTA Action.
"MTA action" means the drafting, introduction, consideration, modification,
enactment, or defeat of an ordinance, resolution, contract, or report by the
governing board of an organizational unit of the MTA, or by an MTA official,
including any action taken, or required to be taken, by a vote of the Board of
Directors, or by the members of the governing board of an organizational unit
of the MTA, except those actions relating to Article 10 of Chapter 5 of Part 3
of Division 10 (commencing with Section 30750) of the Public Utilities Code.
5-05-200 MTA Employee.
"MTA employee" means any individual, including a consultant who receives
compensation from the MTA for full or part- time employment. The term MTA
employee includes a "designated MTA employee".
5-05-210 MTA Official.
"MTA official" means any Board Member or member of an organizational unit of
the MTA, or MTA employee.
5-05-220 Official Responsibility.
"Official responsibility" means the direct administrative or operating duties
for the MTA, whether intermediate or final, and whether exercisable alone or
with others, and either personally or through subordinates, to approve,
disapprove, or otherwise direct MTA action.
5-05-230 Person.
"Person" has the same meaning as set forth in Government Code Section 82047.
5-05-240 Public Official.
"Public official" has the same meaning as set forth in Government Code Section
82048.
5-05-250 Signed.
"Signed" means executed or adopted, with the present intention to authenticate
and affirm, using either:
   A.   A handwritten signature; or
   B.   An electronic sound, symbol, or process unique to the filer and
assigned by the Ethics Officer, which is attached to or logically associated
with the filing of a report or statement using the MTA's electronic filing
system.
5-05-260 Significant Other.
"Significant other" means an individual with whom an MTA official participates
in a dating relationship.
Chapter 5-10
Board Member Code of Conduct
5-10-010 Incorporation of Statutory Provisions.
The provisions of Chapter 6, entitled Code of Conduct for the Board of the Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, of Division 12 of the
Public Utilities Code (commencing with Section 130600), and Public Utilities
Code Section 130051.20, along with such other provisions as are included in
this chapter, shall constitute the code of conduct for members of the Board of
Directors. Any other code of conduct for Board Members which is in existence on
the effective date of this chapter is repealed.
5-10-020 Enforcement and Sanctions.
   A.   An alleged violation of this chapter by any member of the Board of
Directors or by a member or his or her staff shall be referred to the Inspector
General for investigation. Upon completion of the investigation, and if the
matter has been determined not to be criminal in nature and can be disclosed,
the Inspector General shall report the findings to the Board of Directors. If
the matter is determined to be criminal in nature, the Inspector General shall
refer the matter to the appropriate enforcement authorities for prosecution.
   B.   For any matter reported to the Board of Directors under paragraph A.,
the Board shall determine the appropriate sanction, if any, to be imposed. The
sanction imposed should depend upon the severity of the violation and may be
progressive unless the violation is determined to be so egregious as to warrant
more severe action as an initial sanction.
   C.   The Board of Directors may consult with the Inspector General, the
Ethics Officer, and/or the General Counsel for an opinion regarding the
sanctions appropriate for any violation, provided that a release of
confidential information is not required. The sanctions imposed may include any
of the following:
      1.   Public or private censure by the Board of Directors;
      2.   Disqualification from participation in any discussion or vote on the
matter related to the violation;
      3.   Removal of the Board member from one or more Board committees for a
specified period of time;
      4.   Permanent removal of the Board member from one or more Board
committees;
      5.   Suspension from all Board of Director actions for a period of time;
      6.   A monetary fine in an amount determined by the Board of Directors,
including but not limited to, forfeiture of the stipend for participation as a
member of the Board of Directors; and
      7.   Any other sanction determined by the Board of Directors to be
appropriate and reasonable based upon the nature of the violation.
   D.   In an instance where a violation of this chapter has been committed by
a person who is staff to a member of the Board of Directors, in addition to any
sanction imposed on the staff member, a sanction may be imposed on the member
of the Board of Directors to whom that staff member reported if the Board of
Directors determines that the member of the Board of Directors knew or
reasonably should have known of the conduct of the staff member which violated
this chapter.
   E.   If a violation of this chapter results in a criminal prosecution or the
imposition of civil liability, the Board of Directors may recommend additional
sanctions after the criminal or civil proceedings are completed.
5-10-030 Communications With Staff and Contractors Regarding Feedback.
Metro Board Members and their staff shall observe and maintain a communication
blackout period in connection with the Metro procurements. The communication
blackout period shall commence when 1) The procurements solicitation
documentation is issued and continue until staff makes public the
recommendation for award; and 2) when a protest on the recommendation or
procurement is filed with Metro and continue until the notice of determination
is issued by Metro.
The blackout period is required as a part of the statutory Code of Conduct1
adopted by the state legislation and effective January 1, 1997. The statutory
Code of Conduct has been incorporated in its entirety into this Administrative
Code at section
5-10-10. The purpose of the communication blackout period and the restrictions
on the release of information is to maintain the independence of Metro’s
professional Procurement Department and other staff and to assure the
integrity, Metro Board Members and their staff shall not attempt to: a)
influence the Metro staff concerning pending procurements including it decision
making, processes, and deliberations, or recommendation for award during the
procurement blackout period; nor b) obtain confidential information about such
pending procurement during the blackout period.
As part of the legislation creating the statutory Code of Conduct, the
legislature found and declared that, among other things, “Board members and
their staff must exercise discretion and judgment to adhere to the spirit of
the Code of Conduct. It is essential to recognize that an act is not ethical
simply because it is legal and conduct is not proper simply because it is
permissible. Board members should be willing to do more than the law requires
and less than it allows. Strict compliance is not necessarily enough, and
attempts to evade or circumvent ethics laws and rules are improper.” (A.B. 584
Villariagosa). This section
5-10-30 of the Administrative Code is intended to implement the spirit of that
legislative finding and declaration and codify Metro’s procurement practices
and policies that have been observed since the 1997 imposition of the statutory
black out period.
   A.   During the blackout period, Metro Board Members and their staff shall
not seek, and Metro staff, including the CEO, shall not disclose to Board
Members or their staff, any confidential information relative to a pending
procurement or protest.
   Information deemed confidential during a blackout period, includes, but is
not limited to:
      1)   the names of the source selection team members;
      2)   the documents received by Metro in response to any procurement
(“Proposal Documents”);
      3)   the contents of the Proposal Documents, including the number and
identity of the proposers;
      4)   Any analysis, evaluation, ranking scores, opinion, or other review
of the Proposal Documents, the respective bidders/proposers, for a pending
procurement; or
      5)   any document or information related to a procurement that is exempt
from disclosure under law including the California Public Records Act,
   Notwithstanding any expiration of a black out period, if a Board Member or
their staff comes into possession of confidential information as described
herein, neither the Board Member nor their staff shall release such information
to the public until after the information is publicly available under Metro
policy.
   B.   During the blackout period, Metro Board Members and their staff shall
not communicate with Metro staff, other than the CEO or as provided herein,
regarding the procurement or protest. Metro Board Members or their staff may
request only from the CEO or the designee of the CEO, and the CEO may disclose
to Board members or their staff only information that is: publicly available;
has no reasonable likelihood of jeopardizing the integrity of the procurement
process or the public’s confidence in decision making processes at Metro; and
is otherwise not confidential as described herein. Board members and their
staff may also communicate with the Ethics Officer for advice on compliance
with this section. During the blackout period the CEO may disclose to Board
Members and their staff information that is not precluded by the foregoing and
which is:
      1)   documents that would be available for disclosure pursuant to a
California Public Records Act request, such as Metro published procurement
documents;
      2)   Metro standard policies or procedures;
      3)   Information concerning the procurement process, schedule, or status
including the blackout period or protest period
   C.   When in doubt as to whether particular information is the type which is
considered confidential during the blackout period, the CEO shall consult with
appropriate personnel including the Procurement, Legal, and Ethics Departments.
Any uncertainty concerning the disclosure shall be resolved in favor of
maintaining and preserving the integrity of Metro’s procurement process by not
disclosing the information.
   D.   Notwithstanding the existence of any blackout period Board Members and
their staff may communicate concerning any procurement at any time with the
Legal Department to ask for legal opinions relative to a procurement, and with
the Ethics Department for ethics advice or information such as a lobbyist
filing or the interpretation of the Board Code of Conduct.
   E.   The communication blackout also applies to communications between Metro
Board members and contractors who submitted proposals in response to a
procurement. During the blackout period concerning the recommended contract
award or protest, Board Members and their staff shall not communicate or
participate in discussions with bidders, proposers or their agents as described
in
Chapter 5-20 herein, concerning the procurement or any confidential
information, the award of a contract, or any protest regarding the procurement.
5-10-040 Definition of Procurement.
In the spirit of the legislature’s finding and declaration quoted in section 5-
10-030 of this Administrative Code, the term, “procurement,” and the
restrictions associated there with, shall include any process involving
solicitation or award of contract, including real estate and joint developments
or other transactions for money or benefits party with a person or entity other
than a governmental entity, to which Metro is a party.
Chapter 5-15
Employee Code of Conduct
5-15-010 MTA Values.
The MTA is a public agency that shall conduct its business with integrity in an
honest and ethical manner. MTA employees shall comply with the letter and
spirit of this chapter and the law. Strict compliance with this chapter is not
necessarily sufficient, and any attempts to evade or circumvent any
requirements of this chapter or of any rules or laws applicable to the MTA and
its employees is improper.
5-15-020 Questions and Advice.
The MTA has an Ethics Officer to oversee ethics issues that arise in the
workplace. The functions of the Ethics Officer are described in
chapter 2-25 and include creating ethics policies and codes of conduct,
administration of lobbyist and statement of economic interest disclosure
programs, training MTA employees and contractors on these policies and
programs, conducting hearings on rejections of certain bids or proposals, and
providing advice relating to ethics questions that arise at the MTA. Questions
concerning these or other ethics related matters should be directed to the
Ethics Officer. Questions about other legal matters should be directed to the
General Counsel.
5-15-030 Business Conduct.
MTA Employees shall conduct the MTA's business in compliance with the law, this
chapter, MTA policies, and good judgment based on the MTA's values and goals.
MTA employees shall avoid speech or behavior that is likely to create an
appearance of impropriety.
5-15-040 Professionalism.
It is up to each MTA employee to maintain a professional, safe, and productive
work environment. MTA employees shall treat each other professionally and with
courtesy and at all times. Differences of opinion on work issues should be
expressed in a constructive manner that promotes sharing of ideas and effective
teamwork to resolve problems to meet the challenges of the MTA.
5-15-050 Nondiscrimination.
No person shall be discriminated against in employment because of race, color,
creed, religion, sex, ancestry, age, national origin, marital status, sexual
orientation, veteran status, physical or mental disability or any other status
protected by applicable federal or state statutes, except where a bonafide
occupational qualification applies. Derogatory comments, which relate to race,
ethnicity, religion, national origin or sexual orientation or other comments of
a sexual nature, are not appropriate in a professional environment and are
prohibited in the MTA workplace.
5-15-060 Sexual Harassment.
No person employed by or associated with the MTA shall engage in sexual
harassment in conducting MTA business. Sexual harassment includes any sexual
advances or requests for sexual favors which are unwelcome or where submission
to or rejection of such conduct is used as the basis for employment decisions.
Sexual harassment also includes verbal, visual or physical conduct of a sexual
nature, which creates an intimidating, hostile or offensive working
environment.
5-15-070 Relationships With Contractors.
MTA business shall be conducted in a manner above reproach, with impartiality,
and with preferential treatment for none. Particularly in relationships with
contractors and potential contractors, MTA employees must avoid any actual or
appearance of conflict of interest or impropriety.
5-15-080 Contacts with Bidders or Proposers.
   A.   Beginning at the time a procurement is issued and ending at the time
when the contract award recommendation is made public, all MTA employees
involved in the procurement shall not disclose any information to anyone other
than MTA officials entitled to receive such information unless the disclosure
is considered public information and is made equally available to all
participants in the procurement process. All contacts with bidders or proposers
to that procurement including their lobbyists, agents and representatives,
shall be reported as set forth in paragraph C.
   B.   MTA employees involved in the procurement, as referred to in paragraph
A, include, but are not limited to, the contract administrator, the project
manager, the in house-evaluator(s) of a proposal, the staff responsible for
determining and writing the specifications of a procurement, the staff
responsible for drafting and creating the solicitation documents, the staff
involved in determining and drafting the contract award recommendation, the
clerical staff who prepared (including word-processing) any documents relating
to the procurement, and all staff in the chain of approval, up to the Chief
Executive Officer.
   C.   The report required by paragraph A. shall include all contacts with
bidders or proposers, and their lobbyists, agents and representatives. The
contacts shall include, but not be limited to, meals, meetings, conferences,
sporting events, and cultural events. This report shall not include contacts
made as part of the procurement process, including, but not limited to, pre-bid
or pre-proposal meetings, exchange of information which is given to all
proposers, interviews and protest applications. MTA employees engaging in such
contacts shall file a Disclosure of Contacts Form with the administrative head
of procurement for the MTA within five (5) days of the contact(s), but in no
event later than the date the item is to be considered by Board of Directors or
the appropriate Board committee, whichever is sooner.
5-15-090 Contractor's Personnel.
Each contractor retained by the MTA is fully responsible for the quality and
performance of its staff and retains full responsibility for the selection of
its personnel. MTA officials shall not direct or recommend personnel that the
contractor should hire, even if the contractor requests a recommendation.
However, the MTA retains the right in its absolute discretion to require the
removal of any personnel of a contractor or subcontractor assigned at any level
to perform services on an MTA contract if the MTA determines, in its sole
discretion, that the personnel to be removed are not able to adequately or
appropriately perform the services required for the particular contract. Any
direction by the MTA to a contractor that specified personnel be removed from
work on an MTA contract shall be made in writing.
5-15-100 Professional Associations.
Memberships in professional associations and organizations by MTA employees are
encouraged as such memberships can contribute to their professional development
and enhance expertise. These relationships, however, can give other association
members more access to MTA employees than non-members and create the appearance
of bias or favoritism in their dealings with the MTA. MTA employees must always
ensure that their dealings with other members of such organizations are
consistent with the provisions of this title and do not result in preferential
treatment or even the appearance of preferential treatment.
5-15-110 Use of MTA Assets.
   A.   MTA employees shall not use any MTA assets for personal gain or for any
purpose other than MTA business. MTA assets include, but are not limited to,
time, facilities, equipment, stationery, records, mailing lists, supplies,
badges, vehicles, prestige or influence.
   B.   MTA telephones, computers, e-mail and internet access are provided for
the purpose of conducting MTA business. Subject to the restrictions in this
section and if permitted by the employee's supervisor, some occasional and
limited personal use is allowed so long as it does not interfere with the
performance of the employees' MTA duties and does not result in any additional
expense to the MTA. However, MTA telephones, computers, e-mail or internet
access shall not be used for e-mail chain letters, for religious or political
advocacy, for excessive personal communications, for personal financial gain,
to seek outside employment, for any purpose that could reasonably be viewed as
abusive, harassing, hostile or intimidating to MTA customers or employees, to
access entertainment or sexually explicit sites, or for any use otherwise
prohibited by law. Employees shall reimburse the MTA for all personal toll
calls. The MTA reserves the right to monitor and review all records of usage by
MTA employees of any MTA assets. No use of MTA telephones, computers, e-mail or
internet access, or use of any other MTA asset, shall be private to the
employee, and no MTA employee shall be given any basis for an expectation of
privacy in any such use.
5-15-120 Confidential Information.
MTA employees shall maintain the confidentiality of any confidential
information relating to contracts, construction, procurement, litigation
strategy, personnel files, MTA employee medical information, or other
proprietary information to which they have access through their employment with
the MTA. Such confidentiality shall be maintained during and after employment
with the MTA. MTA employees shall not use confidential information for any
purpose other than in the performance of their job for the benefit of the MTA.
Confidential information shall only be disclosed to authorized persons.
5-15-130 Gifts.
   A.   This section exists to assure the public that public employees are not
influenced to show favoritism to a contractor based on receiving gifts or for
being rewarded for doing his or her job in a way that will or did benefit the
giver of the gift.
   B.   No MTA employees shall accept gifts exceeding fifty dollars ($50) in
value in a calendar year or exceeding ten dollars ($10) in value in a calendar
month from a single source that is an MTA contractor, subcontractor, lobbyist,
lobbying firm, lobbyist employer or anyone else doing business with the MTA. No
MTA employee shall accept any gift from a bidder or proposer on an MTA
contract.
   C.   Designated MTA employees may accept gifts totaling less than $340, or
such amount allowed pursuant to Government Code Sections 89502 and 89503 as
adjusted biennially, in a calendar year from a single source other than one
identified in paragraph B., above. Designated employees must report such gifts
totaling fifty dollars ($50) or more from a single source, or a single gift of
fifty dollars ($50) or more from multiple sources, in a calendar year on their
annual Statements of Economic Interests according to state law.
   D.   Any MTA employee who receives a gift in excess of the limitations in
this section, must either return the gift or donate it to a charity within
thirty (30) days after receipt. MTA employees may also bring any gifts to the
Ethics Officer for distribution to a charity. MTA employees should keep a log
of all gifts received and the value, source, and disposition of the gifts.
5-15-140 Honoraria.
No designated MTA employee may accept an honoraria. An honoraria is a payment
received for making a speech, publishing an article, or attending any public or
private conference, convention, meeting, social event, meal or similar
gathering. Honoraria payments are prohibited because they can be, or can appear
to be, a disguised way of providing personal benefits to public employees as an
inducement to influence their conduct. Questions about whether a particular
payment is prohibited honoraria should be directed to the Ethics Officer.
5-15-150 Travel Payments.
Payment or reimbursement for travel and lodging may be considered a gift for
purposes of the gift limits unless it is paid by MTA for business travel.
Travel payments donated by other persons, even if permitted, may have to be
reported by a designated MTA employee on his or her annual Statement of
Economic Interests and may require the MTA employee to be disqualified from MTA
issues concerning the donor of the travel. Questions about donated travel
expenses should be directed to the Ethics Officer.
5-15-160 Conflicts of Interest.
   A.   A conflict of interest, or at least an appearance of impropriety,
exists when the interests, investments, outside employment or personal
enterprises of the employee or a member of his or her immediate family could
compromise the employee's duty of loyalty, or otherwise conflict with, or
appear to conflict with his or her job performance, objectivity, impartiality,
or ability to make fair business decisions in the best interest of the MTA. A
conflict of interest may arise in any situation in which an MTA employee is in
a position where he or she could use his or her contacts or position in the
agency to advance the private business or financial interests of the employee
or his or her immediate family, whether or not at the expense of the MTA. An
MTA employee may also have a conflict of interest if called upon to make a
decision concerning a former employer of that employee or of a member of his or
her immediate family.
   B.   An MTA employee has a conflict of interest and shall not participate in
the making of any decision or contract in which the MTA employee has a
financial interest. Any MTA employee with such a conflict of interest must
disqualify himself or herself from making, participating in the making, or in
any way attempting to use his or her official position to influence the MTA
decision in which he or she knows, or has reason to know, that he or she has a
financial interest. An MTA employee should also disqualify himself or herself
from participating in an MTA decision where the MTA employee does not have a
disqualifying financial interest, but where the making of the decision will
have some other significant effect on the employee, a member of his or her
immediate family or another person with whom the MTA employee has a close
personal relationship.
   C.   Any MTA employee who may have a conflict of interest as described in
paragraph B. relative to a prospective contractor, subcontractor, bidder or
contract, or any other MTA decision or issue, at the earliest possible time,
must advise his or her supervisor of the possible conflict of interest.
   D.   An MTA employee may not buy anything from or sell anything to the MTA
in connection with a contract the MTA employee worked on in his or her official
capacity.
   E.   Upon request, the Ethics Officer or the General Counsel shall advise an
MTA employee and his or her supervisor regarding whether it is appropriate for
the MTA employee to participate in a decision involving a possible conflict of
interest.
5-15-170 Statement of Economic Interest.
Each designated MTA employee shall file with the Ethics Officer an original
complete and accurate statement of economic interest disclosure form ("Form
700") disclosing the personal financial information required by law, promptly
after assuming office, annually on or before April 1 (or the first business day
following April 1 if it falls on a weekend day) of each year of employment, a
leaving office statement within thirty (30) days after leaving the MTA, and as
otherwise provided pursuant to the MTA conflict of interest code and applicable
state law. The Ethics Officer shall maintain a supply of blank Form 700s and
make them available to MTA employees.
Completed forms will be public documents retained by the Ethics Officer and
disclosed as required by the California Public Records Act. Failure to timely
file a Form 700 may result in fines by the MTA filing officer required pursuant
to state law, prosecution by the Fair Political Practices Commission, and other
sanctions set by law or set forth in this chapter.
5-15-180 Incompatible Activities.
No MTA employee shall engage in any outside activity that is inconsistent,
incompatible, or that interferes with his or her ability to efficiently and
effectively carry out his or her MTA duties. Incompatible activities include,
but are not limited to, any of the following:
   A.   Accepting money or other benefit from an outside employer for work that
the employee would be required or expected to do as part of his or her MTA
employment;
   B.   Performing work for an outside employer which may later be subject
directly or indirectly to the control, inspection, review, audit, or
enforcement by another MTA employee;
   C.   Accepting money or other benefit from someone doing business or seeking
to do business with the MTA, that could reasonably be interpreted as having
been intended to influence the MTA employee in his or her job at the MIA or
intended as a reward for past performance in his or her job;
   D.   Any situation that might involve a conflict of loyalties for the MTA
employee between the MTA and any other person or entity;
   E.   Using MTA assets including time, facilities, equipment, vehicles,
employee lists, stationery, records, mailing lists, supplies, badge, uniform,
prestige or influence for personal gain or non-MTA related activities;
   F.   Time demands from outside activities that would interfere with the
ability of the MTA employee to devote his or her full work time, attention, and
efforts to his or her MTA duties;
   G.   Lobbying the MTA on behalf of any other person or entity; and
   H.   Outside employment for which employment with the MTA is a prerequisite.
5-15-190 Outside Employment.
An MTA employee shall not engage in any other employment without the written
permission of his or her MTA supervisor. Such permission must be obtained prior
to the MTA employee commencing any outside employment. If the MTA employee is
reassigned to a new supervisor that employee must promptly obtain permission
from his or her new supervisor. No approval to engage in outside employment
shall be granted for any outside employment or activity that would violate any
provision of this chapter. Questions about whether an outside activity or
employment will violate this chapter should be directed to the Ethics Officer.
5-15-200 Contracts with MTA Employees.
The MTA shall not contract with an MTA employee, or with any business in which
an MTA employee serves as an officer, principal, partner, major shareholder, or
as a key employee or consultant relative to any contract with the MTA.
5-15-210 Restrictions Upon Leaving the MTA.
In order to prevent the appearance of impropriety, an unfair competitive
advantage to companies hiring former MTA employees, and the potential
compromise of the loyalty of MTA employees who may be desirous of future
employment with an MTA contractor, all MTA employees are subject to the post-
employment restrictions set forth in this section.
   A.   No person may register as a lobbyist or lobby the MTA for one (1) year
after leaving MTA employment.
   B.   The MTA shall not contract with a former MTA employee for one (1) year
after he or she leaves MTA employment if that former employee held a position
of substantial responsibility in the area of service to be performed by the
contract or participated in any way in developing the contract or its
specifications.
   C.   The MTA shall not contract with a business where a person who left MTA
employment within the preceding one (1) year serves as an officer, principal,
partner or major shareholder, or has been identified as a key personnel, if the
former MTA employee held a position of substantial responsibility in the area
of service to be performed by the contract or participated in any way in
developing the contract or its specifications.
   D.   The MTA shall not contract with a business which has a subcontractor
which employs a person who left employment with the MTA in the preceding one
(1) year and where the former MTA employee serves as an officer, principal,
partner, major shareholder, or has been identified as key personnel, if the
former MTA employee held a position of substantial responsibility in the area
of service to be performed by the contract or participated in any way in
developing the contract or its specifications.
   E.   Pursuant to Public Utilities Code Section 130051.20, any former MTA
employee who served in any of the following capacities, shall not within twelve
months of this service, accept compensation, including employment, from any
company that was awarded a contract as a result of that former MTA employee’s
service related to that contract. The service capacities subject to this
restriction include:
      1.   As a member of a procurement evaluation team.
      2.   As the procuring contract officer.
      3.   As the project manager or deputy project manager.
      4.   As an agency executive with oversight responsibilities if the
executive participated in the contract development, proposal review, or
approval, or provided the agency signatory authority over that contract.
      5.   As a substantial participant in an MTA decision to (i) award a
contract, subcontract, contract or subcontract modification, or task or
delivery order; (ii) develop a contract, including scope of work; (iii) approve
issuance of one or more contract payments; or (iv) pay or settle a claim with
that contractor.
   With respect to service as a member of a procurement evaluation team, the
former employee’s service ends at the completion of the evaluation period or
the employee’s last day at the MTA, whichever occurs first. Otherwise, the
former employee’s service ends at the completion of the contract or the
employee’s last day at the MTA, whichever occurs first.
   F.   Former MTA employees shall not at any time disclose to unauthorized
persons or use for personal gain or other non-MTA related purposes any MTA
confidential information.
5-15-220 Participation in Political or Charitable Activities.
MTA employees may not engage in political or charitable activities during
official duty hours or while on MTA premises. MTA employees may pursue such
interests when off duty. MTA Employees shall not solicit political or
charitable contributions from other MTA employees while on duty and at no time
shall attempt to coerce such contributions. MTA employees shall not solicit
political or charitable contributions from MTA contractors at any time.
However, an MTA employee may communicate through the mail, or by other means,
requests for political funds or charitable contributions from a significant
segment of the public which may include MTA officers, employees or contractors,
so long as it is clear that MTA officers, employees and contractors were not
targeted for the solicitation. MTA employees shall not use employee lists, MTA
mailing lists, vendor lists and lobbyist lists to solicit political or
charitable contributions.
5-15-230 MTA Employees Holding Elective Office.
An MTA employee who holds elective office shall not be involved in MTA projects
within the geographic jurisdiction of his or her elective office. At the time
of his or her election to any office subject to this section, the MTA employee
shall disclose this information to his or her supervisor and shall disqualify
himself or herself from participating in any MTA project within the
jurisdiction of the elective office.
5-15-240 The Hatch Act.
An MTA employee considering running for a partisan elective office must become
familiar with the Hatch Act (Title 5, Chapter 15, U.S.C. Sections 1501 et seq.)
and comply with its requirements. The Hatch Act governs the partisan political
activities of employees of state or local agencies whose principal employment
is in connection with an activity that is financed in whole or in part by loans
or grants made by a federal agency.
5-15-260 Procurement Restrictions.
While informational and market research contacts between MTA employees and
prospective contractors can be a valuable source of data to the MTA, such
contacts can sometimes provide an unfair advantage in a future procurement to
the persons contacted as part of the market research. All parties must exercise
sound judgment and caution to ensure that there is no preferential treatment of
any prospective contractor and to avoid even the appearance of such
preferential treatment. Requests for complimentary services or products or for
free travel for specified individuals to view products are not permitted.
Prospective contractors should not be requested to provide such things as
testing services, custom drawings, special investigations, major
demonstrations, or the furnishing of significant samples unless such requests
are required of all prospective contractors as a part of a procurement.
5-15-270 Contacts with Board Members or their Staff During Procurement.
Beginning when a procurement is issued and ending when the contract award
recommendation is made public, MTA employees shall not communicate with Board
Members or their staff regarding the procurement.
5-15-280 Compliance and Enforcement.
All MTA employees have a responsibility to conduct the MTA's business in
compliance with this chapter. The Inspector General shall investigate
violations of this chapter and report his or her findings to the Board and to
the Chief Executive Officer who shall take such action as is appropriate under
the circumstances. The inspector general may confer with the ethics officer on
any potential violation of this chapter, or other ethics-related rules or laws
that apply to the board and MTA. The ethics officer may make recommendations
regarding a potential violation for consideration by the inspector general. Any
violation of a provision of this chapter which is based upon a state or federal
law may also be enforced by any appropriate enforcement agency.
5-15-290 Duty to Report.
Each MTA employee is obligated to report to his or her supervisor, the
Inspector General or the Ethics Officer any facts made know to the employee
which show that an MTA contractor or MTA employee has engaged in business
practices regarding an MTA matter which appear to be unethical, or which may
violate this chapter or any applicable state or federal law.
5-15-300 Whistleblower Protection.
The MTA is committed to fair treatment of all its employees and recognizes its
responsibility under state and federal law to protect from punishment and
harassment any person who reports a potential ethics issue, whether or not the
allegation is found to have merit. The MTA shall not take any action or
threaten any action against any MTA employee as a reprisal for making a report
under section
5-15-290, unless the report was made or the information was disclosed with the
knowledge that it was false or with willful disregard for its truth or falsity.
5-15-310 Sanctions For Violating This Chapter.
A violation of this chapter by an MTA employee may result in the imposition of
discipline, up to and including dismissal. The appropriate discipline will be
determined by the employee's supervisor in consultation with the executive
officer of the organizational unit in which the employee works and the Human
Resources Department. The discipline imposed will depend upon the severity of
the violation and may be progressive unless the violation is determined to be
so serious as to warrant more severe action initially. The imposition of
discipline by the MTA for a violation of this chapter, where such violation is
also a violation of a state or federal law, shall not affect the ability of any
appropriate prosecutorial agency to seek the imposition of any penalty allowed
by law for such a violation.
5-15-320 No Employment Contract.
This chapter sets forth rules of conduct for MTA employees. However, nothing in
this administrative code shall be construed as establishing an employment
contract between the MTA and any of its employees.
Chapter 5-20
Contractor Code of Conduct
5-20-010 Application of the Contractor Code of Conduct.
This chapter shall govern the conduct of all Contractors of the MTA. These
standards supersede all prior written ethics policies adopted by the MTA which
are in conflict with these standards. These standards are to be read in
conjunction with applicable provisions of the MTA Procurement Manual and other
applicable MTA ordinances, policies and procedures. All Contractors shall
ensure that their subcontractors comply with this chapter.
5-20-020 Purpose.
   A.   The purposes of this chapter are to protect the integrity of the
procurement process, and to provide a comprehensive statement of pertinent
regulations and obligations governing the conduct of contractors doing business
with the MTA so they will be able to compete fairly and perform their work and
services in an ethical manner
   B.   This document does not purport to respond to all ethical issues which
may arise in the course of doing business with the MTA. Each person and entity
doing business with the MTA is expected at all times to conduct himself or
herself in the manner of an ethical, reasonable person.
5-20-030 Interpretation.
The Ethics Officer is charged with educating and advising regarding ethical
issues. All persons subject to this chapter are authorized to contact the
Ethics Officer for an interpretation of this chapter.
5-20-040 Enforcement.
The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by the Inspector General and
other appropriate enforcement authorities. Violations of law or of this chapter
by a contractor should be reported to the Inspector General.
5-20-050 Contract Performance.
All contractors doing or seeking to do business with the MTA should refrain
from conduct which they know or reasonably should know is likely to create in
the minds of an objective observer the perception that they are using or
performing their contract with the MTA in an improper manner. Improper conduct
in the performance of a contract which will constitute a violation of this
chapter includes, but is not limited to, the following:
   A.   The making of false or misleading representations regarding any aspect
of the performance of the contract;
   B.   An intentional breach of any contract term;
   C.   Intentional or grossly negligent use of inferior products; and
   D.   Misuse of MTA information or access to MTA personnel.
5-20-060 Contacts by Staff Prior to the Issuance of a Solicitation.
While informational and market research contacts by MTA employees with
prospective contractors can be a valuable source of data to the MTA, such
contacts can sometimes provide an unfair advantage in a future procurement to
persons contacted as part of the market research. All parties must exercise
sound judgment and caution to ensure that there is no preferential treatment of
any prospective contractor and to avoid even the appearance of such
preferential treatment.
5-20-070 Lobbying.
The MTA shall not award a contract to any person or entity who is in violation
of
chapter 5-25.
5-20-080 Prohibition Regarding Gifts and Contributions.
No bidder or proposer or any of their consultants or proposed subcontractors
shall offer, give, or promise to offer or give, directly or indirectly, any
gift to any MTA Board Member or employee. No contractor or person doing
business with the MTA, or any of their subcontractors, shall offer or give,
directly or indirectly, to any MTA Board Member or employee any gift(s)
totaling more than fifty dollars ($50) in a calendar year or more than ten
dollars ($10) in any calendar month. Entities doing business, or seeking to do
business, with the MTA, and each of their subcontractors and proposed
subcontractors, and any agents thereof, are charged with full knowledge of the
requirements of Government Code Section 84308, and any regulations of the
California Fair Political Practices Commission interpreting that section,
regarding the making of contributions, and shall not violate or conspire with
any other person to violate said Section and Regulations.
5-20-090 Prohibition Regarding Offers of Employment.
No bidder, proposer, or contractor shall offer, or promise to offer, either
directly or indirectly, any future employment or business opportunity to any
MTA official, or member of his or her immediate family, significant other or
business associates of such persons if such offer of employment is conditioned
expressly or impliedly on the awarding of a present or future contract or
preference in the awarding of a contract to anyone at any time by the MTA.
5-20-100 Prohibition Regarding Information.
Prior to a contract award, no bidder, proposer or contractor shall solicit or
obtain, directly or indirectly, from any MTA employee, any information relating
to current or future contracts, or a specific pending procurement, unless such
information is at the time a public record required to be disclosed under the
California Public Records Act, or has otherwise been made available at the same
time in the same form to all other bidders, proposers and contractors.
5-20-110 Prohibitions on Use and Disclosure of Confidential Information.
At no time shall any contractor who obtains confidential or proprietary MTA
information in the course of doing or seeking to do business with the MTA
disclose any such information to any person not authorized by the MTA to
receive such information or use such information for any personal gain except
as necessary to fulfill its contractual obligations to the MTA.
5-20-120 Contractor Pre-Qualification.
The MTA will accept bids and proposals for contracts and procurement of goods
or services only from firms or entities which are complying with the MTA pre-
qualification process as set forth in
chapter 4-05. Firms or entities seeking certification as pre-qualified shall
submit a completed pre-qualification application. Firms or entities intending
to bid as a joint venture should submit a separate pre-qualification
application for each joint venture.
5-20-130 Prohibition Regarding Participation in Procurement Development.
No contractor who participates in the development of a scope of work,
solicitation documents, contractual instruments or technical specifications may
participate as a proposer or sub-proposer on that particular procurement or
perform any work on that particular procurement or any other procurement that
would constitute an organizational conflict of interest or would give that
contractor an unfair advantage over other bidders on that procurement. This
prohibition may be waived in writing by the administrative head of procurement
for the MTA upon a showing of good cause.
5-20-140 Contractor's Personnel.
Each contractor retained by the MTA is fully responsible for the quality and
performance of its staff and retains full responsibility for the selection of
its personnel. MTA officials are not permitted to direct or recommend personnel
that the contractor should hire, and no contractor shall request such a
recommendation. However, the MTA retains the right in its absolute discretion
to require the removal of any personnel of a contractor or subcontractor
assigned at any level to perform services on an MTA contract if the MTA
determines, in its sole discretion, that the personnel to be removed are not
able to adequately or appropriately perform the services required for the
particular contract. Any direction by the MTA to a contractor that specified
personnel be removed from work on an MTA contract shall be made in writing.
5-20-150 Duty to Disclose Conflicts of Interest.
   A.   Each bidder, proposer and contractor, and each of their consultants and
subcontractors, seeking to do business, or doing business, with the MTA has an
obligation to promptly disclose in writing to the administrative head of
procurement for the MTA any of the following potential conflicts of interest
which become known to the management of the bidder, proposer or contractor:
      1.   Any financial relationship between the bidder, proposer or
contractor and a Board member or member or his or her staff, or an MTA
employee;
      2.   Any financial or close personal relationship between any officers,
directors or key employees of the bidder, proposer or contractor and a Board
Member or member of his or her staff, or MTA employee;
      3.   Any outstanding offer of employment to, or the current or former
employment of, any current or former Board Member or member or his or her
staff, or of an MTA employee or former employee, by the bidder, proposer or
contractor; or
      4.   Any contributions exceeding $500 made by the bidder, proposer, or
contractor or its agent to any current Board Member within the previous 12
months.
   B.   The duty to disclose potential conflicts of interest as described in
paragraph A. exists prior to and during any employment or contract and
regardless of whether the facts actually constitute a conflict of interest
under any law. The Ethics Officer, in consultation with the General Counsel,
shall provide advice to the administrative head of procurement for the MTA and
to the Board of Directors as to whether any facts disclosed under this section
constitute a prohibited conflict of interest, and of the impact, if any, of
that conflict on the relationship between the bidder, proposer or contractor
and the MTA.
   C.   Failure to make a disclosure as required by this section, shall be
sufficient cause for the MTA to decline to do business with the bidder,
proposer or contractor or any of its subcontractors or consultants.
5-20-160 Sanctions.
   A.   The MTA encourages good faith reporting of all suspected violations of
this chapter. There shall be no penalty or other adverse consequences imposed
upon anyone making a good faith report of a suspected violation of this
chapter. The identity of any person reporting a violation of this chapter not
be disclosed except as necessary to carry out the purposes and requirements of
this chapter.
   B.   Any party alleged to have violated this chapter, shall be presumed
innocent of that charge unless and until a violation is demonstrated by
credible evidence, and prior to any such determination of any actual violation
no penalty may be imposed.
      3.   Suspend the contract or subcontract involving the offending
contractor and suspected violations of this chapter shall be reported
immediately to the Inspector General for investigation. The Inspector General
shall investigate the allegations and, if they are determined to have merit,
the matter will be referred to the appropriate enforcement authorities.
   D.   In any instance where the Inspector General has determined that an
allegation of a violation of this chapter has merit, the administrative head of
procurement for the MTA, or his or her designee, may take one or more of the
following actions:
      1.   Meet with the contractor to obtain an explanation of the violation;
      2.   Impose a fine upon the contractor as authorized by the contract
documents;
      3.   Suspend the contract or subcontract involving the offending
contractor and commence debarment proceedings under
chapter 4-10;
      4.   Direct the prime contractor to remove the offending subcontractor
from the project;
      5.   Rescind, void, or terminate the contract; and/or
      6.   Impose another reasonable and appropriate penalty.
   E.   In any instance where the administrative head of procurement for the
MTA proposes a sanction under this section, he or she shall notify the
contractor in writing of the recommended action. The contractor may request an
informal hearing with the administrative head of procurement for the MTA or his
or her designee to explain the contractor's position regarding the alleged
violation and/or the proposed sanction. Any such request must be made in
writing and received by the administrative head of procurement within ten (10)
working days of the issuance of the notice of the recommended sanction. If no
request is received within the ten (10) working day period, the sanction may be
imposed forthwith. If a timely request for an informal hearing is received, the
informal hearing shall take place within ten (10) working days after the
administrative head of procurement receives the request. The contractor may be
represented by legal counsel at its own expense at the hearing. Within ten (10)
working days after the informal hearing, the administrative head of procurement
or his or her designee shall advise the contractor in writing of the outcome of
the hearing. Except as set forth in paragraph F., the decision of the
administrative head of procurement shall be final.
   F.   If the administrative head of procurement for the MTA imposes a
sanction under paragraph D.3., the contractor shall have such hearing rights as
are set forth in
chapter 4-10. If the administrative head of procurement imposes a sanction
under paragraph D.2., which involves a fine in excess of one thousand dollars
($1,000), or imposes a sanction under paragraph D.4., D.5. or D.6., the
contractor may request arbitration before the American Arbitration Association
pursuant to its rules and regulations to determine whether a violation of this
chapter has been shown, and, if so, whether the sanction imposed is
appropriate. A request for arbitration must be in writing and be directed to
the administrative head of procurement. This request must be received within
ten (10) working days after the decision of that official becomes final. The
contractor shall bear the costs associated with any such arbitration. The
arbitration hearing shall take place in the County of Los Angeles as soon as
possible. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final.
   G.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, in any procurement
where a violation of this chapter has been established prior to the award of
the contract, the MTA, at its sole discretion, shall determine whether to
terminate the procurement or to proceed to award a contract with or without
disqualifying the offending bidder or proposer.
5-20-170 Contacts When Procurements Are Pending.
During a communication black out period as described in
Chapter 5-10  herein, any person, or entity, including their officers,
employees, representatives, agents or consultants but excluding governmental
entities, submitting proposal concerning a procurement as described in
Chapter 5-10  herein, shall not contact by any means any 1) Metro Board Member
or their staff; or 2) Metro staff other than those authorized to represent
Metro concerning the procurement; in connection with that Metro procurement.
Chapter 5-25
Lobbying the MTA
5-25-010 Registration and Fees.
   A.   Each lobbyist, lobbying firm, and lobbyist employer shall register in
writing with the Ethics Officer within ten (10) calendar days after qualifying
as a lobbyist, lobbying firm, or lobbyist employer. No additional lobbying
contacts shall occur before registration. Registration shall include the filing
of a registration statement and the payment of such fees required pursuant to
paragraph C of this Section.
   Registration shall be renewed annually by the filing of a new registration
statement and the payment of the required fees, if applicable, on or before
January 31 of the year of renewal.
   B.   After registration, each lobbyist, lobbying firm, or lobbyist employer
shall retain that status through December 31 of that year unless that status is
terminated as set forth in Section
5-25-180 .
   C.   Each lobbyist, lobbying firm, and lobbyist employer required to
register under this section may be charged a fee by the MTA in an amount
determined by the Ethics Officer. Failure to pay any such fee when due shall be
a violation of this chapter.
5-25-020 Lobbyist Registration Statement.
The registration statements for each lobbyist shall include all of the
following:
   A.   The name, business address, e-mail address and telephone number of the
lobbyist; and
   B.   For each person or entity from whom the lobbyist receives compensation
to provide lobbying services, all of the following:
      1.   The full name, business address, and telephone number of the person
or entity;
      2.   The lobbying interest of the lobbyist, including identification of
specific contracts or MTA actions; however, a description of the types of
contracts or MTA action is permissible only if a specific contract or MTA
action cannot be identified;
      3.   A statement signed by the lobbyist certifying that the lobbyist has
read and understands the prohibitions contained in this chapter; and
      4.   Any other information required by the Ethics Officer consistent with
the purposes and provisions of this chapter.
5-25-030 Lobby Firm Registration Statement.
The registration statements for each lobbying firm shall include all of the
following:
   A.   The full name, business address, e-mail address and telephone number of
the lobbying firm;
   B.   The full name of each lobbyist who is a partner, owner, officer, or
employee of the lobbying firm;
   C.   For each person or entity from which the firm received or became
entitled to receive compensation for engaging in lobbying activities and with
whom the lobbying firm contracts to provide lobbying services, the following:
      1.   The full name, business address, e-mail address and telephone number
of the person or entity;
      2.   The time period of the contract during which the lobbying activities
for which the firm received or became entitled to receive compensation will
occur;
      3.   The lobbying interests of the lobbying firm, including
identification of specific contracts or MTA action; however, a description of
the types of contracts or MTA action is permissible only if a specific contract
or MTA action cannot be identified;
   D.   A statement signed by the designated responsible person that the person
has read and understands the prohibitions contained in this chapter; and
   E.   Any other information required by the Ethics Officer consistent with
the purposes and provisions of this chapter.
5-25-040 Lobbyist Employer Registration Statement.
The registration statements for each lobbyist employer shall include all of the
following:
   A.   The full name, business address, e-mail address and telephone number of
the lobbyist employer;
   B.   A list of the lobbyists or lobbying firms who are employed by the
lobbyist employer;
   C.   The lobbying interests of the lobbyist employer, including
identification of specific contracts or MTA actions; however, a description of
the types of contracts or MTA action is permissible only if a specific contract
or MTA action cannot be identified;
   D.   A statement signed by the designated responsible person that the person
has read and will comply with the requirements and restrictions contained in
this chapter; and
   E.   Any other information required by the Ethics Officer consistent with
the purposes and provisions of this chapter.
5-25-050 Mandatory Record Keeping.
Lobbyists, lobbying firms, and lobbyist employers that make offers, receive
payments, make payments, or incur expenses or expect to receive payments, make
payments, or incur expenses in connection with activities which are reportable
pursuant to this section, shall keep all statements and reports filed pursuant
to this chapter together with detailed accounts, records, bills, and receipts,
for a period of four (4) years and make them reasonably available for
inspection for the purposes of auditing for compliance with, or enforcement of
this chapter.
5-25-060 Quarterly Reports.
Each lobbyist, lobbying firm, and lobbyist employer shall file with the Ethics
Officer a written quarterly report as set forth in this chapter by the last day
of the month following the end of each calendar quarter. The period covered by
the first quarterly report of a lobbyist, lobbying firm, or lobbyist employer
shall begin with the first day of the calendar quarter in which the filer first
registered or qualified and shall end with the last day of the calendar quarter
for which the report is being made. Thereafter, except as otherwise provided in
this chapter, the period covered by a quarterly report shall be from the
beginning of the calendar year through the last day of the calendar quarter for
which the report is being made. Each quarterly report shall include a signed
statement certifying that the information contained in the report is a true and
complete disclosure of the information required to be reported under this
chapter.
5-25-070 Lobbyist Quarterly Report.
Each lobbyist shall complete and verify a quarterly report, and file the report
with the which shall be signed and filed with the Ethics Officer and a copy of
the report with their lobbying firm or lobbyist employer, which shall contain
all of the following:
   A.   The full name, address, e-mail address and telephone number of each the
lobbyist;
   B.   The full name, business address, and telephone number of the lobbying
firm or lobbyist employer from whom the lobbyist receives compensation to
provide lobbying services;
   C.   A description of each  contract or MTA action that the lobbyist
attempted to influence during the reporting period, including identification of
specific contracts or MTA actions; however, a description of the types of
contracts or MTA action is permissible only if a specific contract or MTA
action cannot be identified;
   D.   A report of all activity expenses by the lobbyist during the reporting
period;
   E.   A report of all contributions of one hundred ($100) or more made or
delivered by the lobbyist to any MTA official during the reporting period;
   F.   Any other information required by the Ethics Officer consistent with
the purposes of this section.
5-25-080 Lobbying Firm Quarterly Report.
Each lobbying firm shall complete a quarterly report, which shall be signed and
filed with the Ethics Officer, which shall contain all of the following:
   A.   The full name, business address, e-mail address and telephone number of
the lobbying firm;
   B.   The full name, business address, e-mail address, and telephone number
of each person or entity from which the firm received or became entitled to
receive compensation for engaging in lobbying activities and who contracted
with the lobbying firm for lobbying services;
   C.   A report of all activity expenses by the lobbying firm during the
reporting period, including:
      1.   The date and amount of each activity expense;
      2.   The full name and official position, if any, of the beneficiary of
each expense, a description of the benefit and the amount of the benefit; and
      3.   The full name of the payee of each expense if other than the
beneficiary.
   D.   A description of each contract or MTA action that the lobbying firm
attempted to influence during the reporting period, including identification of
specific contracts or MTA actions; however, a description of the types of
contracts or MTA action is permissible only if a specific contract or MTA
action cannot be identified;
   E.   The total payments, including fees and the reimbursement of expenses,
received or expected from the person or entity for lobbying services during the
reporting period;
   F.   A copy of the quarterly report completed and verified by each lobbyist
in the lobbying firm pursuant to Section
5-25-070 of this chapter;
   G.   Each activity expense incurred by the lobbying firm, including those
reimbursed by a person who contracts with the lobbying firm for lobbying
services;
   H.   The date, amount, and the name of the recipient of any contribution of
one hundred dollars ($100) or more made by the filer to an MTA official;
   I.   Any other information required by the Ethics Officer consistent with
the purposes and provisions of this section.
5-25-090 Lobbyist Employer Quarterly Report.
Each lobbyist employer shall complete a quarterly report, which shall be signed
and filed with the Ethics Officer, which shall contain all of the following:
   A.   The name, business address, e-mail address and telephone number of the
lobbyist employer;
   B.   The total amount of payments to each lobbying firm, and these payments
shall include solely payments for compensation and reimbursement of expenses
relating to the lobbying firm’s attempts to influence MTA action;
   C.   The total amounts of all payments to lobbyists employed by the filer;
however, the filer shall only be required to disclose whether the total salary
payments made to the individual during the reporting was:
      1.   Less than or equal to two hundred fifty dollars ($250);
      2.   Greater than two hundred fifty dollars ($250) but less than or equal
to one thousand dollars ($1,000);
      3.   Greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000) but less than or equal to
ten thousand dollars ($10,000); or
      4.   Greater than ten thousand dollars ($10,000).
   D.   A description of each contract or MTA action that the filer attempted
to influence during the reporting period, including identification of specific
contracts or MTA actions; however, a description of the types of contracts or
MTA action is permissible only if a specific contract or MTA action cannot be
identified;
   E.   Each activity expense of the filer and a total of all activity expenses
of the filer; and delete all the subparagraphs
   F.   The date, amount, and the name of the recipient of any contribution of
one hundred dollars ($100) or more made by the filer to any MTA official;
   G.   The total of all other payments to influence MTA action; and
   H.   Any other information required by the Ethics Officer consistent with
the purposes and provisions of this section.
5-25-100 Registration Statement and Quarterly Report Amendments.
Lobbyists, lobbyist employers, and lobbying firms shall file amendments to
their registration statements within ten (10) days of any change in the
information required to be included in the registration statement.
5-25-110 Filing Method.
Any written statement or report required to be filed, or payment required to be
made, pursuant to this chapter shall be filed in the format and form of
payment, including the electronic media type or other means, specified by the
Ethics Officer unless the Ethics Officer waives such requirement in writing
upon demonstration of a significant hardship by the filer.
5-25-120 Retention Period.
Each registration and renewal statement and each quarterly report required to
be filed with the Ethics Officer pursuant to this chapter shall be retained by
the MTA for a minimum of four (4) years, and shall be available for inspection
by the public during regular working hours. A computer printout of any
electronically filed statement or report shall be treated as an original for
purposes of admissibility in any court or other proceeding.
5-25-130 Gift Restrictions.
   A.   No lobbyist, lobbying firm or lobbyist employer shall make any gifts to
any MTA official aggregating more than ten dollars ($10) in a calendar month,
or act as an agent or intermediary in the making of any gift, or arrange for
the making of any gift by any other person.
   B.   No MTA official shall knowingly receive any gift which is prohibited by
this chapter.
5-25-140 Other Prohibitions.
A lobbyist, lobbying firm, or lobbyist employer shall not do any of the
following:
   A.   Do anything with the purpose of placing an MTA official under personal
obligation to the lobbyist, the lobbying firm, or the employer of the lobbyist
or lobbying firm;
   B.   Deceive or attempt to deceive any MTA official with regard to any
material fact pertinent to any MTA action;
   C.   Cause or influence any MTA action for the purpose of thereafter being
employed to secure its passage or defeat;
   D.   Attempt to create a fictitious appearance of public favor or disfavor
of any MTA action, or cause any communications to be sent to any MTA official
in the name of any fictitious person, or in the name of any real person except
with the consent of that real person;
   E.   Represent, either directly or indirectly, that the lobbyist, lobbying
firm, or lobbyist employer can control any MTA official;
   F.   Accept or agree to accept any payment that is contingent upon the
outcome of any MTA action; or
   G.   Make or direct any payment, directly or indirectly, which is prohibited
by Government Code Section 84308.
5-25-150 Prohibitions Related to Procurements.
   A.   Commencing with the issuance of a Request for Proposals (RFP), a
Request for Information and Qualifications (RFIQ), or an Invitation for Bids
(IFB), and ending on the date the staff recommendation for award is made
public, no lobbyist representing a person or entity submitting a proposal in
response to the RFP, RFIQ or IFB shall contact by any means or engage in any
discussion concerning the award of the contract with any MTA official or any
staff to a Board Member. Any such contact shall be grounds for the
disqualification of the proposer.
   B.   During price negotiations of non-low bid contracts, lobbyists shall not
contact, lobby or otherwise attempt to influence MTA officials or any staff to
a Board Member, other than negotiation team members, relative to any aspect of
the contract under negotiation. This provision shall apply from the time of
award until the recommendation for execution of the contract is made public.
Any concerns relative to any contract under negotiation shall be communicated
only to the CEO for resolution.
   C.   A lobbyist representing a person or entity who submitted a proposal or
bid in response to the RFP, RFIQ, or IFB shall not contact a Board Member or
his or her staff regarding a protest submitted regarding the recommended
contract award or any lawsuit or potential lawsuit regarding the recommended
contract award or any issue relating to the underlying procurement.
5-25-160 Lobbying on Behalf of MTA.
Any person or entity who receives compensation pursuant to a contract or
subcontract to lobby on behalf of, or otherwise represent the MTA, shall be
prohibited from lobbying the MTA on behalf of any person or entity.
5-25-170 Lobbying By MTA Officials or Staff to Board Members.
A former MTA official or person who is staff to a Board Member shall not become
a lobbyist for a period of one year after leaving the MTA or after ceasing to
be staff to a Board Member.
5-25-180 Termination of Lobbying Activities.
   A.   Lobbying firms and lobbyist employers upon ceasing all lobbying
activity that required registration shall file a notice of termination within
thirty (30) days after the cessation.
   B.   Failure to complete annual renewal by March 1 shall constitute a
termination of a lobbyist, lobbyist employer, or lobbying firm’s registration.
   C.   The Ethics Officer may establish additional processes for terminating
the registration of a lobbyist, lobbyist employer, or lobbying firm.
5-25-190 Non-Applicability.
This chapter does not apply to any of the following:
   A.   An elected public official who is acting in their official capacity to
influence MTA action; or
   B.   Any newspaper or other periodical of general circulation, book
publisher, radio or television station which, in the ordinary course of
business, publishes or broadcasts news items, editorials, or other documents,
or paid advertisement, that directly or indirectly urges MTA action, if the
newspaper, periodical, book publisher, radio or television station engages in
no further or other activities in connection with urging MTA action other than
to appear before the MTA in support of, or in opposition to the MTA action.
5-25-200 Enforcement and Guidance.
   A.   The Inspector General is authorized to investigate alleged violations
of this chapter.
   B.   The Ethics Officer is authorized to assess a late fee and/or to
terminate a registration for failure to timely file statements or reports or to
timely pay the required fees. The Ethics Officer is authorized to waive any
penalty for a late filing upon a showing that the late filing was not willful
or that the enforcement of a penalty for the late filing would otherwise not
further the purposes of this chapter. The late fee shall be in the amount of
ten dollars ($10) per day until the statement or report is filed, up to a
maximum amount of three hundred dollars ($300). The Ethics Officer may choose
not to impose the late fee if the Ethics Officer determines that the late
filing was not willful and that enforcement of the late fee would not further
the purposes of this chapter.
   C.   Both the Inspector General and the Ethics Officer are authorized to
make recommendations to the Board of Directors related to the imposition of any
other penalty authorized by this chapter for a violation of this chapter.
   D.   The Ethics Officer may issue guidance and advice as necessary to
implement this chapter.
5-25-210 Sanctions for Violations of this Chapter.
   A.   Any party committing a violation of this chapter shall be subject to
the following possible sanctions:
      1.   The Ethics Officer may assess a late fee or terminate that party's
registration for failure to timely file any statement or report, or to timely
pay any fee, required by this chapter;
      2.   The party's bid or other proposal to enter into a contract with the
MTA may be rejected;
      3.   The party may be disqualified from lobbying on the matter related to
the violation;
      4.   The party may be suspended from all MTA lobbying activities for a
specific period of time;
      5.   The party may be permanently prohibited from all MTA lobbying
activities;
      6.   The party may be subject to civil penalty in an amount up to five
hundred ($500) dollars, or three times the amount of an unlawful gift or
expenditure, whichever is greater, as directed by the court in a civil action
brought by the civil prosecutor or by a person residing within the jurisdiction
of the MTA.
   B.   Any sanction imposed for a violation of this chapter shall depend upon
the severity of the violation and may be progressive unless the violation is so
egregious as to warrant more severe action initially.
   C.   Any person who knowingly or willfully violates any provision of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   D.   The District Attorney of the County of Los Angeles is responsible for
prosecuting violations of this chapter.
5-25-220 Procedures for Imposing Certain Sanctions.
Before the imposition of a sanction authorized by section
5-25-210, other than a criminal prosecution or a sanction under paragraphs A.1.
or A.6. of section
5-25-210, the following procedures should be followed:
   A.   Information relating to the alleged violation shall be forwarded to the
Inspector General for investigation;
   B.   Upon completion of the investigation, the Inspector General shall
submit his or her findings to the Board of Directors for review;
   C.   The Board of Directors, or such person or body as may be designated by
the Chair of the Board of Directors, shall hold an administrative hearing
relating to the alleged violation. Any entity may submit evidence in support of
or in opposition to the allegations;
   D.   If the Board of Directors or its designee finds that a violation of
this chapter has occurred, it shall decide the appropriate sanctions to impose.
The decision of a designee of the Board of Directors shall be forwarded to the
Board of Directors for approval. The decision of the Board of Directors shall
be final.
   E.   The imposition of any sanction, or the failure to impose a sanction, by
the Board of Directors shall not preclude the imposition of a late fee, the
termination of a registration or the imposition of any criminal or civil
penalty authorized by this chapter.
Chapter 5-30
Financial Employees Code of Conduct
5-30-010 Purpose.
This Financial Employees Code of Conduct is adopted in recognition of the
unique and critical nature of the services provided to the MTA by those MTA
employees who are entrusted with the expenditure, investment or management of
MTA funds and financial assets. The requirements of this chapter are in
addition to the other requirements imposed upon MTA employees by this title.
5-30-020 MTA Financial Employees.
As used in this chapter, the term MTA financial employee shall mean any MTA
employee who prepares, reports, approves, manages or compiles data related to
budgets or financial matters for the MTA or who has any authority to manage,
invest, expend or authorize the expenditure of MTA funds or financial assets.
5-30-030 Actions Affecting MTA Funds and Financial Assets.
Each MTA financial employee shall use, manage, invest and expend MTA funds and
other financial assets in a prudent, cost effective and fiscally responsible
manner in compliance with MTA and other governmental accounting rules and
policies.
5-30-040 Financial Information.
Each MTA financial employee shall provide financial information that is
accurate, complete, objective, relevant, timely, and understandable, and which
fairly represents the MTA financial conditions and operating results without
being misleading by expression, inference or silence concerning any material
fact.
5-30-050 Compliance with Accepted Standards.
Each MTA financial employee shall comply with generally accepted accounting
principles and standard financial practices applicable to governmental agencies
in all MTA financial matters. No MTA financial employee shall expose MTA funds
or financial assets to any unnecessary or significant risk of loss.
5-30-060 Conflicts of Interest.
Each MTA financial employee shall refrain from participating in any matter
involving MTA funds or other financial assets where that employee has a
conflict of interest.
Each potential conflict of interest shall be promptly be reported by the
employee to his or her supervisor.
5-30-070 Confidential Information.
No MTA current or former financial employee shall make public or otherwise
disclose any confidential financial information acquired in the course of his
or her work with the MTA except as legally required or as specifically
authorized by the MTA. No current or former MTA financial employee shall ever
use any such confidential financial information for personal gain.
5-30-080 Internal Controls.
The Chief Financial Officer shall establish and maintain internal controls
designed to ensure compliance with this chapter.
5-30-090 Enforcement.
Suspected violations of this chapter shall be reported to the Chief Financial
Officer, the Ethics Officer, or the Inspector General, who shall investigate
the alleged violation and report to the Chief Executive Officer or other
appropriate MTA official a recommendation for any corrective action found
necessary.
Chapter 5-35
MTA Conflict of Interest Code
5-35-010 Adoption and Appendix.
This chapter shall constitute the Conflict of Interest Code for the MTA and the
PTSC as required by Government Code Sections 87300 et seq. The Ethics Officer
shall prepare an Appendix A to the Conflict of Interest Code which designates
MTA officials by position who are obligated to file disclosure statements and
which sets forth the appropriate disclosure categories for each position. The
Ethics Officer shall review Appendix A each even-numbered year. If a change in
the Appendix A is necessitated by changed circumstances, the Ethics Officer
shall submit an amended Appendix A to the Conflict of Interest Code to the Los
Angeles County Board of Supervisors, the reviewing body for the MTA's Conflict
of Interest Code, for its approval in accordance with the Political Reform Act.
5-35-020 Definitions.
The following terms when used in this chapter shall have the meaning set forth
in this section.
   A.   "Political Reform Act" means the Political Reform Act of 1974
(Government Code Sections 81000, et seq.) as said Act reads on the date this
ordinance is adopted and as said Act may be amended from time to time. Any word
defined in the Political Reform Act shall have the meaning ascribed to it by
the Political Reform Act when that word is used in this chapter.
   B.   "Business Position" means a position of director, officer, partner,
trustee, employee, or any position of management in any organization or
enterprise operated for profit, including but not limited to a proprietorship,
partnership, firm, business trust, joint venture, syndicate, corporation or
association.
   C.   "FPPC" shall mean the California Fair Political Practices Commission.
5-35-030 Adoption of Model Code.
The Political Reform Act requires each state and local government agency to
adopt a conflict of interest code. The provisions of Title 2, California
Administrative Code, Section 18730, subdivision (b), adopted by the FPPC as a
model conflict of interest code, as that regulation reads on the date of
adoption of this chapter and as it may be amended from time to time by the
FPPC, are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by this reference as the
Conflict of Interest Code for the MTA and the PTSC. Designated positions of MTA
officers subject to the disclosure requirements of this chapter shall be set
forth in an Appendix A to the Conflict of Interest Code. Said Appendix A, as
amended from time to time by the Ethics Officer as provided in this chapter, is
incorporated into the Conflict of Interest Code by this reference.
5-35-040 Filing Requirement.
Each MTA officer holding a position designated in the Appendix A to the
Conflict of Interest Code shall file with the Ethics Officer statements
disclosing the information required by the disclosure categories set forth in
this chapter on such forms as may be specified by the FPPC. Copies of the forms
to be used shall be supplied by the Ethics Officer. Every MTA officer holding a
position designated in Appendix A to the Conflict of Interest Code shall retain
his or her filing obligations, notwithstanding any reclassification or title
change that may occur in the future as to the same or substantially similar job
duties.
5-35-050 Disclosure Categories.
The disclosure categories for the Conflict of Interest Code are as follows:
   A.   Disclosure Category 1. Persons holding designated positions in this
category shall disclose all interest in real property within the jurisdiction
of Los Angeles County. Real property shall be deemed to be within the
jurisdiction if the property or any part of it is located within or not more
than two miles outside the boundaries of the jurisdiction or within two miles
of any land owned or used by the MTA. Persons are not required to disclose
property used primarily as their residence or for personal recreational
purposes.
   B.   Disclosure Category 2. Persons holding designated positions in this
category shall disclose all income, investments and business positions.
   C.   Disclosure Category 3. No category 3 at this time.
   D.   Disclosure Category 4. Persons holding designated positions in this
category shall disclose all business positions at investments in, or income
received from, business entities that manufacture, provide or sell service and/
or supplies of a type utilized by the agency and associated with the job
assignment of designated positions assigned to this disclosure category.
   E.   Disclosure Category 5. Individuals who perform under contract the
duties of any position designated in Appendix A of the Conflict of Interest
Code shall be subject to the provisions of the Conflict of Interest Code and
shall disclose reportable interests in categories assigned to that designated
position. In addition, individuals who, under contract, participate in
decisions, by providing information, advice, recommendations, or counsel to the
agency, which could affect their financial interests, shall be subject to the
provisions contained in this Chapter (unless they are not "consultants" as
defined by the Political Reform Act). Such consultants shall disclose pursuant
to the broadest disclosure category in the Conflict of Interest Code, subject
to the following limitation: The Chief Executive Officer, a Deputy Executive
Officer, or the Ethics Officer, may determine that a particular consultant,
although in a "designated position", is retained to perform a range of duties
that is limited in scope and thus is not required to comply fully with the
disclosure requirements described in this chapter. Any such determination shall
include a description of the consultant's duties and, based upon that
description, a statement of the extent of the disclosure requirements. The
determination of the Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Executive Officer or
Ethics Officer, is a public record and shall be retained for public inspection
by the Ethics Officer.
Title 6
Transit Court
Chapter 6-05
Customer Code of Conduct
(Preliminary Note: The ordinance set forth in Chapter 6-05 was originally
enacted as Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority and was
adopted by the Board of Directors on July 22, 2010. It is incorporated here as
enacted, and as amended by the Board of Directors, except that, for convenience
and consistency, its section headings and numbering have been revised to
conform to the style of this Code. While the provisions of this ordinance may
be cited by the section headings and numbering used herein, the official
ordinance remains that enacted and amended by the board. The inclusion of this
ordinance in this Code is not a reenactment or an amendment of the original
ordinance, and its inclusion in this Code does not in any way amend its
provisions or alter its application.)
Amended June 23, 2011
Amended January 26, 2012
Amended January 23, 2014
Amended December 3, 2015
Amended April 27, 2017
Amended December 2, 2021
Preamble
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Metro) provides
important services to the traveling public in Los Angeles. Safety is the
guiding principle by which Metro operates. A successful partnership between
Metro and the public is dependent upon Metro employees and the traveling public
behaving in a mutually respectful and courteous manner.
This ordinance is entitled the Metro Customer Code of Conduct. Compliance with
this ordinance is a condition of use, by any individual, of a Metro vehicle,
facility or property.
Sections
6-05-40(A),
6-05-100,
6-05-110,
6-05-150,
6-05-230(C) and Section
6-05-240(A) of this ordinance are enacted pursuant to the authority granted to
Metro by the California Penal Code Section 640(e) and the California Public
Utilities Code Section 99580, et seq.
6-05-010 Values
   A.   Patrons shall use the Metro system in a responsible manner to preserve
and protect the aesthetics, and promote the longevity, of this essential public
resource for greater mobility in LA County.
   B.   Patrons shall treat other patrons and Metro representatives with
consideration, patience, respect and civility to allow use, operation and
enjoyment of the Metro system in a safe and gratifying manner for all persons.
   C.   Metro and its representatives shall perform its duties hereunder with
fairness, equity, civility, respect, compassion and without bias.
6-05-020 Definitions
The following terms, whenever used in this chapter, shall be construed as
defined in this section:
   A.   “Abuse” and “harassment” mean any extreme physical or verbal
mistreatment, including hitting, kicking, gestures, yelling, spitting, threats,
intimidation, assaults, slurs, cursing and sexual harassment, including
unwanted touching, comments or gestures, of a sexual nature or because of their
gender, sexual orientation, gender expression or gender identity.
   B.   “Commercial activity” means any for-profit activity, including selling
goods, food, services or distributing commercial materials.
   C.   “Fare” means the monetary charges established by Metro for the use of
its facilities and vehicles.
   D.   “Fare media” means the methods by which fares are paid, issued by or on
behalf of Metro for the payment of fare, including tokens, passes, cards,
transfers, tickets and vouchers.
   E.   “Fare-required zone” includes 1) areas in any bus between the yellow
line near the front of a bus to the rear of the bus, 2) areas in any Metro
facility beyond any fare gate, standalone validator or fare tapping machine
leading to a platform, 3) platform areas, or 4) areas where any sign indicates
fares are required at or beyond that location.
   F.   “Graffiti” means any unauthorized inscription, word, figure, mark or
design that is written, marked, etched, scratched, drawn, painted or affixed on
Metro facilities or vehicles.
   G.   “Loitering” means unnecessary lingering in Metro facilities or vehicles
or other location where it interferes with a Metro facility or vehicles or use
thereof with the intent to commit a crime.
   H.   “Metro” means the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority and its subsidiary, the Public Transportation Services Corporation,
and their contractors.
   I.   “Metro representative” means a Metro security officer, operator, fare
inspector or other authorized Metro employee, board or sector councilmember, or
contractor.
   J.   “Metro facility” means all property and equipment, including rights-of-
way and related trackage, rails, signals, power, fuel, communication systems,
ventilation systems, power plants, cameras, signs, loudspeakers, fare
collectors or registers, sound walls, stations, vacant parcels, bike paths,
terminals, platforms, plazas, waiting areas, signs, artwork, storage yards,
depots, repair and maintenance shops, yards, offices, parking areas and other
real estate or personal property owned or leased by Metro, used for any Metro
activity or authorized to be located on Metro property.
   K.   “Metro vehicle” means a Metro bus, train, car or other vehicle owned,
operated, or used by Metro or its contract service providers transporting Metro
representatives or patrons.
   L.   “Minor” means a person under the age of 18.
   M.   “Peak hours” means 6:30am– 9am and 3pm– 7pm Monday through Friday.
   N.   “Patron” and “customer” mean any person in or on, using or attempting
to access, a Metro facility or vehicle, including without limit paying riders.
   O.   “Off-peak hours” means all other times other than peak times.
   P.   “Person” includes an individual, firm, partnership, corporation,
association or company.
   Q.   “Rules” or “code” or “Customer Code of Conduct” means
Title 6 of Metro’s Administrative Code as amended from time to time.
   R.   “Sound device” means a radio, receiver, communication device,
phonograph, television, musical instrument, tape recorder, cassette player, CD
player, MP3 player, DVD player, game, speaker system, audio system, sound
amplifier or other device that plays music or emits noise. Sound device does
not include assistive hearing devices for persons who have impaired hearing.
   S.   “Weapon or instrument intended for use as a weapon” includes but is not
limited to firearms, switchblade knives, axes, gravity knives, box cutters,
straight razors, unpackaged razor blades, swords, nun chucks, explosives,
dangerous chemicals or devices, radioactive materials and highly combustible
materials.
   T.   “Wheelchair” means, a mobility aid belonging to any class of three (3)
or more wheeled devices, usable indoors, designed or modified for and used by
individuals with mobility impairments, whether operated manually or powered. 1
   U.   “Mobility aid device” means an assistive device other than a wheelchair
used by and primarily intended to assist persons with disabilities with
locomotion.
   V.   “Power driven mobility device” means any device powered by batteries,
fuel or other source that does not fit the definition of a wheelchair
regardless whether it is designed primarily for use by individuals with
mobility disabilities. 2
   W.   “Personal Care Attendant” means an individual designated or employed by
a person with disabilities, to aid in meeting his/her personal needs. 3
6-05-030 animals
   A.   Animals are not permitted in Metro facilities or vehicles, unless one
of the following applies:
         1.   The animal is in a fully enclosed and secure carrier;
         2.   The animal is a certified police or security animal and is
accompanied by a peace officer; 4 or
         3.   The animal is a service animal, as defined by the Americans with
Disabilities Act, and is accompanied by a patron. A Metro representative may
ask whether an animal is a pet or a service animal required because of a
disability and what function the animal has been trained to perform for the
handler. 5
   B.   Handlers shall maintain control of their animals at all times. No
animal is permitted in a Metro facility or vehicle that is not under the
control of its handler or poses a threat to a Metro representative or patron. A
non-service animal may be denied from boarding or ejected if it unreasonably
annoys patrons.
   C.   Handlers of animals shall promptly remove all animal waste from Metro
facilities and vehicles. Leaving animal waste in a Metro facility or vehicle is
prohibited.
   D.   Handlers must ensure that an animal shall not deprive a patron of a
seat or block an aisle.
   E.   Animal carriers must have closable doors that are closed during
transport. Purses, backpacks and other similar items are not considered
suitable animal carriers unless they are fully enclosed for animal transport.
6-05-040 wheeled riding devices
   A.   Wheeled riding devices, including bicycles, skates, skateboards, kick
scooters and other wheeled riding devices, except wheelchairs and mobility aid
devices, may not be ridden in Metro facilities or vehicles, except for public
bike or roadways clearly intended for those types of devices. 6 A person may
carry or walk such wheeled riding devices in a safe manner on Metro facilities
to park or board Metro vehicles. 6
   B.   Tandem, three-wheeled or fuel-powered bicycles 7 , or other wheeled
riding devices, are not permitted in, attached to, or on Metro facilities or
vehicles. Bicycles or other wheeled riding devices over six (6) feet long are
prohibited.
   C.   All persons entering Metro facilities with wheeled riding devices of
any type, including wheelchairs and mobility aid devices, but excluding
handheld skates or skateboards, must use elevators or ramps to access elevated
or lowered platforms or subway stations.
   D.   Bicycles may be carried on stairs when safe to do so if escalators and
elevators are nonoperational. A person who enters a Metro facility or vehicle
with a bicycle must do the following:
      1.   Hold a bicycle when it is not in the rack.
      2.   Use available bicycle racks.
      3.   If racks on a bus are full, wait for the next bus.
      4.   Inform the bus operator before exiting that you will be removing a
bicycle from a rack in front of the bus.
      5.   Not block aisles, doorways or operators’ exit way. 8
      6.   Board at bicycle-designated doors and keep the bicycle in bicycle-
designated areas, such as non-operating cab areas. 6, 8
      7.   If an arriving train is crowded, individuals with bicycles must wait
for a train with available room. Law enforcement personnel may ask individuals
travelling with bicycles to wait.
      8.   If evacuation is required, bicycles must be left on the train and
located so that they do not block aisles or doors.
      9.   Not take the bicycle down train aisles.
      10.   Yield space in designated areas to wheelchairs or other mobility
aid devices for persons with disabilities.
      11.   Load and unload bicycles from the front of a Metro bus to the
curbside and not into traffic.
      12.   Not attempt to access the bicycle rack after the bus has left the
curb.
      13.   Use elevators or ramps, not escalators, to transport all wheeled
riding devices other than handheld skates or skateboards in Metro facilities.
   E.   Folded bicycles, handheld skates or skateboards may be carried into a
Metro vehicle at any time without using the rack. These items must be stored so
that they do not block passageways, aisles or seats.
   F.   Persons under the age of 14 years travelling with a bicycle must be
accompanied by an adult.
6-05-050 blocking
The following acts are prohibited in Metro facilities and vehicles:
   A.   Willfully blocking or impeding the free movement of another person. 8
   B.   Blocking an aisle, elevator, escalator, door or stairway with one’s
body or an object, in a way that poses a danger, unreasonably impedes a
patron’s movement or displaces a person. 8
   C.   Operating, stopping or parking a vehicle in a location that is reserved
for transit vehicles or is otherwise restricted. 9
   D.   Obstructing or impeding the flow of a Metro vehicle or interfering with
the operation or use of transit services. 10
   E.   Preventing a door from closing.
   F.   Willfully interfering with the operator or operation of a Metro vehicle
in a manner that affects the operator’s control of the vehicle. 10
   G.   Impeding the safe boarding or exiting of passengers. 11
6-05-060 boarding, exiting and seating
The following acts are required in Metro facilities and vehicles:
   A.   Never go onto a track except through designated crossings and never
step or put arms, legs, or objects in the path of a Metro vehicle. 12
   B.   Maintain control of children at all times in or on Metro vehicles or
facilities, including when a Metro vehicle is approaching. 12
   C.   Do not signal in the path of or by touching the bus when it is moving.
   D.   Yield priority, reserved, wheelchair or similarly designated seating to
older adults and individuals with disabilities. 13
   E.   A Personal Care Attendant (PCA) must travel with a patron who displays
an Access Services TAP card with a PCA eligible designation at all times when
using the Metro bus and rail system, including boarding and exiting at the same
location and traveling in the same bus or rail car.
6-05-070 carts, strollers and luggage
   A.   Commercial or large size carts, dollies and strollers are prohibited on
Metro vehicles, unless collapsed. If a small, personal use size stroller is
occupied by a child or small cart is filled, then it must be securely held and
not block passageways or seats.
   B.   Carts, dollies, strollers and large luggage that create an unsafe
condition are prohibited.
   C.   During crowded conditions or peak hours, remove children from strollers
and materials from carts, and collapse, or wait for the next Metro vehicle that
has room for the cart or stroller. This provision does not apply to wheelchairs
or other mobility aid devices.
   D.   Carts, strollers, large luggage and wheelchairs or other mobility aid
devices are to be transported in elevators or ramps in all Metro facilities and
not on escalators.
6-05-080 civility, compliance and cooperation
   A.   Abuse and harassment of Metro representatives or patrons is prohibited
in Metro facilities and vehicles. 11, 14
   B.   A person must comply with all lawful orders and directives given by an
authorized Metro representative relative to Metro facilities or vehicles
consistent with the code, including any instruction to leave a Metro vehicle or
facility for safety reasons, for a violation of the code, or following a notice
of ejectment or exclusion.
   C.   A person receiving a Notice of Violation must provide accurate and
complete identification and fare media when requested to do so by an authorized
Metro representative.
   D.   A person may not falsely represent himself or herself to be a Metro
representative through words, actions, clothes, insignia, badge or equipment.
   E.   A person must wear a shirt, pants or skirt, and shoes, while in a Metro
facility or vehicle. Infants being held or in strollers and persons in
wheelchairs are not required to wear shoes.
   F.   Patrons unable to care for themselves, who do not exhibit an ability to
comply with Metro’s code, or who pose a safety risk, must be accompanied by a
service animal or a responsible individual who can care for the patron when in
a Metro facility or vehicle.
6-05-090 commercial activity
   A.   Persons must not engage in commercial activity in a Metro facility or
vehicle without first obtaining a Metro permit and paying all required fees. 15
   B.   Persons who engage in permitted commercial activity in a Metro facility
or vehicle must comply with all Metro instructions, safety requirements and
applicable laws. 15
   C.   Commercial activity is prohibited on loading platforms and in any
location where it interferes with transit services or the movement of patrons
or where it creates a safety hazard. 15
6-05-100 disorderly conduct
The following acts are prohibited in, on or in close proximity to Metro
facilities and vehicles:
   A.   Expectorating (spitting). 16
   B.   Carrying any explosive, acid, flammable liquid, or toxic or hazardous
material. 17
   C.   Urinating or defecating, except in a lavatory. This subsection does not
apply to a person who cannot comply as a result of disability, age or a medical
condition. 18
   D.   Throwing an object at a patron, Metro representative, or a Metro
facility or vehicle. 10
   E.   Gambling to win money or anything of value.
   F.   Hanging from, swinging from or attaching anything to hand rails. This
does not apply to holding a hand rail to stabilize one’s body during transit.
19
   G.   Inciting violence or posing a clear and present danger to other
persons, including making verbal or visual gang affiliation or provocation
signs. 20
   H.   Engaging in or soliciting another person to engage in lewd conduct. 21
   I.   Engaging in or soliciting another person to engage in prostitution. 22
   J.   Placing feet or shoes on seats or furnishings.
   K.   Defacing with graffiti, vandalizing, damaging, destroying, or tampering
with Metro facilities or vehicles. 23
   L.   Littering or dumping. 24
   M.   Injuring another person or damaging another person’s property or
possessions. 25
   N.   Throwing an object from a Metro vehicle. 26
6-05-110 food, alcohol and drugs
The following acts are prohibited in Metro facilities and vehicles:
   A.   Eating, drinking, smoking, vaping or carrying a lit cigar, cigarette of
any type, or pipe, except in designated areas permitting that activity or is
required by a disability accommodated pursuant to 6-05-140 Miscellaneous G. 27
   B.   Placing chewed gum onto any surface in a Metro facility or vehicle
other than into a trash receptacle.
   C.   Drinking or possessing in an open container an alcoholic beverage,
except in designated areas where there is notice that drinking alcohol is
permitted and all required permits have been obtained. 28
   D.   Possessing an illegal drug or substance. 29
   E.   Being under the influence of alcohol, a drug, a controlled substance,
toluene, or any combination of those items, and unable to care for one’s own
safety or the safety of others, or interfering with the use of a Metro facility
or vehicle. 30
   F.   Creating a public nuisance or a health hazard by dropping food other
than in a proper waste disposal receptacle. 31
   G.   Smoking or vaping is also not allowed within 20 feet of any Metro
facility entrance, exit or operable window. 32
6-05-120 loitering
   A.   Loitering is prohibited in Metro facilities and vehicles. 33
6-05-130 lost & found
   A.   Items found in a Metro facility or vehicle shall be turned in to a
Metro operator or other authorized Metro representative, who will forward the
items to the Metro Lost & Found or other designated department or agent.
   B.   Items can be claimed in person at the Metro Lost & Found or other
designated department or agent by providing proof of ownership. Items that
remain unclaimed for 90 days will be discarded, sold, destroyed or donated to a
charitable organization, without liability for Metro or its agents to anyone.
47
   C.   Metro is not responsible for items lost in a Metro facility or vehicle.
6-05-140 miscellaneous
   A.   The code is not intended to affect lawful activity or first amendment
rights protected by state or federal law, including laws related to collective
bargaining, labor relations, or labor disputes.
   B.   Metro reserves the right to suspend, waive, modify, limit or revoke the
application of the code.
   C.   Metro may refuse service, or access to Metro facilities or vehicles,
including eject or exclude, to any person who does not comply with the code or
applicable laws.
   D.   The code incorporates all relevant applicable legislative changes that
occur after the date the code is adopted.
   E.   Acts prohibited under the code are permitted if authorized by
agreement, permit, license or a writing signed by an authorized Metro
representative.
   F.   The code applies with equal force to any person who aids or abets in
any of the acts prohibited by the code or in the avoidance of any of the
requirements of the code.
   G.   Individuals with disabilities may visit metro.net for information and
request a reasonable modification of the provisions of this code. Whenever
possible, a request for a reasonable modification shall be made in advance to
Metro at accessibility@metro.net, 213.922.6919, or at MS 99-21-5, One Gateway
Plaza, Los Angeles 90012. If a request for a modification is made to a Metro
operator or other Metro representative, the employee may contact his or her
supervisor or control center for guidance. Requests for reasonable
modifications will not be approved if the request would: fundamentally alter
the nature of the service, program or activity; create a direct threat to the
health or safety of others; result in an undue financial and administrative
burden; or the individual would be able to fully use the services provided by
Metro without the modification. Individuals with disabilities may file
complaints regarding reasonable modification or accommodation with Metro
Customer Relations by telephone at 800.464.2111
or via email at customerrelations@metro.net.
6-05-150 noise
The following acts are prohibited in Metro facilities and vehicles:
   A.   Disturbing others by engaging in unruly behavior. 19
   B.   Failing to comply with a warning by a Metro representative to cease
creating loud, boisterous or unreasonable noise, including unnecessary cell
phone or other conversation, that is so loud, lengthy, sexually explicit,
threatening, violent, or disruptive, that it causes a nuisance or unreasonably
interferes with the use, operation, or enjoyment of the Metro facilities or
vehicles for Metro representatives or patrons, or creates an unsafe condition,
such as distracting operators of Metro vehicles.
   C.   Playing a sound device, except when using headphones or earphones that
make the sound inaudible to others unless a permit has been issued for usage of
such sound device by Metro. 35
6-05-160 odors
   A.   A person may not be in a Metro facility or vehicle with an unavoidable
grossly repulsive odor so extreme it causes a nuisance, unreasonably interferes
with the use, operation or enjoyment of the Metro facilities or vehicles for
Metro representatives or patrons, or creates an unsafe condition. 31
Notwithstanding the foregoing, this subsection shall not apply to persons with
odors directly related to a disability or medical condition unless the odor is
so severely disruptive that it interferes with the use or operation of the
Metro facility or vehicle by Metro representatives or patrons, or creates
direct threat or an unsafe condition.
   B.   Extreme odors may arise from a variety of sources, including one’s
body, possessions, clothing, food, chemicals or accompanying animals.
6-05-170 parking and use of metro facilities and vehicles
   A.   Parking a vehicle at a Metro facility shall not exceed the posted
allowed period of time.
   B.   Parking or storage of items in Metro facilities may only be used for
the designated Metro-related transportation purposes.
   C.   A person may not perform non-emergency maintenance on a non-Metro
vehicle at a Metro facility unless authorized by Metro.
   D.   Driver training is prohibited at Metro facilities unless authorized by
Metro.
   E.   A person may not enter nonpublic areas in Metro facilities or vehicles,
unless authorized by Metro.
   F.   Persons wishing to hold an event, special meeting or use for commercial
purposes, in a Metro facility or vehicle, should contact Metro for information
on its policies and procedures, and obtain its approval in advance, for such
use.
6-05-180 photography and recording
   A.   A person may not photograph, film, duplicate, record or sketch a Metro
facility or vehicle for commercial purposes without first obtaining a Metro
permit and any other required permits, and paying all required fees.
   B.   A person who photographs, films or records in a Metro facility or
vehicle must comply with all Metro safety requirements, instructions, licenses
and applicable laws, including copyright laws.
   C.   A person may photograph, film, record or sketch a Metro facility or
vehicle for non-commercial purposes only in public areas, unless otherwise
authorized by Metro, and in a manner, at a time and at a place that does not
interfere with Metro operations, or create an unreasonable risk to the safety
or well being of Metro representatives or patrons. Prohibited activities shall
include use of a tripod, or laying of cord or cables, in a walkway; use of a
flash bulb that is blinding to patrons or Metro representatives; or creating
congestion during an emergency evacuation.
6-05-190 safety
   A.   The following acts are prohibited in Metro facilities and vehicles:
      1.   Attaching to, hanging from or riding on any part of the outside of a
Metro vehicle, or being inside an area in which the public are prohibited. This
section does not apply to an employee conducting Metro business. 36
      2.   Interfering with the safe operation or movement of a Metro vehicle.
11
      3.   Abandoning personal items.
      4.   Throwing or kicking a ball, disc or other object where it is not
safe to do so. 19
      5.   Standing, lying or climbing on a sign, bench, passenger shelter,
trash container or planter.
      6.   Extending anything in the path of or through a door or window on a
Metro vehicle. 10
      7.   Entering or crossing rail tracks in a Metro facility, except in
marked crosswalks or designated waiting areas, or at the direction of a Metro
representative. 10
      8.   Engaging in sport, horseplay or recreational activities. 19
      9.   Creating a danger to other persons.
      10.   Extending any portion of the body through any window opening of a
Metro vehicle in an unsafe manner. 10
      11.   Engaging in any unsafe activity other than those described in
Safety Subsection
6-05-190 of the code.
   B.   To avoid injury, patrons must use care at all times when on or in a
Metro facility or vehicle.
   C.   Patrons should be alert and promptly report to Metro or law enforcement
any unsafe condition, broken equipment or suspicious activity, odor or package.
   D.   Emergencies should be reported immediately to a Metro representative,
law enforcement or emergency personnel. Emergencies may be reported using
telephones or intercoms if available in the Metro facilities or vehicles.
   E.   If a Metro representative or other authorized personnel evacuates a
Metro facility or vehicle, patrons shall promptly and orderly follow
instructions to avoid injury to other persons.
   F.   No person shall remove, tamper with, injure or destroy a Metro vehicle
or the contents thereof, with the intent to cause great bodily injury to
another person, or place an obstruction in front of a Metro vehicle, or
willfully set a Metro vehicle in motion while it is at rest and unattended. 37
   G.   Elevators shall not be used in a Metro facility in the event of a fire.
6-05-200 signs
   A.   No person shall affix or post signs, stickers, buttons, advertisements,
circulars, or other printed materials on or in Metro facilities or vehicles.
Written permission must be obtained from Metro prior to placing, posting or
displaying a poster, notice, advertisement, sign or other written material on a
Metro facility or vehicle.
   B.   No persons shall destroy, cover, deface with graffiti, remove, damage
or tamper with a Metro poster, sign, advertisement or notice, unless authorized
by Metro. 23
   C.   Persons shall obey any sign that is intended to provide for the safety
and security of transit passengers or the transit system. 10
   D.   Persons shall also obey all other notices and signs posted by Metro in
a Metro facility or vehicle.
   E.   The carrying of signs or stick-like items into any Metro facility or
vehicle shall be limited and subject to those restrictions set forth in
Subsection 210 Solicitation herein.
6-05-210 solicitation
   A.   No person shall aggressively solicit money or other things of value in
a Metro facility or vehicle. 38 Aggressive solicitation includes the following:
      1.   At or near an ATM or ticket vending machine;
      2.   Using insults, profanity or threats;
      3.   Repeated requests to the same person who has refused; or
      4.   Making demands while blocking access to a facility, such as a
building or restroom.
   B.   No person shall solicit public support or distribute materials, for any
cause, in Metro vehicles and in underground or non-public areas of Metro
facilities where the distribution is disruptive, presents a safety hazard or
impedes the movement of Metro patrons.
   C.   The exercise of freedom of speech is permitted in Metro facilities and
vehicles, subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   Activity at a rail station is limited to street level areas and
areas which are not platform waiting areas for patrons.
      2.   Activity may not occur within 15 feet of an elevator, escalator,
stairwell or staircase entryway, above-ground platform, loading zone, kiosk,
transit entrance or exit, emergency exit or telephone, fare vending machine, or
fare media readers or validators, or customer service station.
      3.   Activity may not impede transit services or the movement of patrons
or Metro personnel.
      4.   Pamphlets and leaflets may not be left unattended in a Metro
facility or vehicle.
      5.   The carrying of signs or placards larger than 30 x 30” in Metro
facilities or vehicles is prohibited. Large signs can be folded or rolled up to
comply with the 30 x 30” restriction. No pole, stick or other similar object or
device utilized to display a sign shall exceed a length of 30 inches, nor shall
such object exceed a thickness of 1/4 x 2” wide; or if not generally
rectangular in shape, such object shall not exceed 3/4” at its thickest
dimension. This limitation is not intended to prohibit walking canes, crutches
or similar devices used for mobility assistance by a person with a disability.
No object shall have an exposed sharp pointed end.
      6.   Carrying of any such signs or sticks must not interfere with the
movement, seating, or safety of patrons or Metro representative.
      7.   Food and drinks shall not be distributed in Metro facilities or
vehicles except by Metro or persons who obtain a permit from Metro.
      8.   Tables and portable equipment are prohibited, unless approved by
Metro.
6-05-220 weapons
   A.   A weapon or instrument intended for use as a weapon shall not be
discharged or directed at a Metro facility or vehicle, or at a person or object
in a Metro facility or vehicle. 39
   B.   Entering a Metro facility or vehicle with a weapon or instrument
intended for use as a weapon is prohibited.40 This provision does not apply to
law enforcement or security personnel.
6-05-230 fares
   A.   Patrons who ride Metro vehicles or use Metro services must pay all
applicable fares and fees. 41
   B.   Patrons shall show proof of payment of fare upon request by a Metro
representative. 41
   C.   Evading payment of a Metro fare is prohibited. 41 Fare evasion includes
the following:
      1.   Boarding a Metro vehicle or entering a Metro facility platform or
other fare- required zone, without proof of valid fare media or without paying
the fare upon boarding a Metro bus.
      2.   Duplicating, counterfeiting, altering or transferring any
nontransferable fare media without Metro authorization. 41
      3.   Placing anything other than valid fare media into a farebox, ticket
machine, pass reader, or other fare validation or collection device. 41
      4.   Falsely representing oneself as eligible for a waiver or a special
or reduced fare, or obtaining fare media by making a false or misleading
representation. 42
      5.   Refusing to show proof of valid, validated, unexpired fare media
upon request by a Metro representative. Patrons shall show identification upon
request for the purpose of accurate completion of citation data entry in
accordance with posted policies.
      6.   Misusing fare media with the intent to evade payment of a fare. 43
      7.   Unauthorized use of a discount ticket or failing to present upon
request by Metro or within 72 hours thereafter, acceptable proof of discount
eligibility to use a discount ticket and show identification in accordance with
posted policies. 42
      8.   Boarding through a rear bus door to avoid payment of fare. 44
      9.   Entering a Metro vehicle or facility when any penalty, fee or
assessment for violation of the code is past due or during any exclusion
period.
      10.   Entering a Metro vehicle or facility in such a way as to bypass or
avoid any fare-required zone barriers, such as media collection or validation
machines, or Metro representatives collecting fares. 44
   D.   No payment will be made to patrons who overpay the required fare or who
are ejected or excluded from Metro facilities or vehicles for violating the
code or applicable laws.
6-05-240 enforcement
   A.   Violations
   A person who violates the code is subject to a notice of violation and
imposition of any and all remedies, fines, criminal sanctions, damages and
penalties available by law. Enforcement of any provisions of the code involving
the payment of any fees, penalties or other administrative amounts, or
community service, based on
   California Penal Code section 640 (b) and (c), shall be pursuant to the
authority and according to the procedures, herein and as set forth in the
California Public Utilities code including section 99580 et seq. Parents or
guardians shall also be responsible in addition to the minor for any fees,
penalties, fines incurred or damages caused by their minor in connection with a
citation.
   B.   (1)   A person who violates any provision of the code other than those
described in Section A above and who receives a notice of violation may, within
21 days of the issuance of such notice of violation, request an initial review
of the notice of violation by Metro. The request for review may be made by
telephone, in writing or in person. There shall be no charge for this review.
If following the initial review Metro is satisfied that the violation did not
occur, or that extenuating circumstances exist, and that the dismissal of the
notice of violation is appropriate in the interests of justice, Metro may
cancel the notice of violation. Metro shall notify, in writing the person
requesting the review of the results of the initial review. If the notice of
violation is not dismissed, reasons shall be provided for the denial. Notice of
the results of the review shall be deemed to have been received by the person
who requested the initial review when personally delivered five days following
the mailing of the decision by Metro.
      (2)   If the person subject to the notice of violation is not satisfied
with the result of the initial review, the person may no later than 21 days
following the mailing of the initial review decision request an administrative
hearing of the violation.
      The request may be made by telephone, in person or by mail. The person
requesting the administrative hearing shall deposit with Metro the amount due
under the notice of violation for which the administrative review hearing is
requested. A person may request administrative review without payment of the
amount due upon providing Metro with satisfactory evidence of an inability to
pay the amount due. An administrative hearing shall be held within 90 days of
the receipt of request for an administrative hearing.
      (3)   The administrative hearing shall include all of the following:
         (a)   The person requesting the hearing shall have the choice of a
hearing in person or by mail. An in-person hearing shall be held within the
jurisdiction of Metro, and shall be conducted according to such written
procedures as may from time to time be approved by the Chief Executive Officer
of Metro or the Chief Hearing Officer. The hearing shall provide an
independent, objective, fair and impartial review of contested violations.
         (b)   The hearing shall be conducted before a hearing officer
designated to conduct the review by Metro’s Chief Executive Officer or Chief
Hearing Officer. In addition to any other requirements of employment, the
hearing officer shall demonstrate those qualifications, training and
objectivity as are necessary and consistent with the duties and
responsibilities of the position as determined by Metro’s Chief Executive
Officer or Chief Hearing Officer. The hearing officer’s continued employment
shall not be directly or indirectly linked to the amount of penalties imposed
by the hearing officer.
         (c)   The person who issued the notice of violation shall not be
required to participate in an administrative hearing. Metro shall not be
required to introduce any evidence other than the notice of violation. The
notice of violation, in proper form shall be prima facie evidence of the
violation.
         (d)   Following a determination by a hearing officer that there is
sufficient evidence that a person did commit the violation, the hearing officer
may, pursuant to Metro Transit Court policies and procedures, order payment in
installments, transit school and/or community service. Where it is determined
that circumstances exist such that the dismissal of the notice of violation
would best serve the interests of justice, the hearing officer may dismiss the
notice of violation and shall provide written reasons in support of that
decision.
         The hearing officer shall have the power and authority to make rulings
in the interests of justice within the law and Metro policies concerning
notices of violation and the adjudication of hearings, including the granting
of eligibility to attend Metro’s Transit School for the purpose of reducing any
penalty payment, perform community service in lieu of all or a portion of the
payment of fines, or other remedy.
         (e)   The hearing officer’s decision following the administrative
hearing may be delivered personally by the hearing officer or may be sent by
first class mail.
         (f)   Transit Court shall retain jurisdiction pending completion of
any order by the Transit Court, but this shall not toll the period for appeal
to Superior Court following the initial order of the Transit Court. The hearing
officer’s decision at administrative review is final except as otherwise
provided by law.
   C.   Ejection
   A person who violates any provision of the code may be ejected by order of
an authorized Metro representative and may be excluded from all or a portion of
Metro vehicles and facilities. This remedy is in addition to any other fine,
penalty, assessment or other remedy available at law. The procedures for
exclusion are those set forth in Subsections D–H of this Enforcement Section.
      1.   A person who violates the code may be immediately ejected from the
Metro facility or vehicle, without refund of any fare, by an authorized Metro
representative who witnesses a violation.
      2.   A person who violates the code is subject to an administrative fine
or other penalty for each violation, as specified in the Metro penalty schedule
approved by the Board of Directors or Chief Executive Officer up to the maximum
amount provided by law. The Metro penalty schedule shall include fines, fees,
administrative penalties, late payment fines, collection recovery costs and
other such amounts. To determine the Metro penalty schedule, the costs to the
agency and other relevant factors shall be considered.
      3.   A person who violates the code must, in addition to any fines or
penalties listed in Metro’s penalty schedule, or as otherwise required by law,
pay restitution if the violation involves damages.
      4.   A violation of the code that is also a violation of a local, state
or federal law may be prosecuted in a court proceeding by the appropriate
authority, in addition to any enforcement by or remedies available to Metro.
      5.   Failure to comply with a Notice of Exclusion may result in fines, a
citation for criminal trespass, and any other applicable criminal and civil
remedies.
      6.   Metro may establish procedures concerning the administration of any
hearing provided such procedures are not in conflict with applicable law or the
code, and are approved by the Metro Board or the Chief Executive Officer or
Chief Hearing Officer.
      7.   Metro’s Board of Directors or Chief Executive Officer or Chief
Hearing Officer shall designate the officers, employees, consultants or
contractors who shall be authorized to issue notices of violation, citation,
order ejections and exclusions, or otherwise carry out the duties under the
code and any requisite training for such persons.
   D.   Exclusion
      1.   A person, who violates the code or a law in a Metro facility or
vehicle, may be excluded from all or part of Metro facilities and vehicles
either indefinitely or for a period of time specified in the Metro penalty
schedule or notice of exclusion provided pursuant to Subsection E below.
      2.   Any person to whom a notice of violation or Penal Code citation or
written warning pertaining to an offense, which occurred on or in a public
transit facility or vehicle, was issued, and: (a) who has received a citation
or written warning for the same violation at least three times in the prior 12
months; or (b) who has failed to pay any applicable fines, fees, penalties or
other administrative amounts by the due date, or otherwise resolve the citation
when such payment was due; or (c) who is the subject of any outstanding
warrant, pending trial, or convicted with respect to any Penal Code offense
that is alleged to have occurred on or in a public transit system facility or
vehicle, is subject to exclusion, and may receive a notice of exclusion
pursuant to Subsection E below.
      3.   A person excluded under the code may not enter a Metro facility or
vehicle during the period of exclusion. Metro may take any reasonable steps
necessary to enforce an order of exclusion, including criminal arrest or such
other remedies as may be available at law.
   E.   Notice of Exclusion
   A notice of exclusion shall be given by Metro or its authorized
representative by personal delivery, first class mail, or if the person does
not provide Metro or its representative with a valid current address, to the
address provided by the excluded person at the time of any underlying violation
(s), or at the excluded person’s last known address. A notice of exclusion is
deemed received on the date of personal delivery or five days after the date
the notice of exclusion is mailed. The notice of exclusion shall specify the
reason for exclusion, the places or transit lines from which the person is
excluded, the duration of exclusion, the consequences for failing to comply
with the terms of exclusion, and the right to seek review or appeal the
decision. Any exclusion shall begin on the third day following receipt of the
notice of exclusion unless otherwise specified in the notice of exclusion,
except that exclusions issued for a period of one day or less are effective at
the time the notice of exclusion is received. The exclusion, or other remedy,
shall be suspended upon Metro’s receipt of a request for review and until the
review is decided.
   F.   Review Request
   An excluded person may request a review of the exclusion. The exclusion
shall be suspended upon Metro’s receipt of a request for review of a notice of
exclusion, and until the review is decided and notice of the decision or review
is received by the excluded person. The request for review must be made in
writing, and may be submitted by mail, or in person or as otherwise provided in
the notice of exclusion, within five days after the notice of exclusion is
received from Metro. A request for review or notice of decision or review is
deemed to be received on the date it is personally delivered, or if mailed,
five days after the date of the postmark. The excluded person will be notified
of the date for public hearing by mail or in person. The excluded person may
request that the exclusion be rescinded or waived for good cause, that the
places of exclusion be altered, or that the duration of exclusion be reduced or
be permitted to participate in any diversion program available by Metro for
which such persons are eligible. The request should include a copy of the
notice of exclusion or the number assigned to the notice, a request for review,
the current mailing address and signature of the excluded person, and any
written statement (and supporting documentation) to explain why the exclusion
should be rescinded, waived, altered, reduced or otherwise modified.
   G.   Administrative Review
   The hearing shall be conducted by a hearing officer who is fair and
impartial. The excluded person is not required to attend the hearing, and shall
have the choice of the hearing being conducted by mail or in person. No Metro
representative shall be required to attend the hearing. Metro may submit a copy
of the notice(s) of violation, any notice of exclusion, and any documentation
or statement by the Metro representative(s) issuing the notice(s) of violation
or notice of exclusion. Any notice(s) of violation and/or notice of exclusion
shall be received into evidence. Other relevant evidence submitted may be
received into evidence at the determination of the presiding hearing officer.
Copies of the notice(s) of violation and/or notice(s) of exclusion shall be
prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein and shall establish a
rebuttable presumption supporting the exclusion of the individual. At the
hearing, the hearing officer will review the prima facie validity of the notice
of exclusion. Metro and the excluded person may present evidence, including
witness testimony, to the hearing officer and may question witnesses who are
present at the hearing. The hearing officer’s decision shall be based on a
preponderance of the evidence. Hearing officers shall have the discretion to
dismiss or reduce the fines or other penalties, cancel the notice of exclusion,
and make necessary modifications in the interests of justice, including
permitting enrollment in an appropriate Metro diversion program for which such
person is eligible, in accordance with any policies or procedures adopted by
the Metro Hearing Unit. Continuances of the appeal hearing are disfavored but
may be ordered by the hearing officer. The hearing officer may authorize the
recording of the hearing. The decision of the hearing officer shall be made in
writing. The decision of the hearing officer shall be deemed in full effect
upon personal service to the excluded person or five days after the mailing of
the decision to the address provided by the excluded person.
   H.   Schedule
   Metro shall adopt a penalty schedule of administrative penalties, and any
necessary additional procedures in furtherance of enforcement of this code. The
schedule and any procedures deemed necessary shall be subject to the approval
of the Chief Executive Officer.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/45baa1e32ffebd0b8c3edeaa80ea338a82bf5f51/
IMAGES/0-0-0-57.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/45baa1e32ffebd0b8c3edeaa80ea338a82bf5f51/
IMAGES/0-0-0-59.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/45baa1e32ffebd0b8c3edeaa80ea338a82bf5f51/
IMAGES/0-0-0-61.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/45baa1e32ffebd0b8c3edeaa80ea338a82bf5f51/
IMAGES/0-0-0-63.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/45baa1e32ffebd0b8c3edeaa80ea338a82bf5f51/
IMAGES/0-0-0-65.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/45baa1e32ffebd0b8c3edeaa80ea338a82bf5f51/
IMAGES/0-0-0-67.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/45baa1e32ffebd0b8c3edeaa80ea338a82bf5f51/
IMAGES/0-0-0-69.png]
 
   I.   This ordinance shall be in full force and effective on February 27,
2012. 46  
1   49 CFR 37.3
2   ADA Title II, section 35.104
3   49 CFR 37.123
4   Civil Code § 54.25
5   Civil Code §§ 54.1-54.2; 28 CFR 36.104
6   Penal Code § 640(b)(5)
7   Vehicle Code § 406
8   Penal Code § 640(d)(4)
9   Vehicle Code § 22500(i); Vehicle Code § 22523(b)
10   Public Utilities Code § 99170
11   Vehicle Code § 21701
12   Public Utilities Code § 99170(a)(2)
13   Civil Code § 54.1
14   Penal Code §§ 241.3, 243.3, 243.35, 245.2, 640(b)(2) & 640(d)(1)
15   Penal Code § 602.7
16   Penal Code § 640(b)(4)
17   Penal Code § 640(d)(2)
18   Penal Code § 640(d)(3)
19   Penal Code § 640(d)(1)
20   Penal Code §§ 241.3 & 245.2
21   Penal Code § 647(a)
22   Penal Code § 647(b)
23   Penal Code §§ 594, 640.5-640.8
24   Penal Code § 374.4
25   Penal Code §§ 243.3 & 243.35
26   Public Utilities Code §99170(a)(4)
27   Penal Code §§ 640(b)(1) & (b)(3)
28   Penal Code § 640(b)(1)
29   B & P Code § 25662; H & S Code §§ 11350-11351, 11357
30   Penal Code § 647(f)
31   Civil Code § 3479
32   Government Code § 7597(a); Penal Code § 640(b)(3)
33   Penal Code § 647(h)
34   Penal Code § 647(e)
35   Penal Code §§ 640(b)(2) & (d)(1)
36   Vehicle Code §§ 21203 & 21712
37   Penal Code § 625c
38   Penal Code § 647(c)
39   Penal Code §§ 245.2, 247(b) & 171.7
40   Penal Code § 171.7
41   Penal Code § 640(c)
42   Penal Code § 640(c)(3)
43   Penal Code § 640(c)(2)
44   Penal Code § 640(c)(1)
45   Penal Code § 640(e)
46   Amendments adopted 02/28/2013 effective 30 days after publication in a
newspaper of general circulation.
47   Civil Code § 2080.6
Title 7
Metro Express Lanes
Chapter 7-05
Administration of Tolls and Enforcement of Toll Violations
(Preliminary Note: The ordinance set forth in Chapter 7-05 was originally
enacted as Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority and was
adopted by the Board of Directors on April 26, 2012. It is incorporated here as
enacted,, except that, for convenience and consistency, its section headings
and numbering have been revised to conform to the style of this Code. While the
provisions of this ordinance may be cited by the section headings and numbering
used herein, the official ordinance remains that enacted and amended by the
board. The inclusion of this ordinance in this Code is not a reenactment or an
amendment of the original ordinance, and its inclusion in this Code does not in
any way amend its provisions or alter its application.)
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY:
SECTION 1: The Los Angeles County Metropolitan Authority Administrative Code
Title 7, Metro ExpressLanes Toll Violations, is hereby established to read as
follows:
Title 7
Preamble
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority ("Metro") is
authorized pursuant to California Streets and Highways Code section 149.9 to
operate high occupancy toll facilities, the "Metro ExpressLanes." The
implementation and operation of the Metro ExpressLanes is intended to reduce
congestion, improving travel and safety for the motoring public. While
traveling in the Metro Expresslanes, motorists are required to have a properly
mounted transponder associated with a valid FasTrakB Account to facilitate
vehicle occupancy validation and the toll collection process pursuant to
California Vehicle Code section 23302 et. seq. Motorists who evade the payment
of tolls while traveling on the Metro ExpressLanes shall be subject to civil
penalties to encourage proper use of the Metro ExpressLanes, pursuant to
California Vehicle Code section 40250. This ordinance establishes the
administrative procedures and penalties, enacted pursuant to Article 4, Chapter
1 of Division 17 of the California Vehicle Code, to ensure compliance with
statute and fairness in the treatment of violators.
Definitions
07-01-020 Definitions
   A.   "Code" shall mean the California Vehicle Code.
   B.   "Delinquent Penalty" is the amount accessed when a Violation is deemed
to be delinquent as set forth in section
07-01-035.
   C.   "Department" shall mean the California Department of Motor Vehicles.
   D.   "Due Date" shall mean the date specified in the Notice of Toll Evasion
Violation and Notice of Delinquent Toll Evasion Violation by which payment of
the Penalty or written explanation of contest must be received.
   E.   "FasTrak Account" shall mean an account established with any of the
California toll operators to administer the payment of tolls.
   F.   "Metro" means the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority and its subsidiary, the Public Transportation Services Corporation,
and their contractors.
   G.   "Metro ExpressLanes" shall mean the toll facilities on the I- 1 10 and
I- 10.
   H.   “Motorists" shall mean and include the registered owner, rentee, lessee
and driver of a Vehicle.
   I.   "Notice of Delinquent Toll Evasion Violation" shall mean the written
notice provided to the registered owner of a Vehicle when a Penalty has not
been timely received by Metro.
   J.   "Notice of Toll Evasion Violation" shall mean the written notice
provided to the registered owner of a Vehicle which has committed a Violation.
   K.   "Penalty" shall mean the monetary amounts assessed to each toll
Violation, including the unpaid Tolls, the Toll Evasion Penalty and the
Delinquent Penalty, and constitutes a toll evasion penalty under Code section
40252.
   L.   "Processing Agency" shall mean Metro, or the contractor or vendor
designated by Metro, as the party responsible for the processing of the notices
of toll evasion.
   M.   "Repeat Violator" means any registered owner for whom more than 5
Notices of Toll Evasion Violation have been issued in any calendar month within
the preceding 12 month period.
   N.   "Switchable Transponder" shall mean a Transponder with a switch which
allows the motorists to self-declare the number of vehicle occupants.
   O.   "Terms and Conditions" shall mean the obligations of Metro and a
FasTrak customer with regard to the usage and maintenance of a FasTrak Account
as published by Metro from time to time.
   P.   "Toll" shall mean the monetary charges established by Metro for use of
the Metro ExpressLanes.
   Q.   "Toll Evasion Penalty" is the amount accessed under section
07-01-035.
   R.   "Transponder" shall mean a FasTrak electronic device issued by any of
the California toll operators that meets the specifications of California Code
of Regulations Title 2 1 and is used to pay tolls electronically.
   S.   “Vehicle" shall mean any vehicle as defined in Code section 670.
   T.   "Violation" shall mean the commission of any activity proscribed in
sections
07-01-025 and
07-01-030 hereof.
07-01-025 Metro ExpressLanes Usage Requirements
   A.   While traveling in the Metro ExpressLanes, Motorists shall have a
properly mounted transponder associated with a valid FasTrak Account to
facilitate vehicle occupancy validation and the toll collection process.
Motorists traveling in the Metro ExpressLanes with the minimum number of
vehicle occupants to qualify for high occupancy lane use at that time must have
a Switchable Transponder set to the required number of occupants or they will
be charged the posted single occupancy Toll.
   (1)   Metro ExpressLanes users with a Switchable Transponder shall set the
self declaration switch to the actual number of vehicle occupants prior to
travel.
   (2)   Metro ExpressLanes users without a Switchable Transponder will be
charged the posted single occupancy Toll rate.
   (3)   Vehicle occupancy violations, including falsely self- declaring the
vehicle occupancy, are subject to citation by the California Highway Patrol.
   B.   The FasTrak Account associated with the Transponder must have a balance
sufficient to pay the charged Tolls at the time a Vehicle enters the Metro
ExpressLanes.
   C.   Metro ExpressLanes FasTrak accountholders shall adhere to the Terms and
Conditions provided at the time of account opening as updated thereafter with
notification to the account holders.
7-01-030 Liability for Failure to Pay Toll.
   A.   No person shall cause a Vehicle to enter the Metro ExpressLanes without
payment of the Toll for the Vehicle by use of a Transponder, issued by Metro or
any California toll agency, which is associated with a FasTrak Account with a
balance sufficient to pay those Tolls.
   B.   Except as provided herein, the registered owner and the driver, rentee
or lessee of a Vehicle which is the subject of any Violation shall be jointly
and severally liable for the Penalty imposed under this ordinance, unless the
registered owner can demonstrate that the Vehicle was used without the express
or implied consent of the registered owner. Anyone who pays any Penalty
pursuant to this ordinance shall have the right to recover the same from the
driver, rentee or lessee.
   C.   The driver, rentee or lessee of a Vehicle who is not the owner of the
Vehicle may contest the Notice of Toll Evasion Violation in accordance with
this ordinance.
   D.   Any Motorist assessed a Penalty for a Violation shall be deemed to be
charged with a non-criminal, civil violation.
07-01-035 Penalties and Processing of Violation(s).
   A.   The Toll Evasion Penalty for a Violation of this ordinance shall
initially be $25 for each Violation and the Delinquent Penalty shall be an
additional $30 for each unpaid Violation deemed delinquent. These Penalty
amounts, may be increased or decreased by Metro's Chief Executive Officer up to
5% annually provided the calculated amount does not exceed the amount set forth
in Code section 40258(A). Any amendments to the Penalty amounts shall be posted
on the Metro website 90 days in advancement of enactment.
   B.   If a Vehicle is found, by automated devices, by visual observation, or
otherwise, to have evaded tolls on the Metro ExpressLanes, a Notice of Toll
Evasion Violation shall be mailed by first class mail to the registered owner
at the address as shown on the record of the Department within 21 days of the
Violation. If accurate information concerning the identity and address of the
registered owner is not available within 21 days from the Violation, the
Processing Agency shall have an additional 45 calendar days to obtain such
information and forward the Notice of Toll Evasion Violation, provided that
where the registered owner is a Repeat Violator, the Processing Agency shall
forward the Notice of Toll Evasion Violation within 90 calendar days of the
Violation.
07-01-040 Notice of Toll Evasion Violation.
   A.   The Notice of Toll Evasion Violation shall contain (1) the date, time
and location of the alleged Violation, (2) the section of the Code allegedly
violated, (3) the Penalty due for that Violation , (4) the identity and address
of the registered owner, (5) the Vehicle make and license plate number, (6) the
procedure to follow for payment of the amount due, (7) a statement in bold
print that payments may be sent in the mail, (8) the date and time within which
the Penalty must be paid, (9) a clear and concise explanation of the procedures
for filing an affidavit of non-liability in those circumstances set forth in
section
07-01-040 B, C and D and for contesting the alleged Violation and appealing an
adverse decision in accordance with section
07-01-055 and (10) the Due Date, which is also the date by which the written
explanation of contest must be received by Metro
   B.   The Notice of Toll Evasion Violation shall contain, or be accompanied
with, an affidavit of non-liability and information of what constitutes non-
liability, information as to the effect of executing the affidavit, and
instructions for returning the affidavit to the Processing Agency.
   C.   If the affidavit of non-liability is returned to the Processing Agency
within 2 1 days of the issuance of the Notice of Toll Evasion Violation
together with proof that the driver at the time of the Violation did not
possess express or implied consent to drive the Vehicle as evidenced by a
stolen vehicle police report, if the Processing Agency is satisfied that the
registered owner is not responsible for the Violation, the Processing Agency
shall cancel the Notice of Toll Evasion Violation and make an adequate record
of the reasons.
   D.   If the affidavit of non-liability is returned to the Processing Agency
by the Due Date with proof that the registered owner given the Notice of Toll
Evasion Violation has made a bona fide sale or transfer of the Vehicle and has
delivered possession thereof to the purchaser prior to the date of the alleged
Violation and either (1) has complied with section 5602 of the Code, or (2) the
Processing Agency is satisfied with evidence that establishes that the transfer
of ownership and possession of the Vehicle occurred prior to the date of the
alleged Violation, and has obtained verification from the Department, then the
Processing Agency shall terminate proceedings against the originally served
registered owner and proceed against the new owner of the Vehicle.
   E.   If the affidavit of non-liability is returned to the Processing Agency
by the Due Date of the Notice of Toll Evasion Violation together with the proof
of an executed written rental agreement or lease between a bona fide renting or
leasing company and its customer that identifies the rentee or lessee and
provides the driver's license number, name and address of the rentee or lessee,
the Processing Agency shall serve or mail to the rentee or lessee identified in
the affidavit of non-liability a Notice of Toll Evasion Violation.
   F.   If payment of the Penalty is not received by Processing Agency by the
Due Date on the Notice of Toll Evasion Violation, the Processing Agency shall
deliver by first class mail a Notice of Delinquent Toll Evasion Violation.
   G.   If the description of the Vehicle in the Notice of Toll Evasion
Violation does not match the corresponding information on the registration card
for that Vehicle, the Processing Agency may, on written request of the
Motorist, cancel the Notice of Toll Evasion Violation without the necessity of
appearance by that person.
07-01-045 Dismissal of Notice of Toll Evasion Violation.
   A.   If, after a copy of the Notice of Toll Evasion Violation has been sent
to the Motorist, the Processing Agency determines that due to failure of proof
of apparent Violation the Notice of Toll Evasion Violation shall be dismissed,
the Processing Agency shall cancel the Notice of Toll Evasion Violation, and
the Motorist shall be notified by first-class mail.
   B.   If the full amount of the Penalty is received by the person authorized
to receive the payment of the Penalty by the Due Date and there is no contest
as to that Violation, proceedings under this ordinance shall terminate.
   C.   If the registered owner of the Vehicle provides proof to the Processing
Agency that he or she was not the registered owner on the date of the Violation
as set forth in sections
07-01-040 and
07-01-050 proceedings against the notifying party shall terminate. This shall
not limit the right of the Processing Agency to pursue collection of the
delinquent toll evasion Penalty from the person who was the registered owner of
the Vehicle on the date of the alleged Violation.
07-01-050 Notice of Delinquent Toll Evasion Violation
   A.   If the payment of the Penalty is not received by the Processing Agency
by the Due Date on the Notice of Toll Evasion Violation, and there is no
contest as to that Violation as set forth in section
07-01-060, the Processing Agency shall deliver by first-class mail to the
registered owner of the Vehicle a Notice of Delinquent Toll Evasion Violation.
   B.   Metro shall establish a procedure for providing, upon request, a photo-
static copy of the original Notice of Toll Evasion Violation or an
electronically produced facsimile of the original Notice of Toll Evasion
Violation within 15 days of a request. Metro may charge a fee sufficient to
recover the actual costs of providing the copy not to exceed two dollars ($2),
to be established by the Chief Executive Officer of Metro. Until the Processing
Agency complies with a request for a copy of the original notice of Violation,
the Processing Agency may not proceed to collection of amounts covered by such
notice.
   C.   The Notice of Delinquent Toll Evasion Violation shall contain the
information required to be contained in the original Notice of Toll Evasion
Violation and, additionally, shall contain a notice to the registered owner
that, unless the registered owner pays the Penalty, contests the Violation
pursuant to the procedure set forth in the Notice of Toll Evasion Violation, or
completes and returns to the Processing Agency an affidavit of non-liability,
as provided with the Notice of Toll Evasion Violation and in compliance with
section
07-01-045 D, E and F, within 15 days after the mailing of the Notice of
Delinquent Toll Evasion Violation (the Due Date): (1) the Penalty shall be
considered a debt due and owing Metro, (2) the renewal of the Vehicle
registration shall be contingent upon compliance with the Notice of Delinquent
Toll Evasion Violation at Metro's election, and (3) Metro may seek to recover
in any lawful manner, as provided for in section
07-01-075.
   D.   The Notice of Delinquent Toll Evasion Violation shall contain, or be
accompanied with, an affidavit of non-liability and information of what
constitutes non-liability, information as to the effect of executing the
affidavit, and instructions for returning the affidavit to the Processing
Agency.
   E.   If the affidavit of non-liability is returned to the Processing Agency
within 15 days of the mailing of the Notice of Delinquent Toll Evasion
Violation (the Due Date) together with proof that the driver at the time of the
Violation did not possess express or implied consent to drive the Vehicle as
evidenced by a stolen vehicle police report, if the Processing Agency is
satisfied that the registered owner is not responsible for the Violation, the
Processing Agency shall cancel the Notice of Toll Evasion Violation and make an
adequate record of the reasons.
   F.   If the affidavit of non-liability is returned to the Processing Agency
by the Due Date with proof that the registered owner given the Notice of Toll
Evasion Violation has made a bona fide sale or transfer of the Vehicle and has
delivered possession thereof to the purchaser prior to the date of the alleged
Violation and either (1) has complied with section 5602 of the Code, or (2) the
Processing Agency is satisfied with evidence that establishes that the transfer
of ownership and possession of the Vehicle occurred prior to the date of the
alleged Violation, and has obtained verification from the Department, then the
Processing Agency shall terminate proceedings against the originally served
Motorists and proceed against the unauthorized driver at the time of the
Violation, or the new owner of the Vehicle.
   G.   If the affidavit of non-liability is returned to the Processing Agency
within 15 days of the mailing of the Notice of Delinquent Toll Evasion
Violation (the Due Date set forth in the Notice of Delinquent Toll Evasion
Violation) together with the proof of an executed written rental agreement or
lease between a bona fide renting or leasing company and its customer that
identifies the rentee or lessee and provides the driver's license number, name,
and address of the rentee or lessee, the Processing Agency shall mail to the
rentee or lessee identified in the affidavit of non-liability a Notice of
Delinquent Toll Evasion Violation. If payment is not received within 15 days of
such mailing of the Notice of Delinquent Toll Evasion Violation, the Penalty
shall be considered a debt due and owing Metro and Metro may seek to recover in
any lawful manner, as provided for in section
07-01-075, from the rentee or lessee.
07-01-055 Payment After Notice
   A.   If a Motorist who was mailed a Notice of Delinquent Toll Evasion
Violation pursuant to section
07-01-050, or any other person who presents the Notice of Toll Evasion
Violation or Notice of Delinquent Toll Evasion Violation, deposits the Penalty
due with a person authorized to receive it, then the Processing Agency shall
terminate all proceedings where the amount deposited satisfies the amount due.
If the registered owner, by appearance or by mail, makes payment to the
Processing Agency within 15 days of the mailing of the Notice of Delinquent
Toll Evasion Penalty, the Penalty shall consist of the amount of the original
penalty without any additional administrative fees or charges.
   B.   If the Notice of Delinquent Toll Evasion Violation has been filed with
the Department pursuant to subdivision (b) of Code section 40267 or a civil
judgment has been entered pursuant to Code section 40267 and payment of the
Penalty together with the administrative fee of the Department and the
administrative service fee of the Processing Agency for costs of service and
any applicable assessment is received, the Processing Agency shall immediately
transmit the payment information to the Department in the manner prescribed by
the Department, terminate proceeding on the Notice of Delinquent Toll Evasion
Violation.
07-01-060 Contest of Notice of Toll Evasion Violation or Notice of Delinquent
Toll Evasion Violation
   A.   A person may contest a Notice of Toll Evasion Violation or Notice of
Delinquent Toll Evasion Violation within 2 1 days of the issuance of the Notice
of Toll Evasion Violation, or within 15 days of the issuance of the Notice of
Delinquent Toll Evasion Violation, whichever occurs later.
   B.   The Processing Agency shall establish a fair and impartial
investigation process to investigate the circumstance of the notice with
respect to the contestant's written explanation of reasons for contesting a
Violation. The Processing Agency shall investigate with its own records and
staff the circumstances of the notice with respect to the contestant's written
explanation of reasons for contesting the Violation. If based upon the results
of that investigation, the Processing Agency is satisfied that the Violation
did not occur or that the registered owner was not responsible for the
Violation, the Processing Agency shall cancel the Notice of Toll Evasion
Violation or Notice of Delinquent Toll Evasion Violation and make an adequate
record of the reasons for canceling the notice. The Processing Agency shall
mail the results of the investigation to the person who contested the Notice of
Toll Evasion Violation or the Notice of Delinquent Toll Evasion Violation.
   C.   A person who contests a Notice of Toll Evasion Violation or Notice of
Delinquent Toll Evasion Violation and is not satisfied with the results of the
investigation may, within 15 days of the mailing of the results of the
investigation, deposit the amount of the Penalty as set forth in section
07-01-065 D and request an administrative review. An administrative review
shall be held within 90 calendar days following the receipt of the request for
an administrative review accompanied by the required deposit amount. The person
requesting the administrative review may request one continuance, not to exceed
21 calendar days. The person requesting the administrative review shall
indicate to the Processing Agency his or her election for a review by mail or
personal conference.
   D.   The deposit for requesting an administrative review shall be as
follows:
      1)   Except as provided herein, an individual seeking an administrative
review shall deposit the full amount of the Penalty due at the time of the
request.
      2)   For Violations arising out of the same set of operative facts and
belonging to the same registered vehicle owner, the maximum amount of Penalty
required to be deposited shall be (a) $250 or (b) $250 plus 10 percent of
Penalty above $1,000, whichever is greater.
      3)   Individuals unable to pay the required deposit may apply for a
hardship exception.
   E.   If the person requesting an administrative review is a minor, that
person shall be permitted to appear at an administrative review or admit
responsibility for a Violation without the necessity of the appointment of a
guardian. The Processing Agency may proceed against that person in the same
manner as if that person were an adult.
   F.   As evidence of the Violation the Processing Agency shall produce the
Notice of Toll Evasion Violation or a copy thereof, information received from
the Department identifying the registered owner of the Vehicle, and a statement
under penalty of perjury from the person authorized to issue a notice of
Violation that the Tolls or other charges and any applicable fee were not paid
in accordance with Metro's policies. This documentation in proper form shall be
prima facie evidence of the Violation.
   G.   The reviews shall be conducted in accordance with the written
procedures established by the Metro Transit Court which shall ensure a fair and
impartial review of the contested Violations. The Metro Transit Court shall
provide its decision by first-class mail to the contestant. If a notice of
appeal to the California Superior Court is not filed within the period set
forth in section
07-01-070, the decision shall be deemed final.
07-01-065 Hearing Officers.
Metro's Chief Executive Officer shall designate the Metro Transit Court hearing
officers as the hearing officer(s) appointed to conduct administrative reviews.
The hearing officers shall demonstrate the qualifications, training and
objectivity necessary to perform fair and impartial reviews. The hearing
officer's employment, performance evaluation, compensation and benefits shall
not be directly or indirectly linked to the outcome of reviews or the revenue
generated by such reviews. Hearings shall be conducted according to such
written procedures as may be approved from time to time by the Chief Executive
Officer. The hearing shall provide an independent, objective, fair and
impartial review of contested violations.
07-01-070 Appeal to Superior Court.
A person who requests an administrative review and is not satisfied with the
results of the review, may within 20 days after the mailing of the Metro
Transit Court's final decision seek review by filing an appeal to the
California Superior Court, where the case shall be heard de novo, except that
the contents of the Processing Agency's file in the case on appeal shall be
received in evidence. For the purposes of computing the 20-day period, section
101 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure shall be applicable. The Processing Agency
shall admit into evidence as prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein,
a copy of the Notice of Toll Evasion Violation and/or Notice of Delinquent Toll
Evasion Violation. A copy of the notice of appeal shall be served in person or
by first- class mail upon the Processing Agency by the contestant.
Notwithstanding section 72055 of the Government Code, the fee for filing the
notice of appeal shall be $25. If the appellant prevails, this fee, together
with the deposit of the Penalty made by the contestant, shall be promptly
refunded by the Processing Agency in accordance with the judgment of the court.
07-01-075 Collection of Unpaid Penalties
If payment is not received within the time periods set forth herein, and no
contest has been timely filed, or has been resolved, Metro and the Processing
Agency are authorized to proceed under one or more of the following options for
the collection of unpaid Penalties:
   A.   Transmit an itemization of unpaid Penalties with the Department for
collection with the registration of the Vehicle. Metro shall pay the fees
assessed by the Department associated with the recording of the Notice of
Delinquent Toll Evasion Violation and may charge the amount of the fee to the
Motorists to be collected by the Department.
   B.   If more than four hundred dollars ($400) in unpaid Penalties have been
accrued by any person or registered owner, Metro may file proof of that fact
with the Superior Court with the same effect as a civil judgment. Execution may
be levied and other measures may be taken for the collection of the judgment as
are authorized for the collection of any unpaid civil judgments entered against
a defendant in an action on a debt. The court may assess costs against a
judgment debtor to be paid upon satisfaction of the judgment. The Processing
Agency shall mail a notice by first-class mail to the person or registered
owner indicating that a judgment shall be entered for the unpaid Penalties and
that after 30 days from the date of the mailing of the notice, the judgment
shall have the same effect as an entry of judgment against a judgment debtor.
The notice shall include all information required by Code section 40267. The
filing fee and any costs of the collection shall be added to the judgment
amount.
   C.   If the Processing Agency has determined that registration of the
Vehicle has not been renewed for 60 days beyond the renewal date, and the
Penalty has not been collected by the Department pursuant to section 4770 of
the Code, file proof of unpaid Penalties with the court with the same effect as
a civil judgment as provided above, except that if the amount of the unpaid
Penalty is not more than four hundred dollars ($400), the filling fee shall be
collectible by the court from the debtor.
   D.   Contract with a collection agency to collect Penalty amounts.
   E.   Submit a request to the California State Controller for an offset of
unpaid Penalty owing by a Motorist against any amount owing the person or
entity by a claim for a refund from the Franchise Tax Board under Personal
Income Tax Law or the Bank and Corporation Law or from winnings in the
California State Lottery, as authorized by California Government Code section
124 19.10. Metro shall provide notice of intent to request an offset by first-
class mail to the Motorist 30 days prior to the request date.
   F.   Pursue such other remedies and enforcement procedures that are
authorized under the laws of the State of California.
07-01-080 Termination of Proceedings.
The Processing Agency shall terminate proceedings on the Notice of Delinquent
Toll Evasion Violation, in any of the following cases:
   A.   Upon receipt of collected penalties remitted by the Department under
Code section 4772 for that Notice of Delinquent Toll Evasion Violation.
   B.   If the Notice of Delinquent Toll Evasion Violation was returned to the
Processing Agency pursuant to Code section 4774 and five years have elapsed
since the date of the Violation.
   C.   The Processing Agency receives information that the Penalties have been
paid to the Department pursuant to Code section 4772.
07-01-085 Confidentiality
Any information obtained during the enforcement of Violations shall not be used
for any purpose other than to pursue the collection of Violations or process
Tolls.
07-01-090 Other Notices.
Nothing herein shall prohibit Metro or the Processing Agency from establishing
informal methods of notifying Motorists of Violations and from collecting Tolls
and Penalties for Violations through such means.
07-01-95 Implementation.
The Chief Executive Officer of Metro is hereby authorized and directed to
develop procedures, forms, documents and directives which may be necessary to
implement the terms of this ordinance and may delegate his duties and
obligations under this ordinance to the Executive Officer, Congestion Reduction
Initiative or the Chief Hearing Officer.
07-01-100 Severabilitv.
If any term, covenant or condition of this ordinance shall be held by a court
of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable, then the remainder of
this ordinance shall not be affected and each remaining provision shall be
valid and enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law unless any of the
stated purposes of this ordinance would be defeated.
Title 8
Metro Parking Ordinance, Parking Rates and Permit Fees
(Preliminary Note: The ordinance set forth in Chapter 8-01 was originally
enacted as Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority and was
adopted by the Board of Directors on September 24, 2015. It is incorporated
here as enacted, except that, for convenience and consistency, its section
headings and numbering have been revised to conform to the style of this Code.
While the provisions of this ordinance may be cited by the section headings and
numbering used herein, the official ordinance remains that enacted and amended
by the board. The inclusion of this ordinance in this Code is not a reenactment
or an amendment of the original ordinance, and its inclusion in this Code does
not in any way amend its provisions or alter its application.)
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY:
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Administrative Code
Title 8
METRO Parking Ordinance
Chapter 8-01
General
8-01-010 Authority to Regulate
The Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s (“METRO”)
authority to regulate parking, Vehicles (including vehicles other than
automobiles), and traffic upon the driveways, paths, parking facilities or the
grounds of METRO is conferred by section 21113 of the California Vehicle Code
(“CVC”).
8-01-020 Laws and Enforcement on the METRO Property
The California Vehicle Code and the regulations contained within this Title
(Title 8, METRO Parking Ordinance) shall be in effect and will be enforced on
METRO property 24 hours daily, 365 Days a Year, including holidays.
8-01-030 Responsibility for Compliance
Temporary parking on properties owned, leased, financed, contracted, operated
or managed for METRO use is a privilege available only as provided by the
parking policies and regulations of METRO, which reserves unto itself the right
to revoke this privilege at any time because of inappropriate behavior,
violation of any regulation in this ordinance or misuse of parking facilities
or services. METRO reserves the right to establish what are inappropriate
behaviors and the misuse of its property.
The operator of a vehicle on property owned, leased, financed, contracted,
operated and managed for METRO use is responsible for complying with all state,
local or METRO parking and traffic laws, ordinances and regulations and is
subject to established penalties for violations thereof.
If a vehicle operator’s identity cannot be determined, as in the case of a
parked and locked vehicle, the registered owner and driver, rentee, or lessee
of a vehicle cited for any violation of any regulation governing the parking of
a vehicle under this code, under any federal statute or regulation, or under
any ordinance enacted by a local authority shall be jointly liable for parking
penalties imposed under this article, unless the owner can show that the
vehicle was used without the consent of that person, express or implied. An
owner who pays any parking penalty, civil judgment, costs, or administrative
fees pursuant to this Article shall have the right to recover the same from the
driver, rentee, or lessee in accordance with CVC section 40200(b).
By entering onto METRO owned, leased, financed, operated, managed or contracted
for property, the owner of a Vehicle grants METRO the right to examine the
exterior of their vehicle for any legal purpose described herein, including the
authorization to remove or tow the Vehicle from the property.
8-01-040 Fees to be Paid for Parking in METRO Parking Facilities
No Vehicle shall be parked in any METRO parking facilities at any time without
payment of the applicable fee established by the Parking Rates and Permit Fee
Resolution. Except as otherwise provided herein, such fees shall be collected
from all persons desiring to park Vehicles in such facilities, including the
officers and employees of METRO, the state, any public or private firm or
corporation, any municipality, state or federal agency or any public district.
No fee shall be charged to nor collected from any officer or employee of METRO
for the parking of a METRO-owned Vehicle in any METRO parking facility at such
times when such officer or employee is engaged in METRO business.
All parking fees, rates and charges for the use of the facilities shall be
collected in cash or electronic payment from the registered owner, operator or
person in charge of the Vehicle desiring to park. Any person who willfully
fails to pay the fees, rate and charges for use of the METRO parking facilities
after having been given a notice to pay will be considered as violating the
METRO parking ordinance in this Chapter.
No Vehicle may be removed from any METRO parking facility until all fees, rates
and charges have been paid and discharged, except as provided in subsections
(a) of this section:
   a.   In the event that the person operating a Vehicle parked in any METRO
parking facilities attempts to remove the Vehicle from the facility but is
unable to pay all fees, rates and charges due at such time, such person shall,
prior to removing such Vehicle from the facility, be required to sign an
agreement to pay any unpaid fees, rates and charges. A copy of such agreement
shall be given to the person signing the agreement. Such agreement shall set
forth the location of the facility, the date and approximate time that the
vehicle is removed, the name of such person, the vehicle license number, the
registration expiration date, if visible, the last four digits of the Vehicle
identification number, if available, the color of the Vehicle, and, if
possible, the make of the Vehicle. Such agreement shall require payment to
METRO of all unpaid fees, rates and charges, plus an administration fee in an
amount established by resolution of the Board or its designee, no later than
seven days after the agreement is signed, and shall indicate the address to
which payment may be delivered or sent. If full payment is not made within such
seven day period, METRO shall mail a notice of late payment to the vehicle’s
registered owner. Such notice shall require payment to METRO of the unpaid
fees, rates and charges, and administration fee, plus a late payment fee in an
amount established by resolution of the Board, no later than seven days after
the date of such notice. In the event that such amount is not fully paid within
such seven day period, a final notice of late payment, requiring payment of all
owed parking and late fees in an amount established by resolution of the Board,
shall be mailed to the Vehicle’s registered owner. All owed parking fee will be
subject to submit for collection process. The above agreement shall include a
reference to this section.
   b.   Evidence of parking fee payment, such as, but not limited to, parking
permit, tickets, receipt or electronic display devices, is required during
entire parking duration time.
   c.   Prohibition of Selling, Reselling, Leasing or Reserving for
Compensation of Parking Spaces. No person shall sell, resell, lease or reserve
for compensation, or facilitate the selling, reselling, leasing or reserving
for compensation of any METRO owned, leased, financed, contracted, managed and
operated spaces or property without authorization from METRO.
By entering a METRO parking facility and parking a Vehicle in such facility,
the registered owner, operator or person in charge of such Vehicle shall be
deemed to have consented to the provisions of subsections A and B of this
section. Any notices required to be mailed under subsections A and B of this
section, shall be deemed served on the day that they are deposited in the U.S.
mail, first class, postage prepaid. The issuance and review of notices of
parking violation and delinquent parking violation, and the liability for and
payment and collection of parking violation penalties, shall be governed by
sections 40200 et seq. of the CVC and this Chapter.
8-01-050 Parking Facility Use, Designation, and Closure
METRO reserves the right to limit the temporary use of its parking area to
specific Vehicle types as required by facility design or aesthetic
considerations. METRO may change any parking zone designation. METRO may close,
either temporarily or permanently, any parking area. Notice of parking area
changes or closings will be provided whenever practical.
However, failure to give such notice shall not create any liability on the part
of METRO, its directors, officers, employees, agents, representatives, assigns
or successors to any third party.
8-01-060 Liability
The use of a METRO owned, leased, financed, contracted, operated and managed
parking facilities shall not create, simply by the condition of ownership,
management or operation liability or responsibility for damage to any person or
personal property. In addition, such use shall not result in METRO assuming
liability or responsibility for damage, vandalism, theft or fire to any person
or personal property, which may result from the use of parking facilities or
services, or enforcement of laws or regulations.
8-01-070 Parking Policy and Regulation Notification or Changes
Parking policies and regulations are public information and are available
online on METRO’s website at metro.net/parking. Changes in parking policy or
regulation are effective upon approval by the Board of Directors.
Whenever possible, the public will be notified in a timely manner prior to
implementation of changes to METRO’s parking policies and regulations.
8-01-080 Administrative Review of Parking Citation Issuance
A registered owner or operator of a Vehicle who believes a parking citation has
been issued in error or in an improper manner may request an administrative
review of the conditions for issuance of the citation as set forth in section
8-09-020.
8-01-090 Towing Vehicles
METRO is authorized by CVC section 21113 and CVC section 22650 et seq. to
remove Vehicles as set forth below in
Chapter 8-11.
Chapter 8-03
Parking Definitions
Chapter 8-03-010 Definitions
The words or phrases hereinafter in this Chapter are defined in this chapter
and; they shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them unless the
context indicates the contrary.
Accessible Parking Space. “Accessible Parking Space” means any parking space
designated for the exclusive use of a vehicle displaying a special
identification license plate or distinguishing valid placard subject to the
provisions stated in section 22511.5 of the CVC. Accessible parking spaces
shall be marked in accordance with section 22511.7 of the CVC.
Accessible Parking Space Path of Travel. “Accessible Parking Space Path of ”
means any blue cross-hatched path between accessible parking spaces or along
the designated path for which a vehicle operator with disabilities may travel
from an accessible parking space to the accessible entry of a building,
pedestrian area, or METRO transit or rail vehicle.
Agency. “Agency” shall mean METRO or its authorized agent that processes and
issues parking citations and issues notices of delinquent parking violations on
behalf of METRO.
Alley. “Alley” means any highway, as defined in this Chapter, unnamed, and
having a width of less than twenty-five feet, and not provided with a sidewalk
or sidewalks.
Board. “Board” means the METRO Board of Directors.
Bus Loading Zone. “Bus Loading Zone” means the space adjacent to the curb or
edge of a roadway reserved for the exclusive use of buses during the loading
and unloading of passengers.
Chief Executive Officer. “Chief Executive Officer” or “CEO” is the person
designated by the METRO Board of Directors as the CEO of the Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
Commercial Vehicle Loading Zone. “Commercial Vehicle Loading Zone” means that
space adjacent to the curb reserved for the exclusive us of vehicles during the
loading or unloading of passengers and materials marked and designated as
hereinafter provided in this document.
Department of Motor Vehicles. “Department of Motor Vehicles” or “DMV”, or
“Department” for this section shall mean the California Department of Motor
Vehicles.
Enforcement Officer. “Enforcement Officer” shall mean a peace officer as
defined in Chapter 4.5, commencing with section 830 of Title 3 of the
California Penal Code, or the successor statutes thereto, or other issuing
officer that is authorized or contracted by METRO to issue a parking citation.
Hearing Officer. “Hearing Officer” shall mean any qualified individual as set
forth in the CVC section 40215 appointed or contracted by METRO to adjudicate
parking citation contests administratively.
Highway. “Highway” means every way set apart for public travel except bridle
trails and footpaths.
METRO. “METRO” shall mean the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority.
METRO Facility. “METRO Facility” includes all property and equipment, including
rights of way and related tracks, rails, signals, power, fuel, communication
systems, ventilation systems, power plants, cameras, signs, loudspeakers, fare
collectors or registers, sound walls, stations, vacant parcels, bicycle paths,
terminals, platforms, plazas, waiting areas, signs, artwork, storage yards,
depots, repair and maintenance shops, yards, offices, parking areas, parking
lots, facilities, and other real estate or personal property owned or leased by
METRO, used for any METRO activity, or authorized to be located on METRO
property.
METRO Representative. “METRO Representative” shall mean a METRO security
officer, transit operator, or other authorized METRO employee, Board or service
council member, or METRO authorized contractor or entity.
METRO Transit Court. “METRO Transit Court” means the department authorized by
the METRO Board of Directors to conduct parking, fare evasion or similar
hearings and assign penalties for this Chapter.
METRO Vehicle. “METRO Vehicle” means a vehicle owned or operated by METRO.
Operator. “Operator” means any person who is in actual physical control of a
vehicle or streetcar.
Owner of the Vehicle. “Owner of the Vehicle” shall mean that last registered
owner and legal owner of record.
Park. “Park” means to stop or to allow standing any vehicle, whether occupied
or not, vehicle stopped in obedience to official traffic-control devices or by
direction of a police officer are not parked for the purposes of this section.
Parker. “Parker” means any person who holds a valid California driver’s license
and intends to park a validly registered motor vehicle on METRO owned, leased,
financed or contracted for property.
Parking Citation. “Parking Citation” is a notice to the vehicle owner of any
failure to comply with METRO parking regulations or the CVC, municipalities or
county ordinances. A penalty shall be attached to each violation as described
on each violation notice unless otherwise noticed.
Parking Facility. “Parking Facility” includes any covered, enclosed parking
garage, facility, and/or deck, any open air or individually covered parking
space and or a multiple space parking area. Parking facility types include
above grade, below grade or underground, mechanical and automated parking
facilities.
Parking Penalty. “Parking Penalty” includes the fine authorized by law for the
particular violation, any late payment penalties, administrative fees,
assessments, costs of collection as provided by law, and other related fees.
Parking Permit. “Parking Permit” is a non-transferable decal, printed card or
tag, or other form of temporary authorization issued for a specific period of
time by authority of METRO which is authorized to grant to any eligible person
permission to park on METRO owned, leased, financed or contracted property. A
parking permit is valid only when issued to an eligible person who has complied
with all terms of issuance prescribed by METRO and when the permit is properly
displayed.
Parking Space. “Parking Space” is all painted parking stalls located in Parking
Facility that may or may not be marked by a sign, parking meter, and/or other
restrictive designation painted on the ground or lot/facility surface.
Parking Violation. “Parking Violation” means the breach or intrusion of a
vehicle required to comply with any general parking legislation enforced under
the provision of METRO parking regulations or the CVC, municipalities and
county ordinances that warrants the issuance of a parking citation penalty to
the vehicle’s registered owner.
Parkway. “Parkway” means the portion of a highway other than a roadway or a
sidewalk.
Passenger Bus. “Passenger Bus” is any multiple passenger conveyance vehicle
over 20’ long and carrying more than 15 persons or exceeding 6,000 pounds in
gross weight.
Passenger Loading Zone. “Passenger Loading Zone” means that space adjacent to a
curb reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during loading and unloading of
passengers, marked and designated with white paint.
Pedestrian. “Pedestrian” means any person afoot.
Pedestrian Conveyance Device. “Pedestrian Conveyance Device”" includes
skateboards, roller skates, rollerblades, in-line skates, other skating
devices, foot-powered scooters and other similar devices.
Person. “Person” means and includes every individual, firm, government entity
and business entity.
Rail Car. “Rail Car” includes any passenger railway rolling stock that is
designed to carry passengers. This term includes heavy weight, lightweight,
commuter, bi-level or other type of rail industry vehicles.
Registered Owner. “Registered Owner” shall mean the individual or entity whose
name is recorded by the Department of Motor Vehicles as having ownership of a
particular vehicle.
Respondent. “Respondent” shall mean any “operator” or “registered owner” as
defined in this section who contests a parking citation.
Roadway. “Roadway” means that portion of a highway between the regularly
established curb lines or, when no curb exists, that portion improved,
designated, and ordinarily used for vehicular travel and parking. 
Safety Zone. “Safety Zone” means that portion of a roadway reserved for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, marked and designated as hereinafter provided in
this section.
Section. “Section” means a section of the ordinance codified in this Division 1
unless some other ordinance or statute is specifically mentioned.
Sidewalk. “Sidewalk” means that portion of a highway between the curb line or
traversable roadway and the adjacent property lines that dedicate for
pedestrian use.
Street. “Street” means and includes the portion of any public street, road,
highway, freeway, lane, alley, sidewalk, parkway or public place which now
exists or which may hereafter exist within METRO Facilities.
Taxicab. “Taxicab” means any passenger vehicle for hire for the directed
transportation of not more than eight passengers, excluding the driver, at
rates based on the distance, duration or number of trips, or waiting time, or
any combination of such rates.
Taxicab Zone. “Taxicab Zone” means and includes the portion of the street area
designated for the standing or stopping of taxicabs while awaiting employment.
Vehicle. “Vehicle” means every motorized device by which any person or property
is or may be propelled, moved, or drawn upon a highway, excepting a device
moved exclusively by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or
tracks.
Vehicle Operator. “Vehicle Operator” shall mean any individual driving and/or
in possession of a vehicle at the time a citation is issued or the registered
owner of the vehicle.
Violation. “Violation” shall mean any parking, equipment, or other vehicle
violations as established pursuant to state law or METRO ordinances and
administrative code.
Chapter 8-05
Parking Regulations
8-05-010 Parking Activities
Unless otherwise authorized by METRO in writing, METRO owned, leased, financed,
contracted, operated and managed parking facilities shall only be used for
parking, entering and exiting, loading and unloading activities.
8-05-020 Enforcement Practice
Citations will be issued according to the printed and posted regulations as
appropriate. The frequency with which parking citations are issued is dependent
on the nature of the violation and time control restrictions for each of the
various parking zones. METRO is also authorized by CVC section 21113 to remove
vehicles consistent with Chapter 10 (commencing with Section 22650) of Division
11 of the CVC.
8-05-030 Illegal Parking Outside of a Defined Parking Space or Parking Space
Markings
No Vehicle shall be parked or cause to be parked within any parking facility
except between the lines indicating where Vehicles shall be parked and shall
not park any Vehicle as to use or occupy more than one marked parking space.
METRO may install and maintain parking space markings to indicate parking
spaces adjacent to any curb where parking is permitted. When such parking space
markings are placed in the right-of-way, no Vehicle shall be stopped or left
standing other than within the markings of a single space.
8-05-040 Failure to Obey Signs
No person shall fail or refuse to obey or comply with any sign, marking or
device erected, made or placed to indicate and carry out the provisions of this
Chapter.
8-05-050 Exceeding Posted Time Limit
METRO may post signs indicating a maximum parking time limit in a space of lot.
If a vehicle has been parked in an area restricting parking to a specific time
interval, such Vehicle shall not be re-parked in the same spaces, or same lot,
or within a distance of five hundred feet of the place initially parked within
a period of four hours thereafter. Vehicles used for vending or peddling
purposes shall also comply with the provisions of this section.
8-05-060 Temporary No Parking
Whenever METRO finds that traffic congestion, or the disruption of the normal
flow of traffic is likely to result from the operation, stopping, standing or
parking of Vehicles during the holding of public or private special events,
assemblages, gatherings or functions, during construction, alteration, repair,
sweeping, filming or other reasons, METRO may place or cause to be placed
temporary signs prohibiting the operation, stopping, standing or parking of
Vehicles at least seventy-two hours prior to and during the period such
condition exists. In the event of an emergency, METRO may act under this
section without providing the seventy-two-hour notice required herein.
8-05-070 Restricted Parking
Whenever any parking area is assigned for the exclusive use of the occupants of
a facility a person, other than an occupant of the facility shall not park any
vehicle in such parking area. The property owner manager or manager’s designee
responsible for overseeing the parking area may request that a parking
violation be issued by METRO.
8-05-080 Parking Within Marked Bicycle Lane
A vehicle shall not be parked in a bicycle lane except to cross at a permanent
or temporary driveway, or for the purpose of parking a vehicle where parking is
permitted or where the vehicle is disabled.
8-05-090 Illegal Parking in Loading Zone
A Vehicle shall not be stopped for any purpose other than loading or unloading
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on any day except Sunday, or at
such other times as designated by METRO in a place marked as a commercial and
passenger loading zone. Such stop shall not exceed the time it takes to load
and unload passengers or goods for a commercial vehicle. METRO shall place
signs or curb markings to designate areas as commercial loading zones.
Commercial loading zones shall be a minimum of thirty feet and not exceed
forty-eight feet in length, and may be established in a parking meter / pay
station location. Parking meters / pay station spaces shall be enforced during
posted hours when the loading zone is not in effect.
8-05-100 Vehicle Exceeds Load Size Limit
   a.   No person shall park or leave standing in METRO facility and/or lot any
Vehicle having either of the following:
      1.   A manufacturer’s rated load capacity greater than 14,000 lbs; or
      2.   A length in excess of twenty-four (24) feet.
   b.   The following vehicles are hereby exempt from the provisions of this
section:
      1.   Any Vehicles properly displaying a large vehicle permit. Large
Vehicle permits shall be issued for special events. Under any circumstances on
any of the following Vehicles: tour buses, movie, television, or photographic
production Vehicles, limousines, or mobile billboards in accordance with
Chapter 8 of this code.
      2.   Any authorized emergency Vehicle, METRO Transit Security, any
authorized highway work vehicle or any Vehicle used in the construction,
installation, or repair of a utility or public utility in accordance with
sections 22512 and 35702 of the CVC;
      3.   Any Vehicle engaged in loading or unloading;
      4.   Any Vehicle making pickups or deliveries of goods, wares, and
merchandise; and
      5.   Any Vehicle picking up or delivering materials used in the actual or
bona fde repair, alternation, remodeling or construction of any building or
structure for which a building permit or building construction authorization
has been obtained.
   c.   Pursuant to section 40200 et seq., of the CVC, any violation of this
section shall be punishable as a civil penalty in accordance with the
provisions of
Chapter 8-09 of the METRO Administrative Code. Any Vehicle parked or left
standing in violation of this section may be removed in accordance with
provisions of section 22650 et seq. of the CVC.
   d.   Large Vehicle parking permits shall be issued by METRO pursuant to
Metro policies and procedures for the issuance of such permits. Such policies
shall be consistent with the provisions of sections
8-05-010 through 8-05-440 of the METRO Administrative Code.
   e.   The fee for a large Vehicle parking permit shall be according to METRO
fee schedule.
8-05-110 Disconnected Trailer
Parking any trailer or semi-trailer in any METRO facility, while detached from
or attached to a Vehicle is prohibited.
8-05-120 Bus Loading Zones
A Vehicle shall not be parked or stopped from in any METRO owned, leased,
financed, contracted, operated and managed parking facilities in a bus loading
zone. No bus shall stop in any bus loading zone longer than necessary to load
or unload passengers, except at a terminus station.
Appropriate signs or red curb markings or both shall indicate a bus loading
zones. METRO shall place signs or red curb markings or both at locations where
Metro determines appropriate to establish. Unless otherwise specified by METRO
or its designees, such loading zones shall not exceed eighty feet in length.
8-05-130 Illegal Parking in Kiss and Ride Spaces and Passenger Loading Zone
   a.   A Vehicle shall not be parked more than three (3) minutes, or for such
other amount of time as may be indicated on the posted sign, to load and unload
passengers at any designated Kiss and Ride passenger loading and unloading
zone.
   b.   METRO may place curb paint markings with ADA compliance design criteria
including ramps, minimum dimensions, proper signage and level pavement at
locations to make passenger loading feasible.
8-05-140 No Parking – Alley
A Vehicle shall not be parked or stopped in any alley for any other purpose
other than the loading or unloading of passengers or materials, or both. A
Vehicle shall not be stopped for the loading or unloading of passengers for
more than three minutes nor for the loading or unloading of materials for more
than twenty minutes at any time in any alley.
8-05-150 Illegal Parking in Red Zones
A Vehicle shall not be stopped, parked or otherwise left standing, whether
attended or unattended, except in compliance with a traffic sign or signal or
direction of an authorized enforcement officer, between a safety zone and the
adjacent right hand curb or within the area between the zone and the curb as
may be indicated by a sign or red paint on the curb, where a sign or paint was
erected METRO owned, leased, financed, contracted, operated and managed parking
facilities. Violating vehicle(s) will be towed at the registered owner’s
expense.
8-05-160 Vehicle Parked Seventy-Two (72) or More Hours
Any vehicle observed parked or left standing longer than seventy-two (72)
consecutive hours without authorized permit in the same location may be cited.
Any Vehicle parked longer than seventy-two (72) hours must obtain permission in
advance from METRO.
8-05-170 Parking on Grades
When METRO has placed or caused to be placed appropriate signs, a Vehicle shall
not be parked upon any grade of six percent or more within any METRO facilities
without turning the wheels of the Vehicle toward the curb while parked facing
downhill and turning the wheels of the Vehicle away from the curb while the
Vehicle is parked facing an uphill grade.
8-05-180 Angled Parking
Whenever the width of a parking lot, parking bay, parking facility, travel
lane, and traffic conditions are such that the parking of Vehicles at an angle
to the curb instead of parallel to the curb will not impede traffic flow, and
where there is need for the additional parking spaces which parking at an angle
will provide, METRO shall indicate at what angle Vehicles shall be parked by
placing parallel white lanes on the surface of the roadway. An operator shall
not stop, stand, or park any Vehicle except between, at the angle indicated by,
and parallel to both such adjacent white lines, with the nearest wheel not more
than one foot from the curb.
8-05-190 Double Parking
Vehicle shall not be parked on the roadway side of another Vehicle that is
stopped, parked or standing at the curb or edge of the public right-of-way,
whether attended or unattended. Violating Vehicle(s) will be towed on
registered owner’s expense immediately.
Authorized emergency vehicles exempt from this section may display flashing or
revolving amber warning lights when engaged in the enforcement of parking and
traffic policies.
8-05-200 No Parking Anytime/Posted Hours
Whenever the parking of Vehicles at all or certain hours of the day upon any
portion of METRO Parking Facilities, travel lanes, or alleys which are open for
public constitutes a traffic hazard or impedes the free flow of traffic, or
both, METRO shall erect signs stating that parking is prohibited at all or
certain hours of the day.
8-05-210 Wrong Side Two Way Traffic or Roadway
A Vehicle shall not be parked, whether attended or unattended, regardless of
loading or unloading in the public right-of-way within METRO facilities, or
other transit/rail/park-n-ride facilities in such a manner where the Vehicle is
parked in the direction of opposing traffic. Violating Vehicle(s) will be towed
at registered owner’s expense immediately.
8-05-220 Blocking Street or Access
A Vehicle shall not be parked, whether attended or unattended, upon any traffic
or travel lane, or alley where the roadway is bordered by adjacent curbs which
is open to the public, whether bordered by curbs or not, unless no less than
eight feet of the width of the paved or improved or main traveled portion of
such traffic, travel lane or alley opposite such parked Vehicle is left clear
or unobstructed for the free passage of other Vehicles. Violating Vehicle(s)
will be towed at registered owner’s expense immediately.
8-05-230 Parking Special Hazard
At any place for a distance not to exceed one hundred feet where METRO finds
that parking would unduly hamper the free flow of traffic, resulting in a
special traffic hazard, or endanger public health or safety, METRO shall place
appropriate signs or markings prohibiting such parking.
8-05-240 Illegal Parking at Fire Hydrant
A Vehicle shall not be parked within fifteen feet of a fire hydrant along any
unmarked curb or in front of or as prohibited by section 22514 of the CVC or by
any other state law. Violating Vehicle(s) will be towed at registered owner’s
expense.
8-05-250 Illegal Parking at Assigned / Reserved Spaces
Whenever any Vehicle parking space is assigned for the exclusive use of the
occupant of any building, whether residential, commercial or industrial, which
parking space is within such building or elsewhere, and at, in or near such
parking space there is a legible sign stating either that such space is
exclusively assigned, or that parking is prohibited, or both, a person, other
than the person to whom such parking space is assigned, shall not park any
Vehicle in such parking space except with the permission of the person to whom
such parking space is assigned.
8-05-260 Illegal Parking at Taxicab Stands
The use of taxicab stand or stands shall be limited exclusively to Vehicles
that display a taxicab vehicle permit by METRO pursuant to Chapter 8 and
attended by a driver in possession of a valid taxi drivers permit issued by the
METRO. No person shall park, stop, or stand any attended or unattended vehicle
in METRO taxicab stand except as provided in this section.
8-05-270 Illegal Parking at/ adjacent to a Landscape Island or Planter
A Vehicle shall not be stopped, parked or otherwise left standing whether
attended or unattended except in compliance with a traffic sign or signal or
direction of a police officer, at or adjacent to a Landscape Island or Planter.
8-05-280 Transient, Daily or Preferred Monthly Parking Permits
Parking permits for transient, daily and monthly parking shall be issued by
METRO. METRO shall be responsible for establishing policies, administering
procedures and disseminating information regarding the distribution of parking
permits for parking in METRO Parking Facilities.
Preferred Parking is an optional program that secures a patron a parking space
prior to a specified time according to signage. All spaces become available to
the public after the specified time according to signage. Spaces are available
on a first come first serve basis.
   a.   The number of permits to be issued shall be determined by the parking
demand and conditions within each Parking Facility.
   b.   Parking permits shall not be issued to any person who has outstanding
parking citations.
Permittee shall obey all rules of the parking permit program. Failure to obey
such rules may result in the termination or denial of a permit.
8-05-290 Posting Signs in Preferred Permit Parking Area
   a.   METRO shall cause appropriate signs to be erected in parking
facilities, indicating prominently thereon the parking limitation, period for
its application, and motor Vehicles with valid permits shall be exempt from the
limitations.
   b.   If preferred permit parking is allowed in partial areas of a parking
lot or parking facility, signs shall be posted only on the selected spaces or
portions of a parking lot or parking facility within the prescribed METRO
Facility.
   c.   A parking permit shall not guarantee or reserve to the holder thereof a
parking space within a parking lot or parking facility.
   d.   A motor Vehicle on which a valid permit is displayed shall be permitted
to stand or be parked in the authorized parking lot or parking facility or
designated area within the parking lot or parking facility within the limits of
the parking permit program. Except as provided below, all Vehicles parking
within a permit designated area or parking lot or parking facility shall be
subject to the parking restrictions and penalties as provided in this Chapter.
8-05-300 Exemption of Certain Vehicles to Permit Restrictions
No person shall, without a permit therefor, park or leave standing any vehicle
or trailer in a designated parking permit area or parking lot and parking
facility in excess of the parking restrictions authorized pursuant to this
Chapter, except for the following:
   a.   Repair, maintenance, refuel, utility, fuel or delivery vehicle
providing services to METRO within the METRO facility with METRO’s prior
written consent.
   b.   Emergency Vehicles
8-05-310 Permit Penalty Provisions
   a.   Unless exempted by the provisions of this Chapter, no person shall
stand or park a motor Vehicle in any designated permit parking area or parking
lot or parking facility established pursuant to this Chapter. A violation of
this section shall result in the revocation of the parking permit and rights in
any METRO parking facilities, which is also punishable by an administrative
fine established by the Parking Rates and Permit Fee Resolution adopted by the
METRO Board. METRO also reserves the rights to refer the case to local law
enforcement.
   b.   No person shall copy, produce or create facsimile or counterfeit a
parking permit, nor shall any person use or display a counterfeited parking
permit.
   c.   Permit holders shall report to METRO a lost, stolen or missing permit
within five days of loss, at which time that permit shall be canceled and a new
permit issued for the full face value of the parking permit. No pro-ration or
refund requests will be accepted.
   d.   No person shall misuse a permit or display a stolen permit.
   e.   No person who has been issued a parking permit for a specific
designated area, lot or facility shall use the permit in another area, lot or
facility.
   f.   No person shall alter, deface, or intentionally conceal an expiration
date on the face of a parking permit which is displayed in a Vehicle parked on
a METRO Facility.
   g.   Violation of this sub-Chapter may be subject to parking privileges and
permit to be immediately revoked.
8-05-320 Expired Meter or Pay Station
   a.   Deposit of Fees Required. A person shall be required to deposit the
proper fee for occupying a parking metered /pay station space at a charge set
in METRO’s fee resolution during the posted hours and days of operation.  
   b.   Parking Lot Requirements when Meters or Pay Station Installed.   A
person shall not park any Vehicle on any parking lot, parking facility or
public right of way maintained or operated by METRO on which a parking meter or
multi-space pay machine is installed at any time without paying the posted and
adopted parking fees.
8-05-330 Parking Facilities Cleaning, Maintenance and Capital Projects
No vehicular parking shall be permitted at specific locations in any parking
facilities during posted hours to allow for routine cleaning, maintenance and
capital project implementation.
8-05-340 Electric Vehicle Parking Spaces
METRO has established Electric Vehicle (EV) Charging Station Spaces in Parking
Facilities for use by electric Vehicles. No person shall park or leave standing
vehicles in EV spaces except as follows:
   a.   EV spaces must be signed or marked for EV charging purposes only.
   b.   Electric Vehicles must be actively charging when parking in EV Charging
Station Spaces.
   c.   Non-Electric Vehicles shall not park in EV Charging Station Spaces at
any time.
   d.   Electric Vehicles may only use designated EV Charging Station Spaces
for charging vehicles. No other source of vehicle charging will be allowed at
METRO facilities.
When not charging, Electric Vehicles may park in any designated parking space
at METRO facilities.
8-05-350 Parking on Sidewalk/ Parkway
No vehicular parking shall be permitted on any portion of a sidewalk, nor shall
any portion of a Vehicle be parked in such a manner to overhang or encroach
onto any portion of the sidewalk or parkway. Violating Vehicle(s) will be towed
at registered owner’s expense immediately. Metro is authorized by CVC section
21113 and CVC section 22651 to remove a vehicle found to have been parked in
violation.
8-05-360 Areas Adjacent to Schools
Whenever METRO finds that parking on Metro property adjacent to any school
property would unduly hamper the free flow of traffic or otherwise constitute a
traffic hazard, appropriate signs or markings prohibiting such parking on METRO
property shall be posted.
8-05-370 Peak Hour Traffic Zones
Whenever METRO finds that traffic congestion is such that the movement or flow
of traffic may be improved by the elimination of parking on Metro property
during certain peak travel times, signs prohibiting the stopping, standing or
parking of vehicles shall be posted. No Vehicle shall park or be left standing
a Vehicle where a sign indicating a peak hour traffic zone has been posted.
Vehicles in violation shall be cited and/or towed whenever the parking of
Vehicles constitutes a traffic hazard or impedes the free flow of traffic, or
both.
8-05-380 Parking Prohibition for Vehicles Over Six Feet High, Near
Intersections
Whenever METRO finds that the parking of Vehicles, with a height of six feet or
more, within one hundred feet of an intersection, creates a visibility
limitation resulting in a potential traffic hazard, METRO shall erect signs or
markings stating that the parking of Vehicles with a height of six feet or more
is prohibited within one hundred feet of an intersection.
8-05-390 Interim Parking Regulations
METRO can temporarily waive existing or establish new parking regulations in
order to accommodate or to mitigate the impacts of construction projects in the
vicinity of the parking lot and parking facility.
8-05-400 Car Share or Vanpool Authorization Required
No Vehicle shall be stopped, parked or left standing any Vehicle in a place or
a parking space designated for the exclusive parking of Car Share or Vanpool
vehicles participating in the METRO Car Share or Vanpool Program, unless the
vehicle obtained authorization as a METRO Car Share or Vanpool Program
participant and registered as direct by METRO.
8-05-410 Speed Limit
METRO speed limit is five (5) miles per hour in all parking areas, access roads
and drives unless otherwise posted.
8-05-420 Motor Vehicle Access
Operating a motor Vehicle on sidewalks, mall, lawns, or any surface not
specifically designated as a road, street, highway or driveway is prohibited.
8-05-430 Penalty for Non-Compliance
Unless exempted by the provisions of this part, no Vehicle shall be parked in
violation of any parking restrictions established pursuant to this section.
Except as provided in Chapter
8-05-100 paragraph (b), a violation of this section may result in the
revocation of the parking permit and rights at any METRO parking facilities,
which is also punishable by METRO’s administrative fine schedule for parking
violations. METRO may also refer the case to the local law enforcement. Any
Vehicle with more than three (3) outstanding parking citations will be towed
away at the registered owner’s expense. All administrative fines and penalties
must be paid and obtain applicable law enforcement agency clearance prior to
release of the towed Vehicle in addition to two fees.
8-05-440 Accessible Parking Spaces Designated for Vehicle Operators with
Disabilities
Parking in accessible spaces designated for vehicle operators with disability
is restricted to those individuals who have secured an authorized disabled
license plate or disabled placard pursuant to CVC section 5007, 22511.55 or
22511.59 that is currently in effect. No Vehicle shall be stopped, parked or
left standing in a parking stall or space in a METRO facility that has been
designated as parking for vehicle operators with a disability in the manner
required by CVC section 22507.8. In order for a vehicle to be parked in a
designated accessible parking space, disabled parking placards must not be
expired and must be properly displayed. Parking is prohibited in any area
adjacent to a parking stall or space designated for disabled persons or
disabled veterans that is marked by crosshatched lines or space identified as
for the loading and unloading of Vehicles parked in such stall or space.
Vehicle operators with a disability are not exempt from the payment of fees for
parking a vehicle on METRO facility. METRO reserves the right to adopt or amend
the disabled parking pricing policy at all METRO facility. However, Vehicle
operators with a disability shall not be charged more than the established
parking fees listed for all parking spaces. Valid out of state disabled
placards will be accepted at parking facilities.
The number and dimension of accessible parking spaces and van- accessible
parking spaces are determined by ADA guidelines and specifications.
Chapter 8-07
Vehicles Other Than Automobiles
8-07-010 Authority to Create Vehicle Regulations
The METRO Board of Directors is authorized pursuant to section 21113 of the CVC
to set forth conditions and regulations pertaining to the operation and parking
of Vehicles, bicycles and pedestrian conveyance devices upon METRO property.
All rules and regulations of the CVC shall apply to Vehicles, bicycles and
pedestrian conveyance devices operated on METRO Facilities. All Vehicles and
bicycles must meet the equipment requirements of the CVC, including brakes,
lights and reflectors.
8-07-020 Enforcement
This Chapter may be enforced by verbal or written warnings, administrative
citations, fines vehicle towing and suspension or expulsion from Metro
Facilities. Violations by METRO employees may also result in corrective or
disciplinary action. Any appeal arising from the enforcement of this Chapter
should be reported to METRO Transit Court, or as otherwise directed.
8-07-030 Parking Bicycles at METRO Facilities
   1.   Parking Bicycles
      a.   Bicycles may be left, parked or stored on METRO Facilities only in
areas designed for bicycle parking. These areas are: bike racks, bike lockers,
or enclosed rooms with controlled access, or where signage designates the space
as a bicycle parking area. However, METRO shall not be liable for any loss,
theft, fire or damage of a bicycle or any personal property attached thereto
for any bicycle left, parked or stored on METRO Facilities, regardless of
whether the bicycle was in an area designated for bicycle parking.
      b.   Bicycles parked in designated parking areas may not extend into the
landscape. Bicycles may not be parked anywhere that interferes with the
maintenance of landscaped or lawn areas or blocks any road or passageway.
   2.   Removal of Bicycles
      a.   METRO may cause bicycles to be removed under any of the following
circumstances:
         •   Is secured to any item other than a bicycle rack designed for
parking bicycles.
         •   Prevents use of available Vehicle parking spaces.
         •   Poses a hazard or impedes pedestrian access.
         •   Has been reported stolen and verified by the Agency.
         •   Appears to be abandoned. A bicycle is considered abandoned if it
remains in the same position for more than 72 hours and shows signs of
intentional neglect. Signs included, but not limited to, deflated tires,
missing wheels, and other parts.
      b.   If a locking device must be detached to remove a bicycle, METRO may
remove the securing mechanism, using whatever reasonable means are necessary.
METRO is not responsible for any damage to the locking device or for its
replacement.
      c.   METRO or METRO authorized enforcement agencies’ personnel may attach
on to an abandoned bicycle a notice identifying the condition of the bicycle
and the removal date.
      d.   Removed bicycles may be recovered with proof of ownership after
required fees are paid within 30 days; before they are released.
      e.   Removed bicycles are held for a minimum of 30 days, after which time
the bicycle owner is presumed to have relinquished legal title; these bicycles
are disposed of in accordance with METRO policy.
8-07-040 Parking of Motorized Bicycles, Motorcycles and Mopeds
   1.   Motorized bicycles, motorcycles and mopeds must obtain permission,
display a valid parking permit when parking on METRO Facilities to the same
extent as a vehicle would be required.
   2.   Motorized bicycles, motorcycles and mopeds shall be parked only in
designated area of parking facilities.
   3.   Motorized bicycles, motorcycles and mopeds shall not be operated on
bicycle pathways or sidewalk.
motorized bicycles, motorcycles and mopeds may be cited or towed for the same
reasons as automobiles in violation of any regulations stated in this
ordinance.
Chapter 8-09
Parking Citations
This Chapter shall be known as the “Parking Citation Processing Ordinance” of
METRO.
8-09-010 Authority to Contract with Outside Agencies
METRO may issue and/or process parking citations and notices of delinquent
parking violations, or it may enter into a contract with a private parking
citation Agency, or with another city, county, or other public issuing or
Agency.
Any contract entered into pursuant to this section shall provide for monthly
distribution of amounts collected between the parties, except amounts payable
to the County pursuant to Chapter 09 (commencing with section 76000) of Title 8
of the California Government Code, or the successor statutes thereto, and
amounts payable to the METRO pursuant to CVC section 4763 or the successor
statute thereto.
METRO’s Board of Directors or Chief Executive Officer shall designate the
officers, employees or law enforcement contractors who shall be authorized to
issue notices of violation and citation and any requisite training for such
persons.
8-09-020 Appeal Review Process
The Agency may review appeals or other objections to a parking citation
pursuant to the procedures set forth in METRO’s Administrative Code.
   a.   A Person who violates any provision of the Title 8 may, within twenty-
one (21) days of the issuance of such notice of violation, request an initial
review of the notice of violation by METRO. The request for review may be made
in writing, by telephone or in person. There shall be no charge for this
review. If following the initial review METRO is satisfied that the violation
did not occur, or that extenuating circumstances exist, and that the dismissal
of the notice of violation is appropriate in the interest of justice, METRO may
cancel the notice of violation. METRO shall notify, the person requesting the
review of the results of the initial review. If the notice of violation is not
dismissed, reasons shall be provided for the denial. Notice of the results of
the review shall be deemed to have been received by the person who requested
the initial review within five (5) working days following the mailing of the
decision by METRO.
   b.   If the Person subject to the notice of violation is not satisfied with
the result of the initial review, the Person may no later than twenty-one (21)
days following the mailing of the initial review decision request an
administrative hearing of the violation. The request may be made by telephone,
in person, or by mail. The person requesting the administrative hearing shall
deposit with METRO the amount due under the notice of violation for which the
administrative review hearing is requested. A person may request administrative
review without payment of the amount due upon providing METRO with satisfactory
evidence of an inability to pay the amount due. An administrative hearing shall
be held within ninety (90) days of the receipt of request for an administrative
hearing.
   If the Person prevails at the administrative hearing, the full amount of the
parking penalty deposited shall be refunded.
   c.   The administrative hearing shall consist of the following:
      1.   The person requesting the hearing shall have the choice of a hearing
in person or by mail. An in person hearing shall be held within the
jurisdiction of METRO, and shall be conducted according to such written
procedures as may from time to time be approved by the Chief Executive Officer
of METRO or the Chief Hearing Officer. The hearing shall provide an
independent, objective, fair and impartial review of the contested violations.
METRO will provide an interpreter for the hearing if necessary.
      2.   The hearing shall be conducted before a hearing officer designated
to conduct the review by METRO’s Chief Executive Officer or Chief Hearing
Officer. In addition, to any other requirements of employment the hearing
officer shall demonstrate those qualifications, training, and objectivity as
are necessary and consistent with the duties and responsibilities of the
position as determined by METRO’s Chief Executive Officer or Chief Hearing
Officer.
      3.   The person who issued the notice of violation shall not be required
to participate in an administrative hearing. The issuing Agency shall not be
required to produce any evidence other than the parking citation or copy
thereof, photographs taken by citation issuing equipment at the time of the
citation (date and time stamped), and information received from the department
identifying the registered owner of the vehicle. This documentation in proper
form shall be the prima facie evidence of the violation.
      The hearing officer’s decision following the administrative hearing may
be delivered personally by the hearing officer or may be sent by first class
mail.
      4.   The hearing officer’s decision at administrative review is final
except as otherwise provided by law.
      If the contestant is not the registered owner of the vehicle, all notices
to the contestant required under this section shall also be given to the
registered owner by first-class mail.
8-09-030 Procedures of Parking Citations Issuance
Parking citations shall be issued in accordance with the following procedures:
   a.   If a Vehicle is unattended at the time that the parking citation is
issued for a parking violation, the issuing officer shall securely attach to
the Vehicle the parking citation setting forth the violation, including
reference to the section of the CVC, the METRO Administrative Code or other
parking regulation in the adopted ordinance violated; the date; the approximate
time of the violation; the location of the violation; a statement printed on
the notice indicating that payment is required to be made not later than
twenty-one (21) calendar days from the date of issuance of the parking
citation; and the date by which the operation is to deposit the parking penalty
or contest the parking citation pursuant to section
8-09-050. The citation shall state the amount of the parking penalty and the
address of the agent authorized to receive deposit of the parking penalty.
The parking citation shall also set forth the Vehicle license number and
registration expiration date, if such date is readable; the last four digits of
the vehicle identification number, if the number is readable through the
windshield; the color of the vehicle; and, if possible, the make of the
vehicle.
The parking citation or copy thereof shall be considered a record kept in the
ordinary course of business of the issuing agency and the agency, and shall be
prima facie evidence of the facts contained therein.
   a.   The parking citation shall be served by attaching it to the Vehicle
either under the windshield wiper or in another conspicuous place upon the
Vehicle so as to be easily observed by the person in charge of the Vehicle upon
the return of that person.
   b.   Once the parking citation is prepared and attached to the Vehicle
pursuant to paragraph (a), above, the issuing officer shall file notice of the
parking violation with the Agency.
   c.   If during issuance of the parking citation, without regard to whether
the Vehicle was initially attended or unattended, the vehicle is driven away
prior to attaching the parking citation to the Vehicle, the issuing officer
shall file the notice with the Agency. The Agency shall mail, within fifteen
(15) calendar days of issuance of the parking citation, a copy of the parking
citation to the registered owner of the Vehicle.
   d.   If within twenty-one (21) calendar days after the parking citation is
issued, the issuing agency or the issuing officer determines that, in the
interests of justice, the parking citation should be canceled, the issuing
agency shall cancel the citation, or, if the issuing agency has contracted with
the agency, shall notify the agency to cancel the parking citation. The reason
for the cancellation shall be set forth in writing.
   e.   If after the copy of the notice of parking violation is attached to the
Vehicle, the issuing officer determines that there is incorrect data on the
notice, including but not limited to the date or time, the issuing officer may
indicate in writing, on a form attached to the original notice, the necessary
correction to allow for the timely entry of the notice on the agency’s data
system. A copy of the correction shall be mailed to the registered owner of the
Vehicle.
Under no circumstances shall a personal relationship with any public official,
officer, issuing officer, or law enforcement Agency be grounds for cancellation
of a citation. Initial Review and Hearing shall only be candidates by a Person
who has no close personal or financial relationship with the Person cited.
   f.   If an agency makes a finding that there are grounds for cancellation as
set forth in the METRO Administrative Code, or pursuant to any other basis
provided by law, then the finding or findings shall be fled with the agency,
and the parking citation shall be canceled pursuant to subsection (c)(3) of
section
8-09-120.
8-09-040 Parking Administrative Penalties
   a.   Administrative penalties shall initially be established by resolution
of the METRO Board and amended throughout to the extent delegated to the Chief
Executive Officer or Chief Hearing Officer.
   b.   Administrative penalties received by Metro shall accrue to the benefit
of METRO.
8-09-050 Parking Penalties Received by Date Fixed – No Contest / Request to
Contest
If the parking penalty is received by the Agency and there is not contest by
the date fixed on the parking citation, all proceedings as to the parking
citation shall terminate.
If the operator contests the parking citation, the Agency shall proceed in
accordance with section
8-09-020.
8-09-060 Parking Penalties Not Received by Date Fixed
If payment of the parking penalty is not received by METRO by the date fixed on
the parking citation, the agency shall deliver to the registered owner a notice
of delinquent parking violation pursuant to section
8-09-110.
Delivery of a notice of delinquent parking violation may be made by personal
service or by first class mail addressed to the registered owner of the Vehicle
as shown on the records of the department.
8-09-070 Notice of Delinquent Parking Violation – Contents
The notice of delinquent parking violation shall contain the information
required to be included in a parking citation pursuant to section
8-09-030. The notice of delinquent parking violation shall also contain a
notice to the registered owner that, unless the registered owner: (a) pays the
parking penalty or contests the citation within twenty-one calendar days from
the date of issuance of the parking citation, or (b) within fourteen calendar
days after the mailing of the notice of delinquent parking violation or
completes and files an affidavit of non-liability that complies with section 8-
09-90 or section
8-09-100, the Vehicle registration shall not be renewed until the parking
penalties have been paid. In addition, the notice of delinquent parking
violation shall contain, or be accompanied by, an affidavit of non- liability
and information of what constitutes non-liability, information as to the effect
of executing an affidavit, and instructions for returning the affidavit to the
issuing agency.
If the parking penalty is paid within twenty-one (21) calendar days from the
issuance of the parking citation or within fourteen (14) calendar days after
the mailing of the notice of delinquent parking violation, no late penalty or
similar fee shall be charged to the registered owner.
8-09-080 Copy of Citation upon Request of Registered Owner
   a.   Within fifteen (15) calendar days of request, made by mail or in
person, the agency shall mail or otherwise provide to the registered owner, or
the registered owner’s agent, who has received a notice of delinquent parking
violation, a copy of the original parking citation.
The issuing agency may charge a fee sufficient to cover the actual cost of
copying and/or locating the original parking citation, not to exceed two
dollars ($2.00) per page. Until the issuing or agency complies with a request
to provide a copy of the parking citation, the agency may not proceed to
immobilize the vehicle merely because the registered owner has received five or
more outstanding parking violations over a period of five or more calendar
days.
   b.   If the description of the vehicle on the parking citation does not
substantially match the corresponding information on the registration card for
that vehicle, the agency shall, on written request of the operator, cancel the
notice of the parking violation.
8-09-090 Affidavit of Non-liability – Leased or Rented Vehicle
A registered owner shall be released from liability for a parking citation if
the registered owner files with the agency an affidavit of non-liability in a
form satisfactory to METRO and such form is returned within thirty (30)
calendar days after the mailing of the notice of delinquent parking violation
together with proof of a written lease or lessee and provides the operator’s
driver’s license number, name and address.
8-09-100 Affidavit of Non-liability – Sale
A registered owner of a Vehicle shall be released from liability for a parking
citation issued to that Vehicle if the registered owner served with a notice of
delinquent parking violation files with the agency, within thirty (30) calendar
days of receipt of the notice of delinquent parking violation, an affidavit of
non-liability together with proof that the registered owner served with a
notice of delinquent parking violation has made a bona fide sale or transfer of
the Vehicle and has delivered possession thereof to the purchaser prior to the
date of the alleged violation. The agency shall obtain verification from the
department that the former owner has complied with the requirements necessary
to release the former owner from liability pursuant to CVC section 5602 or the
successor statute thereto.
If the registered owner has complied with CVC section 5602 or the successor
statute thereto, the agency shall cancel the notice of delinquent parking
violation with respect to the registered owner.
If the registered owner has not complied with the requirement necessary to
release the owner from liability pursuant to CVC section 5602, or the successor
statute thereto, the agency shall inform the registered owner that the citation
must be paid in full or contested pursuant to section
8-09-050. If the registered owner does not comply, the agency shall proceed
pursuant to section
8-09-060.
8-09-110 Collection of Unpaid Parking Penalties
Except as otherwise provided below, the agency shall proceed under subsection
(a) or subsection (b), but not both, in order to collect an unpaid parking
penalty:
   a.   File an itemization of unpaid parking penalties and other related fees
with the California Department of Motor Vehicle collection unit pursuant to CVC
section 4760 or the successor statute thereto.
   b.   If more than four hundred dollars ($400.00) in unpaid parking penalties
and other related fees have been accrued by any one registered owner or the
registered owner’s renter, lessee or sales transferee, proof thereof may be
fled with the court which has the same effect as a civil judgment. Execution
may be levied and such other measures may be taken for the collection of the
judgment as are authorized for the collection of unpaid civil judgments entered
against a defendant in an action against a debtor.
The agency shall send notice by first-class mail to the registered owner or
renter, lessee, or sales transferee indicating that a civil judgment has been
fled and the date that the judgment shall become effective. The notice shall
also indicate the time that execution may be levied against that person’s
assets, that liens may be placed against that person’s property, that the
person’s wages may be garnished, and that other steps may be taken to satisfy
the judgment. The notice shall also state that the agency will terminate the
commencement of a civil judgment proceeding if all parking penalties and other
related fees are paid prior to the date set for hearing. If judgment is
entered, then the Agency may file a writ of execution or an abstract with the
court clerk’s office identifying the means by which the civil judgment is to be
satisfied.
If a judgment is rendered for the agency, that agency may contract with a
collection agency.
The agency shall pay the established first paper civil fling fee at the time an
entry of civil judgment is requested.
   c.   If the registration of the Vehicle has not been renewed for sixty (60)
calendar days beyond the renewal date, and the citation has not been collected
by the department pursuant to CVC section 4760, or the successor statute
thereto, then the agency may file proof of unpaid penalties and fees with the
court which has the same effect as a civil judgment as provided above in
section
8-09-110 (a).
   d.   The agency shall not file a civil judgment with the court relating to a
parking citation fled with the Agency unless the agency has determined that the
registration of the Vehicle has not been renewed for sixty (60) calendar days
beyond the renewal date and the citation has not been collected by the Agency
pursuant to CVC section 4760 or the successor statute thereto.
8-09-120 Obligation of Agency Once Parking Penalty Paid
If the operator or registered owner served with notice of delinquent parking
violation, or any other person who presents the parking citation or notice of
delinquent parking violation, deposits the penalty with the person authorized
to receive it, the agency shall do both of the following:
   1.   Upon request, provide the operator, registered owner, or the registered
owner’s agent with a copy of the citation information presented in the notice
of delinquent parking violation. The agency shall, in turn, obtain and record
in its records the name, address and driver’s license number of the person
actually given the copy of the citation information.
   2.   Determine whether the notice of delinquent parking violation has been
fled with the department or a civil judgment has been entered pursuant to
section
8-09-110 (b).
   a.   If the agency receives full payment of all parking penalties and other
related fees and the agency neither files a notice of delinquent parking
violation nor entered a civil judgment, then all proceedings for that citation
shall cease.
   b.   If a notice of delinquent parking violation has been filed with the
department and has been returned by the department pursuant to the provisions
of the CVC and payment of the parking penalty has been made, along with any
other related fees, then the proceedings for that citation shall cease.
   c.   If the notice of delinquent parking violation has been filed with the
department and has not been returned by the department, and payment of the
parking penalty along with any other fees applied by either the department or
the agency or both have been made, the agency shall do all of the following:
      1.   Deliver a certificate of payment to the operator, or other person
making payment;
      2.   Within five working days transmit payment information to the
department in the manner prescribed by the department;
      3.   Terminate proceedings on the notice of delinquent parking violation;
      4.   Deposit all parking penalties and other fees as required by law.
8-09-130 Deposit of Parking Penalties with METRO
All parking penalties collected, including process services fees and costs
related to civil debt collection, shall be deposited to the account of the
agency, and then remitted to METRO, if METRO is not also the agency.
If METRO is not the agency, then METRO shall enter into an agreement with the
agency for periodic transfer of parking citation receipts, along with a report
setting forth the number of cases processed and the sums received.
8-09-140 Bailment Schedule
METRO shall adopt a penalty schedule for parking violation penalties and
administrative penalties and any necessary additional procedures in furtherance
of enforcement of this Code. The schedule and any procedures deemed necessary
shall be subject to the approval of the Chief Executive Officer. The Schedule
shall be deposited and maintained at all times by the METRO Transit Court for
use and examination by the public.
Chapter 8-11
Removal of Vehicles
8-11-010 Towing and Impounding Vehicles
METRO may remove, tow or impound Vehicles in accordance with CVC section 22650
et seq., including but not limited to Vehicles that:
   a.   Have three or more outstanding (unpaid) METRO parking violations.
   b.   Have five or more outstanding (unpaid) parking violations from any
agency in the State.
   c.   Display lost, stolen, altered, counterfeit, or unauthorized permits.
   d.   Have expired vehicle registration (more than six months).
   e.   Park in tow away zones, such as disabled, reserved and no parking
areas.
   f.   Park in emergency/fire access lanes.
   g.   Park on any surface not specifically marked for parking of motor
vehicles, such as, but not limited to: lawns, open spaces, sidewalks, plazas,
unmarked curbs, roadways, drive aisles, and bikeways.
8-11-020 Post-storage Hearing
   a.   Whenever METRO directs removal of a Vehicle pursuant to this Chapter,
the Vehicle’s registered and legal owners of record, or their agents, will be
provided an opportunity for a post storage hearing to determine the validity of
the storage.
   b.   METRO will mail or personally deliver a notice of the storage to the
registered and legal owners within 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays,
and shall include all of the following information:
      1.   The name, address, and telephone number of the agency providing the
notice.
      2.   The location of the place of storage and description of the vehicle,
which shall include, if available, the name or make, the manufacturer, the
license plate number, and the mileage.
      3.   The authority and purpose for the removal of the vehicle.
      4.   A statement that, in order to receive their post storage hearing,
the owners, or their agents, shall request the hearing in person, writing, or
by telephone within 10 days of the date appearing on the notice.
   c.   The post storage hearing shall be conducted within 48 hours of the
request, excluding weekends and holidays. METRO may authorize its own officer
or employee to conduct the hearing if the hearing officer is not the same
person who directed the storage of the vehicle.
   d.   Failure of either the registered or legal owner, or his or her agent,
to request or to attend a scheduled hearing shall satisfy the post storage
hearing requirement.
RESOLUTION OF THE METRO BOARD
OF LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
ESTABLISHING PARKING RATES AND PERMIT FEES FOR ALL METRO PARKING FACILITIES AND
RESOURCES
WHEREAS, the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Metro)
operates parking facilities throughout the Los Angeles County in the City of
Los Angeles, Pasadena, Long Beach, North Hollywood, Culver City, Norwalk,
Downey, Lynwood, Hawthorne, Inglewood, El Segundo, Redondo Beach, Compton, El
Monte and Gardena. At Metro Blue Line Stations at: Florence, Willowbrook,
Artesia, Del Amo Willow and Wardlow Stations. Metro Gold Line Stations at:
Atlantic, Indiana, Heritage, Lincoln Heights and Sierra Madre and Metro Red
Line Stations at: Universal, North Hollywood and MacArthur Park. Metro Expo
Line Stations at Expo/Crenshaw, La Cienega/Jefferson and Culver City. Metro
Orange Line Stations at: Van Nuys, Sepulveda, Balboa, Reseda, Pierce College,
Canoga, Sherman Way and Chatsworth Stations. Metro Silver Line Stations at:
Slauson, Manchester, Rosecrans, Harbor Freeway, Harbor Gateway Transit Center
and El Monte.
Metro also operates the parking at Los Angeles Union Station.
WHEREAS, Metro has designated preferred parking zones throughout its parking
facilities with parking restrictions to manage parking availability to patrons;
and
WHEREAS, the Metro Board of Directors is authorized to set parking rates and
permit fees, by resolution, at Metro owned, leased, operated, contracted and
managed parking facilities and preferred parking zones; and
WHEREAS, the METRO Chief Executive Officer or its designee is hereby authorized
to establish rate adjustments for special event parking or other special
circumstances that increase parking demand. The METRO CEO is also authorized to
establish parking rates at additional and new rail line extension parking
facilities not included in the current fee resolution. Parking rates at these
additional parking facilities will be established within the current fee
structure and range and based on the demographic location of the facility; and
WHEREAS, adopting the parking rates and permit fees as a means of regulating
the use of all Metro parking facilities and resources will distribute the
parking load more evenly between transit patrons and non-transit users, and
maximize the utility and use of Metro operated parking facilities and
resources, enhance transit ridership and customer service experience, thereby
making parking easier, reducing traffic hazards and congestion, and promoting
the public convenience, safety, and welfare;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF METRO DOES RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION 1.
The parking rates established in this Resolution are effective as of September
24, 2015 at all Metro Parking Facilities.
SECTION 2.
As used in this Resolution, the term “daily” means a consecutive 24-hour period
commencing upon the time of entry of a vehicle into a parking facility.
SECTION 3.
The parking rates listed in this Resolution shall apply to vehicles entering
the specified Metro of-street parking facility for the specified times, and
rates unless a special event is scheduled that is anticipated to increase
traffic and parking demands. If an event is scheduled, the rate may be
determined by Metro with approval of Parking Management staff, which approval
may be granted based on Metro’s best interests. The maximum rate may be set as
either a fat rate per entry or an increased incremental rate based upon time of
entry and duration of parking.
SECTION 4.
The following fees are established at the Metro Florence Blue Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking prior to 11am will require a $25.00 flat rate at designated
preferred parking spaces on a monthly basis.
   b.   Parking prior to 11am will require a $4.00 flat rate at designated
preferred parking spaces on a daily basis.
   c.   After 11am all parking spaces become available to all transit patrons.
   d.   Parking on weekends is free to all transit users.
   e.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 5.
The following fees are established at the Metro Willowbrook Blue Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge seven days a week.
   b.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 6.
The following fees are established at the Metro Artesia Blue Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking prior to 11am will require a $25.00 flat rate at designated
preferred spaces on a monthly basis.
   b.   Parking prior to 11am will require a $4.00 flat rate at designated
preferred parking spaces on a daily basis.
   c.   After 11am all parking spaces become available to all transit patrons.
   d.   Parking on weekends is free to all transit users.
   e.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 7.
The following fees are established at the Metro Del Amo Blue Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking prior to 11am will require a $25.00 flat rate at designated
preferred parking spaces on a monthly basis.
   b.   Parking prior to 11am will require a $4.00 flat rate at designated
preferred parking spaces on a daily basis.
   c.   After 11am all parking spaces become available to all transit patrons.
   d.   Parking on weekends is free to all transit users.
   e.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 8.
The following fees are established at the Metro Wardlow Blue Line Station:
   a.   Parking rates shall be as follows:
   b.   Parking prior to 11am will require a $25.00 fat rate at designated
preferred parking spaces on a monthly basis.
   c.   Parking prior to 11am will require a $4.00 flat rate at designated
preferred parking spaces on a daily basis.
   d.   After 11am all parking spaces become available to all transit patrons.
   e.   Parking on weekends is free to all transit users.
   f.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 9.
The following fees are established at the Metro Willow Blue Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking prior to 11am will require a $25.00 fat rate at designated
preferred parking spaces on a monthly basis.
   b.   Parking prior to 11am will require a $4.00 flat rate at designated
preferred parking spaces on a daily basis.
   c.   After 11am all parking spaces become available to all transit patrons.
   d.   Parking on weekends is free to all transit users.
   e.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 101.
The following fees are established at the Metro Norwalk Green Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge seven days a week.
   b.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 11.
The following fees are established at the Metro Lakewood Green Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge seven days a week.
   b.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 12.
The following fees are established at the Metro Long Beach Green Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge seven days a week.
   b.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 13.
The following fees are established at the Metro Avalon Green Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge seven days a week.
   b.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 14.
The following fees are established at the Metro Harbor Freeway Green Line
Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge seven days a week.
   b.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 1t.
The following fees are established at the Metro Vermont Green Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge seven days a week.
   b.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 16.
The following fees are established at the Metro Crenshaw Green Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge seven days a week.
   b.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 17.
The following fees are established at the Metro Hawthorne Green Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge seven days a week.
   b.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 18.
The following fees are established at the Metro Aviation Green Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge seven days a week.
   b.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 19.
The following fees are established at the Metro El Segundo Green Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge seven days a week.
   b.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 20.
The following fees are established at the Metro Redondo Beach Green Line
Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge seven days a week.
   b.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 21.
The following fees are established at the Metro MacArthur Park Red Line
Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge seven days a week.
   b.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 22.
The following fees are established at the Metro Universal Red Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking prior to 11am will require a $55.00 flat rate at designated
preferred parking spaces on a monthly basis.
   b.   Parking prior to 11am will require a $4.00 flat rate at designated
preferred parking spaces on a daily basis.
   c.   After 11am all parking spaces become available to all transit patrons.
   d.   Parking on weekends is free to all transit users.
   e.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 23.
The following fees are established at the Metro North Hollywood Red Line
Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking prior to 11am will require $59.00 flat rate at designated
preferred parking spaces on a monthly basis.
   b.   Parking prior to 11am will require a $4.00 flat rate at designated
preferred parking spaces on a daily basis.
   c.   After 11am all parking spaces become available to all transit patrons.
   d.   Parking on weekends is free to all transit users.
   e.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 24.
The following fees are established at the Metro Atlantic Gold Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking prior to 11am will require a $29.00 flat rate at designated
preferred parking spaces on a monthly basis.
   b.   Parking prior to 11am will require a $4.00 flat rate at designated
preferred parking spaces on a daily basis.
   c.   After 11am all parking spaces become available to all transit patrons.
   d.   Parking on weekends is free to all transit users.
   e.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 25.
The following fees are established at the Metro Indiana Gold Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking prior to 11am will require a $29.00 flat rate at designated
preferred parking spaces on a monthly basis.
   b.   Parking prior to 11am will require a $4.00 flat rate at designated
preferred parking spaces on a daily basis.
   c.   After 11am all parking spaces become available to all transit patrons.
   d.   Parking on weekends is free to all transit users.
   e.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 26.
The following fees are established at the Metro Lincoln/Cypress Gold Line
Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking prior to 11am will require a $2t.0101 fat rate at designated
preferred parking spaces on a monthly basis.
   b.   Parking prior to 11am will require a $4,.0101 fat rate at designated
preferred parking spaces on a daily basis.
   c.   After 11am all parking spaces become available to all transit patrons.
   d.   Parking on weekends is free to all transit users.
   e.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 27.
The following fees are established at the Metro Heritage Square Gold Line
Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows: $25.00 flat rate at designated preferred
parking spaces on a monthly basis.
   a.   Parking prior to 11am will require a $4.00 flat rate at designated
preferred parking spaces on a daily basis.
   b.   After 11am all parking spaces become available to all transit patrons.
   c.   Parking on weekends is free to all transit users.
   d.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 28.
The following fees are established at the Metro Fillmore Gold Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking will require a $29.00 flat rate at designated preferred parking
spaces on a monthly basis.
   b.   Parking is only available Monday through Friday.
   c.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 29.
The following fees are established at the Metro Sierra Madre Gold Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking prior to 11am will require a $29.00 flat rate at designated
preferred parking spaces on a monthly basis.
   b.   Parking prior to 11am will require a $4.00 flat rate at designated
preferred parking spaces on a daily basis.
   c.   After 11am all parking spaces become available to all transit patrons.
   d.   Parking on weekends is free to all transit users.
   e.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 301.
The following fees are established at the Metro Expo/Crenshaw Expo Line
Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge.
   b.   Parking is only available from Monday at 2 am through Sunday at 2am.
   c.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 31.
The following fees are established at the Metro La Cienega/Jefferson Expo Line
Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge seven days a week.
   b.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 32.
The following fees are established at the Metro Culver City Expo Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge seven days a week.
   b.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 33.
The following fees are established at the Metro Van Nuys Orange Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge seven days a week.
   b.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 34.
The following fees are established at the Metro Sepulveda Orange Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge seven days a week.
   b.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 35.
The following fees are established at the Metro Balboa Orange Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking prior to 11am will require a $20.00 flat rate at designated
preferred parking spaces on a monthly basis.
   b.   Parking prior to 11am will require a $4.00 flat rate at designated
preferred parking spaces on a daily basis.
   c.   After 11am all parking spaces become available to all transit patrons.
   d.   Parking on weekends is free to all transit users.
   e.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 36.
The following fees are established at the Metro Reseda Orange Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge seven days a week.
   b.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 37.
The following fees are established at the Metro Pierce College Orange Line
Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge seven days a week.
   b.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 38.
The following fees are established at the Metro Canoga Orange Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge seven days a week.
   b.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 39.
The following fees are established at the Metro Sherman Way Orange Line
Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge seven days a week.
   b.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 40.
The following fees are established at the Metro El Monte Silver Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge seven days a week.
   b.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 41.
The following fees are established at the Metro Slauson Silver Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge seven days a week.
   b.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 4,2.
The following fees are established at the Metro Manchester Silver Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge seven days a week.
   b.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 43.
The following fees are established at the Metro Rosecrans Silver Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge seven days a week.
   b.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 44.
The following fees are established at the Metro Harbor Gateway Transit Center
Silver Line Station:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Parking is available free of charge seven days a week.
   b.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
SECTION 45.
The following fees are established at Los Angeles Union Station Gateway:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Each 15 minutes is $2.00
   b.   Daily Maximum shall be $8.00 per entry per every 24, hour stay.
   c.   Monthly fees for the general public are $110.00
   d.   Event parking fees can be established based on market rate conditions.
   e.   Special monthly parking rates may be negotiated between Metro and
tenant, government, or business entity.
   f.   Metro is hereby authorized to adjust parking rates at Union Station for
special events in the area based on parking demand.
   g.   Parking is available on a first come first serve basis.
   h.   All rates apply seven days a week.
SECTION 46.
The following fees are established at Los Angeles Union Station West:
Parking rates shall be as follows:
   a.   Monthly fees for parking garage reserved stalls shall be $130.00
   b.   Monthly fees for parking garage tandem spaces shall be $82.50
   c.   Valet parking shall be $20.00
   d.   valet parking for special events shall be $25.00
   e.   Special monthly parking rates may be negotiated between Metro and
tenant, government, or business entity.
   f.   Metro is hereby authorized to adjust parking rates at Union Station for
special events in the area based on parking demand.
SECTION 4,7.
All parking fees and rate structures, including hourly, daily, weekly, and
monthly parking shall be approved and established by resolution of the METRO
Board. METRO Staff shall review and recommend parking fee adjustments to the
METRO Board based on parking demand.
The METRO Chief Executive Officer or its designee is hereby authorized to
establish rate adjustments for special event parking or other special
circumstances that increase parking demand. The METRO CEO is also authorized to
establish parking rates at additional and new rail line extension parking
facilities not included in the current fee resolution. Parking rates at these
additional parking facilities will be established within the current fee
structure and range and based on the demographic location of the facility.
SECTION 48.
The following fees shall be established for all preferred parking zones:
   1.   Initiation fee shall be $7.00
   2.   Replacement of a lost or stolen preferred parking permit shall be
$7.00.
SECTION 49.
Short-term reserved parking may be purchased by phone or by internet web-page.
SECTION 50.
All parking rates and permit fees shall be per vehicle for the specified period
and non-refundable once issued.
SECTION 51.
Parking passes or permits that are issued via access cards shall require
payment of an initial non-refundable fee of $25.00.
SECTION 52.
All parking rates set forth in this Resolution include city’s parking tax if
applicable.
SECTION 53.
The following fees are established for each type of violation:
   1.   Failure to Obey Signs shall be $63.00.
   2.   Non-Parking Activities are Prohibited shall be $63.00
   3.   Vehicles parked longer than seventy-two (72) hours shall be $53.00.
   4.   Temporary No Parking shall be $53.00.
   5.   Illegal Parking Outside of Defined Space or Parking Space Markings
shall be $63.00.
   6.   Parking in a Restricted Parking Space area shall be $38.00.
   7.   Parking within a Marked Bicycle Lanes shall be $48.00.
   8.   Illegal Parking in a Bus Loading Zone shall be $263.00.
   9.   Illegal Parking in a Loading Zone shall be $53.00.
   10.   Illegal Parking in a Commercial Loading Zone shall be $78.00.
   11.   vehicles Exceeding Posted Weight Limits shall be $53.00.
   12.   Parking a Disconnected Trailer shall be $53.00.
   13.   vehicle Parking in Alleys shall be $53.00.
   14.   Illegal Parking in Red Zones shall be $53.00.
   15.   Failure to pay for adopted parking fees at Metro Park and Ride
Facilities shall be $55.00.
   16.   Parking in an Accessible Parking Space without a valid placard or
Authorization and Misuse of the Placard or Parking in a Crosshatched Accessible
Area shall be $338.00.
   17.   Parking on Grades shall be $48.00.
   18.   Angled Parking shall be $48.00.
   19.   Double Parking shall be $53.00.
   20.   No Parking Anytime shall be $53.00.
   21.   Parking on the Wrong Side of the Street shall be $53.00.
   22.   Blocking Street or Access shall be $53.00.
   23.   Improper Parking of a vehicle causing a Special Hazard shall be
$53.00.
   24,.   Parking at/blocking a Fire Hydrant shall be $68.00.
   25.   Parking at Assigned / Reserved Space without a valid permit or
permission shall be $53.00.
   26.   Non Taxi vehicle Parked in a Taxicab Assigned Stand shall be $33.00.
   27.   Parking At/Adjacent to a Landscape Island or Planter shall be $53.00.
   28.   Permit Provisions violation shall be $63.00.
   29.   Expired Meter or Pay Station shall be $53.00.
   30.   Illegal Parking during Facilities Cleaning, Maintenance and Capital
Projects areas $53.00.
   31.   Non Electric vehicle Parked in an Electrical vehicle Assigned Parking
Space shall be $53.00.
   32.   Parking on Sidewalk/Parkway shall be $53.00.
   33.   Parking in Peak Hour Traffic Zones shall be $53.00.
   34.   Parking Prohibited for vehicles over Six (6) Feet High, Near
Intersections shall be $53.00.
   35.   Non Car Share or vanpool vehicle Parked in a Car Share or Vanpool
Assigned Space shall be $53.00.
   36.   Exceeding Posted Speed Limit shall be $35.00.
   37.   Operating a vehicle in a Non-vehicular Access location shall be
$63.00.
   38.   Bicycle Violations shall be $38.00.
   39.   Parking of Motorized Bicycles, Motorcycles and Mopeds violations shall
be $38.00.
SECTION 54.
The Parking Fee Resolution adopted by the Metro Board of Directors on,
September 24, 2015, is repealed as of the effective date of the parking rates
set forth in this Resolution.
SECTION 55.
If there are any conflicts between the parking rates adopted in this Resolution
and any parking rates adopted by prior resolution, the rates adopted in this
Resolution shall take precedence.
SECTION 56.
The Metro Board shall certify to the adoption of this Resolution, which shall
become effective at such time as appropriate signs notifying the public of the
provisions herein have been posted by the Metro Parking Management unit.
