CITY OF MADERA, CALIFORNIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2024 S-50 current through
Ordinance 1010 C.S., passed 6-5-24
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
1.   ADOPTION OF CODE
   
2.   PENALTY PROVISIONS
   
3.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
   
4.   APPEALS
   
5.   CITATION PROCEDURE
   
6.   CLAIMS AGAINST THE CITY
   
7.   JUDICIAL REVIEWS
   
8.   ELECTIONS
   
9.   ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE
CHAPTER 1: ADOPTION OF CODE
Section
   
1-1.01   Title; reference to code
   
1-1.02   Authority
   
1-1.03   Effective date
   
1-1.04   Effect of code on past actions and obligations
   
1-1.05   Reference to specific ordinances
   
1-1.06   Validity of code
   
1-1.07   Repeal of ordinances
   
1-1.08   Maintenance of code
§ 1-1.01 TITLE; REFERENCE TO CODE.
   This code shall be known as the City Municipal Code. It shall be sufficient
to refer to this code as the City Municipal code in any prosecution for the
violation of any provision thereof. It shall also be sufficient to designate
any ordinance adding to, amending, or repealing this code, or portions thereof,
as an addition or amendment to, or a repeal of, the City Municipal code, or a
portion thereof.
('61 Code, § 1-1.01)
§ 1-1.02 AUTHORITY.
   Except as otherwise herein or hereafter provided, this code consists of all
the regulatory, penal, and administrative laws of general application of the
city, codified pursuant to the authority contained in Cal. Gov't Code §
50022.2.
('61 Code, § 1-1.02)
§ 1-1.03 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This code shall take effect upon the effective date of the ordinance
adopting this code by reference.
('61 Code, § 1-1.03)
§ 1-1.04 EFFECT OF CODE ON PAST ACTIONS AND OBLIGATIONS.
   Neither the adoption of this code, nor the repeal hereby of any ordinance of
the city, shall in any manner affect the prosecution for violations of
ordinances, which violations were committed prior to the effective date hereof,
nor be construed as a waiver of any license or penalty at the effective date
due and unpaid under such ordinances, nor be construed as affecting any of the
provisions of such ordinances relating to the collection of any such license or
penalty or the penal provisions applicable to any violation thereof, nor to
affect the validity of any bond or cash deposit in lieu thereof, required to be
posted, filed, or deposited pursuant to any ordinance, and all vested rights
and obligations thereunder appertaining shall continue in full force and
effect.
('61 Code, § 1-1.04)
§ 1-1.05 REFERENCE TO SPECIFIC ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code shall not in any manner affect deposits or other
matters of record which refer to, or are otherwise connected with, ordinances
which are therein specifically designated by number or otherwise and which are
included within this code, but such reference shall be construed to apply to
the corresponding provisions contained within this code.
('61 Code, § 1-1.05)
§ 1-1.06 VALIDITY OF CODE.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this code is for
any reason held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this code. The Council declares that it
would have passed this code and each section, subsection, sentence, clause, and
phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases be declared unconstitutional.
('61 Code, § 1-1.06)
§ 1-1.07 REPEAL OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances or portions of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of
this code are repealed.
('61 Code, § 1-1.07)
§ 1-1.08 MAINTENANCE OF CODE.
   (A)   Not less than three copies of this code shall be filed for use and
examination by the public in the office of the City Clerk. At least three
additional copies, duly certified by the City Clerk, shall be maintained on
file in his or her office as the official copies of the code. Additional copies
of the code shall be distributed to the departments and divisions of the city
as shall be prescribed by the City Administrator.
   (B)   Upon the adoption of any amendment or addition to the code, or upon
the repeal of any of its provisions, the City Clerk shall certify thereto and
shall make an appropriate notation in the official volumes of the code of the
taking of such action, noting thereon the number and date of the ordinance
pursuant to which such action is taken.
   (C)   Duly certified copies of each ordinance making changes in the code
shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk in books for such purpose duly
indexed for ready reference.
   (D)   At least annually the City Clerk shall cause the loose-leaf pages of
the code in which changes have been made to be reproduced, including the
notation as to the ordinance number and date pursuant to which such change is
adopted, and distributed in order that the loose-leaf copies of such code,
prepared for the use and convenience of the officers and employees of the city
and the general public, may be brought up to date.
('61 Code, § 1-1.08)
CHAPTER 2: PENALTY PROVISIONS
Section
   
1-2.01   Violations a misdemeanor
   
1-2.02   Prohibited acts, including causing, permitting, or suffering
   
1-2.03   Imposition of penalty
   
1-2.04   Punishments determined
   
1-2.05   Place of confinement
   
1-2.06   Public works labor by prisoners
   
1-2.07   Police Chief to control prisoner labor
   
1-2.08   Physically unfit and female prisoners
   
1-2.09   Hours of work
   
1-2.10   Security of prisoners
   
1-2.11   Refusal of prisoner to work
§ 1-2.01 VIOLATIONS A MISDEMEANOR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision, or to
fail to comply with any of the requirements, of this code. Any person violating
any of the provisions or failing to comply with any of the mandatory
requirements of this code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person
convicted of a misdemeanor under the provisions of this code shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000, or by imprisonment in the city
jail or the county jail for a period not exceeding six months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment. Each such person shall be guilty of a separate offense
for each and every day during any portion of which any violation of any
provision of this code is committed, continued, or permitted by such person and
shall be punishable accordingly.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties hereinabove provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this code
shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be, by this city, summarily abated,
and each day such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate
offense.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, from and
after June 1, 1981, in accordance with Cal. Gov't Code § 36900, violations of
city ordinances are declared to be infractions, punishable as set forth in Cal.
Gov't Code § 36900, unless specifically designated misdemeanors by any
ordinance amending this code adopted after June 1, 1981.
('61 Code, § 1-2.01) (Ord. 372 C.S., passed 6-1-81; Am. Ord. 744 C.S., passed
1-15-03)
§ 1-2.02 PROHIBITED ACTS, INCLUDING CAUSING, PERMITTING, OR SUFFERING.
   Whenever in this code any act or omission is made unlawful, it shall include
causing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering, or concealing the fact of
such act or omission.
('61 Code, § 1-2.02)
§ 1-2.03 IMPOSITION OF PENALTY.
   The provisions of this code which declare certain crimes to be punishable as
therein mentioned devolve a duty upon the court authorized to pass sentence to
determine and impose the punishment described.
('61 Code, § 1-2.03)
§ 1-2.04 PUNISHMENTS DETERMINED.
   Whenever in this code the punishment for a crime is left undetermined
between certain limits, the punishment to be inflicted in a particular case
must be determined by the court authorized to pass sentence within such limits
as may be prescribed by this code.
('61 Code, § 1-2.04)
§ 1-2.05 PLACE OF CONFINEMENT.
   Every person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this code
and sentenced to imprisonment shall be imprisoned in the city jail or the
county jail.
('61 Code, § 1-2.05)
§ 1-2.06 PUBLIC WORKS LABOR BY PRISONERS.
   All persons imprisoned in the city jail or the county jail upon conviction
in any court of competent jurisdiction resulting from a violation of the
provisions of any ordinance of the city or this code shall be required to work
on public works projects of the city, within or without its corporate limits,
including work on public streets, parks, sewer farms, and airports. This
section shall apply to all such prisoners, whether confined by virtue of a
judgment, a condition of a probationary order, or otherwise, and whether such
confinement results from separate, consecutive, or concurrent sentences or
other orders of imprisonment. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to
inhibit or prevent a court of competent jurisdiction from imposing such other
and further conditions of imprisonment as to it may be necessary and proper,
nor from exempting any person from all or any of the provisions of this
section, as it may deem proper, in any order of probation or suspended sentence
which it may make from time to time.
('61 Code, § 1-2.06) (Ord. 148 N.S., passed - - )
§ 1-2.07 POLICE CHIEF TO CONTROL PRISONER LABOR.
   The work provided for in §
1-2.06 of this chapter shall be a part of the regular governmental discipline
of prisoners confined for violation of city ordinances and shall be under the
direction and control of the Police Chief; provided, however, that the
administration of the provisions of §
1-2.06 and the guarding and supervision of such prisoners may be delegated by
the Police Chief to other members of the Police Department, Constables of the
county, the Sheriff of the county and the Sheriff's deputies and any other
peace officer of the state, whether such local, township, county, or state
officers are regular or special officers. Such prisoners shall be in the
custody of one or more of such officers at all times during the performance of
such work. The Police Chief or such other person to whom the Police Chief may
delegate the duties referred to, is authorized to, and shall, daily, from among
the prisoners so confined, select such number as he or she may deem expedient
for the labor to be performed upon such day and require them to so engage in
the work.
('61 Code, § 1-2.07) (Ord. 148 N.S., passed - - )
§ 1-2.08 PHYSICALLY UNFIT AND FEMALE PRISONERS.
   No prisoner shall be required to work when it manifestly appears that the
prisoner is physically unfit so to do. No female prisoner shall be required to
work unless she is in the custody and under the supervision at all times of a
female officer or deputized matron otherwise meeting the requirements of §
1-2.07 of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 1-2.08) (Ord. 148 N.S., passed - - )
§ 1-2.09 HOURS OF WORK.
   No prisoner shall be required to work longer than eight hours in any one day
or on Saturday afternoons or Sundays, except in case of urgent necessity.
('61 Code, § 1-2.09) (Ord. 148 N.S., passed - - )
§ 1-2.10 SECURITY OF PRISONERS.
   The Police Chief shall procure and use such means as the Police Chief shall
deem necessary for the security of all prisoners engaged in such work under his
or her charge and may prescribe and administer such rules and regulations as
shall be deemed necessary to keep good order among the prisoners, to compel
them to do their work, and to encourage their application to such work,
including a system of credits for good time served, which credits may consist
of a reduction of the time of sentence not to exceed the rate of five days for
each 30 days of time ordered by the court to be served.
('61 Code, § 1-2.10) (Ord. 148 N.S., passed - - )
§ 1-2.11. REFUSAL OF PRISONER TO WORK.
   Any prisoner who is ordered to work and who refuses to work, or who shall
become refractory while so engaged, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
('61 Code, § 1-2.10) (Ord. 148 N.S., passed - - )
CHAPTER 3: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
1-3.01   Construction, provisions governing
   
1-3.02   Provisions construed as restatements and continuations
   
1-3.03   Tenure of officers preserved
   
1-3.04   Headings, effect of
   
1-3.05   Meaning of section and subsection
   
1-3.06   Reference to acts or omissions within the city
   
1-3.07   Acts by deputy
   
1-3.08   Writing
   
1-3.09   Reference applies to amendments
   
1-3.10   Notices, service of
   
1-3.11   Proof of notice
   
1-3.12   Statute of limitations
   
1-3.13   Significance of certain words
§ 1-3.01 CONSTRUCTION, PROVISIONS GOVERNING.
   Unless the provisions of the context otherwise specify, these general
provisions, rules of construction, and definitions shall govern the
construction of this code. The provisions of this code and any proceedings
under it are to be construed with a view to effect its objects and to promote
justice.
('61 Code, § 1-3.01)
§ 1-3.02 PROVISIONS CONSTRUED AS RESTATEMENTS AND CONTINUATIONS.
   The provisions of this code, insofar as they are substantially the same as
existing ordinances relating to the same subject matter, shall be construed as
restatements and continuations and not as new enactments.
('61 Code, § 1-3.02)
§ 1-3.03 TENURE OF OFFICERS PRESERVED.
   All persons who, at the time this code takes effect, hold office under any
of the ordinances repealed by this code, which offices are continued by this
code, shall continue to hold them according to their former tenure.
('61 Code, § 1-3.03)
§ 1-3.04 HEADINGS, EFFECT OF.
   Title, chapter, and section headings contained herein shall not be deemed to
govern, limit, modify, or in any manner affect the scope, meaning, or intent of
the provisions of any title, chapter, or section hereof.
('61 Code, § 1-3.04)
§ 1-3.05 MEANING OF SECTION AND SUBSECTION.
   SECTION means a section of this code, unless some other source is
specifically mentioned. SUBSECTION means a subsection of the section in which
the term occurs unless some other section is expressly mentioned.
('61 Code, § 1-3.05)
§ 1-3.06 REFERENCE TO ACTS OR OMISSIONS WITHIN THE CITY.
   This code shall refer only to the omission or commission of acts within the
territorial limits of the city and to that territory outside the city over
which the city has jurisdiction or control by virtue of the Constitution or any
law, or by reason of ownership or control of property.
('61 Code, § 1-3.06)
§ 1-3.07 ACTS BY DEPUTY.
   Whenever a power is granted to, or a duty is imposed upon, a public officer
or employee, the power may be exercised or the duty may be performed by a
deputy of such officer or employee or by a person otherwise duly authorized
pursuant to law or ordinance, unless this code expressly provides otherwise.
('61 Code, § 1-3.07)
§ 1-3.08 WRITING.
   Writing includes any form of recorded message capable of comprehension by
ordinary visual means. Whenever any notice, report, statement, or record is
required or authorized by this code, it shall be made in writing in the English
language unless it is expressly provided otherwise.
('61 Code, § 1-3.08)
§ 1-3.09 REFERENCE APPLIES TO AMENDMENTS.
   Whenever a reference is made to any portion of this code, or to any
ordinances of the city, the reference applies to all amendments and additions
now or hereafter made.
('61 Code, § 1-3.09)
§ 1-3.10 NOTICES, SERVICE OF.
   Whenever a notice is required to be given under this code, unless different
provisions herein are otherwise specifically made in the code, such notice may
be given either by personal delivery thereof to the person to be notified or by
deposit in the US mail in a sealed envelope, postage prepaid, addressed to such
person to be notified at the person's last known business or residence address
as the same appears in the public records of the city or other records
pertaining to the matter to which such notice is directed. Service by mail
shall be deemed to have been completed at the time of deposit in the post
office.
('61 Code, § 1-3.10)
§ 1-3.11 PROOF OF NOTICE.
   Proof of giving any notice may be made by the certificate of any officer or
employee of the city or by affidavit of any person over the age of 18 years,
which shows service in conformity with this code, or other provisions of law
applicable to the subject matter concerned.
('61 Code, § 1-3.11)
§ 1-3.12 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   When a limitation or period of time prescribed in any existing ordinance or
statute for acquiring a right or barring a remedy, or for any other purpose,
has begun to run before this code goes into effect, the time which has already
run shall be deemed a part of the time prescribed as such limitation.
('61 Code, § 1-3.12)
§ 1-3.13 SIGNIFICANCE OF CERTAIN WORDS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CALENDAR YEAR. From January 1 through December 31 of any given year.
   CITY. The city.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the city.
   COUNTY. The county.
   FISCAL YEAR. From July 1 of any given year through June 30 of the following
year.
   GENDER. The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month unless otherwise expressed.
   NUMBER. The singular number includes the plural, and the plural number
includes the singular.
   OATH. Includes affirmation.
   OFFICE. The use of the title of any officer, employee, office, or ordinance
shall mean such officer, employee, office, or ordinance of this city, unless
otherwise specified.
   OWNER. Of a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner,
tenant, tenant in common, or joint tenant of the whole or a part of such
building or land.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, company, corporation, partnership, association,
any public corporation, political subdivision, city (excepting the city),
county, district in the county, the state, or the country, or any department or
agency of any thereof, unless this code expressly provides otherwise.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Money, goods, chattels, things in action, and evidences
of debt.
   PROPERTY. Includes both real and personal property.
   QUARTERLY. When used to designate a period of time, means the first three
calendar months of any given year or any succeeding period of three calendar
months.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   STATE. The state.
   STREET. All streets, highways, avenues, boulevards, alleys, courts, places,
squares, or other public ways in the city which have been or may hereafter be
dedicated and open to public use, or such other public property so designated
in any law of this state.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. Of a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   TENSES. The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the
future tense includes the present tense.
('61 Code, § 1-3.13)
CHAPTER 4: APPEALS
Section
   
1-4.01   Right to appeal
   
1-4.02   Time within which an appeal must be filed; fee
   
1-4.03   Hearing; notice
§ 1-4.01 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this code, any person excepting
to the denial, suspension, or revocation of a permit applied for, or held by,
him or her pursuant to any of the provisions of this code, or to any
administrative decision made by any official of the city pursuant to any of the
provisions of this code, may appeal in writing to the Council by filing with
the City Clerk a written notice of such appeal, setting forth the specific
grounds thereof.
('61 Code, § 1-4.01)
§ 1-4.02 TIME WITHIN WHICH AN APPEAL MUST BE FILED; FEE.
   Such notice must be filed with the City Clerk within 14 days after receipt
of written notice of such action appealed from, but in no event later than 30
days after, the date of such action. Such notice shall be accompanied by a
filing fee as determined by resolution of the City Council.
('61 Code, § 1-4.01) (Ord. 323 C.S., passed 9-17-79)
§ 1-4.03 HEARING; NOTICE.
   The City Clerk shall forthwith set the matter for hearing before the Council
at a subsequent regular meeting and shall cause notice thereof to be given to
the applicant not less than five days prior to such hearing, unless such notice
is waived in writing by the applicant. At such hearing, the appellant shall
show cause on the grounds specified in the notice of appeal why the action
excepted to should not be approved. The Council may continue the hearing from
time to time, and its findings on the appeal shall be final and conclusive in
the matter.
('61 Code, § 1-4.01)
CHAPTER 5: CITATION PROCEDURE
Section
   
1-5.01   Citation procedure
§ 1-5.01 CITATION PROCEDURE.
   Pursuant to Cal. Penal Code § 836.5, all officers and employees of the city
designated by the City Administrator or by ordinance of the city as having the
duty to enforce a statute or ordinance of the city may arrest a person without
a warrant whenever such officer or employee has reasonable cause to believe
that the person to be arrested has committed a misdemeanor in such officer's or
employee's presence which is a violation of a statute or ordinance which such
officer or employee has the duty to enforce. In any case in which a person is
arrested pursuant to this section and Cal. Penal Code § 836.5, the terms and
provisions of Cal Penal Code § 836.5 relating to the preparation of a written
notice to appear and release of the person on his or her promise to appear
shall apply.
('61 Code, § 1-5.01) (Ord. 6 C.S., passed 6-21-61; Am. Ord. 332 C.S., passed 2-
4-80)
CHAPTER 6: CLAIMS AGAINST THE CITY
Section
   
1-6.01   Presentation of claims
   
1-6.02   Required presentation of claims
   
1-6.03   Persons presenting claims; contents of claims
   
1-6.04   Signing claims
   
1-6.05   Claim forms
   
1-6.06   Amendments to claims
   
1-6.07   Notices of insufficiency of claims
   
1-6.08   Waivers of defense by failure to give notices of insufficiency of
claims
   
1-6.09   Time for the presentation of claims
   
1-6.10   Limitation on time to file actions
   
1-6.11   No late claim may be filed
   
1-6.12   Time for action on claims by the Council
   
1-6.13   Ways the Council may act on claims
   
1-6.14   Notices of action on claims by the Council
   
1-6.15   Delivery or mailing of claims or amendments
   
1-6.16   Manner, time, and proof of mailing claims or amendments
   
1-6.17   Delivery or mailing of notice of Council action
   
1-6.18   City Manager authority on claims
§ 1-6.01 PRESENTATION OF CLAIMS.
   Claims against the city for money or damages which are excepted by Cal.
Gov't Code § 905 from Chapter 1 (commencing with § 900) and Chapter 2
(commencing with § 910) of Cal. Gov't Code Part 3 of Division 3.6 of Title 1,
and which are not governed by any other statutes or regulations expressly
relating thereto, shall be governed by the procedure prescribed by this
chapter.
('61 Code, § 1-6.01) (Ord. 437 C.S., passed 1-16-85)
§ 1-6.02 REQUIRED PRESENTATION OF CLAIMS.
   All claims for money or damages against the city governed by the procedure
prescribed by this chapter as provided in §
1-6.01 of this chapter shall be presented in accordance with this chapter.
('61 Code, § 1-6.02) (Ord. 437 C.S., passed 1-16-85)
§ 1-6.03 PERSONS PRESENTING CLAIMS; CONTENTS OF CLAIMS.
   A claim shall be presented by the claimant or by a person acting on the
claimant's behalf and shall show:
   (A)   The name and post office address of the claimant;
   (B)   The post office address to which the person presenting the claim
desires notices to be sent;
   (C)   The date, place, and other circumstances of the occurrence or
transaction which gave rise to the claim asserted;
   (D)   A general description of the indebtedness, obligation, injury, damage,
or loss incurred so far as it may be known at the time of the presentation of
the claim;
   (E)   The name or names of the public employee or employees causing the
injury, damage, or loss, if known; and
   (F)   The amount claimed as of the date of the presentation of the claim,
including the estimated amount of any prospective injury, damage, or loss,
insofar as it may be known at the time of the presentation of the claim,
together with the basis of the computation of the amount claimed.
('61 Code, § 1-6.03) (Ord. 437 C.S., passed 1-16-85)
§ 1-6.04 SIGNING CLAIMS.
   Claims shall be verified and signed by the claimants or by persons on their
behalf including, but not limited to, their guardian, conservator, executor or
administrator. No claim may be filed on behalf of a class of persons unless
verified and signed by every member of that class.
('61 Code, § 1-6.04) (Ord. 437 C.S., passed 1-16-85; Am. Ord. 777 C.S., passed
2-16-05)
§ 1-6.05 CLAIM FORMS.
   The city may provide forms pursuant to this section; provided, however, the
person presenting a claim need not use such form if he or she presents the
claim in conformity with §§
1-6.03 and
1-6.04 of this chapter. A claim presented on a form provided pursuant to this
section shall be deemed in conformity with §§
1-6.03 and
1-6.04 if the claim complies substantially with the requirements of the form or
with the requirements of §§
1-6.03 and
1-6.04.
('61 Code, § 1-6.05) (Ord. 437 C.S., passed 1-16-85)
§ 1-6.06 AMENDMENTS TO CLAIMS.
   (A)   A claim may be amended at any time before the expiration of the period
designated in §
1-6.09 of this chapter or before final action thereon is taken by the Council,
whichever is later, if the claim as amended relates to the same transaction or
occurrence which gave rise to the original claim. The amendment shall be
considered a part of the original claim for all purposes.
   (B)   A failure or refusal to amend a claim, whether or not notice of
insufficiency is given under §
1-6.07 of this chapter, shall not constitute a defense to any action brought
upon the cause of action for which the claim was presented if the court finds
that the claim as presented complied substantially with §§
1-6.03 and
1-6.04 of this chapter or a form provided under §
1-6.05 of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 1-6.06) (Ord. 437 C.S., passed 1-16-85)
§ 1-6.07 NOTICES OF INSUFFICIENCY OF CLAIMS.
   If, in the opinion of the Council, or the person designated by it, a claim
as presented fails to comply substantially with the requirements of §§
1-6.03 and
1-6.04 of this chapter, or with the requirements of a form provided under §
1-6.05 of this chapter if a claim is presented pursuant thereto, the Council or
such person, at any time within 20 days after the claim is presented, may give
written notice of its insufficiency, stating with particularity the defects or
omissions therein. Such notice shall be given in the manner prescribed by §
1-6.17 of this chapter. The Council may not take action on the claim for a
period of 15 days after such notice is given.
('61 Code, § 1-6.07) (Ord. 437 C.S., passed 1-16-85; Am. Ord. 777 C.S., passed
2-16-05)
§ 1-6.08 WAIVERS OF DEFENSE BY FAILURE TO GIVE NOTICES OF INSUFFICIENCY OF
CLAIMS.
   Any defense as to the sufficiency of the claim based upon a defect or
omission in the claim as presented shall be waived by failure to give notice of
insufficiency with respect to such defect or omission as provided in §
1-6.07 of this chapter, except that no notice need be given and no waiver shall
result when the claim as presented fails to state either an address to which
the person presenting the claim desires notices to be sent or an address of the
claimant.
('61 Code, § 1-6.08) (Ord. 437 C.S., passed 1-16-85)
§ 1-6.09 TIME FOR THE PRESENTATION OF CLAIMS.
   All claims subject to this chapter shall be presented in accordance with
this chapter not later than one year after the accrual of the cause of action.
('61 Code, § 1-6.09) (Ord. 437 C.S., passed 1-16-85; Am. Ord. 777 C.S., passed
2-16-05)
§ 1-6.10 LIMITATION ON TIME TO FILE ACTIONS.
   Cal. Gov't Code § 935, subsection (b) so specifying, the limitation of the
time for filing actions specified in Cal. Gov't Code §§ 945.6 and 946 is made
applicable to all claims and causes of action on claims under this chapter.
('61 Code, § 1-6.10) (Ord. 437 C.S. passed 1-16-85)
§ 1-6.11 NO LATE CLAIM MAY BE FILED.
   No claim or application to file a late claim may be filed or considered by
the Council after the expiration of the period to file a claim as set forth in
§
1-6.09 of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 1-6.11) (Ord. 437 C.S., passed 1-16-85)
§ 1-6.12 TIME FOR ACTION ON CLAIMS BY THE COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Council shall act on a claim in the manner provided in §
1-6.13 of this chapter within 45 days after the claim has been presented. If a
claim is amended, the Council shall act on the amended claim within 45 days
after the amended claim is presented.
   (B)   The claimant and the Council may extend the period within which the
Council is required to act on the claim by a written agreement made:
      (1)   Before the expiration of such period; or
      (2)   After the expiration of such period if an action based on the claim
has not been commenced and is not yet barred by the period of limitations
provided by Cal. Gov't Code § 945.6.
   (C)   If the Council fails or refuses to act on a claim within the time
prescribed by this section, the claim shall be deemed to have been rejected by
the Council on the last day of the period within which the Council is required
to act upon the claim. If the period within which the Council is required to
act is extended by an agreement pursuant to this section, whether made before
or after the expiration of such period, the last day of the period within which
the Council is required to act shall be the last day of the period specified in
such agreement.
('61 Code, § 1-6.12) (Ord. 437 C.S., passed 1-16-85; Am. Ord. 777 C.S., passed
2-16-05)
§ 1-6.13 WAYS THE COUNCIL MAY ACT ON CLAIMS.
   (A)   The Council may act on a claim in one of the following ways:
      (1)   If the Council finds the claim is not a proper charge against the
city, the Council shall reject the claim.
      (2)   If the Council finds the claim is a proper charge against the city
and is for an amount justly due, the Council shall allow the claim.
      (3)   If the Council finds the claim is a proper charge against the city
but is for an amount greater than is justly due, the Council shall either
reject the claim or allow it in the amount justly due and reject it as to the
balance.
   (B)   If the Council allows the claim in whole or in part or compromises the
claim, the Council may require the claimant, if he or she accepts the amount
allowed or offered to settle the claim, to accept it in settlement of the
entire claim.
('61 Code, § 1-6.13) (Ord. 437 C.S., passed 1-16-85)
§ 1-6.14 NOTICES OF ACTION ON CLAIMS BY THE COUNCIL.
   (A)   Written notice of the action taken under §
1-6.13 of this chapter or the inaction which is deemed rejection under §
1-6.12 of this chapter shall be given in the manner prescribed in §
1-6.17 of this chapter. Such notice may be in substantially the following form:
"Notice is hereby given that the claim which you presented to the Madera City
Council on (indicate date) was (indicate whether rejected, allowed, allowed in
the amount of $             and rejected as to the balance, rejected by
operation of law, or other appropriate language, whichever is applicable) on
(indicate date of action or rejection by operation of law.)"
   (B)   If the claim is rejected in whole or in part, the notice required by
subsection §
1-6.14(A) of this section shall include a warning in substantially the
following form:
   "Warning
Subject to certain exceptions, you have only six months from the date this
notice is personally delivered or deposited in the mail to file a court action
on this claim. See Cal. Gov't Code, § 945.6. You may seek the advice of an
attorney of your choice in connection with this matter. If you desire to
consult an attorney, you should do so immediately."
('61 Code, § 1-6.14) (Ord. 437 C.S., passed 1-16-85; Am. Ord. 777 C.S., passed
2-16-05)
§ 1-6.15 DELIVERY OR MAILING OF CLAIMS OR AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   A claim or any amendment thereto shall be presented to the city by:
      (1)   Delivering it to the Clerk of the Council; or
      (2)   Mailing it to the Clerk of the Council or to the Council, Madera
City Hall, 204 West Fourth Street, Madera CA 93637.
   (B)   A claim or any amendment thereto shall be deemed to have been
presented in compliance with this section even though it is not delivered or
mailed as provided in this section if it is actually received by the Clerk or
Council within the time prescribed for the presentation thereof.
('61 Code, § 1-6.15) (Ord. 437 C.S., passed 1-16-85)
§ 1-6.16 MANNER, TIME, AND PROOF OF MAILING CLAIMS OR AMENDMENTS.
   If a claim or an amendment to a claim is presented or sent by mail under
this chapter, or if any notice under this chapter is given by mail, the claim,
amendment, or notice shall be mailed in the manner prescribed by this chapter.
The claim, amendment, or notice shall be deposited in the U.S. Post Office, or
in a mailbox, sub-post office, sub-station, mail chute, or other like facility
regularly maintained by the USPS, in a sealed envelope, properly addressed,
with postage paid. The claim, amendment, or notice shall be deemed to have been
presented and received at the time of the deposit. Proof of mailing may be made
in the manner prescribed by Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 1013a.
('61 Code, § 1-6.16) (Ord. 437 C.S., passed 1-16-85)
§ 1-6.17 DELIVERY OR MAILING OF NOTICE OF COUNCIL ACTION.
   (A)   The notices provided for in §§
1-6.07 and
1-6.14 of this chapter shall be given by either of the following methods:
      (1)   By personally delivering the notice to the person presenting the
claim or making the application; or
      (2)   By mailing the notice to the address, if any, stated in the claim
or application as the address to which the person presenting the claim or
making the application desires notices to be sent or, if no such address is
stated in the claim or application, by mailing the notice to the address, if
any, of the claimant as stated in the claim or application.
   (B)   No notice need be given where the claim or application fails to state
either an address to which the person presenting the claim or making the
application desires notices to be sent or an address of the claimant.
('61 Code, § 1-6.17) (Ord. 437 C.S., passed 1-16-85; Am. Ord. 777 C.S., passed
2-16-05)
§ 1-6.18 CITY MANAGER AUTHORITY ON CLAIMS.
   (A)   Pursuant to Cal. Gov't Code § 935.4, the City Council delegates
authority to the City Manager to review all claims for sufficiency and to
reject any and all claims. The City Council delegates to the City Manager
authority to allow, compromise, or settle claims, including workers'
compensation claims, for an amount up to $35,000 subject to consultation with
the City Attorney. The City Council shall have sole authority to allow,
compromise, or settle claims for an amount in excess of $35,000.
   (B)   Any reference to "City Council" in this chapter shall apply to claims
authority of City Manager under this section.
(Ord. 972 C.S., passed 4-15-20; Am. Ord. 984 C.S., passed 2-16-22)
CHAPTER 7: JUDICIAL REVIEWS
Section
   
1-7.01   Judicial reviews of administrative orders and decisions
§ 1-7.01 JUDICIAL REVIEWS OF ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS AND DECISIONS.
   (A)   The judicial review of any administrative order or decision of any
officer or agent of the city, or any decision of the City Council, pursuant to
the provisions of Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 1094.5 may be had only if the petition
for the writ of mandate is filed not later than 90 days following the date on
which the decision become final.
   (B)   Without limitation by the foregoing, the Council makes Cal. Civ. Proc.
Code § 1094.6 relating to judicial review of administrative orders or
decisions, the time for filing petitions therefor, and providing for the
preparation of records, applicable to the city and its officers and agents as
if the section were incorporated in this chapter in full.
('61 Code, § 1-7.01) (Ord. 437 C.S., passed 1-16-85)
CHAPTER 8: ELECTIONS
Section
   
1-8.01   Nomination papers; filing fee
§ 1-8.01 NOMINATION PAPERS; FILING FEE.
   Upon the filing of nomination papers for election to any municipal office in
the city, the City Clerk shall collect a filing fee of $25 which the Council
finds and determines is proportionate to the cost of processing a candidate's
nomination papers.
('61 Code, § 1-8.01) (Ord. 502 C.S., passed 4-20-88)
CHAPTER 9: ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE
Section
   
1-9.01   Purpose
   
1-9.02   Authority
   
1-9.03   Other enforcement methods not precluded
   
1-9.04   Definitions
   
1-9.05   Issuance of citation; violation; fines; collection
   
1-9.06   Fines assessed
   
1-9.07   Issuance of citation; written notice; delivery of notice; exceptions;
expiration of notice; sufficient notice of subsequent violations
   
1-9.08   Administrative citation, contents
   
1-9.09   Appeal; form; appointment of hearing officer; waiver
   
1-9.10   Appeal hearing procedures; witnesses; official notice; recording;
determination; final decision; judicial appeal; payment of fine
   
1-9.11   Collection of fines; assessment lien; notice; tax collector; lien
form; cost recovery
   
1-9.12   Adoption of guidelines
   
1-9.13   Recordation of notice of violation
   
1-9.14   Non-issuance of permits
§ 1-9.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City Council finds and declares that there is a need for an
alternative method of enforcement for violations of the Municipal Code, and
that an appropriate method of enforcement is an administrative citation
program.
   (B)   The City Council further finds that it is in the public's interest to
streamline enforcement of violations of city ordinances through the use of
administrative citations. An administrative citation allows for a quicker
resolution of uncontested violations, while continuing to give persons who have
been issued an administrative citation the opportunity for a hearing before a
neutral party. It further allows the city to recover costs associated with the
enforcement process, not always available under criminal prosecution.
(Ord. 744 C.S., passed 1-15-03)
§ 1-9.02 AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to Article XI, Section 7 of the California Constitution, the city
has the authority to make and enforce within its jurisdictional limits all laws
for the public health, safety, and welfare of its citizens not in conflict with
general state laws. In addition, Cal. Gov't Code § 36901 specifically provides
that a city may impose civil fines, penalties and forfeitures up to a maximum
of $1,000 for violation of a city's ordinances. Also, Cal. Gov't Code § 53069.4
expressly authorizes a city to establish an administrative citation program for
violation of city ordinances.
(Ord. 744 C.S., passed 1-15-03)
§ 1-9.03 OTHER ENFORCEMENT METHODS NOT PRECLUDED.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to preclude the city from using any
other available methods to enforce the provisions of the Municipal Code.
(Ord. 744 C.S., passed 1-15-03)
§ 1-9.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator of the city of Madera, or his or
her designee.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any person designated by the City Administrator to
enforce violations of a portion of or all of the Municipal Code.
   HEARING OFFICER. The City Administrator, or his or her designee.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any person who is responsible for violating any provision
of the Municipal Code.
(Ord. 744 C.S., passed 1-15-03)
§ 1-9.05 ISSUANCE OF CITATION; VIOLATION; FINES; COLLECTION.
   (A)   Issuance of citation. Any person violating any provision of the
Municipal Code may be issued an administrative citation by an Enforcement
Officer as provided for in this chapter.
   (B)   Violation. Each and every day a violation of any provision of the
Municipal Code exists constitutes a separate violation of said provision.
   (C)   Fines. A fine for violations of the Municipal Code may be assessed by
means of administrative citation issued by the Enforcement Officer and shall be
directly payable to the city.
   (D)   Collection. Administrative fines assessed by means of an
administrative citation shall be collected in accordance with the procedures
specified in this chapter.
(Ord. 744 C.S., passed 1-15-03)
§ 1-9.06 FINES ASSESSED.
   (A)   With the exception of violations that are automatically or expressly
deemed infractions under the Municipal Code, the amount of the fine assessed
for each administrative citation issued for the same violation(s) within one
year shall be as follows:
      (1)   First administrative citation -- $125;
      (2)   Second administrative citation -- $525;
      (3)   Third or subsequent administrative citation -- $1,000.
   (B)   For violations of the Municipal Code that are automatically or
expressly deemed infractions, the amount of fine assessed for each
administrative citation issued for the same violation within one year, shall be
as follows:
      (1)   First administrative citation -- $100;
      (2)   Second administrative citation -- $225;
      (3)   Third or subsequent administrative citation -- $500.
   (C)   The Council, by resolution may set a fine for a particular violation
at less than the amounts provided for herein, but such fines shall not exceed
the amounts contained in this chapter. Notwithstanding the limitations set
forth herein, for violations of the provisions of
Chapter 11 of Title IX of the Municipal Code, a fine of up to $1,000 per day
for each day a violation of that Chapter exists, may be assessed pursuant to
Cal. Civil Code § 2929.3.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, the "same violation" shall mean
violations of the same code section even if they occur at a different location.
   (E)   Payment of the fine shall not excuse the failure to correct the
violation nor shall it bar further enforcement action by the city.
   (F)   All fines assessed shall be payable to the city.
   (G)   The failure of any person to timely pay a fine assessed by
administrative citation shall result in the assessment of an additional late
fee to be charged. The amount of the late fee shall be 10% of the total amount
of the administrative fine owed.
(Ord. 744 C.S., passed 1-15-03; Am. Ord. 911 C.S., passed 9-3-14; Am. Ord. 1004
C.S., passed 11-15-23)
§ 1-9.07 ISSUANCE OF CITATION; WRITTEN NOTICE; DELIVERY OF NOTICE; EXCEPTIONS;
EXPIRATION OF NOTICE; SUFFICIENT NOTICE OF SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Issuance of citation. Upon determining that a violation of the
Municipal Code has occurred, the Enforcement Officer shall determine the party
responsible for the violation. If the responsible party is a business, the
responsible party shall be deemed to be the person who is in immediate control
of the business on site that day, or when determined by the Enforcement
Officer, the legal owner of the business may be deemed the responsible party.
   (B)   Written notice. Except as provided for in subdivision (D) of this
section, prior to issuing an administrative citation to a responsible party,
the Enforcement Officer shall provide written notice to the responsible party
of the violation. That notice need not be in any particular form but shall at a
minimum:
      (1)   Describe the nature of the Municipal Code violation, including
identifying the Municipal Code section or sections violated;
      (2)   Identify what action is necessary to correct the violation;
      (3)   Provide the responsible party with not less than 10 days to correct
the violation, unless: (i) a lesser time is specified elsewhere in the
Municipal Code; or (ii) the Enforcement Officer determines that a lesser time
is necessary to protect the public health, safety, or welfare of the citizens
of the city;
      (4)   Explain the consequences of a failure to correct the violation or
violations; and
      (5)   The maximum fine that could be imposed.
   (C)   Delivery of notice. The notice required in subsection (B) of this
section may be delivered to the responsible party by first class mail, postage
pre-paid, certified mail, overnight mail, facsimile, telex, hand delivery, or
by any other method reasonably likely to provide notice to the responsible
party, by sending notice to the responsible party's business address, principal
place of business address, residence address, or other address known to the
Enforcement Officer by reliable information. The time within which to correct
the violation shall run from the date the notice is sent.
   (D)   Exceptions. The notice required under this section may be dispensed
with for the following violations: (1) violations that create an imminent
danger to the health, safety and/or welfare as determined by the Enforcement
Officer, and for which immediate correction is required; (2) non-continuing
violations for which it is not practicable or possible to provide prior notice
and an opportunity to correct; and (3) repeat or chronic violations where
either formal or informal notice of the violation, and previous reasonable
opportunities to correct have been provided. Examples of non-continuing
violations where notice is not practicable or possible include, but are not
limited to, violations relating to the maintaining of dogs at large and vicious
dogs, the spillage of hazardous waste, watering at prohibited times and other
water wasting violations, and the lighting of fires.
   (E)   Expiration of notice. If after the expiration of the time period
provided to the responsible party to correct the violation, the responsible
party has not corrected the violation, the Enforcement Officer may issue an
administrative citation to the responsible party by one of the following
methods:
      (1)   The Enforcement Officer may attempt to locate the responsible party
at the location of the violation during regular business hours if a business,
or at any reasonable time if not a business. If the Enforcement Officer is able
to locate the responsible party, the Enforcement Officer shall attempt to
obtain the signature of that person on the administrative citation. If that
responsible party refuses to or does not sign the administrative citation, the
lack of signature shall in no way affect the validity of the citation and
subsequent proceedings. If the responsible party refuses to accept the
administrative citation, the Enforcement Officer may either leave the citation
with the responsible party or mail the citation in accordance with this
section;
      (2)   For property related violations, the Enforcement Officer may
securely post the citation in a conspicuous place on the property and mail a
copy of the citation to the responsible party by first class mail within three
days of posting to the responsible party's business address, principal place of
business address, residence address, or other address known to the Enforcement
Officer by reliable information. Such mailing may be made by first class mail,
postage pre-paid, or by certified mail.
   (F)   Sufficient notice of subsequent violation. The notice provided
pursuant to this section shall be sufficient notice for subsequent violations
of the same code section occurring within one year of the notice if the
violation occurs at the same location.
(Ord. 744 C.S., passed 1-15-03)
§ 1-9.08 ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION, CONTENTS.
   The administrative citation shall be on a form approved by the City
Administrator and shall at a minimum, include the following:
   (A)   Date and location of the violation or violations;
   (B)   Section or sections of the Municipal Code violated;
   (C)   Right to appeal the citation;
   (D)   Signature of the Enforcement Officer; and
   (E)   Signature of the responsible party, or if not signed by the
responsible party, the address where the citation is served posted, and/or
mailed.
   (F)   Sufficient notice of subsequent violation. The notice provided
pursuant to this section shall be sufficient notice for subsequent related
violations of the same code section occurring within one year of the notice.
(Ord. 744 C.S., passed 1-15-03; Am. Ord. 916 C.S., passed 2-18-15)
§ 1-9.09 APPEAL; FORM; APPOINTMENT OF HEARING OFFICER; WAIVER.
   (A)   Appeal. Any person receiving an administrative citation which carries
a monetary penalty shall within 15 calendar days from the issuance date, either
pay the fine or file an appeal with the City Administrator. If the deadline for
the appeal falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or city holiday, then the deadline for
the notice of appeal shall be extended to the next regular business day. Notice
of violation or violations may not be appealed unless they are proposed to be
recorded pursuant to §
1-9.13.
   (B)   Form. A notice of appeal shall be in writing and shall identify the
citation being appealed and specify the basis for the appeal in sufficient
detail so that a Hearing Officer can understand the grounds for appeal.
   (C)   Appointment of Hearing Officer. As soon as practicable after receiving
a written notice of appeal, the City Administrator shall appoint a Hearing
Officer and fix a date, time and place for the hearing. Written notice of the
time, date and place for the hearing shall be served at least 10 calendar days
prior to the date of the hearing to the party appealing the citation by any one
or more of the following means:
      (1)   Personal service or;
      (2)   First class mail, postage pre-paid, at the address specified in the
notice of appeal, or if no address is specified, at such other address known to
the City Administrator by reliable information; or
      (3)   If a property related violation, by posting notice of hearing
conspicuously on or in front of the property on which the violation is located.
The failure of any person to receive such notice shall not affect the validity
of any proceedings taken under this chapter. Service by normal delivery mail in
the manner described above shall become effective on the date of mailing.
   (D)   Waiver. Failure of any person to file an appeal in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall constitute a waiver of that person's rights to
an administrative determination of the merits of the citation and the amount of
the fine.
(Ord. 744 C.S., passed 1-15-03; Am. Ord. 878 C.S., passed 10-20-10)
§ 1-9.10 APPEAL HEARING PROCEDURES; WITNESSES; OFFICIAL NOTICE; RECORDING;
DETERMINATION; FINAL DECISION; JUDICIAL APPEAL; PAYMENT OF FINE.
   (A)   The Hearing Officer shall conduct an orderly proceeding and accept
evidence on which persons commonly would rely in the conduct of their business
affairs. The technical rules of evidence shall not apply, except that
irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded. All evidence
shall be received only on oath or affirmation. The hearing shall be informally
conducted.
   (B)   During the hearing, the Enforcement Officer shall present information
or testimony relating to the violation and the appropriate means of correcting
the violation or violations. The owner, agent, party responsible for the
violation, or any other interested person may present testimony or evidence
concerning the violation and the means and time frame for correction.
   (C)   Witnesses. Each party shall have the right to: (1) call and examine
witnesses on any matter relevant to the issues being determined at the hearing;
(2) introduce documentary and physical evidence; (3) cross-examine opposing
witnesses on any matter relevant to the issues to be determined at the hearing;
(4) impeach any witness regardless of which party first called the witness to
testify; (5) rebut the evidence; (6) be represented by anyone who is lawfully
permitted to do so. The Hearing Officer shall direct the order of the
proceedings.
   (D)   Official notice. The Hearing Officer may take official notice, either
during the hearing, or after submission of the matter for decision, of any fact
which may be judicially noticed by the state courts, or of official records,
regulations, rules and decisions of state and local agencies, boards and
departments, and of city and county ordinances. In addition, the Hearing
Officer may take official notice of matters in its own files and of prior
proceedings under this chapter involving the same issues. If applicable, the
Hearing Officer may also take official notice of any generally accepted
technical or scientific matter within the Hearing Officer's expertise. The
parties present at the hearing shall be informed of the matters to be noticed,
and those matters should be noted in the record, referred to herein, or
appended thereto. Any such party shall be given a reasonable opportunity on
request, to refute the officially noticed matters by evidence or by written or
oral presentation of authority.
   (E)   Recording. The hearing shall be tape recorded. The parties, at their
sole expense, may have the hearing recorded by a certified shorthand reporter
or court reporter.
   (F)   Determination. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer
may sustain the citation, not sustain the citation, take the matter under
submission, and may reduce, waive or conditionally reduce the fine as
determined. The Hearing Officer may also impose conditions and deadlines by
which to correct the violation or pay any outstanding fine. If the Hearing
Officer takes the matter under submission, he or she shall render a decision
within 10 calendar days of the completion of the hearing. In all appeals, a
written determination shall then be provided to the person appealing in a form
to be approved by the City Administrator. Said determination shall be served on
the person appealing the citation and responsible party if different from the
person appealing the citation, in the same manner as notice of the hearing was
served on the responsible party, and is effective upon the date of service.
   (G)   Final decision. The decision of the Hearing Officer regarding any
appeal is the final administrative order and decision. There are no appeals to
the City Council. Judicial review may be had only in accordance with the
provisions of Cal. Gov't Code § 53069.4.
   (H)   Payment of fine. The time to pay a fine following an administrative
hearing is 20 calendar days after service of the Hearing Officer's
determination unless the Hearing Officer provides for a longer time.
(Ord. 744 C.S., passed 1-15-03)
§ 1-9.11 COLLECTION OF FINES; ASSESSMENT LIEN; NOTICE; TAX COLLECTOR; LIEN
FORM; COST RECOVERY.
   (A)   The failure of any person to timely pay a fine assessed by
administrative citation constitutes a debt owed to the city. To enforce that
debt, the City Administrator may cause to be filed a claim with the small
claims court or other appropriate court.
   (B)   Assessment lien. The City Administrator may also impose an assessment
lien as set forth below or pursue any other legal remedy to collect such money.
   (C)   Notice. The City Administrator may impose a special assessment against
the property that is the subject of an administrative citation, if the citation
has been issued to the property owner for the amount of the fine, plus late
fees, plus any administrative charge established by the City Administrator to
cover the costs of imposing the assessment. The assessment shall be imposed in
accordance with the following procedures:
      (1)   The City Council shall confirm the amount of the assessment at a
regularly scheduled meeting or at a special meeting;
      (2)   The property owner and any holder of mortgage or deed of trust of
record shall be notified of the meeting to confirm the assessment in accordance
with noticing provisions of §
1-9.09;
      (3)   After confirmation by the City Council, the City Administrator
shall cause to be recorded a notice of lien in the office of the County
Recorder. When so made and confirmed, the costs shall constitute a lien on that
property for the amount of the assessment;
      (4)   After confirmation and recordation, a copy may be turned over to
the County Tax Collector. At that point, it will be the duty of the Tax
Collector to add the amounts of the respective assessments to the next regular
tax bills levied against the lots and parcels of land for collection of county
property taxes. Those amounts shall be collected, and shall be subject to the
same penalties and procedures under foreclosure and sale in cases of
delinquency as provided for with ordinary county taxes. Or, after recording,
the lien may be foreclosed by judicial or other sale in the manner and means
provided by law. The notice of lien shall be in a form as approved by the City
Administrator.
   (D)   Cost recovery. If the failure of any person to may a fine assessed by
administrative citation results in the filing of an action with the small
claims court, or any other court to collect the fine, the city shall be
entitled to collect all costs, including reasonable attorney's fees; associated
with the filing of such an action.
(Ord. 744 C.S., passed 1-15-03)
§ 1-9.12 ADOPTION OF GUIDELINES.
   The City Administrator may adopt guidelines to aid in the interpretation and
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 744 C.S., passed 1-15-03)
§ 1-9.13 RECORDATION OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever a violation on real property remains uncorrected after a
notice of violation has been issued, a copy of the notice of violation may be
recorded by the Neighborhood Preservation Manager in the real property records
of Madera County if the following prerequisites are met:
      (1)   A violation has remained uncorrected on the property for at least
30 calendar days following service of the notice of violation;
      (2)   The owner, if not the responsible party, has been notified of the
prospective recordation and been offered the opportunity to correct the
violation;
      (3)   The property owner and all of the responsible parties has been
notified that development permits shall be withheld during the time the
property remains in violation pursuant to §
1-9.14 of the Madera Municipal Code, except for those permits that are
necessary to bring the property into compliance;
      (4)   The responsible party and the property owner have been noticed and
offered a hearing pursuant to the provisions for appeals in
Title I, Chapter 9 of the Madera Municipal Code to contest the proposed
corrective action and the proposed recordation.
   (B)   Cancellation of recordation. The Neighborhood Preservation Manager
shall issue to the property owner and other responsible parties a signed notice
of compliance which states on its face that it cancels the notice of violation
once all violations have been corrected and any administrative penalties, costs
and fines involved in the enforcement process have been paid. The notice of
compliance shall be recorded by the Neighborhood Preservation Manager if the
notice of violation was recorded.
(Ord. 878 C.S., passed 10-20-10)
§ 1-9.14 NON-ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   After a notice of violation has been recorded against the property pursuant
to §
1-9.13 of the Madera Municipal Code, the Chief Building Official shall withhold
the issuance of any permits for development as allowed by law upon that
property, save for those permits necessary to correct the violation(s). A party
whose permits are to be withheld shall be noticed as part of the recordation
process pursuant to §
1-9.13 of the Madera Municipal Code and offered a hearing pursuant to the
provisions for appeals contained in
Title I, Chapter 9 in which to contest the decision.
(Ord. 878 C.S., passed 10-20-10)
TITLE II: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
1.   CITY COUNCIL
   
2.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
   
3.   CITY BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
   
4.   PURCHASING PROCEDURES
CHAPTER 1: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
2-1.01   Council meetings
   
2-1.02   Agenda
   
2-1.03   Quorum
   
2-1.04   Rules of decorum at meetings
   
2-1.05   Council salaries
   
2-1.06   Increased or decreased salaries
   
2-1.07   Enumeration of officers and terms
   
2-1.08   Establishment of Council districts
   
2-1.09   Method of election
§ 2-1.01 COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   All regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the first and third
Wednesdays of each month at 6:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the City Hall;
provided, however, when the time for any regular meeting of the Council falls
on a holiday, Christmas Eve, or New Year's Eve, such meeting shall be held at
the same hour on the next succeeding day not a holiday unless otherwise
provided by the Council. All adjourned and special meetings shall be held at
such times and places as may be designated by the Council.
(Ord. 1002 C.S., passed 8-2-23)
§ 2-1.02 AGENDA.
   Except as otherwise may be provided in this chapter, the Council shall
consider at each meeting only those matters which are designated on the agenda
for each meeting. The agenda shall be prepared by the City Clerk, under the
direction of the City Manager, and shall be arranged in accordance with the
Council's order of business as set forth in the City Council's rules and
procedures. The agenda and reports shall be posted as required by state law.
(Ord. 1002 C.S., passed 8-2-23)
§ 2-1.03 QUORUM.
   A majority of all the members of the Council shall constitute a quorum at
any regular or special meeting of the Council. When there is no quorum, the
Mayor, Mayor Pro Tempore, or any member of the Council shall adjourn such
meeting, or, if no member of the Council is present, the City Clerk shall
adjourn the meeting.
(Ord. 1002 C.S., passed 8-2-23)
§ 2-1.04 RULES OF DECORUM AT MEETINGS.
   The Police Chief shall be ex-officio sergeant-at-arms of the Council at City
Council meetings and may delegate that authority as deemed appropriate. The
Police Chief is authorized to remove persons from a meeting of the City Council
as set forth in this section. This authority is in addition to the Police
Chief's power to exercise his or her authority to arrest persons for violations
of this section or for violation of the Penal Code.
   (A)   Decorum.
      (1)   A person who attends a City Council meeting or who addresses the
Council under public comment for a specific agenda item or under the Public
Comment section of the agenda may not engage in speech or conduct which is
likely to provoke others to violent or riotous behavior, which disturbs the
peace of the meeting by loud and unreasonable noise, which is irrelevant or
repetitive, or which disrupts, disturbs, impedes or renders infeasible the
orderly conduct of any City Council meeting.
      (2)   All remarks shall be directed to the Council as a body, and not to
any particular Council member or member of staff.
      (3)   A person, other than members of the Council and the person having
the floor shall not be permitted to enter into the discussion unless requested
by the Mayor to speak.
      (4)   No member of the public shall direct questions to Council members
individually or to members of staff except through the Mayor.
      (5)   Members of the Council shall wait until a person completes his or
her public comments before asking questions or commenting. The Mayor shall then
ask Council members if they have comments or questions.
      (6)   While the City Council is in session, all persons must preserve
order and decorum and not engage in disrupting behavior.
   (B)   Disrupting behavior. The Mayor or other Presiding Officer is
authorized to warn, order removal, and cause the removal of an individual for
disrupting a Council. The term "disrupting" as used in this rule means (i) a
failure to comply with reasonable and lawful regulations adopted by the Council
including these rules; and (ii) engaging in behavior that constitutes the use
of force or a true threat of force.
   (C)   Warning required to cease disrupting behavior. The Mayor or Presiding
Officer shall warn a person who is breaching the rules of order and decorum to
cease such conduct. If after receiving such a warning, the person persists in
breaching the rules of decorum, the Mayor or Presiding Officer may order the
person to leave the City Council meeting. If such person does not leave, the
Mayor or Presiding Officer may request the Police Chief or Police Chief's
designee (sergeant-at-arms) to remove the person from the Council meeting. In
the event there is no one from law enforcement present, the Mayor or Presiding
Officer may direct the City Manager to contact law enforcement.
   (D)   No warning for use of force or true threat of force. The Mayor or
Presiding Officer is not required to give a warning to a person who is
breaching the rules of order and decorum when the individual engages in
behavior that constitutes use of force or a true threat of force. The term
"true threat of force" means a threat that sufficient indicia of intent and
seriousness that a reasonable observer would perceive it to be an actual threat
to use force by the person making the threat.
(Ord. 1002 C.S., passed 8-2-23
§ 2-1.05 COUNCIL SALARIES.
   From and after March 1, 2014, each member of the City Council shall receive
a salary in the amount of $500 per month as authorized in Cal. Gov't Code §
36516 for cities up to 75,000 in population, and which authorizes a 5% increase
for each calendar year since the last enactment of this section, which was
1990, which shall be payable at the same time and in the same manner as
salaries paid to other officers and employees of the city. Beginning in January
of 2018 and in every fourth year thereafter, the City Council shall, at its
first regularly held meeting in the month of January, conduct a review of
Council salaries to determine whether the salary level is appropriate.
(Ord. 1002 C.S., passed 8-2-23)
§ 2-1.06 INCREASED OR DECREASED SALARIES.
   The salary of Council members when increased or decreased shall become
payable only on and after the date upon which one or more members of the
Council become eligible therefor by virtue of beginning a new term of office
following the next succeeding general municipal election held in the city.
(Ord. 1002 C.S., passed 8-2-23)
§ 2-1.07 ENUMERATION OF OFFICERS AND TERMS.
   The elective officers of the City of Madera shall be a Mayor and six Council
members. The Council shall consist of the Mayor and six Council members, each
of whom, including the Mayor, shall have the right to vote on all questions
coming before the Council. The term of office of the Mayor shall be four years,
and the term of office of each Council member shall be four years.
(Ord. 1002 C.S., passed 8-2-23)
§ 2-1.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF COUNCIL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The voter-approved districting plan adopted by Ord. 890 C.S. and
establishing six Council districts shall be adjusted by ordinance of the City
Council to equalize population among the districts within one year after each
census has been completed and the census data provided to the city. The
adjusted boundaries and the number of each of the six electoral districts for
City Council are set forth in division (C), including a map of the districts.
Any districting plan shall be adopted by ordinance subject to referendum. The
City Clerk is authorized to make non-substantive technical adjustments to the
district boundaries not affecting the population of any district, the
eligibility of candidates, or the residence of elected officials within any
district.
   (B)   Effective for all by-district Council offices newly elected at the
November 8, 2022, general municipal election and at each general municipal
election thereafter, each Council district shall be assigned a district number,
with districts numbered one through six as indicated in division (C). The
Council members of the three even-numbered districts shall be elected by-
district in November of 2024 and every four years thereafter for a term of four
years. The Council members of the remaining three odd-numbered districts shall
be elected by-district in November 2022 and every four years thereafter for a
term of four years. Except as set forth in division (D) below, all persons
appointed to fill vacancies on the City Council and all persons elected to fill
vacancies on the City Council at a special municipal election shall reside
within the district to which they are appointed or elected.
   (C)   District boundaries. The Council member districts of the city shall
have the following legal boundaries:
      (1)   District 1. The region bounded and described as follows: all of
that portion of Madera County bounded and described as follows: beginning at
the point of intersection of the Madera city line and Ave 14, and proceeding
northerly and westerly along the Madera city line to the Madera city line and
Rd 23, and proceeding northerly and easterly along the Madera city line to the
Madera city line and Ave 17, and proceeding easterly and northerly along the
Madera city line to the Madera city line and Schmidt Creek Way, and proceeding
easterly and southerly along the Madera city line to the Madera city line, and
proceeding easterly along the Madera city line to the Madera city line and
Arnold Way and proceeding southerly along the Madera city line to the Madera
city line and Sharon Blvd, and proceeding southerly along the Madera city line
and Sharon Blvd to Ellis Street, and proceeding westerly along Ellis Street to
Avenue 16, and proceeding southerly along N Schnoor St to Foxglove Way, and
proceeding westerly along Foxglove Way to N Granada Dr, and proceeding
southerly along N Granada Dr to W Cleveland Ave, and proceeding easterly along
W Cleveland Ave to N Schnoor St, and proceeding southerly along N Schnoor St to
Sunset Ave, and proceeding easterly along Sunset Ave to N Pine St, and
proceeding southerly along N Pine St to Howard Rd, and proceeding westerly
along Howard Rd to Mainberry Dr, and proceeding northerly along Mainberry Dr to
Sunset Ave, and proceeding westerly along Sunset Ave to Westberry Blvd, and
proceeding southerly along Westberry Blvd to Westgate Dr, and proceeding
westerly along Westgate Dr to Kent Dr, and proceeding southerly along Kent Dr
to Winter Way, and proceeding westerly along Winter Way to Kent Dr, and
proceeding southerly along Kent Dr to Ren Way, and proceeding easterly along
Ren Way to Westberry Blvd, and proceeding southerly along Westberry Blvd to Ave
14, and proceeding westerly along Ave 14 to the Madera city line and northerly
and westerly along the Madera city line to the point of beginning.
         Effective April 6, 2024, the region shall also include the additional
territory bounded and described as follows: all of that portion of Madera
County bounded and described as follows: beginning at the point of intersection
of the Madera city line and Rd 24 at Cleveland Avenue, and proceeding northerly
along Rd 24 to Avenue 16, and proceedings westerly along Avenue 16 to Rd 23,
and proceeding northerly along Rd 23 to Avenue 17, and proceedings westerly
along Avenue 17 to the Rd 22 alignment, and proceeding southerly along the Rd
22 alignment to the northern bank of the Fresno River, and proceeding easterly
along the north bank of the Fresno River to Rd 23, and proceeding southeasterly
along the north bank of the Fresno River to the Avenue 15 alignment, and
easterly along the Avenue 15 alignment to the Madera Irrigation District canal,
and proceeding easterly along the Madera Irrigation District canal alignment to
the Madera city line at the Rd 24/Alamosa Dr alignment, and proceeding
northerly along the Madera city line to the point of beginning.
      (2)   District 2. The region bounded and described as follows: all of
that portion of Madera County bounded and described as follows:
         (a)   Beginning at the point of intersection of Kent Dr and Ren Way,
and proceeding northerly along Kent Dr to Winter Way, and proceeding easterly
along Winter Way, to Kent Dr, and proceeding northerly along Kent Dr to
Westgate Dr, and proceeding easterly along Westgate Dr to Westberry Blvd, and
proceeding northerly along Westberry Blvd to Sunset Ave, and proceeding
easterly along Sunset Ave to Mainberry Dr, and proceeding southerly along
Mainberry Dr to Howard Rd, and proceeding easterly along Howard Rd to W Olive
Ave, and proceeding easterly along W Olive Ave to Olive Ave, and proceeding
easterly along Olive Ave to W Olive Ave, and proceeding easterly along W Olive
Ave to unnamed ramp, and proceeding easterly along unnamed ramp to W Olive Ave,
and proceeding easterly along W Olive Ave to S Madera Ave, and proceeding
southerly along S Madera Ave to the Parkwood/Madera census designated place/
city line, and proceeding southerly along the Parkwood/Madera census designated
place/city line to the Madera city line, and proceeding westerly along the
Madera city line to Ave 14, and proceeding easterly along Ave 14 to Howard Rd,
and proceeding northerly along Howard Rd to Westberry Blvd, and proceeding
northerly along Westberry Blvd to Ren Way, and proceeding westerly along Ren
Way to the point of beginning;
         (b)   As well as all of the region bounded by the Madera city line;
         (c)   Except for all of the region bounded by the Madera city line.
      (3)   District 3. The region bounded and described as follows: all of
that portion of Madera County bounded and described as follows: beginning at
the point of intersection of Foxglove Way and N Granada Dr, and proceeding
easterly along Foxglove Way to N Schnoor St, and proceeding northerly along N
Schnoor St to Ave 16, and proceeding westerly along Ave 16 to State Rte 99, and
proceeding southerly along State Rte 99 to nonvisible boundary, and proceeding
northerly along nonvisible boundary to unnamed ramp, and proceeding southerly
along unnamed ramp to nonvisible boundary, and proceeding northerly along
nonvisible boundary to the Madera city line, and proceeding easterly along the
Madera city line to Austin St, and proceeding southerly along Austin St to E
Cleveland Ave, and proceeding easterly along E Cleveland Ave to N Lake St, and
proceeding southerly along N Lake St to Fresno River, and proceeding westerly
along Fresno River to N D St, and proceeding southerly along N D St to E 3rd
St, and proceeding westerly along E 3rd St to W 3rd St, and proceeding westerly
along W 3rd St to N H St, and proceeding northerly along N H St to Union
Pacific RR, and proceeding westerly along Union Pacific RR to N I St, and
proceeding northerly along N I St to Roberts Ave, and proceeding westerly along
Roberts Ave to N Pine St, and proceeding southerly along N Pine St to N Park
Dr, and proceeding easterly along N Park Dr to Foster Ave, and proceeding
southerly along Foster Ave to Sunset Ave, and proceeding westerly along Sunset
Ave to N Schnoor St, and proceeding northerly along N Schnoor St to W Cleveland
Ave, and proceeding westerly along W Cleveland Ave to N Granada Dr, and
proceeding northerly along N Granada Dr to the point of beginning.
         Effective July 6, 2024, the region shall also include the additional
territory bounded and described as follows: beginning at the point of
intersection of the Madera city line and the westerly boundary line of the
Madera Irrigation District Lat. 24.2 Canal at the West Adell Street alignment,
and proceeding northerly along the westerly boundary of the Madera Irrigation
District Lat. 24.2 Canal to a point of intersection with the southerly boundary
of the Madera Irrigation District Lat. 24.2 Canal where said canal curves in a
westerly direction, and proceeding easterly to Country Club Drive (Rd 26), and
proceeding northerly along Country Club Drive (Rd 26) to Martin Street, and
proceeding easterly along Martin Street to North D Street, and proceeding
southerly along North D Street to a point of intersection with the Madera city
line at Ellis Street, and proceeding westerly along Ellis Street to Sonora
Street, and proceeding southerly along Sonora Street to the Madera city line,
and proceeding southwesterly along the Madera city line to West Adell Street,
and proceeding westerly along West Adell Street to the point of beginning.
      (4)   District 4. The region bounded and described as follows: all of
that portion of Madera County bounded and described as follows: beginning at
the point of intersection of Austin St and E Cleveland Ave, and proceeding
northerly along Austin St to the Madera city line, and proceeding easterly/
southerly along the Madera city line to Raymond Rd, and proceeding southerly
along Raymond Rd to Tozer St, and proceeding easterly along Tozer St to Fresno
River, and proceeding westerly along Fresno River to N Lake St, and proceeding
northerly along N Lake St to E Cleveland Ave, and proceeding westerly along E
Cleveland Ave to the point of beginning.
      (5)   District 5. The region bounded and described as follows: all of
that portion of Madera County bounded and described as follows: beginning at
the point of intersection of Roberts Ave and N Pine St, and proceeding easterly
along Roberts Ave to N I St, and proceeding southerly along N I St to Union
Pacific RR, and proceeding easterly along Union Pacific RR to N H St, and
proceeding southerly along N H St to W 3rd St, and proceeding easterly along W
3rd St to E 3rd St, and proceeding easterly along E 3rd St to N D St, and
proceeding northerly along N D St to Fresno River, and proceeding easterly
along Fresno River to Tozer St, and proceeding westerly along Tozer St to
Raymond Rd, and proceeding northerly along Raymond Rd to the Madera city line,
and proceeding easterly/southerly along the Madera city line to Sunrise Ave,
and proceeding westerly along Sunrise Ave to E 11th St, and proceeding westerly
along E 11th St to S D St, and proceeding northerly along S D St to E 10th St,
and proceeding westerly along E 10th St to S E St, and proceeding northerly
along S E St to E 9th St, and proceeding westerly along E 9th St to S Gateway
Dr, and proceeding southerly along S Gateway Dr to S Madera Ave, and proceeding
southerly along S Madera Ave to W Olive Ave, and proceeding westerly along W
Olive Ave to unnamed ramp, and proceeding westerly along unnamed ramp to W
Olive Ave, and proceeding westerly along W Olive Ave to Olive Ave, and
proceeding westerly along Olive Ave to W Olive Ave, and proceeding westerly
along W Olive Ave to N Pine St, and proceeding northerly along N Pine St to
Sunset Ave, and proceeding easterly along Sunset Ave to Foster Ave, and
proceeding northerly along Foster Ave to N Park Dr, and proceeding westerly
along N Park Dr to N Pine St, and proceeding northerly along N Pine St to the
point of beginning.
      (6)   District 6. The region bounded and described as follows: all of
that portion of Madera County bounded and described as follows: beginning at
the point of intersection of E 9th St and S Gateway Dr, and proceeding easterly
along E 9th St to S E St, and proceeding southerly along S E St to E 10th St,
and proceeding northerly along E 10th St to S D St, and proceeding southerly
along S D St to E 11th St, and proceeding easterly along E 11th St to Sunrise
Ave, and proceeding easterly along Sunrise Ave to Ave 14 1/2, and proceeding
easterly along Ave 14 1/2 to the Madera city line, and proceeding easterly
along the Madera city line to the Parksdale/Madera census designated place/city
line, and proceeding westerly along the Parksdale/Madera census designated
place/city line to the Madera city line, and proceeding southerly along the
Madera city line to the Parkwood/Madera census designated place/city line, and
proceeding westerly along the Parkwood/Madera census designated place/city line
to S Madera Ave, and proceeding northerly along S Madera Ave to S Gateway Dr,
and proceeding northerly along S Gateway Dr to the point of beginning.
      (7)   The foregoing district boundaries are depicted on the "City Council
District Boundaries Map" in Ordinance 988 C.S. and on file in the City Clerk's
Office. These boundaries will remain in effect until amended by ordinance as
set forth herein and required by law.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, and pursuant to
Cal. Elections Code § 21606(a) and (b), each of the Council members currently
in office at the time this section takes effect shall continue in office until
the expiration of the full term to which he or she was regularly elected or
appointed. Any vacancy in or recall election for a Council term currently in
effect shall be filled based on the Council districts in effect at the time the
current Council term was last regularly elected.
(Ord. 1002 C.S., passed 8-2-23; Am. Ord. 1007 C.S., passed 3-6-24; Am. Ord.
1010 C.S., passed 6-5-24)
§ 2-1.09 METHOD OF ELECTION.
   (A)   Mayor. The Mayor shall be elected at the regular municipal election in
November of 2012 and every four years thereafter, by the voters of the city at-
large, and must reside within the city boundaries. The Mayor shall be elected
by the voters of the city at-large.
   (B)   District Council members. One member of the City Council shall reside
in each of the six electoral districts established by §§
2-1.20 through
2-1.22 and shall be elected by a vote of the voters of that district only. Each
district shall elect one Council member. Except as provided in §
2-1.21(C), a Council member of each district must live in that district and
must be a registered voter in that district to be eligible to hold the office
of Council member for that district, and a candidate for any district must live
in that district and must be a registered voter in that district to be eligible
to run for the office of Council member for that district. Only voters who live
in a district shall be eligible to vote in the election for Council member of
that district. Each Council member must reside within the district for the full
term of office; termination of residency within the district shall create an
immediate vacancy for that Council district unless a substitute residence
within the district is established within 30 days of termination of residency.
   (C)   The members of the Council in office at the time §§
2-1.20 through
2-1.22 take effect shall continue in office until the expiration of their terms
and until their successors are elected and qualified. If a tie vote makes it
impossible to determine which of two or more candidates has been elected, said
tie shall be settled by the drawing of lots, the procedure for which shall be
determined by the Council. No candidate shall file for more than one elective
office. Any member of the Council may run for the office of Mayor, and upon
election as Mayor shall forfeit the office of Council member of any district.
(Ord. 1002 C.S., passed 8-2-23)
CHAPTER 2: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
City Administrator
   
2-2.101   Position created
   
2-2.102   Powers and duties
   
2-2.103   Authority
   
2-2.104   Harmonious relationships required
Director of Finance
   
2-2.201   Office created
   
2-2.202   Appointment
   
2-2.203   Powers and duties
   
2-2.204   Bonding
Civil Service System
   
2-2.301   Adoption of civil service system
   
2-2.302   Personnel officer
   
2-2.303   Civil Service Commission
   
2-2.304   Duties of the Civil Service Commission
   
2-2.305   Competitive service
   
2-2.306   Adoption of rules
   
2-2.307   Appointments
   
2-2.308   Appointment lists
   
2-2.309   Probationary period
   
2-2.310   Status of present employees
   
2-2.311   Applicability of rules to certain exempt positions
   
2-2.312   Powers of the City Administrator
   
2-2.313   Suspensions
   
2-2.314   Requests for hearings
   
2-2.315   Right of appeal
   
2-2.316   Abolition of position
   
2-2.317   Reemployment lists
   
2-2.318   (Repealed)
   
2-2.319   (Repealed)
   
2-2.320   (Repealed)
   
2-2.321   (Repealed)
   
2-2.322   Right to contract for special services
   
2-2.323   Appropriation of funds
Training of Law Enforcement Officers
   
2-2.401   Declaration of qualifications
   
2-2.402   Adherence to standards
Purchasing Procedures
   
2-2.501   Adoption of purchasing system
   
2-2.502   Designation of Purchasing Officer
   
2-2.503   Duties of purchasing officer
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
§ 2-2.101 POSITION CREATED.
   There is created the position of City Administrator who shall serve directly
under the supervision and control of the Council.
('61 Code, § 2-2.101) (Ord. 174 N.S. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 547 C.S., passed 4-
4-90; Am. Ord. 591 C.S., passed 1-6-93)
§ 2-2.102 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the City Administrator shall be as follows:
   (A)   To execute on behalf of the Council its administrative supervision and
control of such affairs of the city as may be placed in the City
Administrator's charge;
   (B)   To attend meetings of the Council with the duty of reporting on or
discussing any matter concerning the affairs of the departments, services, or
activities under the City Administrator's supervision upon which, in his or her
judgment, the Council should be informed;
   (C)   To assist the Council in coordinating the administrative functions and
operations of the various departments, divisions, and services of the city
government;
   (D)   To analyze the functions, duties, and activities of the various
departments, divisions, and services of the city government and all employees
thereof, and to make such recommendations to the Council with reference thereto
as in his or her judgment will result in the highest degree of efficiency in
the overall operation of the city government;
   (E)   To cause to be prepared and submitted to the City Administrator by
each department, division, or service of the city government itemized annual
estimates of expenditures required by any of them for capital outlay, salaries,
wages, and miscellaneous operating costs; to tabulate the same into a
preliminary consolidated municipal budget; and to submit the same to the
Council before June 15 of each year with the City Administrator's
recommendations as to such changes which he or she deems advisable;
   (F)   To be responsible for the administration of the budget after its final
adoption and to keep the Council informed with respect thereto;
   (G)   As executive officer for the Council, to coordinate the expenditures
of all departments, divisions, or services of the city government, correlating
such activities with the activities of the Director of Finance as the City
Purchasing Officer.
   (H)   To develop and organize necessary public improvement projects and
programs, and to aid and assist the Council and the various departments in
carrying the same through to successful conclusions;
   (I)   To serve as public relations officer of the city government;
   (J)   To cooperate with all community organizations which aims and purposes
are to advance the moral and material interests of the city and its people, and
to provide them with assistance through the city government;
   (K)   To make and keep up to date an inventory of all property, real and
personal, owned by the city and to recommend to the Council the purchase of new
machinery, equipment, and supplies whenever in his or her judgment the same can
be obtained at the best advantage, taking into consideration trade-in value of
machinery and equipment in use; and
   (L)   To work and cooperate with the Clerk in his or her office at all times
in preparing reports, budgets, and general finances for presentation to the
Council.
('61 Code, § 2-2.102) (Ord. 174 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 547 C.S., passed 4-
4-90; Am. Ord. 591 C.S., passed 1-6-93; Am. Ord. 609 C.S., passed 1-5-94)
§ 2-2.103 AUTHORITY.
   The City Administrator shall act as the executive officer for the Council in
the discharge of its administrative functions but shall not exercise any
policy-making or legislative functions whatsoever, nor attempt to commit or
bind the Council, or any member thereof, to any action, plan, or program
requiring official Council action. It is not intended by this subchapter to
grant any authority to, or impose any duty upon, the City Administrator which
is vested in or imposed by general law or valid city ordinances in any other
City Commission, board, department, officer, or employee.
('61 Code, § 2-2.103) (Ord. 174 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 547 C.S., passed 4-
4-90; Am. Ord. 591 C.S., passed 1-6-93)
§ 2-2.104 HARMONIOUS RELATIONSHIPS REQUIRED.
   In the discharge of official duties, the City Administrator shall endeavor
at all times to exercise the highest degree of tact, patience, and courtesy in
his or her contacts with the public and with all city commissions, boards,
departments, officers, and employees and shall use his or her best efforts to
establish and maintain a harmonious relationship between all personnel employed
in the government of the city to the end that highest possible standards of
public service be continuously maintained.
('61 Code, § 2-2.104) (Ord. 174 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 547 C.S., passed 4-
4-90; Am. Ord. 591 C.S., passed 1-6-93)
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
§ 2-2.201 OFFICE CREATED.
   There is created and established the office of Director of Finance. The
Director of Finance shall be the Chief Accounting Officer of the city and shall
be vested and charged with the powers and duties set forth in this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 2-2.201) (Ord. 318 N.S., passed - - )
§ 2-2.202 APPOINTMENT.
   The Director of Finance shall be appointed by, and shall serve at the
pleasure of, the City Administrator.
('61 Code, § 2-2.202) (Ord. 318 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 591 C.S., passed 1-
6-93; Am. Ord. 632 C.S., passed 2-15-95)
§ 2-2.203 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Director of Finance shall be as follows:
   (A)   To administer the financial affairs of the city as required by law,
under the direction of the City Administrator, and to submit all financial
reports and other financial information as may be required or desired by the
City Administrator or City Council directly to the City Council and to the City
Administrator.
   (B)   To prepare the annual budget and estimates of revenues;
   (C)   To maintain a general accounting system for the city as a whole and
for its departments, offices, and agencies;
   (D)   To act as City Purchasing Agent and to supervise and control the
disbursement of all monies, the audit of all purchase orders prior to issuance,
and the audit and approval of all bills, invoices, payrolls, demands, or other
charges against the city to determine that the charges are regular and correct
and that funds have been appropriated therefor;
   (E)   To submit to the City Council and the City Administrator a monthly
statement of all receipts and disbursements in sufficient detail to show the
exact financial condition of the city, and to submit annually, at the end of
the fiscal year, a complete financial statement and report;
   (F)   To supervise the keeping of correct inventories of all property of the
city by all city departments, offices, and agencies;
   (G)   To perform all other financial and accounting duties imposed upon the
City Clerk by Cal. Gov't Code §§ 40802 through 40805.5 and perform all duties
imposed upon the City Clerk by Cal. Gov't Code §§ 37201 through 37208 which may
not be specifically enumerated in this section;
   (H)   To perform all functions and duties relating to the administration and
collection of all licenses and other city taxes not collected by county or
state agencies; and
   (I)   To perform such other duties specified by resolution of the City
Council or as requested by the City Administrator.
('61 Code, § 2-2.203) (Ord. 318 N.S. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 591 C.S., passed 1-
6-93; Am. Ord. 609 C.S., passed 1-5-94; Am. Ord. 632 C.S., passed 2-15-95)
§ 2-2.204 BONDING.
   Prior to the commencement of any official duties, the Director of Finance
shall furnish to the city a corporate surety bond in the penal sum of $25,000,
which bond shall be conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her
duties imposed upon the Director of Finance by this subchapter, and shall
conform to the provisions of the Government Code of the state relating to bonds
of public officers.
('61 Code, § 2-2.204) (Ord. 318 N.S., passed - - )
CIVIL SERVICE SYSTEM
§ 2-2.301 ADOPTION OF CIVIL SERVICE SYSTEM.
   In order to establish an equitable and uniform procedure for dealing with
personnel matters, to attract to municipal service the best and most competent
persons available, to assure that appointments and promotions of employees will
be based on merit and fitness as determined by competitive test, and to provide
a reasonable degree of security for qualified employees, the following Civil
Service System is adopted.
('61 Code, § 2-2.301) (Ord. 10 C.S., passed 9-20-61)
§ 2-2.302 PERSONNEL OFFICER.
   The City Administrator shall be ex-officio Personnel Officer. With the
approval of the Council, the City Administrator may delegate any of the powers
and duties conferred upon him or her as Personnel Officer under this chapter to
any other officer or employee of the city or may recommend that such powers and
duties be performed under contract as provided in §
2-2.322 of this subchapter. The specific duties of the Personnel Officer shall
be as follows:
   (A)   Attend all meetings of the Civil Service Commission and serve as its
secretary;
   (B)   Administer all the provisions of this subchapter and of the personnel
rules not specifically reserved to the Council or the Civil Service Commission;
   (C)   Prepare and recommend to the Council revisions and amendments to the
personnel rules. The City Attorney shall approve the legality of such revisions
and amendments prior to their submission to the Council;
   (D)   Maintain a position classification plan, including class
specifications, and revisions of the plan. Any revisions to the position
classification plan shall become effective upon approval by the Council; and
   (E)   Maintain a plan of compensation, and revisions thereof, covering all
classifications in the competitive service. Any revisions to the plan of
compensation shall become effective upon approval by the Council.
('61 Code, § 2-2.302) (Ord. 10 C.S., passed 9-20-61)
§ 2-2.303 CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is created a Civil Service Commission (Commission) to consist of
seven members, to be appointed as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Chairperson. Annually, the Commission shall, by majority vote,
designate one of its members as the chair of the Commission in a manner
consistent with the Civil Service Commission Rules of Procedure.
   (C)   Qualifications. Members of the Civil Service Commission shall be
residents of the city. No person shall be appointed to the Commission who holds
any employment with the city, nor shall any member be employed by or under the
direct supervision of any current member of the City Council.
(‘61 Code, § 2-2.303) (Ord. 10 C.S., passed 9-20-61; Am. Ord. 604 C.S., passed
12-1-93; Am. Ord. 619 C.S., passed 3-16-94; Am. Ord. 653 C.S., passed 4-3-96;
Am. Ord. 669 C.S., passed 3-19-97; Am. Ord. 902 C.S., passed 3-20-13; Am. Ord.
982 C.S., passed 12-15-21; Am. Ord. 989 C.S., passed 4-20-22)
§ 2-2.304 DUTIES OF THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Civil Service Commission shall determine the order of business for
the conduct of its meetings, and shall meet regularly if so required by the
rules, or on call of the Chairman or three members of the Commission. Three
members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business.
   (B)   The functions of the Commission shall be:
      (1)   As provided by this subchapter and by the rules, to hear appeals
submitted by any person in the competitive service relative to any disciplinary
action, dismissal, demotion, or alleged violation of this subchapter or the
personnel rules and to certify its findings and recommendations as provided in
this subchapter;
      (2)   In any investigation or hearing conducted by the Commission, it
shall have the power to examine witnesses under oath and compel their
attendance or production of evidence by subpoenas issued in the name of the
city and attested by the City Clerk. It shall be the duty of the Chief of
Police to cause all such subpoenas to be served, and refusal of a person to
attend or testify in answer to such a subpoena shall subject the person to
prosecution in the same manner set forth by law for failure to appear before
the Council in response to a subpoena issued by the Council. Each member of the
Civil Service Commission shall have the power to administer oaths to witnesses;
      (3)   To publish or post notices of examinations for positions in the
competitive service; to receive applications therefor; to conduct and score
examinations; and to certify to the appointing power a list of all persons
eligible for appointment in the appropriate class in the competitive service.
The Civil Service Commission shall cause the duties imposed upon it by this
subsection to be performed by the City Clerk, except the duty to conduct and
score examinations, which shall be performed for the Civil Service Commission
by the City Administrator unless the City Administrator shall cause the City
Clerk to conduct and score examinations; and
      (4)   When requested by the Council or the City Administrator, the Civil
Service Commission shall hold hearings and make recommendations on any matter
of personnel administration, within the limits of a request of the Council or
the City Administrator.
('61 Code, § 2-2.304) (Ord. 10 C.S., passed 9-20-61)
§ 2-2.305 COMPETITIVE SERVICE.
   Except as hereinafter provided, the provisions of this subchapter shall
apply to all offices, positions, and employments in the service of the city
except:
   (A)   Elective officers;
   (B)   Members of appointive boards, commissions, and committees;
   (C)   Persons engaged under contract to supply expert, professional, or
technical services for a definite period of time;
   (D)   Volunteer personnel, such as volunteer firemen, who receive no regular
compensation from the city; and
   (E)   The City Manager, Police Chief, Golf Course Superintendent, Director
of Financial Services, City Attorney and attorney subordinates, if any, City
Clerk, City Engineer, Director of Community Development, Public Works
Operations Director, Director of Parks and Community Services, Planning
Manager, Director of Human Resources, Executive Director of the Successor
Agency to the Former Madera Redevelopment Agency, Director of Administrative
Services, Chief Building Official, Information Services Manager, Communications
Manager, and Neighborhood Preservation Manager.
(‘61 Code, § 2-2.305) (Ord. 10 C.S., passed 9-20-61; Am. Ord. 188 C.S., passed
9-6-72; Am. Ord. 462 C.S., passed 7-1-86; Am. Ord. 667 C.S., passed 1-15-97;
Am. Ord. 857 C.S., passed 5-20-09; Am. Ord. 932 C.S., passed 3-16-16; Am. Ord.
978 C.S., passed 9-15-21)
§ 2-2.306 ADOPTION OF RULES.
   Personnel rules, prepared by the City Administrator subject to the
provisions of this subchapter and to revision by the Council, shall be adopted
by, and may be amended from time to time by, resolution of the Council. The
personnel rules shall establish specific procedures and regulations governing
the following phases of the personnel system:
   (A)   Preparation, installation, revision, and maintenance of a position
classification plan covering all positions in the competitive service,
including employment standards and qualifications for each class;
   (B)   Preparation, revision, and administration of a plan of compensation
directly correlated with the position classification plan, providing a rate or
range of pay for each class;
   (C)   Public announcement of all tests and the acceptance of applications
for employment;
   (D)   Preparation and conduct of tests and the establishment and use of
resulting employment lists containing names of persons eligible for
appointment;
   (E)   Certification and appointment of persons from employment lists, and
the making of temporary and emergency appointments;
   (F)   Evaluation of employees during the probationary period;
   (G)   Transfer, promotion, demotion, and reinstatement of employees in the
competitive service;
   (H)   Separation of employees from the city service through layoff,
suspension, and dismissal;
   (I)   Standardization of hours of work, attendance and leave regulations,
working conditions, and the development of employee morale, welfare, and
training; and
   (J)   Suitable provision for orderly and equitable presentations to the City
Administrator and to the Council by employees relating to general conditions of
employment.
('61 Code, § 2-2.306) (Ord. 10 C.S., passed 9-20-61)
§ 2-2.307 APPOINTMENTS.
   Appointments to vacant positions in the competitive service shall be made in
accordance with the personnel rules. Appointments and promotions shall be based
on merit and fitness, to be ascertained so far as practicable by competitive
examinations. Examinations shall be used and conducted to aid in the selection
of qualified employees and shall consist of such recognized selection
techniques as achievement and aptitude tests and other written tests, personal
interview, performance tests, evaluation of daily work performance and work
samples, or any combination of these, which will, in the opinion of the
Personnel Officer, test fairly the qualifications of candidates. Physical and
medical tests may be given as a part of any examination. In any examination the
Personnel Officer may include, in addition to competitive tests, a qualifying
test or tests, and set minimum standards therefor.
('61 Code, § 2-2.307) (Ord. 10 C.S., passed 9-20-61)
§ 2-2.308 APPOINTMENT LISTS.
   When appointments are to be made to a vacancy in the competitive service,
the City Clerk shall transmit to the appointing power the names of all persons
on the appropriate certified employment or promotional list, in the order in
which they appear on the list. In the absence of appropriate employment lists,
a temporary appointment may be made by the appointing authority of the person
meeting the minimum training and experience qualifications for the position. An
employment list shall be established within six months for any permanent
position filled by temporary appointment. The City Administrator, with the
approval of four-fifths of the Council, may extend the period for any temporary
appointment to a temporary position for not more than 30 days by any one
action. When a position is to be filled by temporary appointment, or a
temporary appointment is to be extended, the Council shall direct the City
Clerk to record such action in the minutes of the meeting of the Council. No
special credit shall be allowed in meeting any qualification or in the giving
of any tests or the establishment of any employment or promotional lists for
service rendered under a provisional appointment. During the period of
suspension of an employee, or pending final action on proceedings to review the
suspension, demotion, or dismissal of an employee, such vacancy may be filled
by the appointing authority, subject to the provisions of this subchapter and
the personnel rules.
('61 Code, § 2-2.308) (Ord. 10 C.S., passed 9-20-61)
§ 2-2.309 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   All regular appointments, including promotional appointments, shall be for a
probationary period of not less than one year, except that as to any class of
position, the rules may provide for an extension of the period for not more
than an additional one year. During the probationary period, the employee may
be rejected at any time without right of appeal or hearing.
('61 Code, § 2-2.309) (Ord. 10 C.S., passed 9-20-61; Am. Ord. 58 C.S., passed
2-5-64)
§ 2-2.310 STATUS OF PRESENT EMPLOYEES.
   Any person holding a position included in the competitive service who, on
September 20, 1961, shall have served continuously in such position, or in some
other position in the competitive service, for a period equal to the
probationary period prescribed in the rules for his or her class, shall assume
regular status in the competitive service in the position held on such date
without a qualifying test, and shall thereafter be subject in all respects to
the provisions of this subchapter and the personnel rules. Any other persons
holding positions in the competitive service shall be regarded as probationers
who are serving out the balance of their probationary periods as prescribed in
the rules before obtaining regular status. The probationary period shall be
computed from the date of appointment or employment.
('61 Code, § 2-2.310) (Ord. 10 C.S., passed 9-20-61)
§ 2-2.311 APPLICABILITY OF RULES TO CERTAIN EXEMPT POSITIONS.
   The provisions of the personnel rules relating to attendance and leaves
shall apply to the incumbents of full-time exempt positions.
('61 Code, § 2-2.311) (Ord. 10 C.S., passed 9-20-61)
§ 2-2.312 POWERS OF THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Administrator is vested with the power to appoint, make transfers,
promotions, demotions, reinstatements, and layoffs, and suspend or dismiss
employees in the classified service pursuant to, and in accordance with, the
personnel rules. The City Administrator is further vested with the power to
appoint, dismiss, suspend, or take such actions as the City Administrator deems
warranted in connection with officers and employees in the unclassified
service. In the event of an opening for a position in the unclassified service,
the City Administrator shall determine from the Council whether the method of
filling such position shall be by promotion or through open examination. In the
event of a proposed dismissal, the City Administrator shall, prior to any
action thereon, inform the Council of the circumstances involved, the action
which will be taken, and the reasons therefor. The foregoing notwithstanding,
the provisions of this section shall not apply to the positions of City Clerk,
City Treasurer, and City Attorney.
('61 Code, § 2-2.312) (Ord. 10 C.S., passed 9-20-61; Am. Ord. 104 C.S., passed
3-8-67; Am. Ord. 188 C.S., passed 9-6-72; Am. Ord. 591 C.S., passed 1-6-93; Am.
Ord. 632 C.S., passed 2-15-95)
§ 2-2.313 SUSPENSIONS.
   Any person holding a position or employment in the competitive service shall
be subject to disciplinary suspension without pay by the appointing power with
the right of appeal, but such suspensions shall not exceed a total of 30
calendar days in any fiscal year. A department head not having the power of
appointment may make disciplinary suspensions in accordance with the personnel
rules.
('61 Code, § 2-2.313) (Ord. 10 C.S., passed 9-20-61)
§ 2-2.314 REQUESTS FOR HEARINGS.
   Any permanent employee in the competitive service who has been demoted,
dismissed, or reduced in pay shall be entitled to request a written statement
of the reasons for such action. Such a request shall be made within three
working days following the action, and the employee shall have three additional
working days within which to answer the charges in writing. In the event the
employee requests the statement and prepares his or her written answer, copies
of both shall be filed with the Personnel Officer, who shall transmit them to
the Civil Service Commission. Within ten days from the date of filing his or
her answer to the written charges, or in the event such written charges have
not been made available to him or her within the time prescribed, then within
ten days after the action taken to demote, dismiss, or reduce the pay of the
employee, he or she may file a written demand with the Personnel Officer
requesting a hearing before the Civil Service Commission. The Civil Service
Commission shall then investigate the case and conduct a hearing as provided in
this subchapter and by the rules. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to reductions in pay which are a part of a general plan to reduce
salaries and wages.
('61 Code, § 2-2.314) (Ord. 10 C.S., passed 9-20-61)
§ 2-2.315 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any employee in the competitive service shall have the right to appeal to
the Civil Service Commission relative to any disciplinary action, dismissal,
demotion, or alleged violation of this subchapter or the personnel rules,
except in instances where the right of appeal is prohibited by this subchapter.
Thereupon, the Commission shall make such investigation as it may deem
necessary and within 30 days after the request for a hearing was filed, the
Commission shall hold a hearing. The hearing need not be conducted according to
technical rules relating to evidence and witnesses. Within ten days after
concluding the hearing, the Civil Service Commission shall certify its findings
and recommendations to the Council. The Council shall review the findings and
recommendations of the Civil Service Commission and may then affirm, revoke, or
modify the action taken, as in its judgment seems warranted, and the action
taken shall be final.
('61 Code, § 2-2.315) (Ord. 10 C.S., passed 9-20-61; Am. Ord. 58 C.S., passed
2-5-64)
§ 2-2.316 ABOLITION OF POSITION.
   Whenever in the judgment of the Council it becomes necessary in the
interests of economy or because the necessity for the position or employment
involved no longer exists, the Council may abolish any position or employment
in the competitive service and lay off, demote, or transfer an employee holding
such position or employment without filing written charges and without the
right of appeal. Seniority shall be observed in effecting such reduction in
personnel, and the order of layoff shall be in reverse order of the total
cumulative time served in the city service upon the effective date of the
layoff. Layoffs shall be made within classes of positions, and all provisional
employees in the affected classes shall be laid off prior to the layoff of any
probationary or permanent employee. For the purpose of determining order of
layoff, the total cumulative time shall include any time served on a military
leave of absence.
('61 Code, § 2-2.316) (Ord. 10 C.S., passed 9-20-61)
§ 2-2.317 REEMPLOYMENT LISTS.
   The names of probationary and permanent employees laid-off shall be placed
upon reemployment lists for classes which, in the opinion of the Personnel
Officer, require basically the same qualifications, duties, and
responsibilities of those of the class of positions from which the layoff was
made. The names of persons laid-off shall be placed upon reemployment lists in
the order of their competency and shall remain on such lists for a period of
two years unless reemployed sooner. For reemployment purposes, the competency
of a person laid-off shall be determined by the head of the department in which
such person worked.
('61 Code, § 2-2.317) (Ord. 10 C.S., passed 9-20-61)
§ 2-2.318 (REPEALED).
§ 2-2.319 (REPEALED).
§ 2-2.320 (REPEALED).
§ 2-2.321 (REPEALED).
§ 2-2.322 RIGHT TO CONTRACT FOR SPECIAL SERVICES.
   The City Administrator shall consider and make recommendations to the
Council regarding the extent to which the city should contract for the
performance of technical services in connection with the establishment or
operation of the personnel system. The Council may contract with any qualified
person or agency for the performance of all or any of the following
responsibilities and duties imposed by this subchapter:
   (A)   The preparation of personnel rules and subsequent revisions and
amendments thereof;
   (B)   The preparation of a position classification plan and subsequent
revisions and amendments thereof;
   (C)   The preparation of a plan of compensation and subsequent revisions and
amendments thereof;
   (D)   The preparation, conduct, and grading of competitive tests; and
   (E)   Special and technical services of advisory or informational character
on matters relating to personnel administration.
('61 Code, § 2-2.322) (Ord. 10 C.S., passed 9-20-61)
§ 2-2.323 APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS.
   The Council shall appropriate such funds as are necessary to carry out the
provisions of this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 2-2.323) (Ord. 10 C.S., passed 9-20-61)
TRAINING OF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS
§ 2-2.401 DECLARATION OF QUALIFICATIONS.
   The city declares that it desires to qualify to receive aid from the state
pursuant to the provisions of Cal. Penal Code Chapter 1, Title 4, Part 4.
('61 Code, § 2-2.401) (Ord. 21 C.S., passed 1-17-62)
§ 2-2.402 ADHERENCE TO STANDARDS.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Cal. Penal Code § 13522 of Chapter 1, the
city, while receiving aid from the state pursuant to Chapter 1, will adhere to
the standards for recruitment and training established by the State Commission
on Peace Officer Standards and Training.
('61 Code, § 2-2.402) (Ord. 21 C.S., passed 1-17-62)
PURCHASING PROCEDURES
§ 2-2.501 ADOPTION OF PURCHASING SYSTEM.
   In order to establish efficient procedures for the purchase of supplies and
equipment, to secure for the city supplies and equipment at the lowest possible
cost commensurate with quality needed, to exercise positive financial control
over purchases, to clearly define authority for the purchasing function, and to
assure the quality of purchases, a Purchasing System is established.
('61 Code, § 2-2.501) (Ord. 157 C.S., passed 1-20-71)
§ 2-2.502 DESIGNATION OF PURCHASING OFFICER.
   The Director of Finance is appointed the Purchasing Officer of the city and
the head of the Central Purchasing Department, and he or she is vested subject
to the direction of the City Administrator with full authority to purchase all
supplies and equipment for the city. Subject to the direction of the City
Administrator, the duties of the Purchasing Officer may be performed by an
authorized representative or be delegated to such city office or position as
may be determined by the Director of Finance.
('61 Code, § 2-2.502) (Ord. 157 C.S., passed 1-20-71; Am. Ord. 591 C.S., passed
1-6-93)
§ 2-2.503 DUTIES OF PURCHASING OFFICER.
   The Purchasing Officer shall have the authority and responsibility to
purchase all supplies and equipment necessary and proper for the conduct of
city operations required by any department in accordance with the purchasing
procedures established by this chapter, administrative regulations as may be
adopted by the Purchasing Department, and such other rules and regulations as
are prescribed by the Council.
('61 Code, § 2-2.503) (Ord. 157 C.S., passed 1-20-71)
CHAPTER 3: CITY BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
Section
General Provisions
   
2-3.101   Appointments and terms of office
Youth Commission
   
2-3.201   City-wide Madera Youth Commission
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 2-3.101 APPOINTMENTS AND TERMS OF OFFICE.
   Unless otherwise specifically provided by statute or a joint powers
agreement, the members of all city boards, committees, and commissions shall be
appointed and serve as provided herein notwithstanding any other provision of
this code, city resolution, or city minute order.
   (A)   Appointment.
      (1)   The Mayor is authorized to make appointments to city boards,
committees, and commissions subject to approval by the City Council.
      (2)   For new boards, committees, and commissions comprised of seven
members, the Mayor will seek nominations for appointments from each Council
member and the Mayor may make a direct appointment for the at-large seat for
consideration by the Council.
      (3)   For existing boards, committees, and commissions comprised of seven
members and as vacancies occur, the Mayor will seek a nomination to fill the
vacancy from the Council member for the Council district who originally
nominated the person. The Mayor may also make one direct appointment for the
seventh seat for consideration by the City Council.
      (4)   For boards, committees, and commissions comprised of less or more
than seven members and as vacancies occur, a numerical rotation system based on
district numbers will be utilized and the Mayor will seek a nomination to fill
such vacancy from a Council member who has not yet made or waived their
opportunity to nominate a person to serve on the particular board, committee,
or commission. In other words, if the last nomination was from the Council
member for District 3, the Mayor will seek a nomination from the Council member
for District 4.
      (5)   The Mayor is not required to appoint persons nominated by Council
members.
      (6)   The Mayor will submit appointees to the City Council for
consideration.
      (7)   The City Council is authorized to approve or reject any appointment
made by the Mayor.
      (8)   Council approval of any appointment shall be made by resolution
adopted by four votes of the City Council. The appointment shall be for the
remainder of an unexpired term or for a new term.
      (9)   Upon the City Council's determination not to approve a Mayor's
appointee, the Mayor shall proceed to seek another nominee, make another
appointment, and submit the appointee to the City Council for consideration and
approval as set forth in this section.
   (B)   Term. Each board, committee, or commission member appointed as set
forth in division (A) above shall serve a term of four years unless a different
term is otherwise provided by law, or until the Council member who nominated
such board, committee or commission member is no longer serving as a Council
member, whichever period is less. Each appointed member shall serve until his
or her successor is appointed and qualified.
(Ord. 881 C.S., passed 1-5-11; Am. Ord. 986 C.S., passed 3-2-22)
YOUTH COMMISSION
2-3.201 CITY-WIDE MADERA YOUTH COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a commission which shall be known as the City-
wide Madera Youth Commission, or for purposes of this section, the
"Commission." The purpose of the Commission is to advise the Council and Mayor
on issues relating to youth. The Commission is empowered to and shall perform
such advisory functions as are delegated to it by the provisions of this
section or other action of the Council.
   (B)   The Commission shall consist of seven voting members.
      (1)   Each member of the City Council shall appoint one member to the
Commission from their district; the Mayor shall appoint one member from the
city-at-large.
      (2)   Immediate family members of the City Councilmembers and Mayor shall
not be eligible for appointment.
      (3)   City Councilmembers and Mayor shall make an effort to involve local
youth-serving organizations, as may be designated by the City Council pursuant
to division (E) herein, in the selection and appointment process.
   (C)   Qualifications for Commission members include:
      (1)   Each appointed member must reside or attend school within the
Madera city limits and shall be youth between 15 and 21 years of age, at the
time of appointment.
      (2)   Members may serve up to age 23.
      (3)   Membership shall preferably consist of youth who have experience
with youth programs or youth-serving organizations, or involvement with school
or community activities, and who are able and prepared to participate in the
Commission activities and make the required commitment of time and energy.
      (4)   Members of the Commission shall serve for a two-year term or for
the term of the appointing Council Member whichever is less, or until a
replacement is appointed. No person appointed to Commission shall be eligible
to serve more than two consecutive terms (a total of four years).
      (5)   The Commission shall select a Chair and Vice Chair from among its
members to serve for a one-year term; no member shall serve more than two
consecutive terms in either position.
   (D)   The Commission shall establish its rules and regulations for the
conduct of its business. Such rules and regulations shall be consistent with
this section and all other applicable laws and regulations, and shall enable
the Commission to carry out the purpose of this section.
      (1)   All meetings of the Commission shall be subject to the Ralph M.
Brown Act (Cal. Gov't Code §§ 54950 et seq.).
      (2)   The Commission shall schedule at least one meeting per month at a
designated time and place. All members are required to attend every scheduled
regular and special meeting. Three consecutive absences shall be allowed per
year. More than three consecutive absences shall result in termination from the
Commission.
      (3)    A simple majority of members shall constitute a quorum at any
regular or special meeting of the Commission.
   (E)   A youth-serving organization will be designated by the City Council
and will work with the City Clerk and city staff to provide guidance to the
Commission.
      (1)   Agendas and minutes of the Commission shall be prepared by the
Commission, filed with the Office of the City Clerk, and shall be a public
record.
      (2)   The youth-serving organization designated by City Council will
provide staff in an adult supervisory role to support all the Commission
activities.
   (F)   The Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   Identify the concerns and needs of the youth of Madera through
community outreach and engagement; and hold public forums in which children,
youth and families are encouraged to participate.
      (2)   Examine existing social, economic educational, and recreational
programs for youth; develop and propose plans that support or improve such
programs; and make recommendations thereon to the City Council.
      (3)   Develop a yearly outline with the areas of focus for the Commission
within the purview and jurisdiction of the City of Madera.
      (4)   Submit recommendations to the City Council about public safety, job
opportunities for youth, recreation activities for youth, opportunities for
effective participation by youth in governmental process, and changes in city
regulations that are necessary to improve the social, economic, educational,
recreational advantages, health and well-being of youth.
      (5)   Work with the public and private sectors to bring forth the
concerns of youth as well as evaluate programming that will enhance the
development of young people.
      (6)   Report to the City Council the activities, goals and
accomplishments of the Commission by June 30 of each calendar year.
      (7)   Submit quarterly reports or as requested to the City Council.
      (8)   Commissioners shall meet with their appointing Councilmember or
Mayor at least three times a year.
(Ord. 954 C.S., passed 9-5-18)
CHAPTER 4: PURCHASING PROCEDURES
Section
   
2-4.01   Purpose and implementation
   
2-4.02   Expenditure authority
   
2-4.03   Designation of and responsibility of Purchasing Agent
   
2-4.04   Purchasing amount authority and signature
   
2-4.05   Purchases and contracts that are not public projects
   
2-4.06   Uniform Public Construction Cost Accounting Act procedures for public
projects
   
2-4.07   Exceptions: cooperative purchasing agreements and piggyback purchases
   
2-4.08   Sole source purchases
   
2-4.09   Prevailing wages and public works projects
   
2-4.10   Requests for proposals and requests for qualifications
   
2-4.11   Conflict of interest
§ 2-4.01 PURPOSE AND IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known as the "City of Madera Purchasing
Ordinance" ("Purchasing Ordinance"). The purpose of this purchasing ordinance
is to establish efficient procedures for the purchase of supplies, equipment,
and services at the lowest possible cost commensurate with quality needed, to
exercise positive financial control over purchases, to define purchasing
authority, and to assure the quality of purchases.
   (B)   Compliance with laws. The adoption of this Purchasing Ordinance is
intended to meet the requirements of state law including but not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Cal. Gov't Code §§ 54201 to 54205 regarding the purchase of
supplies and equipment;
      (2)   Cal. Public Contract Code §§ 20160 to 20174 regarding city public
works construction projects;
      (3)   Cal. Public Contract Code §§ 22000 to 22045 regarding the Uniform
Public Construction Cost Accounting Procedures;
      (4)   Cal. Gov't Code § 4526 regarding professional services;
      (5)   Cal. Labor Code requirements for prevailing wages;
      (6)   Cal. Gov't Code § 4529.2 regarding architectural engineering
services; and
      (7)   Other applicable laws.
   (C)   Superseding state and federal procurement requirements. The
procurement requirements under this Purchasing Ordinance shall be followed.
However, in the event stricter requirements are required by state or federal
funding sources, those requirements shall be met to ensure funding compliance
and shall supersede the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Administrative Purchasing Policy. The city's purchasing functions
shall be governed by this Purchasing Ordinance and by the city's Administrative
Purchasing Policy, which shall be established by the City Manager or his or her
designee, both as may be amended from time to time. The Administrative
Purchasing Policy will serve to implement the provisions of this Purchasing
Ordinance and will generally contain administrative requirements,
responsibilities, and updated best practices to meet the city's needs.
(Ord. 996 C.S., passed 12-21-22)
§ 2-4.02 EXPENDITURE AUTHORITY.
   Purchase and contract expenditures must be authorized in the city's annual
budget or pursuant to amendment to the annual budget approved by the City
Council.
(Ord. 996 C.S., passed 12-21-22)
§ 2-4.03 DESIGNATION AND RESPONSIBILITY OF PURCHASING AGENT.
   (A)   The City of Madera Municipal Code §
2-2.203(D) designates the Director of Finance of the city as the City
Purchasing Agent with the responsibility to supervise and control the
disbursement of all monies and the audit of all purchase orders and related
invoices and payments. Subject to the direction of the Director of Finance, the
duties of the Purchasing Agent may be performed by an authorized representative
or be delegated to such city office or position as may be determined by the
Director of Finance.
   (B)   The Purchasing Agent shall have authority to:
      (1)   Purchase or contract for supplies, equipment and services required
by the city in accordance with purchasing procedures prescribed by this
Purchasing Ordinance, the Administrative Purchasing Policy, and any requirement
as shall be prescribed by state or federal funding agencies;
      (2)   Negotiate and recommend execution of contracts for the purchase of
supplies, equipment, and services at least expense to the city;
      (3)   Act to procure for the city the needed quality in supplies,
equipment, and services at least expense to the city;
      (4)   Discourage uniform bidding and endeavor to obtain as full and open
competition as possible on purchases;
      (5)   Prepare and recommend to the City Council revisions and amendments
to the Purchasing Ordinance;
      (6)   Prescribe and maintain the forms as are reasonably necessary to the
operation of the Purchasing Ordinance and other laws;
      (7)   Supervise or delegate the inspection of all supplies, equipment and
services purchased to ensure conformance with specifications of the product or
service;
      (8)   Maintain a bidders list, vendors catalog file, pre-qualified vendor
lists, and records needed for the efficient operation of the Purchasing System;
and
      (9)   Require that all employees verify and ensure purchases are made in
accordance with the Purchasing Ordinance and with state or federal funding
sources.
(Ord. 996 C.S., passed 12-21-22)
§ 2-4.04 PURCHASING AMOUNT AUTHORITY AND SIGNATURE.
   (A)   City Manager. Purchases and contracts of less than $60,000 per project
per fiscal year may be awarded and signed by the City Manager, after being
approved as to form by the City Attorney and Purchasing Agent, unless the City
Council expressly reserves approval on a particular purchase or contract, or
the City Manager requests Council approval. This also includes contracts not
measured monetarily, such as the waiver of indemnification and insurance.
   (B)   City Council. If the amount of any purchase or contract is $60,000 or
more in a fiscal year, the contract shall be awarded by the City Council and
signed by the Mayor unless a resolution specific to the particular contract
authorizes the City Manager or other designee to sign the contract.
(Ord. 996 C.S., passed 12-21-22)
§ 2-4.05 PURCHASES AND CONTRACTS THAT ARE NOT PUBLIC PROJECTS.
   (A)   Procedures for specific amounts. The procedures in this section shall
be followed when purchasing or leasing materials, supplies, equipment, or
services that are: (i) not public projects as defined in §
2-4.06 of this Code and (ii) not procured through requests for qualifications
and requests for proposals.
      (1)   Less than $6,000. All city employees authorized to purchase or
lease materials, supplies, equipment, or services shall ensure that the city
pays fair prices and receives commensurate value for amounts expended.
      (2)   $6,000 to less than $15,000. Price quotes must be solicited, either
verbally or in writing, from a minimum of three vendors, if available. The low-
price quote must be confirmed in writing by the vendor.
      (3)   $15,000 to less than $60,000. Written specifications describing the
delivery schedule, materials, supplies, equipment, or services must be prepared
by city. Price quotes must be solicited in writing from a minimum of three
vendors, if available.
      (4)   $60,000 or higher. The informal bidding requirements under § 2-4.06
(D)(2) of this Code relating to public projects shall be followed except that
for non-public projects, the city is not required to award to the lowest
bidder. The city may award to the best qualified vendor. In determining "best
qualified vendor", as used in this section, consideration is to be given to
quality and performance of the goods and supplies, equipment or materials to be
purchased or nonprofessional services to be provided by the vendor. Criteria
for determining best qualified vendor includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   The cost or best value of the goods and supplies, equipment,
materials, or nonprofessional services;
         (b)   The ability, capacity, and skill of the vendor to perform the
contract and to provide the goods and supplies, equipment, materials, or
nonprofessional services requested;
         (c)   The ability of vendor to provide the goods and supplies,
equipment, materials, or nonprofessional services promptly or within the time
specified and without delay;
         (d)   The quality of vendor's performance on previous purchases or
contracts; and
         (e)   The vendor's responsiveness.
   (B)   Purchase order or written contract required. Purchases of supplies,
equipment, and services of $6,000 or more shall be made only by written
purchase order or by written contract.
   (C)   Emergency purchases. In the case of an emergency regarding a non-
public project as defined in § 2-4.06, the Purchasing Agent may determine to
proceed with the immediate purchase of goods, supplies, equipment, materials,
or services. The term EMERGENCY means a sudden, unexpected occurrence that
poses a clear and imminent danger requiring immediate action to prevent or
mitigate the loss or impairment of life, health, property, or essential
services. Such immediate purchase of goods, supplies, equipment, materials, or
services still requires the standard terms and conditions for written purchase
orders or written contracts.
      (1)   If the dollar amount is within the City Manager's authority, the
Purchasing Agent shall promptly file with the City Manager a signed declaration
showing that emergency conditions existed and created the necessity for such
action, together with an itemized account of all expenditures.
      (2)   If the dollar amount is above the City Manager's authority, the
Purchasing Agent shall at the next regular meeting of the Council seek
ratification of the purchase by resolution which includes the emergency
conditions which existed and the immediate need to take action, together with
an itemized account of all expenditures.
   (D)   Prohibition against piecemealing, splitting or separating purchases.
It is impermissible to split or separate purchases of materials, supplies,
equipment or services for the purpose of evading the provisions of the
procedures for specific amounts set forth above.
(Ord. 996 C.S., passed 12-21-22)
§ 2-4.06 UNIFORM PUBLIC CONSTRUCTION COST ACCOUNTING ACT PROCEDURES FOR PUBLIC
PROJECTS.
   (A)   California Uniform Public Construction Cost Accounting Act adopted.
The City Council of the City of Madera, California hereby re-adopts the
California Uniform Public Construction Cost Accounting Act (Cal. Public
Contract Code §§ 22000 et seq.) for the purpose of prescribing regulations
governing contracts awarded by the city for public projects. However, nothing
contained herein shall preclude the city from utilizing more restrictive
procedures if and when required by federal or state law, or when federal or
state funds are involved in the contract to be awarded and the funding agency
requires more restrictive procedures.
   (B)   Definitions of terms. As used in this section, the words, terms, and
phrases shall have the following meanings, as defined in Cal. Public Contract
Code § 22002, unless otherwise apparent from the context:
      FACILITY. Any plant, building, structure, ground facility, real property,
street, highway, or other public work improvement.
      MAINTENANCE WORK. Does not constitute a "public project" under the
definition of "public project" below; it does include the following:
         (a)   Routine, recurring, and usual work for the preservation or
protection of any publicly owned or publicly operated facility for its intended
purposes;
         (b)   Minor repainting;
         (c)   Resurfacing of streets and highways at less than one inch;
         (d)   Landscape maintenance, including mowing, watering, trimming,
pruning, planting, replacement of plants, and servicing of irrigation and
sprinkler systems; and
         (e)   Work performed to keep, operate, and maintain city-owned water
and wastewater systems.
      PUBLIC PROJECT. Any of the following:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, erection, alteration, renovation,
improvement, demolition, and repair work involving any publicly owned, leased,
or operated facility;
         (b)   Painting or repainting any publicly owned, leased, or operated
facility;
         (c)   PUBLIC PROJECT does not include maintenance work, as defined
above; and
         (d)   Furnishing supplies or materials for any such project, including
maintenance or repair of streets or sewers.
   (C)   Dollar amount of public project determines process to be used. The
dollar amount thresholds provided in this section shall automatically adjust
upon the effectiveness of any adjustment notification by the State Controller
in accordance with Cal. Public Contract Code §§ 22020 et seq., without the
necessity of amending this section or any division herein to reflect any such
adjustment.
      (1)   Public projects of $60,000 or less may be performed by city
employees by force account, by negotiated contract or by purchase order.
      (2)   Public projects of $60,000.01 to $200,000 may be let to contract by
informal bidding procedures as set forth in division (D) below.
      (3)   Public projects of more than $200,000 shall, except as otherwise
provided in this section, be let to contract by formal bidding procedure as set
forth in division (D) below.
   (D)   Procedures to be used for contracts regarding public projects.
      (1)   No bidding required. Per Cal. Public Contract Code § 22032, public
projects of $60,000 or less may be performed by the employees of the city by
force account, by negotiated contract, or by purchase order consistent with the
procedures in §
2-4.05(A)(1) - (3). Such contracts may be approved and executed by City Manager
or designee.
      (2)   Informal bidding procedures. Public projects of $60,000.01 to
$200,000 per division (C)(2) above shall be awarded to the lowest responsive
and responsible bidder in accordance with the Uniform Construction Cost
Accounting Act, Cal. Public Contract Code §§ 22034 et seq., as follows:
         (a)   Contractors list. A list of qualified contractors shall be
developed and maintained in accordance with the provisions of Cal. Public
Contract Code § 22034 and criteria promulgated from time to time by the
California Uniform Construction Cost Accounting Commission.
         (b)   Notice inviting informal bids. A notice inviting informal bids
shall be prepared, which shall describe the project in general terms, describe
how to obtain more detailed information about the project, and state the time
and place for the submission of bids. The notice shall be mailed, not less than
ten days before bids are due, to either all the contractors on the contractors
list for the category of work to be bid or to all construction trade journals
specified in the Cal. Public Contract Code § 22036, or both, unless the product
or service delivery is proprietary.
         (c)   The informal bids for public projects shall be awarded by the
City Council and signed by the Mayor or by City Council designee.
         (d)   If all bids received are in excess of $200,000, the City Council
may, by adoption of a resolution of four-fifths vote of the members of the
Council, award the contract, at $212,500 or less, to the lowest responsible
bidder, if it determines the cost estimate of the public agency was reasonable.
      (3)   Formal bidding procedures. Public projects of more than $200,000
per division (C)(3) above shall be awarded pursuant to formal bidding
procedures to the lowest responsive and responsible bidder in accordance with,
but not limited to, the procedures set forth below.
         (a)   Notice inviting formal bids. The following are required:
            1.   Contents of notice. Notice inviting formal bids shall state
the time and place for the receiving and opening of sealed bids and distinctly
describe the project.
            2.   Publication of notice. The notice shall be published at least
14 calendar days before the date of opening the bids in a newspaper of general
circulation, printed and published in the city, or otherwise comply with the
requirements of Cal. Public Contracts Code § 22037.
            3.   Electronic transmission of notice. The notice inviting formal
bids shall also be sent electronically, if available, by either facsimile or
electronic mail and mailed to all construction trade journals as required by
the Commission as specified in Cal. Public Contract Code § 22036. The notice
shall be sent at least 15 calendar days before the date of opening the bids.
            4.   Per Cal. Labor Code § 1771.1, the notice must state that a
contractor or subcontractor is not qualified to bid on, be last in a bid
proposal for, or perform work on a project unless it is registered and
qualified under Cal. Labor Code § 1725.5.
         (b)   Instructions to bidders. The notice inviting formal bids should
also identify the contract documents to be considered, the availability of
information, any scheduled pre-bid meetings, bid protest procedures, addenda,
and any other procedures to be followed for bids to be considered.
         (c)   Bid package. The bid package should include the following:
            1.   The proposal form;
            2.   Submission of sealed bids;
            3.   A public bid opening;
            4.   Award to the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder;
            5.   City reservation in notice inviting bids of the right to
reject any or all bids and to waive minor irregularities;
            6.   Award and execution of a written contract;
            7.   Reference to applicable state or federally funded project
requirements;
            8.   Bid security;
            9.   Performance and payment bonds; and
            10.   Listing of subcontractors.
   (E)   Authority to prepare and issue notice inviting bids. The Purchasing
Agent or designee is authorized to prepare and issue notices inviting bids and
to establish such additional bidding procedures which must be consistent with
those stated herein.
   (F)   Prohibition against splitting or separating projects. It shall be
unlawful to split or separate into smaller work orders or projects any project
for the purpose of evading the provisions of this Purchasing Ordinance
requiring work to be done by contract after competitive bidding. Under Cal.
Public Contract Code § 22033, "It shall be unlawful to split or separate into
smaller work orders or projects any project for the purpose of evading the
provisions of this article requiring work to be done by contract after
competitive bidding."
   (G)   City Council authority to reject, re-advertise, or otherwise award.
      (1)   In its discretion, the City Council may reject any and all bids
presented under the informal and formal bidding procedures described above for
public projects, if the city, prior to rejecting all bids, furnishes a written
notice to the apparent low bidder. The notice shall inform the bidder of the
city's intent to reject the bid and shall be mailed or emailed at least two
business days prior to the Council meeting at which the city intends to reject
the bid. If after the first invitation for bids all bids are rejected, after
reevaluating its cost estimates of the project, the city shall have the option
of either of the following:
         (a)   Abandoning the project or re-advertising for bids in the manner
described in this section;
         (b)   By passage of a resolution by a four-fifths vote of the City
Council declaring that the project can be performed more economically by the
employees of the city, the city may have the project done by force account
without further complying with this section;
      (2)   If the contract is awarded, it shall be awarded to the lowest
responsive and responsible bidder. If two or more bids are the same and the
lowest, the city may accept the one it chooses.
      (3)   If no bids are received through the informal or formal bidding
procedures described above, the project may be performed by employees of the
city by force account or by informal bidding procedures set forth above.
   (H)   Emergency.
      (1)   In case of an emergency regarding a public project which requires
formal bidding procedures, the City Council may pass a resolution by a four-
fifths vote declaring that the public interest and necessity demand the
immediate expenditure of public money to safeguard life, health, or property.
The resolution shall specify findings as required in Cal. Public Contracts Code
§ 22050.
      (2)   EMERGENCY as used in this section means a sudden, unexpected
occurrence that poses a clear and imminent danger, requiring immediate action
to prevent or mitigate the loss or impairment of life, health, property, or
essential public services.
   (I)   Written contracts required. All contracts for public projects shall be
in writing; all amendments to contracts shall be in writing. The City Manager
or his or her designee shall work with the City Attorney to ensure that the
contract includes language protecting the city's interest and language required
by law. This language shall include, but is not limited to specified term,
scope of services, termination language, insurance, warranties,
indemnification, non-collusion, contractor license, security, bonds, liquidated
damages, change orders, retention, delays, claims process, prevailing wages,
and compliance with applicable laws.
   (J)   Change order limits for public projects. The award of contracts for
public projects shall include a recommended contingency amount not to exceed
15%. Any change order must be reasonably related to the scope of the original
contract and based on post-award information that requires modification based
on unforeseen conditions or by mutual agreement of the parties. Any change
order which results in a total contract amount greater than the limits in this
provision shall require City Council approval.
(Ord. 996 C.S., passed 12-21-22)
§ 2-4.07 EXCEPTIONS: COOPERATIVE PURCHASING AGREEMENTS AND PIGGYBACK PURCHASES.
   (A)   Cooperative purchasing. The city, through the Purchasing Agent, may
purchase supplies, equipment, or services through a joint powers or other
cooperative purchasing program with any local, county, state, or federal public
entity or entities, or any association of public agencies, including the
California League of Cities, the California State Association of Counties, and
the National Conference of Mayors, provided that:
      (1)   The selected bidder was selected in compliance with the competitive
bidding or proposal process requirements of any participating entity or
association; and
      (2)   The Purchasing Agent determines that the competitive bidding or
proposal process utilized is similar to that contained in this chapter; and
      (3)   The Purchasing Agent determines that, as a result of cooperative
purchasing, the price of the supplies, equipment, or services is likely to be
lower than it would be if purchased directly by the city pursuant to this
chapter.
   (B)   Information technology goods and services. In accordance with Cal.
Public Contract Code § 10299, the city, through the Purchasing Agent may,
without formal or informal bidding, contract with suppliers who have been
awarded contracts by governmental entities for the purchase of goods,
information technology, and services under the competitive process in Cal.
Public Contract Code §§ 12100 to 12113. Such contracts typically take the form
of master agreements, price schedules, or multiple award schedules. The city
may make these purchases directly from the vendors or the state may provide
assistance to the city in making these acquisitions.
   (C)   "Piggyback" purchasing. The city may utilize the purchasing practice
commonly referred to as "piggyback" purchasing. The city, through the
Purchasing Agent, may purchase supplies, equipment, or services without
complying with the bidding or proposal procedures in this chapter from any
supplier who offers the supplies, equipment, or services at the same or better
price, terms, and/or conditions as the supplier previously offered to another
city or other public agency as the lowest bidder pursuant to the competitive
bidding or proposal process required by that city or other public agency,
provided that:
      (1)   The competitive bidding or proposal process required by that city
or other public agency is similar to that contained in this chapter; and
      (2)   The competitive bidding or proposal process required by that city
or other public agency included all known bidders; and
      (3)   The supplier's bid or proposal was for like or greater quantities,
and a like or greater quality, of supplies, equipment, or services.
(Ord. 996 C.S., passed 12-21-22)
§ 2-4.08 SOLE SOURCE PURCHASES.
   (A)   In the event that there is one, and only one, source for a product of
$6,000 or more, a sole-source purchase may be used. When a department wishes to
make a sole-source purchase, it must make the findings set forth below in
writing and file such certification with the Purchasing Agent for the
Purchasing Agent's approval. In order to establish a legal basis for a sole-
source exception, the following statements and findings must be made:
      (1)   A statement describing every unique or specialized feature of the
product in question;
      (2)   A statement of the department director's efforts to locate all
possible suppliers of such product;
      (3)   A statement that, in spite of its efforts, the department director
has been able to locate only one supplier of the product in question;
      (4)   A statement that indicates the ultimate cost of the product and the
process used to determine the cost of the product;
      (5)   A finding that it is, therefore, proper for the city to dispense
with a competitive bidding requirement and to authorize the city to purchase
the product in question under the sole-source exception; and/or
      (6)   A disclosure statement of the department director and each
individual involved in evaluating and/or in making a recommendation for the
purchase.
   (B)   If the purchase exceeds the City Manager's monetary authority to
contract, a resolution making the findings set forth above must be submitted
with the staff's request for award of a sole-source contract by the City
Council.
(Ord. 996 C.S., passed 12-21-22)
§ 2-4.09 PREVAILING WAGES AND PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS.
   (A)   This section applies to prevailing wages under local and state law.
The requirements for prevailing wages under the federal Davis-Bacon Act are
separate and should be reviewed separately as required by applicable federal
funding sources. Under Cal. Labor Code § 1771, all work performed under
contract for "public works" projects of more than $1,000 shall be subject to
prevailing wages. The Cal. Labor Code defines the term "public works project"
broader than the Cal. Public Contract Code defines "public project" as per §
2-4.06 above. There may be instances in which bidding is not required but
payment of prevailing wages is required.
   (B)   PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT for the purpose of state prevailing wages means:
      (1)   Construction, alteration, demolition, installation, or repair work
done under contract and paid for in whole or in part from city funds. For
purposes of this division, CONSTRUCTION includes work performed during the
design and preconstruction phases of construction, including, but not limited
to, inspection and land surveying work. For purposes of this division,
INSTALLATION includes, but is not limited to, the assembly and disassembly of
freestanding and affixed modular office systems;
      (2)   The laying of carpet done under a building lease-maintenance
contract and paid for out of public funds;
      (3)   Street, sewer, or other improvement work done under the direction
and supervision of the city;
      (4)   Hauling refuse from a public works site to an outside disposal
location; or
      (5)   Maintenance work, including routine, recurring, and usual work for
the preservation of a city-owned or operated facility, and landscape
maintenance work per Cal. Labor Code § 1771.
   (C)   Prevailing wage requirements do not apply to work performed by the
city with its own forces.
   (D)   The City Manager is authorized to establish guidelines for
implementing prevailing wages requirements that are consistent with this
section and with the Cal. Labor Code.
   (E)   The City Manager shall designate a person to comply with the
contractor registration requirements on all contracts requiring prevailing
wages.
(Ord. 996 C.S., passed 12-21-22)
§ 2-4.10 REQUESTS FOR PROPOSALS AND REQUESTS FOR QUALIFICATIONS.
   Procurements under a Request for Proposal (RFP) or Request for
Qualifications (RFQ) are appropriate for services that are not subject to legal
public bidding requirements. Such procurements may include consulting services,
professional services, and maintenance services as described in this section.
   (A)   RFP or RFQ. If there are no statutory or funding condition
requirements that specify use of an RFP or RFQ, selection is based on the
nature of the procurement. For example, an RFP is generally the preferred
option for project-based procurement where the specific scope of services is
known in advance and one of the primary criteria will be the best lump sum
price for providing services (although experience and qualifications may also
be considered). An RFQ is often preferable for ongoing or on-call professional
or consulting services where there is not a single, defined project and the
qualifications and experience of the consultant are the primary criteria
(although hourly rates may also be considered).
   (B)   RFP/RFQ required.
      (1)   Architectural and engineering services. Per Cal. Gov't Code §
4529.12, all architectural and engineering services shall be procured pursuant
to a fair, competitive selection process. Therefore, an RFP/RFQ process must be
followed. The term "architectural and engineering services" includes all
architectural, landscape architectural, environmental, engineering, land
surveying, and construction project management services (see Cal. Gov't Code §
4529.10).
      (2)   Design-build. An RFQ and RFP must be used if the city adopts an
ordinance for design-build procurement under Cal. Public Contract Code §§ 22160
et seq.
      (3)   Funding source requirement. The city shall comply with county,
state, or federal funding source requirements for use of an RFP/RFQ.
      (4)   Master service agreements. Master service agreements may be entered
into with specific vendors for support services on an "as needed" basis
pursuant to an RFP process.
   (C)   RFP/RFQ not required.
      (1)   Professional/consultant services. The city may contract with any
specially trained and experienced persons, firms or corporations for special
services and advice in financial, economic, accounting, legal or administrative
services. Selection shall be on the basis of demonstrated competence, on the
professional qualifications necessary for the satisfactory performance of the
services required, and at a fair and reasonable price to the city. To obtain
the best competitive value for services, the city may employ an RFP or RFQ
process dependent on nature of the services, complexity, estimated cost, and
immediate needs as determined by the City Manager.
      (2)   Routine supplies/equipment. Procurement of routine supplies or
equipment where best price is the only objective, there is no need to use an
RFP/RFQ. A clear and specific request for price quotes or informal bidding
requirements per § 2-4.05 of this Code is often the most efficient procurement
method for obtaining the best price for goods except that factors other than
low price may be considered. However, the city may choose to use an RFP/RFQ
process.
(Ord. 996 C.S., passed 12-21-22)
§ 2-4.11 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No person shall recommend, participate in any contract evaluation,
selection, purchase, or lease which would constitute a conflict of interest
defined in the city Conflict of Interest Code or applicable state law.
(Ord. 996 C.S., passed 12-21-22)
TITLE III: PUBLIC SAFETY
Chapter
   
1.   BICYCLES
   
2.   EMERGENCY SERVICES
   
3.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
   
4.   SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS
   
5.   TRAFFIC
   
6.   AIRPORT REGULATIONS
   
7.   WEAPONS
   
8.   UNDERGROUND UTILITIES
   
9.   REGULATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
   
10.   REGULATION OF ALARM SYSTEMS
   
11.   NOISE CONTROL
   
12.   REGULATION OF SECURITY GUARDS, PRIVATE PATROL OPERATORS, ALARM COMPANY
SECURITY GUARDS, PRIVATE INVESTIGATORS
   
13.   REGULATION OF FIREWORKS IN CITY PARKS
   
13B.   FIREWORKS
   
14.   SKATEBOARDS, COMMON ROLLER SKATES AND IN-LINE SKATES, USE AND
PROHIBITIONS
   
15.   WEED ABATEMENT REGULATIONS
   
16.   GRAFFITI
   
17.   MILITARY EQUIPMENT USE POLICY
CHAPTER 1: BICYCLES
Section
   
3-1.01.   Unclaimed property; forfeited property; surplus property
§ 3-1.01. UNCLAIMED PROPERTY; FORFEITED PROPERTY; SURPLUS PROPERTY.
   (A)   Unclaimed Property. Subject to the provisions of Cal. Civ. Code §§
2080.6 et seq., unclaimed property shall be disposed of as set forth in this
section. Such unclaimed property shall be held by the Police Department for a
period of at least four months. Thereafter, such property shall be sold at
public auction to the highest bidder, with a notice of such sale being given by
the City Administrator in accordance with Cal. Civ. Code § 2080.6 at least five
days before the time fixed therefor by publication once in a newspaper of
general circulation published in the county, and, after such notice, such
property shall not be redeemable by the owner or other person entitled to
possession, and, if the Director of Finance determines that such property is
needed for a public use, such property may be retained by the city and need not
be sold. A list of property available to be converted to city use will be
forwarded to the City Finance Director quarterly. The Police Chief is
authorized to utilize the services of professional auctioneers to implement
disposition of property referred to herein. Proceeds from the sale will be sent
directly to the Director of Finance. As an alternative to the auctioning of
unclaimed bicycles, the Police Chief may enter into an agreement with a local
non-profit organization where the unclaimed bicycles would be turned over to
them for refurbishing, and once done, the bicycles would be returned to the
city to be released to local charitable organizations who will return them back
into the community in accordance with Welfare and Institutions Code § 217.
   (B)   Forfeited property. Under the asset forfeiture code Cal. Health &
Safety Code §§ 11469(d) and 11470, property applicable to seizure may be cash,
vehicles, real estate, and under certain instances personal property and
miscellaneous property. Disposal of real estate and disposition of all cash
monies will be the responsibility of the Director of Finance. After all
procedures required under the above-mentioned Health and Safety Code as well as
the Police Department Asset Forfeiture Manual have been completed, all
vehicles, personal property and miscellaneous property will be transferred to a
professional auctioneer, except for jewelry, which will first be appraised by
an independent appraiser. Proceeds from the sale of these items will be kept
separate from the unclaimed property and bicycles. Proceeds from the sale will
be sent directly to the Director of Finance.
   (C)   Surplus property. Decisions for the disposal of city surplus property
shall be at the discretion of the Director of Finance. A list of surplus items
will be forwarded to the Director of Finance on a quarterly basis. At that time
he/she will determine whether it is an item that can be used by another city
department, whether the property will be retained for an auction conducted by
the city, or whether the property will be transferred to a professional
auctioneer for auction. The Finance Director will prepare a report for the City
Council identifying what items are considered surplus and how they will be
disposed of prior to any action being taken.
('61 Code, § 3-1.01) (Ord. 154 N.S. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 238 C.S., passed 2-
18-76; Am. Ord. 558 C.S., passed 10-17-90; Am. Ord. 692 C.S., passed 12-16-98)
CHAPTER 2: EMERGENCY SERVICES
Section
   
3-2.01   Purposes
   
3-2.02   Definitions
   
3-2.03   Emergency Council; membership
   
3-2.04   Director of Emergency Services and Emergency Services Coordinator;
powers and duties
   
3-2.05   Director of Emergency Services; disaster and emergency powers
   
3-2.06   Emergency Services Organization
   
3-2.07   Emergency Services Organization; divisions, services, and staff
   
3-2.08   Punishment of violations
§ 3-2.01 PURPOSES.
   The declared purposes of this chapter are to provide for the preparation and
carrying out of plans for the protection of persons and property within the
city in the event of an emergency or disaster and to provide for the
coordination of the emergency functions of the city with all public agencies
and affected private persons, corporations, and organizations. Any expenditures
made in connection with such emergency and disaster activities, including
mutual aid activities, shall be deemed conclusively to be for the direct
protection and benefit of the inhabitants and property of the city.
('61 Code, § 3-2.01) (Ord. 182 C.S., passed 3-6-72)
§ 3-2.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, certain words and phrases used herein are
defined as follows:
   LOCAL EMERGENCY. The actual or threatened existence of conditions of
disaster or of extreme peril to the safety of persons and property within the
city caused by such conditions as air pollution, fire, flood, storm, epidemic,
riot, or earthquake, or other conditions, including conditions resulting from
war or the imminent threat of war, but other than conditions resulting from a
labor controversy, which conditions are, or are likely to be, beyond the
control of the services, personnel, equipment, and facilities of the city,
requiring the combined forces of other political subdivisions to combat.
   STATE OF WAR EMERGENCY. The condition which exists immediately, with or
without proclamation thereof by the Governor, whenever the state or nation is
attacked by an enemy of the US, or upon receipt by the state of a warning from
the federal government indicating that such an enemy attack is probable or
imminent.
   STATE OF EMERGENCY. The duly proclaimed existence of conditions of disaster
or of extreme peril to the safety of persons and property within the state,
county, or city caused by such conditions as air pollution, fire, flood, storm,
epidemic, riot, or earthquake, or other conditions, other than conditions
resulting from a labor controversy, conditions causing a STATE OF EMERGENCY
which by reason of their magnitude are, or are likely to be, beyond the control
of the services, personnel, equipment, and facilities of any single county,
city and county, or city and require the combined forces of a mutual aid region
or regions to combat.
('61 Code, § 3-2.02) (Ord. 182 C.S., passed 3-6-72)
§ 2-3.03 EMERGENCY COUNCIL; MEMBERSHIP. 
   The City Emergency Council is created and shall consist of the following:
   (A)   The Mayor, who shall be the chairman;
   (B)   The Director of Emergency Services, who shall be the vice-chairman;
   (C)   The Emergency Services Coordinator, who shall be appointed by the
Director of Emergency Services with the advice and consent of the City Council;
   (D)   Such deputy directors and chiefs of operating Emergency Services
Departments, services, or divisions as may be provided for by the Emergency
Council; and
   (E)   Such representatives of civic, business, labor, veteran, professional,
or other organizations having an official group or organization emergency and
disaster responsibility as may be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the City Council.
('61 Code, § 3-2.03) (Ord. 182 C.S., passed 3-6-72; Am. Ord. 306 C.S., passed
10-18-78)
§ 3-2.04 DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY SERVICES AND EMERGENCY SERVICES COORDINATOR;
POWERS AND DUTIES.
   There are created the offices of Director of Emergency Services and
Emergency Services Coordinator. The City Administrator shall be the Director of
Emergency Services and shall appoint the Emergency Services Coordinator. The
Director is empowered:
   (A)   To request the City Council to proclaim the existence or threatened
existence of a local emergency and the termination thereof, if the City Council
is in session, or to issue such proclamation if the City Council is not in
session. Whenever a local emergency is proclaimed by the Director, the City
Council shall take action to ratify the proclamation within seven days
thereafter, or the proclamation shall have no further force or effect;
   (B)   To request the Governor to proclaim a state of emergency when, in the
opinion of the Director, the resources of the area or region are inadequate to
cope with the emergency;
   (C)   To control and direct the effort of the Emergency Services
Organization of the city for the accomplishment of the purposes of this
chapter;
   (D)   To direct coordination and cooperation between the divisions,
services, and staff of the Emergency Services Organization of the city and to
resolve questions of authority and responsibility that may arise between them;
   (E)   To represent the Emergency Services Organization of the city in all
dealings with public or private agencies pertaining to emergency services; and
   (F)   To assist the Emergency Services Coordinator in the development of the
plans and organization of the emergency services program and assign additional
duties to the Emergency Services Coordinator.
('61 Code, § 3-2.04) (Ord. 182 C.S., passed 3-6-72; Am. Ord. 306 C.S., passed
10-18-78)
§ 3-2.05 DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY SERVICES; DISASTER AND EMERGENCY POWERS.
   In the event of the proclamation of a local emergency as provided in this
chapter, or the proclamation of a state of emergency by the Governor or the
Director of the State Office of Emergency Services, the Director is empowered:
   (A)   To make and issue rules and regulations on matters reasonably related
to the protection of life and property as affected by such emergency; provided,
however, such rules and regulations shall be confirmed at the earliest
practicable time by the City Council;
   (B)   To require emergency services of any city officer or employee and, in
the event of the proclamation of a state of emergency in the county or the
existence of a state of war emergency, to command the aid of as many citizens
of this community as the Director deems necessary in the execution of his or
her duties; such persons shall be entitled to all privileges, benefits, and
immunities as are provided by state law for registered disaster service
workers;
   (C)   To obtain vital supplies and equipment and such other properties found
lacking and needed for the protection of the life and property of the people
and to bind the city for the fair value thereof;
   (D)   To requisition necessary personnel or material of any city department
or agency; and
   (E)   To execute all of the ordinary powers as Director, all of the special
powers conferred upon the Director by this chapter or by resolution adopted
pursuant thereto, all powers conferred upon the Director by any statute,
agreement approved by the City Council, or by any other lawful authority, and,
in conformity with the provisions of Cal. Gov't Code § 38791, to exercise
complete authority over the city and to exercise all police power vested in the
city by the Constitution and general laws.
('61 Code, § 3-2.05) (Ord. 182 C.S., passed 3-6-72)
§ 3-2.06 EMERGENCY SERVICES ORGANIZATION.
   All officers and employees of the city, together with those volunteer forces
enrolled to aid them during an emergency, and all groups, organizations, and
persons who may by agreement or operation of law, or by this chapter, be
charged with duties incident to the protection of life and property in the city
during such an emergency shall constitute the Emergency Services Organization
of the city.
('61 Code, § 3-2.06) (Ord. 182 C.S., passed 3-6-72)
§ 3-2.07 EMERGENCY SERVICES ORGANIZATION; DIVISIONS, SERVICES, AND STAFF.
   The functions and duties of the Emergency Services Organization shall be
distributed among such divisions, services, and special staff as the Director
of Emergency Services shall prescribe, which shall be set forth in the
emergency plans developed for the city and which shall, with respect to
organization, conform to the recommendations of the federal government and the
emergency services agency of the state.
('61 Code, § 3-2.07) (Ord. 182 C.S., passed 3-6-72)
§ 3-2.08 PUNISHMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of $1,000, or by
imprisonment not to exceed six months, or both, for any person during an
emergency to:
   (A)   Wilfully obstruct, hinder, or delay any member of the Emergency
Services Organization in the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation
issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter or in the performance of any
duty imposed upon him or her by virtue of this chapter;
   (B)   To do any act forbidden by any lawful rules or regulations issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, if such act is of such a nature as
to give, or be likely to give, assistance to the enemy, or to imperil the lives
or property of inhabitants of the city, or to prevent, hinder, or delay the
defense or protection thereof; or
   (C)   To wear, carry, or display without authority any reasons of
identification specified by the emergency services agency of the state.
(‘61 Code, § 3-2.08) (Ord. 182 C.S., passed 3-6-72; Am. Ord. 1004 C.S., passed
11-15-23)
CHAPTER 3: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
   
3-3.01   Purpose and scope
   
3-3.02   Compliance
§ 3-3.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   This chapter applies to all areas of special flood hazard, areas of flood-
related erosion hazards, and areas of mud flow hazards identified by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency or the Federal Insurance Administration in
a scientific and engineering report entitled “Flood Insurance Study for the
City of Madera, California” dated September 26, 2008, with an accompanying
Flood Insurance Rate Map which is on file with the office of the City Clerk and
to which reference is made. This Flood Insurance Study is a minimum area of
applicability of this chapter and may be supplemented by studies for other
areas which allow implementation of this chapter and which are recommended to
the City Council by the Flood Plain Administrator.
('61 Code, § 3-3.01) (Ord. 478 C.S., passed 8-5-87; Am. Ord. 862 C.S., passed
8-19-09)
§ 3-3.02 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with all of the rules,
requirements, terms, and provisions of a resolution of the City Council which
shall be adopted pursuant to this chapter to implement this chapter.
('61 Code, § 3-3.02) (Ord. 478 C.S., passed 8-5-87)
CHAPTER 4: SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS
Section
   
3-4.01   Obstructions prohibited without permit
   
3-4.02   Trees and wires
§ 3-4.01 OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED WITHOUT PERMIT.
   Except as otherwise provided in §
3-4.02 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person to place or
maintain any object or obstruction of any kind in, over, or on any public
sidewalk, street, avenue, alley, or public place in the city unless a permit
therefor has been granted by the City Engineer. Applications for permits, other
than permits authorizing work within the public right-of-way issued in
accordance with the procedures set forth in
Chapter 2 of Title 7 of this code, shall be made to the City Engineer on the
form supplied by the City Engineer and shall include such information as may be
required by the City Engineer in any particular case. If, after investigation
of the permit, the City Engineer determines that a permit should be issued, he
or she shall issue the same to the permittee who shall, as a condition
precedent to the operative effect thereof, execute an agreement to abide by any
and all terms and conditions thereto imposed by the City Engineer, including,
but not necessarily limited to, the provision of insurance coverage to the
extent and in the limits required by the City Engineer, including additional
coverage naming the city as an additional insured, acknowledgment of the
revocability of such permit with or without notice, and acceptance of the
responsibility to remove any such encroachment at the permittee's sole cost and
expense in the event of such revocation or upon notice by the City Engineer.
The City Engineer is authorized and directed to impose any and all such
additional conditions to the issuance of any such permit issued which in his or
her discretion are necessary to promote and protect the public health, safety,
and general welfare. The Council declares that any object or obstruction
encroaching upon any sidewalk, street, avenue, alley, or other public place in
violation of the provisions of this section is a public nuisance and may be
summarily abated as provided in this code and as may be provided under the
applicable laws of the state, and the expenses of such abatement shall
constitute a lien against the underlying property upon which the encroachment
is maintained and a personal obligation against the owner of such underlying
property.
('61 Code, § 3-4.01) (Ord. 10A, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 37 C.S, passed 12-4-62;
Am. Ord. 139 C.S., passed 9-3-69)
§ 3-4.02 TREES AND WIRES.
   Overhanging branches of shade trees and border trees less than ten feet in
the clear above any road and less than seven feet in the clear above any
driveway, sidewalk, parkway, or other public place, and any wires, lines, or
guys crossing any street or driveway less than 15 feet in the clear above such
street or driveway, and any other obstructions between the curb lines of any
street and the outer edge of any sidewalk are declared to be obstructions of
the public street, and any person owning or having charge of the same or of the
abutting real property who, after ten days' notice from the City Engineer or an
authorized representative, to remove the obstruction, shall permit or suffer
the same to remain, shall be deemed to be maintaining an unlawful obstruction
in the public street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, or public place in the city, and
the same are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and subject to abatement
as such.
('61 Code, § 3-4.02) (Ord. 10A, passed - -; Am. Ord. 37 C.S., passed 12-4-62)
CHAPTER 5: TRAFFIC
Section
   
3-5.01   Uniform traffic ordinance
   
3-5.02   Central Traffic District
   
3-5.03   City Traffic Engineer
   
3-5.04   Traffic Committee
   
3-5.05   Traffic barriers
   
3-5.06   Taxicab stands
   
3-5.07   Parking violations
   
3-5.08   Increasing state speed limit in certain zones
   
3-5.09   Decrease of state law maximum speed; repeals
   
3-5.10   Regulation of parking lots
   
3-5.11   Speed of trains
   
3-5.12   Parades and assemblies
   
3-5.13   Use of crosswalks
   
3-5.14   Restriction of use of certain vehicles
   
3-5.15   Unattended truck and trailer parking prohibited
   
3-5.16   Repeal of mobile vendor parking requirements
   
3-5.17   Limitations on timed parking restrictions
   
3-5.18   Parking for period exceeding 120 hours
§ 3-5.01 UNIFORM TRAFFIC ORDINANCE.
   Pursuant to Cal. Gov't Code §§ 50022.1 through 50022.4, inclusive, the text
of that certain publication of the League of California Cities entitled
"Uniform Traffic Ordinance" is adopted and incorporated in this chapter as the
rules, regulations, and standards within the city as to all matters pertaining
to traffic therein contained except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
Three copies of the Uniform Traffic Ordinance are and shall at all times be on
file for use and examination by the public in the office of the City Clerk.
('61 Code, § 3-5.01) (Ord. 30 C.S., passed 7-18-62)
§ 3-5.02 CENTRAL TRAFFIC DISTRICT.
   (A)   Section 1.3 of Article I of the Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended
to read as follows in §
3-5.02(B).
   (B)   Section 1.3. All streets and portions of streets within the area
described as follows are declared to be within the Central Traffic District:
all that area bounded by East Fifth Street from North E Street to North B
Street; North B Street from East Fifth the northerly side of Yosemite Avenue;
the northerly side of Yosemite Avenue from North B Street to North Lake Street;
to and along the southerly side of Yosemite Avenue from North Lake Street to
South B Street from the south side of Yosemite Avenue to East Sixth Street;
East Sixth Street from South B Street to South C Street; South C Street from
East Sixth Street to East Seventh Street; East Seventh Street from South C
Street to South E Street from East Seventh Street to East Fifth Street.
('61 Code, § 3-5.02) (Ord. 30 C.S., passed 7-18-62)
§ 3-5.03 CITY TRAFFIC ENGINEER.
   (A)   Section 2.5 of Article II of the Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended
to read as follows in §
3-5.03(B).
   (B)   Section 2.5. The office of City Traffic Engineer is established. The
City Engineer shall serve as City Traffic Engineer in addition to his or her
other functions and shall exercise the powers and duties with respect to
traffic as provided in this chapter.
('61 Code, § 3-5.03) (Ord. 30 C.S., passed 7-18-62)
§ 3-5.04 TRAFFIC COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Section 2.7 of Article II of the Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended
to read as follows in §
3-5.04(B).
   (B)   Section 2.7. There is established an advisory Traffic Committee, to
serve without compensation, consisting of the City Engineer, Assistant City
Engineer, Public Works Director, Street Supervisor, and the Police Chief or a
designated representative. The chairman of the Traffic Committee shall be
appointed by, and may be removed by, the Mayor.
('61 Code, § 3-5.04) (Ord. 30 C.S., passed 7-18-62; Am. Ord. 132 C.S., passed
10-16-68, Am. Ord. 611 C.S., passed 1-5-94)
§ 3-5.05 TRAFFIC BARRIERS.
   (A)   Article VIII of the Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended by adding
thereto a new section to be designated § 8.9 to read as follows in §
3-5.05(B).
   (B)   Section 8.9. No person shall operate a vehicle contrary to the
directions or provisions of any barrier or sign erected:
      (1)   Pursuant to the provisions of any ordinance of the city; or
      (2)   By any public authority; or
      (3)   By any department of the city; or
      (4)   By any other person pursuant to law or contract with the city; nor
shall any unauthorized person move or alter the position of any such barrier or
sign.
('61 Code, § 3-5.05) (Ord. 30 C.S., passed 7-18-62)
§ 3-5.06 TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   Article XII of the Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended by adding
thereto a new section to be designated § 12.7 to read as follows in §
3-5.06(B).
   (B)   Section 12.7. The City Traffic Engineer shall establish taxicab stands
and determine the location thereof. The curb surfaces within each taxicab stand
shall be painted white and marked "Taxicab Stand" in red lettering or shall be
designated by markings and/or signs of a size and type approved by the City
Traffic Engineer. No operator of any vehicle, other than a taxicab or
automobile for hire, shall park any vehicle in such taxicab stand.
('61 Code, § 3-5.06) (Ord. 30 C.S., passed 7-18-62)
§ 3-5.07 PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Article III of the Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended by amending §
3.9 thereof, to read as follows in §
3-5.07(B).
   (B)   Section 3.9. In addition to the procedures authorized by the
provisions of the State Vehicle Code or any other applicable law, rule, policy,
procedure, or regulation, vehicles parked in violation of the terms and
provisions of any of the regulations promulgated hereunder shall be cited for
such violation as hereinafter set forth. The Council has the authority to
establish policies and procedures by resolution; or in the alternative, by
resolution, authorize the City Administrator to adopt administrative policies
and procedures to be followed in the processing of alleged violations of
parking codes under the City Municipal Code, these regulations, and state law.
The officer or person authorized to enforce the terms and provisions of the
traffic regulations of the city upon observing a vehicle in violation thereof
shall issue a citation to be attached to the vehicle providing written notice
of the violation, amount of the bail, and the address of the City Department of
Finance to whom payments thereof shall be sent or delivered. The statement that
payment of the bail for such parking offense may be sent through the mail shall
be in bold print. The notice shall also provide that bail for the violation is
$10 if paid within 15 working days after the date of issuance of citation and
$20 if paid after 15 days, but not less than 30 days after the date of
violation. The foregoing schedule of bail shall remain in full force and effect
unless modified by resolution of the City Council. In the event a citee of a
parking violation fails to post the appropriate bail either within the initial
15-day period or the subsequent 15-day period, the Director of Finance is
authorized and directed to provide the State Department of Motor Vehicles with
notice of the violation, together with the license number of the vehicle
involved and a request to collect the sum due the city upon registration of the
vehicle involved in accordance with policies and procedures duly adopted by the
city. In the event a person wishes to contest the allegations set forth in the
citation, the citation shall state the process that such owner or operator must
follow in order to contest the allegations set forth in the citation pursuant
to all applicable state law and all policies and procedures duly adopted by the
city. Any and all funds collected for violations within the City Downtown
Parking District that are not required to be paid over to the county or the
state pursuant to state law or city policies and procedures shall be kept in a
separate fund for the purpose of maintenance, operation, and other purposes as
set forth in the City's Downtown Parking District regulations.
('61 Code, § 3-5.07) (Ord. 551, passed 7-4-90; Am. Ord. 612, passed 2-2-94)
§ 3-5.08 INCREASING STATE SPEED LIMIT IN CERTAIN ZONES.
   (A)   Section 16 of Article XVI of the Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended
to read as follows in §
3-5.08(B).
   (B)   Section 16. It is determined upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic survey that the speed permitted by state law upon the following streets
is less than is necessary for the safe operation of vehicles thereon by reason
of the designation and sign-posting of such streets as through highways and/or
by reason of widely-spaced intersections and it is declared that the prima
facie limit shall be as set forth in this section on those streets, or parts of
streets, designated in this section when signs are erected giving notice
thereof:
Item No. Location Declared Prima Facie Speed Limit (MPH)
Item No. Location                             Declared Prima Facie Speed Limit
                                              (MPH)
1        Adell St. from Country Club Dr. to   40
         "D" St.
2        Almond Ave. from Pine Street to      45
         Granada Dr.
3        Almond Ave. from Golden State Hwy to 40
         Madera Ave.
4        Almond Ave. from Madera Ave. to      40
         Stadium Road
5        Cleveland Ave. from Gateway Dr. to   40
         Tulare St.
6        Cleveland Ave. from Granada Dr. to   40
         Schnoor Ave.
7        Cleveland Ave. from Granada Dr. to   45
         west city limits
8        Cleveland Ave. from Schnoor Ave. to  40
         Freeway 99
9        Cleveland Ave. from Tulare St. to    40
         Tozer Rd.
10       Clinton Ave. from Lilly St. to Tozer 35
         Rd.
11       Country Club Dr. from Cleveland Ave. 40
         to Clark
12       D St. from Central Ave. to Yosemite  35
         Ave.
13       D St. from Cleveland Ave. to Adell   40
         St.
14       D St. from Ninth St. to Olive Ave.   35
15       Ellis St. from Lake St. to Chapin    40
         Ave.
16       Fourth St. from I St. to Pine St.    35
17       Fourth St. from D St. to Lake St.    35
18       Gateway Dr. from Cleveland Ave. to   50
         Ave. 16
19       Gateway Dr. from Fresno River to     40
         Cleveland Ave.
20       Gateway Dr. from Ninth Ave. to Olive 35
         Ave.
21       Granada Dr. from Cleveland Ave. to   45
         Fresno River
22       Granada Dr. from Howard Rd. to       35
         Sunset Ave.
23       Granada Dr. from Howard Rd. to       40
         Industrial Ave.
24       Granada Dr. from Industrial Ave. to  45
         south city limits
25       Granada Dr. from Sunset Ave. to      35
         Riverview Dr.
26       Howard Rd. from Autumn Rd. to Pine   35
         St.
27       I St. from 4th St. to Olive Ave.     35
28       I St. from 4th St. to Central Ave.   35
29       Industrial Ave. from Granada Dr. to  40
         Schnoor Ave.
30       Kennedy St. from Lake St. to Tulare  35
         Ave.
31       Kennedy St. from Tulare St. to city  40
         limits
32       Knox St. from Olive Ave. to Tozer    40
         St.
33       Lake St. from Cleveland Ave. to      40
         Ellis St.
34       Lake St. from Clinton Ave. to        35
         Sunrise Ave.
35       Pecan Ave. from Raymond Thomas to    40
         Golden State Blvd.
36       Pecan Ave. from Madera Ave. to Pine  45
         St.
37       Pecan Ave. from Schnoor Ave. to Pine 45
         St.
38       Pine St. from Howard Rd. to Pecan    45
         St.
39       Pine St. from Howard Rd. to Sunset   30
         Ave.
40       Schnoor Ave. from Dutra Way to       35
         Cleveland Ave.
41       Schnoor Ave. from Kennedy St. to     40
         Cleveland Ave.
42       Sherwood Way from Country Club Dr.   40
         to Sonora St.
43       Sherwood Way from Sonora St. to Lake 35
         St.
44       Storey Rd. from Yosemite Ave. to     45
         city limits
45       Sunrise Ave. from B St. to Lilly St. 40
46       Sunset Ave. from Fourth St. to       35
         Granada Dr.
47       Sunset Ave. from Granada Dr. to city 45
         limits
48       Tozer St. from Ave. 15 to A St.      35
49       Tozer St. from Yosemite Ave. to Ave. 40
         15
50       Tozer St. from Olive Ave. to Knox    45
         St.
51       Vineyard Ave. from Clinton Ave. to   30
         Yosemite Ave.
52       Westberry Blvd from Howard Rd. to    45
         Sunset Ave.
53       Westberry Blvd from Sunset Ave. to   40
         Riverview Dr.
54       Yosemite Ave. from Gateway Dr. to    35
         Olive Ave.
55       Pecan Ave. from Road 28 to Road 29   45
56       Falcon Drive from Yeager Drive to    35
         Aviation Drive
57       Aviation Drive from Condor Drive to  35
         Falcon Drive
 
(‘61 Code, § 3-5.08) (Ord. 30 C.S., passed 7-18-62; Am. Ord. 283 C.S., passed
12-7-77; Am. Ord. 535 C.S., passed 12-20-89; Am. Ord. 666 C.S., passed 12-18-
97; Am. Ord. 730 C.S., passed 3-21-01; Am. Ord. 753 C.S., passed 6-4-03; Am.
Ord. 781 C.S., passed 5-4-05; Am. Ord. 785 C.S., passed 8-3-05; Am. Ord. 875
C.S., passed 7-7-10; Am. Ord. 884 C.S., passed 2-16-11; Am. Ord. 934 C.S.,
passed 6-1-16; Am. Ord. 937 C.S., passed 10-5-16; Am. Ord. 956 C.S., passed 11-
7-18; Am. Ord. 987 C.S., passed 3-16-22; Am. Ord. 997 C.S., passed 4-5-23)
§ 3-5.09 DECREASE OF STATE LAW MAXIMUM SPEED; REPEALS.
   (A)   Section 16.1 of Article XVI of the Uniform Traffic Ordinance is
amended to read as follows in §
3-5.09(B).
   (B)   Section 16.1. It is determined upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that the speed permitted by state law outside of business
and residence districts as applicable upon the following street or streets is
greater than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist upon
such street or streets, and it is declared that the prima facie speed limit
shall be as herein set forth on those streets or parts of streets herein
designated when signs are erected giving notice thereof:
 
Name of Street or Portion Affected                        Declared Prima Facie
                                                          Speed Limit (MPH)
Howard Road from the westerly city limits to a point 425
feet west of the centerline intersection of Hilton Avenue 45
and Howard Road
Yosemite Avenue from Mace to Storey                       40
 
   (C)   Section 16.2 of Article XVI of the Uniform Traffic Ordinance is
repealed.
('61 Code, § 3-5.09) (Ord. 30 C.S., passed 7-18-62; Am. Ord. 132 C.S., passed
10-16-68; Am. Ord. 666 C.S., passed 12-18-97)
§ 3-5.10 REGULATION OF PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   The Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended by adding thereto a new
numbered Article XVII to read as follows in §
3-5.10(B).
   (B)   Article XVII, regulation of parking lots, § 17. The City Traffic
Engineer is directed to place and maintain any traffic control devices upon any
city parking lot necessary to implement any rules or regulations applicable
thereto established by resolution of the City Council.
('61 Code, § 3-5.10) (Ord. 30 C.S., passed 7-18-62)
§ 3-5.11 SPEED OF TRAINS.
   (A)   Article XV of the Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended by adding
thereto a new section to be designated § 15.2 to read as follows in §
3-5.11(B).
   (B)   Section 15.2. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation to operate any railroad train within the city limits of the city at
a speed in excess of 45 MPH.
('61 Code, § 3-5.11) (Ord. 37 C.S., passed 12-4-62; Am. Ord. 69 C.S., passed 1-
20-65)
§ 3-5.12 PARADES AND ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   Article VIII of the Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended by adding
thereto a new section to be designated § 8.10 to read as follows in §
3-5.12(B).
   (B)   Section 8.10. parades and assemblies.
      (1)   Definitions.
         (a)   PARADE. Any march or procession of persons or animals or
vehicles, or any combination thereof, except funeral processions over or upon
any public street, sidewalk, alley, or other public place, which march or
procession does not comply with normal and usual traffic regulations or
controls.
         (b)   ASSEMBLY. Any congregation, meeting, or gathering of persons
and/or objects upon any public street, sidewalk, alley, or public place so as
to obstruct the free passage or use of any such street, alley, sidewalk, or
place.
      (2)   No person shall conduct, manage, or participate in any parade or
assembly in the city without a written permit therefor having been issued by
the Chief of Police.
      (3)   No permit shall be issued authorizing the conduct of a parade or
assembly which the Chief of Police finds is proposed to be held for the sole
purpose of advertising any product, goods, wares, merchandise, or event and is
designed to be held purely for private profit.
      (4)   The Chief of Police shall issue a permit if he or she finds all of
the following:
         (a)   That the conduct of the parade or assembly will not
substantially interrupt the safe and orderly movement of traffic at the point
of assembly or contiguous to a parade route;
         (b)   That the conduct of the parade or assembly will not require the
diversion of so great a number of police officers of the city to properly
police the area as to prevent normal police protection to the city;
         (c)   That the conduct of the parade or assembly will not interfere
with the movement of fire-fighting equipment en route to a fire;
         (d)   That the conduct of the parade or assembly is not reasonably
likely to cause injury to persons or property or to provoke disorderly conduct
or create a disturbance; and
         (e)   That any such parade will move from its point of origin to its
point of termination expeditiously and without stopping en route.
      (5)   The Chief of Police is authorized to impose any and all reasonable
conditions to the issuance of any permit required by the provisions of this
section to ensure the safety of persons and property.
      (6)   The permit issued by the Chief of Police shall contain its date of
issuance, the name of the person or organization applying therefor, the
specific event, the conditions of issuance, if any, and, in cases of parades,
the route and starting time.
      (7)   The Chief of Police shall act upon the application for a parade or
assembly permit within 30 days after the filing thereof. If the application is
denied, the Chief of Police shall mail to the applicant within 30 days after
the filing of the application for the permit a notice of this action, stating
the reasons for the denial of the permit. Any person desiring to appeal from
such decision may do so in the manner set forth in Chapter 4 of Title 1 of the
City Municipal Code.
('61 Code, § 3-5.12) (Ord. 96 C.S., passed 8-31-66)
§ 3-5.13 USE OF CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Section 9.1 of Article IX of the Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended
to read as follows in §
3-5.13(B).
   (B)   Section 9.1. No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than by a
crosswalk in the central traffic district or in any business district;
provided, however, this prohibition shall not apply to pedestrians crossing
Yosemite Avenue between B and C Streets, C and D Streets, and D and E Streets
at alleys in the middle of such blocks. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to allow the crossing of any street between adjacent intersections
other than in a crosswalk where such intersections are controlled by traffic
control devices or police officers.
('61 Code, § 3-5.13) (Ord. 166 C.S., passed 7-21-71)
§ 3-5.14 RESTRICTION OF USE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Article XIII of the Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended to change the
title thereto to "Restricted Use of Certain Streets and Areas" and by adding
thereto § 13.5 to read as follows in §
3-5.13(B).
   (B)   Section 13.5. motor driven vehicles prohibited in parks. No person
shall operate or drive any automobile, motorcycle, minibike, trail bike, or any
other motor-driven vehicle of any kind within the confines of any city-owned
park, parkway, including walkways, trails, and paths, or any area within a
city-owned park, except upon a regularly established public street designated
for vehicular travel within any such park.
('61 Code, § 3-5.14) (Ord. 236 C.S., passed 8-20-75)
§ 3-5.15 UNATTENDED TRUCK AND TRAILER PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Chapter XI of the Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended by adding
thereto a new section to be designated § 11.9 to read as follows in §
3-5.15(B).
   (B)   Section 11.9. unattended truck trailer parking prohibited. No person
shall park any truck trailer on any street in the city which trailer is not
connected to a truck tractor or other motor vehicle capable of moving such
trailer at all times, except when a permit is granted by the Police Chief, or
his/her designated representative. Permits shall not be granted in residential
zones and shall not be issued more than three times per calendar year per
permittee. A permit issued under this section does not authorize the violation
of any other provisions of the Uniform Traffic Ordinance.
   (C)   Truck parking prohibited in certain areas. 
      (1)   No person shall park any commercial motor vehicle as that term is
defined in the California Vehicle Code on any residential street, or any street
which is residential in nature, within the city. This sub-section shall not
apply to a commercial motor vehicle which is engaged in the active loading or
unloading of goods.
      (2)   No person shall park any commercial vehicle at the curb or shoulder
along streets designated by the City Engineer and posted accordingly where
parking of such commercial vehicles represent a public nuisance or is likely to
be detrimental to public peace, safety, and health or welfare. This section
shall not apply to a commercial vehicle which is engaged in the active loading
or unloading of goods or providing service.
('61 Code, § 3-5.15) (Ord. 305 C.S., passed 9-20-78; Am. Ord. 737 C.S., passed
4-17-02; Am. Ord. 869 C.S., passed 5-5-10)
§ 3-5.16 REPEAL OF MOBILE VENDOR PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   Chapter X of the Uniform Traffic Ordinance is amended by repealing
subsection (a) of section 10.11 of Chapter X relating to Unlawful Parking -
Peddlers, Vendors.
(Ord. 657 C.S., passed 6-19-96)
§ 3-5.17 LIMITATIONS ON TIMED PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The time limits for parking imposed by §§ 11, 11.1, 11.2, and 11.3 of
the Uniform Traffic Ordinance shall not apply to those persons listed in
paragraph (B) hereof, where the vehicle parked displays a special license plate
issued by the Department of Motor Vehicles authorized by §§ 5101.3 through
5101.7 of the California Vehicle Code, and where the person to whom such
license plates were issued is either operating, or is a passenger, in the
vehicle.
   (B)   The following persons are exempt as noted in paragraph (A):
      (1)   Honorably discharged veterans of the Armed Forces of the United
States who are survivors of Pearl Harbor;
      (2)   Active or honorably discharged members of the Armed Forces of the
United States who are recipients of the Army Medal of Honor, Navy Medal of
Honor, Air Force Medal of Honor, Army Distinguished Service Cross, Navy Cross,
or the Air Force Cross;
      (3)   Veterans of the Armed Services of the United States who are former
prisoners of war;
      (4)   Active or honorably discharged members of the Armed Forces of the
United States who are recipients of the Congressional Medal of Honor, or Medal
of Honor;
      (5)   Active or honorably discharged members of the Armed Forces of the
United States who are recipients of the Purple Heart.
   (C)   Any peace officer or parking control officer employed by the city is
encouraged to exercise discretion in enforcing the Uniform Traffic Ordinance
sections noted in paragraph (A) with respect to any vehicle displaying a
similar special license plate from any other state.
(Ord. 800 C.S., passed 9-6-06)
§ 3-5.18 PARKING FOR PERIOD EXCEEDING 120 HOURS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park, leave standing or store a vehicle, as
that term is defined in the Vehicle Code, upon any street or alley of the city
for any period exceeding 120 consecutive hours.
   (B)   Any vehicle parked contrary to the provisions of subsection (A) of
this section shall be subject to removal in the manner provided by and subject
to the requirements set forth in the Vehicle Code of the state.
(Ord. 835 C.S., passed 5-21-08)
CHAPTER 6: AIRPORT REGULATIONS
Section
   
3-6.01   Definitions
   
3-6.02   Superintendence
   
3-6.03   Aeronautical activities
   
3-6.04   Charges
   
3-6.05   Special notices
   
3-6.06   Exceptions to provisions
   
3-6.07   Fire inspections
   
3-6.08   Operation of motorized equipment
   
3-6.09   Pedestrians
   
3-6.10   Accident reports
   
3-6.11   Parking
   
3-6.12   Motor vehicle lights
   
3-6.13   Buses
   
3-6.14   Moving of vehicles
   
3-6.15   Vehicle safety
   
3-6.16   Grounding
   
3-6.17   Taxicabs
   
3-6.18   Parking of aircraft
   
3-6.19   Payment for use of facilities
   
3-6.20   Disabled aircraft
   
3-6.21   Aircraft accident reports
   
3-6.22   Refusal of clearance
   
3-6.23   Engine warm-ups
   
3-6.24   Airport damage
   
3-6.25   Fixed base registration
   
3-6.26   Categories of aircraft
   
3-6.27   Demonstrations
   
3-6.28   Fueling and defueling aircraft
   
3-6.29   Taxiing aircraft
   
3-6.30   Repairing aircraft
   
3-6.31   Closing of field
   
3-6.32   Aircraft equipment
   
3-6.33   Landings and take-offs
   
3-6.34   Registration of aircraft
   
3-6.35   Registration of crews
   
3-6.36   Flights over the city
   
3-6.37   Agricultural aircraft
   
3-6.38   Conduct
   
3-6.39   Firearms, explosives, and inflammable material
   
3-6.40   Interfering and tampering with aircraft
   
3-6.41   Business and commercial activities
   
3-6.42   Use of roads and walks
   
3-6.43   Use of airport
   
3-6.44   Animals
   
3-6.45   Cleaning aircraft
   
3-6.46   Storage of inflammable liquids
   
3-6.47   Open flame operations
   
3-6.48   Smoking
   
3-6.49   Floor care
   
3-6.50   Doping process
   
3-6.51   Fueling operations
   
3-6.52   Radio operations
   
3-6.53   Motor vehicle operation in hangars
   
3-6.54   Storage in apron area
   
3-6.55   Equipment in apron and ramp areas
   
3-6.56   Recommendations of Fire Chief
   
3-6.57   Obligation of tenants
   
3-6.58   Default of obligations
   
3-6.59   Emergency procedures
   
3-6.60   Schedule of rates and charges
   
3-6.61   Liability insurance
§ 3-6.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance, now known or hereafter invented, used or designed
for navigation or flight in the air.
   AIRPORT. The City Municipal Airport.
   AVIATION OPERATOR. Any person or organization engaged in any business of
aviation nature and authorized to operate such business on the airport by
virtue of a contract with the city.
   FIELD AREA.  The area on the landing area side of the terminal building,
including aircraft parking areas, shops, hangars and service station areas,
gasoline storage areas, runways, taxiways and perimeter roads, and all areas
separated from roadways, sidewalks, buildings, and highways by means of
fencing, "no trespassing" signs, or proper facilities for convenient, safe, and
easy entrance into and around such land sections and areas, and any other
specific areas designated by the Manager as field areas.
   GASOLINE TENDER. Any vehicle used for the transporting, handling, or
dispensing of petroleum, fuel, and oil.
   MANAGER. The City Administrator of the city or such person appointed by the
City Administrator to administer, govern, superintend, control, and protect the
interests of the city in the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, and
any other regulations prescribed by the Council, and the provisions of the
Municipal Code.
   MOBILE EQUIPMENT. Any non-self-propelled vehicle or device in which a person
or property may be transported.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle.
   PUBLIC AREA. The area, including the various concessions, restrooms, and
terminal lobby section, used for public access, roadways, and sidewalks on the
sides of the terminal building away from the landing area, and parking lots,
exclusive of such areas as are designated as truck parking, taxicab parking,
and freight or mail loading and unloading ramps and docks, but excluding the
inside of operations offices, kitchens, basements, all office areas, and
approaches thereto.
('61 Code, § 3-6.01) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.02 SUPERINTENDENCE.
   All persons on any part of the property comprising the airport shall be
governed by the provisions of this chapter and by orders and instructions of
the Manager acting for and in behalf of the city relative to the use or
occupancy of any part of the property comprising the airport.
('61 Code, § 3-6.02) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.03 AERONAUTICAL ACTIVITIES.
   All aeronautical activities at the airport and all flying of aircraft
departing from or arriving in the air space above the airport and the city
shall be conducted in conformity with the current pertinent provisions of the
Federal Aviation Agency regulations and orders issued by the Manager or the
Federal Aviation Agency and not in conflict with the regulations.
('61 Code, § 3-6.03) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.04 CHARGES.
   All guarantees, percentages, fees, and charges of any nature prescribed by
the Council shall be charged and collected pursuant to the authority of this
section.
('61 Code, § 3-6.04) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.05 SPECIAL NOTICES.
   Special notices of items of interest to anyone engaged in business or using
the airport shall be issued at such times and in such manner as the Manager
shall deem necessary.
('61 Code, § 3-6.05) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.06 EXCEPTIONS TO PROVISIONS.
   Special permission, when in the opinion of the Manager unusual conditions
exist, to act contrary to the provisions of this chapter or in a broader sense
than written may be obtained from the Manager provided each exception is
petitioned for individually and separately and that permission for such
exception is obtained in writing from the Manager. Such written permission
shall state definitely the exception for which the permission is granted, the
reason for the special permission and the time, conditions, duration, and
number of instances for which such exception is granted.
('61 Code, § 3-6.06) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.07 FIRE INSPECTIONS.
   The Fire Chief or an authorized representative shall conduct inspections of
all premises with regard to handling and storage of all materials, equipment
condition and usage, fire protection devices and personnel safety provisions in
the protection of property and personnel. All recommendations subsequently
issued by the Fire Chief, unless in conflict with military requirements and
necessity, shall be complied with by tenants and personnel without delay.
('61 Code, § 3-6.07) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.08 OPERATION OF MOTORIZED EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle on the airport except in
accordance with the laws of the state for the control of such vehicles and in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the following rules:
   (A)   Field area.
      (1)   No persons, other than those holding contract agreements with the
city authorizing them to do so, shall operate any motor vehicle in the field
areas without first having permission of the Manager.
      (2)   FIELD AREA. All tie-down and storage areas so designated on a map
of the airport on file in the office of the Manager.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle of any kind at the airport in
a reckless manner or in excess of 20 miles per hour unless the Council has
prescribed a different speed by resolution.
   (C)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at the airport contrary to the
directions of posted traffic signs.
   (D)   The driver of any vehicle operated at the airport shall at all times
comply with any lawful order, signal, or direction of the Manager or an
authorized representative.
   (E)   All vehicles shall pass to the rear of taxiing aircraft.
   (F)   When parking adjacent to a runway, all vehicles shall park parallel to
the runway and at least 50 feet to the outside of the runway lights.
   (G)   During daylight hours all vehicles which are authorized to operate on
the runways, taxiways, and parking areas, unless otherwise stated in contract
agreements, shall either be painted chrome yellow or display a checkered flag,
not less than three square feet, of international orange and white with checks
at least one foot square. Between the hours of sunset and sunrise such vehicles
shall display an overhead and blinking red light which shall be visible from
all directions and of sufficient brilliance to be seen under clear weather a
distance of at least one mile with the naked eye.
   (H)   When backing gasoline tenders the driver shall remain in the vehicle
and shall not stand on the running board or fender while backing. Gasoline
tenders shall at no time be blocked or so positioned as to prevent a rapid
removal of such tender.
   (I)   Emergency conditions existing on the field area shall not mitigate or
cancel any existing regulations. During such conditions the driver of every
vehicle shall make certain that he or she does not move his or her vehicle in
any direction unless specifically cleared by the control tower or airport
personnel to do so.
('61 Code, § 3-6.08) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.09 PEDESTRIANS.
   Pedestrians in marked pedestrian lanes shall at all times have the right of
way on the airport over vehicular traffic.
('61 Code, § 3-6.09) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.10 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   All persons involved in an accident, other than one involving an aircraft,
occurring at the airport shall make a full report thereof to the Police
Department as soon after the accident as possible, which report shall include
the names and addresses of all persons involved.
('61 Code, § 3-6.10) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.11 PARKING.
   No person shall park a motor vehicle at the airport other than in an area
specifically established for parking and in the manner prescribed by the
Manager. No person shall abandon any motor vehicle on the airport, nor shall
any person park a motor vehicle on the airport for a period in excess of 72
hours unless express approval for such parking is obtained from the Manager. No
person shall park a motor vehicle in any space marked off for the parking of
vehicles in such a manner as to occupy part of another marked space. No person
shall park any motor vehicle in excess of the time limit prescribed for the
particular parking area, nor shall any person park any motor vehicle in any
restricted or reserved area. Motor vehicles may be parked in individual storage
hangars or aircraft shelters if owned by the renter of such hangar or shelter.
('61 Code, § 3-6.11) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.12 MOTOR VEHICLE LIGHTS.
   All motor vehicles, except motorcycles and scooters, shall be equipped with
two headlights and one or more red tail lights. The headlights shall be of
sufficient brilliance to assure safety in driving at night. All lights shall be
kept lighted after sunset unless the vehicle is in a designated vehicular
parking area. Operators of vehicles shall dim or lower the beams of headlights
or other lights of such vehicles when meeting oncoming aircraft.
('61 Code, § 3-6.12) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.13 BUSES.
   No carrier by motor bus for hire shall load or unload persons at the airport
at any place without a contract from the city.
('61 Code, § 3-6.13) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.14 MOVING OF VEHICLES.
   The Manager shall have the authority to tow or otherwise move motor vehicles
which are parked by their owners or operators on the airport in violation of
the provisions of this chapter whenever it is determined by the Manager that
such motor vehicles so parked create a nuisance or a hazard. The Manager shall
have the authority to make a reasonable charge against the owner or operator of
such vehicle for such towing or moving service, and the motor vehicle so towed
or moved shall be subject to a lien for such charge.
('61 Code, § 3-6.14) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.15 VEHICLE SAFETY.
   No vehicle shall be operated on the airport if it is so constructed,
equipped, or loaded as to endanger persons or property. ('61 Code, § 3-6.15)
(Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.16 GROUNDING.
   All gasoline tenders shall be positively grounded, tender to aircraft, and
tender to ground, during all times they are being used to service aircraft.
('61 Code, § 3-6.16) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.17 TAXICABS.
   No person shall, within the boundary of the airport, solicit or invite
persons to ride in any taxicab, drive-yourself, cars or other vehicles used for
the purpose of carrying passengers for hire, either by driving slowly past
loading entrances to airport buildings or by the commission of other acts or
the utterance of words which are calculated to introduce persons to engage such
taxicabs, drive-yourself cars, or other vehicles, unless he or she is the
holder of a contract authorizing the same by the Council.
('61 Code, § 3-6.17) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.18 PARKING OF AIRCRAFT.
   No person shall park any aircraft in any area on the airport other than that
prescribed by the Manager.
('61 Code, § 3-6.18) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.19 PAYMENT FOR USE OF FACILITIES.
   Payment for use of airport facilities, storage, repairs, supplies, or other
services rendered by the airport shall be made before flight clearance will be
granted.
('61 Code, § 3-6.19) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.20 DISABLED AIRCRAFT.
   All disabled aircraft and parts thereof on the field area shall be promptly
removed from the field area by the owner unless required or directed by the
Manager and authorized representatives of the Federal Aviation Agency to delay
such action pending an investigation of an accident. If it is impossible for
the owner to remove the aircraft or part, aircraft personnel may remove the
same, and the Manager shall charge the owner for such service.
('61 Code, § 3-6.20) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.21 AIRCRAFT ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   Persons involved in aircraft accidents occurring on the airport shall make a
full report thereof to the Manager as soon as possible after such accident,
which report shall include the name and address of the owner of the aircraft
involved. When a written report of an accident is required by the Civil Air
Regulations, a copy of such report shall be submitted to the Manager in lieu of
the report required by the provisions of this section.
('61 Code, § 3-6.21) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.22 REFUSAL OF CLEARANCE.
   The Manager may delay or restrict any flight or other operations at the
airport and may refuse takeoff clearance to any aircraft for any reason
lawfully justified.
('61 Code, § 3-6.22) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.23 ENGINE WARM-UPS.
   Engine run-ups prior to takeoff shall be accomplished on run-up pads or
other areas provided for this purpose. No engine run-up shall be permitted in
any areas which would create a hazard to persons, aircraft, or other property.
('61 Code, § 3-6.23) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.24 AIRPORT DAMAGE.
   Any person damaging airport property shall report such damage to the airport
office immediately and shall be fully responsible to the city for any expense
required to repair such damage.
('61 Code, § 3-6.24) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.25 FIXED BASE REGISTRATION.
   The owners or operators of all aircraft based on the airport shall register
their aircraft with the airport office prior to beginning operations. Any
change in ownership shall require a change in registration.
('61 Code, § 3-6.25) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.26 CATEGORIES OF AIRCRAFT.
   (A)   Aircraft using the airport shall be divided into the following five
categories:
      (1)   Private (personal) aircraft;
      (2)   Commercial;
      (3)   Scheduled air carrier;
      (4)   Non-scheduled air carrier; and
      (5)   Governmental;
   (B)   Interpretations of this chapter governing the use of the airport shall
be controlled by category designation. The Manager shall determine any question
as to category. Each category and its authorized uses are defined as follows:
      (1)   Private (personal) aircraft:
         (a)   Individually owned by one or more persons;
         (b)   Privately owned aircraft which will be operated non-commercially
by owners;
         (c)   Private aircraft may be used by persons other than the owner;
provided, however, in no case may they be rented for any commercial purpose;
         (d) The aircraft may be used in connection with the owner's business
comparable to an owner's use of his or her private auto-mobile;
         (e)   Company and corporation owned aircraft which are operated for
the free transportation of their, and other, personnel or products are
classified as private aircraft and subject to the restrictions listed under
subsection §
3-6.26(B)(1)(c) of this subsection;
         (f)   Private aircraft, when sold, may be used to instruct the new
owner in its operation; provided, however, when in the opinion of the Manager
such aircraft is issued for other purposes, including student instruction or
charter, it shall be classified as commercial as described in subsection §
3-6.26(B)(2) of this subsection; and
         (g)   flying club aircraft. A flying club is an association or group
of more than three individuals jointly owning or leasing an aircraft where
payment is made to the club for the operating time of such aircraft. The
registration certificate issued by the Federal Aviation Agency shall show the
names of all owners if the club is not incorporated, and the aircraft shall be
registered in the name of the incorporated flying clubs. A roster of membership
and the rules and regulations or by-laws governing the flying clubs' operation
shall be submitted to the Manager by the flying club applying for an operating
permit. No flying clubs shall be operated on the airport without a permit in
writing issued by the Manager.
      (2)   Commercial shall mean aircraft used for the following purposes:
         (a)   Operations by scheduled air carriers not designating the city as
a scheduled stop;
         (b)   Operations of non-scheduled service for transportation of
freight, express, passengers, or charter service;
         (c)   Operations of aircraft by aircraft sales agencies;
         (d)   Operations of aircraft for photography, advertising, crop
dusting, and rental;
         (e)   Flight testing of planes by commercial repair agencies;
         (f)   Operations of aircraft by persons engaged in the operation of a
flying school; and
         (g)   Every aircraft operated by a person engaged in commercial
activity as specified in this subsection shall be considered to be engaged in
commercial operation.
      (3)   Scheduled air carriers shall mean aircraft operated by a
certificated air carrier serving the city as a scheduled stop.
      (4)   Non-scheduled air carriers shall mean a certificated and non-
scheduled air carrier not holding a contract with the Council.
      (5)   Governmental aircraft shall mean all aircraft owned or operated by
the United States Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, Air Force, National
Guard, and other departments of the federal government.
('61 Code, § 3-6.26) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.27 DEMONSTRATIONS.
   No experimental flight or ground demonstrations shall be conducted on the
airport without the express approval of the Manager.
('61 Code, § 3-6.27) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.28 FUELING AND DEFUELING AIRCRAFT.
   No aircraft shall be fueled or defueled while passengers are on board the
aircraft unless the aircraft door is in open position. No smoking shall be
permitted within 50 feet of such aircraft during such operations.
('61 Code, § 3-6.28) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.29 TAXIING AIRCRAFT.
   (A)   No person shall taxi an aircraft until he or she has ascertained that
there will be no danger of collision with any person or object.
   (B)   No aircraft shall be taxied in a careless or reckless manner.
   (C)   Pilots shall not taxi onto or across the runway in use until they have
ascertained that the runway is clear.
   (D)   Aircraft shall be taxied in accordance with prescribed taxiing
patterns when any particular runway is in use.
   (E)   No person shall start or run an engine in an aircraft unless a
competent person is in the aircraft attending the engine controls. Blocks shall
always be placed in front of the wheels before starting the engines unless the
aircraft is provided with adequate parking brakes.
   (F)   No person shall run the engine of any aircraft at any location on the
airport in such a manner as to cause damage to other aircraft or property, or
in such a manner as to cause damage to other materials across taxiways or
runways or in such a manner as to endanger the safety and operations on the
airport.
   (G)   Aircraft shall not be taxied on the airport except on paved runways,
taxiways, and parking areas.
   (H)   The city shall not be liable or responsible for any accident or damage
to aircraft, persons, or equipment from any cause while such aircraft, person,
or equipment is in an area not specifically designated as a taxiway, runway, or
aircraft parking area.
   (I)   No person shall taxi an aircraft into or out of hangars or other
buildings.
('61 Code, § 3-6.29) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.30 REPAIRING AIRCRAFT.
   No person shall repair an aircraft, aircraft engine, propeller, or apparatus
in any area of the airport other than that specifically designated or approved
for such purpose by the Manager.
('61 Code, § 3-6.30) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.31 CLOSING OF FIELD.
   In the event the Manager believes the conditions of the airport, or any
portion thereof, are unfavorable for taxiing, landing, or take-off, it shall be
within the Manager's authority to close the airport, or such portion thereof.
This normally shall be accomplished by issuing a Notice to Airman (NOTAM)
through the Federal Aviation Agency. When the airport, or portion thereof, is
again usable, the NOTAM shall be cancelled.
('61 Code, § 3-6.31) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.32 AIRCRAFT EQUIPMENT.
   No aircraft shall be operated on the airport unless it is equipped with a
tail or nose wheel and wheel brakes except with the permission of the Manager.
When any pilot of an aircraft not equipped with adequate brakes receives
permission from the Manager to taxi such aircraft, such pilot shall not taxi
such aircraft near buildings or parked aircraft unless an attendant is at the
wings of the aircraft to assist the pilot. Aircraft in excess of 3,000 pounds
gross weight shall not be taxied under any circumstances when brakes are
inoperative but shall be towed from place to place until the brakes are
repaired and again operative.
('61 Code, § 3-6.32) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.33 LANDINGS AND TAKE-OFFS.
   (A)   Landings and takeoffs shall be made in the direction and on the runway
as indicated by the traffic direction indicator. Runway 30 is normally
designated as the "calm wind" runway.
   (B)   No landings or takeoffs shall be made except at a safe distance from
buildings and aircraft.
   (C)   Simulated forced landings shall be prohibited within the airport
control zone without prior permission from the Manager.
   (D)   No aircraft shall fly over the airport, unless landing or taking off,
at an altitude of less than 2,000 feet without prior approval.
   (E)   No aircraft shall land or take off on any taxiway.
('61 Code, § 3-6.33) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.34 REGISTRATION OF AIRCRAFT.
   The pilots of all itinerant commercial, scheduled or non-scheduled aircraft
shall register, immediately after landing and parking, at the airport office
located on the airport. In the event such report would cause time delay or
inconvenience, the report shall be made directly to the airport attendant. In
any event it shall be the sole responsibility of the pilot to make such report
properly and expeditiously. Scheduled air carriers maintaining offices and
personnel on the airport shall be exempt from the provisions of this section.
('61 Code, § 3-6.34) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.35 REGISTRATION OF CREWS.
   The pilot or captain in charge of all commercial, non-scheduled air carriers
or scheduled air carriers shall leave his or her name, address, and telephone
number where he or she can be reached in the event he or she leaves an aircraft
on the airport for more than four hours. Such data shall be given to the person
in charge of the airport office or to the airport attendant. The provisions of
this section shall not apply to carriers maintaining offices or personnel at
the airport.
('61 Code, § 3-6.35) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.36 FLIGHTS OVER THE CITY.
   (A)   No aircraft shall be flown above the city within the city limits at a
height of less than 1,000 feet above the highest obstacle except when landing
at or taking off from the airport.
   (B)   Persons regularly engaged in the business of aerial photography shall
obtain a permit from the Federal Aviation Agency to fly at lesser altitudes
than 1,000 feet.
   (C)   No person shall engage in any manner of flying which is not necessary
for the normal operation of the aircraft involved, including cutting engines,
revving propellers, or any other action which constitutes a nuisance to persons
on the ground.
   (D)   No person shall throw from any aircraft any printed handbill,
advertising material, or any article of any kind while flying over the city.
   (E)   No person shall make a parachute jump over the city except by
permission of the Council. This provision shall not apply to aircraft during
emergency conditions when parachuting from the aircraft is in the interests of
crew safety.
('61 Code, § 3-6.36) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.37 AGRICULTURAL AIRCRAFT.
   No dusting, spraying insecticide, or other flights of an agricultural nature
shall be permitted off the airport without the direct permission of the
Manager. This provision shall apply only to the hauling of such materials in
aircraft from the airport and does not preclude the normal empty operation of
agricultural aircraft to, and from, the airport.
('61 Code, § 3-6.37) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.38 CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall be disorderly, obnoxious, or indecent or commit any
act of nuisance on the airport.
   (B)   No person shall engage in or operate gambling in any form on the
airport.
   (C)   No person shall dispose of garbage, papers, refuse or other materials
on the airport except in receptacles provided for such purpose.
   (D)   No person shall use a comfort station other than in a clean and
sanitary manner.
   (E)   No person shall drink beverages, other than soft drinks usually sold
in the building, in the terminal building lobby.
   (F)   No person shall expectorate on the floors, walls, or other surfaces of
any airport building.
   (G)   No person shall destroy, injure, deface, or disturb any building,
sign, equipment, marker or other structure, tree, flower, lawn, or other
property on the airport.
   (H)   No person shall alter, make additions to, or erect any building or
sign or make any excavations on the airport without the permission of the
Manager.
   (I)   No person shall wilfully abandon any personal property on the airport.
   (J)   No person, without lawful business thereon, shall loiter on any part
of the airport or in any building of the airport.
   (K)   No person shall knowingly or wilfully make any false statement or
report to the Manager or airport attendants.
   (L)   No person shall enter any restricted areas posted as being closed to
the public except as provided in this chapter.
   (M)   No person shall enter upon the field area or utility and service rooms
or areas except:
      (1)   Persons assigned to duty therein;
      (2)   Authorized representatives of the Manager;
      (3)   Persons authorized by the Manager; or
      (4)   Passengers, under appropriate supervision, entering the field area
for the purpose of embarkation and debarkation.
('61 Code, § 3-6.38) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.39 FIREARMS, EXPLOSIVES, AND INFLAMMABLE MATERIAL.
   No person, except peace officers, duly authorized personnel of the United
States Post Office, airport personnel, air carrier employees, plant and
military security personnel or members of the Armed Forces of the United States
on official duty, shall carry any firearms or explosive or inflammable
materials on the airport. The provisions of this section shall not apply to
persons carrying firearms in cases, broken down or unloaded, when such firearms
are being transported for the purpose of sale, demonstration, hunting, or other
sports activities.
('61 Code, § 3-6.39) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.40 INTERFERING AND TAMPERING WITH AIRCRAFT.
   No person shall interfere or tamper with any aircraft, or put in motion the
engine of such aircraft, or use any aircraft, aircraft part, instrument, or
tool without the permission of the owner or by specific direction of the
Manager.
('61 Code, § 3-6.40) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.41 BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No person shall engage in any business or commercial activity of any
nature whatsoever on the airport except with the approval of and under such
terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the Council.
   (B)   No person shall post, distribute, or display signs, advertisements,
circulars, or any other printed or written matter at the airport except with
the approval of the Manager and in such manner as the Manager may prescribe
unless permitted by reason of contractual relations between such person and the
Council.
   (C)   No person shall take still, motion, or sound pictures on public areas
of the airport for commercial purposes without permission of the Manager except
duly authorized persons taking pictures for newspaper publication or television
pictures and films.
('61 Code, § 3-6.41) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.42 USE OF ROADS AND WALKS.
   (A)   No person shall travel on the airport other than on roads, walks, or
places provided for the particular class of traffic.
   (B)   No person shall occupy the roads or walks in such a manner as to
hinder or obstruct their proper use.
   (C)   No person shall walk in a picket line as a picket or take part in any
labor or other public demonstrations on any part of the airport except in
places which would only affect the operation picketed and which are
specifically designated for such use by the Manager.
   (D)   No person shall operate any type of vehicle for the commercial
disposal of garbage or other waste material on the airport without a permit
from the Council.
('61 Code, § 3-6.42) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.43 USE OF AIRPORT.
   (A)   No person shall come upon or use the airport, except while traveling
through as a passenger on a bus or taxicab, or while enplaning or deplaning as
a passenger on an aircraft operating on the airport, after such person has been
denied the use of the airport by the Manager.
   (B)   All shops, garages, equipment, and facilities at the airport shall be
expressly for the operation of the owner's or lessee's business. No person,
other than the employees of the owner or lessee, shall make use of such
facilities or loiter around such premises without individual and specific
permission of the lessee or owner. The provisions of this subsection shall
apply to terminal building premises as well as all others.
   (C)   Every airport lessee or tenant may be assigned specific parking areas
for employees, customers, and invitees by the Manager. Tenants shall make
certain their employees use only those parking areas so assigned.
   (D)   No person shall transport or deliver aviation fuels on the airport or
dispense fuels into aircraft unless such persons are holders of a valid
agreement with the city authorizing them to do so.
('61 Code, § 3-6.43) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.44 ANIMALS.
   No person shall enter the terminal building or field area of the airport
with a dog or other animal; provided, however, seeing-eye dogs may be permitted
for appropriate purposes and dogs to be transported by air shall be restrained
by leash or properly confined.
('61 Code, § 3-6.44) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.45 CLEANING AIRCRAFT.
   No person shall use inflammable volatile liquids having a flash point of
less than 110°F for the cleaning of aircraft, aircraft engines, propellers, or
appliances, or for any other purpose, unless such operations are conducted in
the open air or in a room specifically set aside for that purpose. Such room
shall be properly fireproofed and equipped with adequate and readily accessible
fire extinguishing apparatus.
('61 Code, § 3-6.45) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.46 STORAGE OF INFLAMMABLE LIQUIDS.
   (A)   No person shall keep or store inflammable liquids, gases, signal
flares, or other similar materials in the hangars or in any buildings on the
airport; provided, however, such materials may be kept in an aircraft in the
proper receptacle installed in the aircraft for such purpose, or in rooms or
areas specifically approved for such storage by the Manager or in safety cans
approved by insurance underwriters.
   (B)   No person shall keep or store lubricating or waste oils in or about
the hangars; provided, however, such storage materials may be kept in rooms
specifically designed for oil storage; and provided, further, lubricating oils
shall not be kept in or about a hangar unless in receptacles or containers
approved by insurance underwriters.
   (C)   Lessees shall provide suitable metal receptacles with self-closing
covers for the storage of waste, rags, and other rubbish. All waste, rags, and
other rubbish shall be removed within a period of one week by the lessee or by
regularly scheduled pick-ups. Lessees may contract with other agencies or
persons, subject to the approval of the Council, for the removal of such
materials.
('61 Code, § 3-6.46) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.47 OPEN FLAME OPERATIONS.
   No person shall conduct any open flame operations in any hangar or on the
airport unless specifically authorized by the Manager.
('61 Code, § 3-6.47) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.48 SMOKING.
   No person shall smoke on the airport apron or in any hangar or service
station area, gasoline storage area, or in any building, room, or place on the
airport where smoking is specifically prohibited by the Manager.
('61 Code, § 3-6.48) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.49 FLOOR CARE.
   All lessees on the airport shall keep the floors of the hangars, hangar
areas, and ramp areas leased by them respectively, or used in their operation,
clean and clear of oil, grease, and other materials or stains except when
otherwise provided by a specific lease or contract.
('61 Code, § 3-6.49) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.50 DOPING PROCESS.
   The doping process shall be conducted only in properly designed fireproofed
and ventilated rooms or buildings in which all illuminating, wiring, heating,
ventilating equipment, switches, outlets, and fixtures shall be explosion-
proof, spark-proof, and vapor-proof, and all windows and doors shall open
easily.
('61 Code, § 3-6.50) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.51 FUELING OPERATIONS.
   (A)   No aircraft shall be fueled or defueled while the engines are running
or while such aircraft is in a hangar or enclosed space.
   (B)   No person shall smoke within 50 feet of an aircraft being fueled or
defueled.
   (C)   No person shall operate any radio transmitter or receiver, or switch
electrical appliances on or off, in an aircraft during fueling or defueling.
   (D)   During refueling or defueling, the aircraft and the fuel dispensing
apparatus shall both be grounded to a point of zero electrical potential.
   (E)   Persons engaged in the fueling and defueling of aircraft shall
exercise extreme care to prevent the overflow or spillage of fuel.
   (F)   No person shall use any material, during fueling or defueling of
aircraft, which is likely to cause a spark or be a source of ignition.
   (G)   Adequate fire extinguishers shall be within reach of all persons
engaged in fueling or defueling aircraft.
   (H)   No person shall start the engine of any aircraft when there is any
gasoline on the ground under such aircraft.
   (I)   Fuel hoses and equipment shall be maintained in a safe, sound, and
non-leaking condition.
   (J)   All hoses, funnels, and appurtenances used in fueling or defueling
operations shall be equipped with a ground device to prevent ignition of
volatile liquids.
   (K)   All fueling and defueling of aircraft shall be conducted at least 50
feet from any hangar or other buildings at the airport.
('61 Code, § 3-6.51) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.52 RADIO OPERATIONS.
   No person shall operate any radio equipment in any aircraft when such
aircraft is in a hangar during the time any maintenance other than radio
maintenance is being performed on the aircraft.
('61 Code, § 3-6.52) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.53 MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATION IN HANGARS.
   No person shall operate a motor scooter, truck, or other motor vehicle
without the exhaust being protected by screens or baffles to prevent the escape
of sparks for the propagation of flame in any hangar on the airport.
('61 Code, § 3-6.53) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.54 STORAGE IN APRON AREA.
   Gasoline, oil, and solvent drums or receptacles shall not be stored on apron
and ramp areas, and no material of such type shall be kept except enclosed and
covered in housings of a design and type approved by, and at a place directed
by, the Manager.
('61 Code, § 3-6.54) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.55 EQUIPMENT IN APRON AND RAMP AREAS.
   All ramp equipment shall be parked and kept in a neat and orderly manner. No
receptacles, chests, cases, or housings shall remain on the apron or ramp area
which do not fit the general architectural and cleanliness standards of the
rest of the installation. Final approval on all such items shall rest with the
Manager.
('61 Code, § 3-6.55) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.56 RECOMMENDATIONS OF FIRE CHIEF.
   All orders emanating from the office of the Fire Chief shall be complied
with by all tenants and personnel at the airport.
('61 Code, 3-6.56) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.57 OBLIGATION OF TENANTS.
   (A)   No person shall keep an uncovered trash container in any area at the
airport. No vehicle used for hauling trash, dirt, or other material shall be
operated on the airport unless such vehicle is so constructed as to prevent the
contents thereof from dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping
therefrom. The area to be used for trash/garbage containers shall be designated
by the Manager, and no other area shall be used. Such areas shall be kept clean
and sanitary at all times.
   (B)   All lessees at the airport shall maintain bulletin boards in
conspicuous places for the purpose of posting information for their personnel
and for all notices issued by the Manager.
   (C)   All lessees at the airport shall post on their bulletin boards
Workmen's Compensation notices, lists of physicians, and the names of liability
insurance carriers.
   (D)   No tenant or lessee on the airport shall store or stack material or
equipment in such a manner as to constitute a hazard to personnel or property.
   (E)   All tenants and lessees shall supply and maintain on their leasehold
adequate and readily accessible fire extinguishers as are approved by fire
insurance underwriters for the particular hazard involved and as may be deemed
necessary by the Fire Chief.
   (F)   All airport billings shall be payable upon presentation unless
otherwise noted thereon.
   (G)   All percentages or income charges shall be payable within ten days of
the end of the period in which the income was received unless otherwise
stipulated in writing.
   (H)   No tenant, lessee, or grantee shall be permitted to make structural or
decorative changes or additions of any type without the permission of the
Manager.
   (I)   For the purpose of accurately metering electrical power used by a
tenant, lessee, or grantee, a meter socket shall be provided by the tenant,
lessee, or grantee when deemed necessary by the Manager.
   (J)   Tenants, lessees, and grantees shall be fully responsible to the city
for all damages to buildings, equipment, real property, and appurtenances in
the ownership or custody of the city, but under lease, loan, or direct control
of such tenants, lessees, and grantees, caused by negligence, abuse, or
carelessness on the part of their employees, agents, customers, visitors,
suppliers, or persons with whom they do business.
   (K)   Tenants shall maintain their leased areas in a manner satisfactory to
the City Administrator and in accordance with their individual lease
agreements. Failure to adhere to such provisions shall be considered sufficient
reason to warrant cancellation of the lease agreement in part or in whole by
the city.
('61 Code, § 3-6.57) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.58 DEFAULT OF OBLIGATIONS.
   Whenever any tenant or grantee is formally notified by the Manager that he
or she is in default of any written or implied obligation to the city, whether
it be for breach of performance, breach of covenant, non-payment, or otherwise,
he or she shall be billed and shall be liable to the city for all loss of
revenue, expense incurred to reestablish performance of service, or other costs
unless the tenant issues a statement to the Manager within ten days of the
final notice that corrective measures have been initiated and shall be
diligently executed. If the conditions of the statement are not executed within
the time specified by the Manager, the tenant shall be in default of his or her
obligation to the city.
('61 Code, § 3-6.58) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.59 EMERGENCY PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Emergency procedures shall be issued by the Manager under the
authority of this chapter.
   (B)   Under any and all emergency conditions all personnel on the airport
involved in the emergency shall act strictly in accordance with the procedures
established by and under the direct control of airport personnel. No individual
shall be required to assist in or respond to any emergency contrary to any
rules, orders, or instructions of his or her employer.
('61 Code, § 3-6.59) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.60 SCHEDULE OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   A schedule of rates and charges for the use of the field area shall be
established from time to time by resolution of the Council. Such rates and
charges shall be in effect from and after the effective date of such
resolution.
('61 Code, § 3-6.60) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63)
§ 3-6.61 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   The privileges of using the airport and its facilities shall be
conditioned upon the assumption of full responsibility and risk by the user
thereof, and the city, its officers, agents, volunteers, and/or employees,
shall not be liable for loss, damage, or injury to persons or property arising
out of any accident, incident, or mishap of any nature whatsoever and/or from
any cause whatsoever to any individual, aircraft, or property occurring on the
airport or in the use of any of the airport facilities.
   (B)   No person shall maintain based aircraft at the airport unless such
person shall file with the Manager, and keep in current effect, a certificate
of commercial general liability insurance insuring coverage as specified by the
Manager, with amounts not less than the following:
      Aircraft: $250,000 per occurrence bodily injury, personal injury and
property damage, and an aggregate limit of $500,000.
      Ultralights not able to obtain Aircraft limits as set forth above:
$50,000 per occurrence bodily injury, personal injury and property damage, and
an aggregate limit of $100,000.
   (C)   BASED AIRCRAFT. "Based aircraft" means an aircraft or ultralight
assigned a reserved parking space or T-hangar space by the city or parked or
hangared on the airport by tenants of the city.
('61 Code, § 3-6.61) (Ord. 44 C.S., passed 4-3-63; Am. Ord. 688 C.S., passed 7-
15-98)
CHAPTER 7: WEAPONS
Section
   
3-7.01   Discharge of firearms
   
3-7.02   Sling shots prohibited
   
3-7.03   Dangerous weapons and dangerous articles on city-owned or leased
properties prohibited
   
3-7.04   Dangerous weapons defined
   
3-7.05   Dangerous article defined
   
3-7.06   Exemptions
   
3-7.07   Punishment of violations
§ 3-7.01 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   Any person who shall discharge firearms of any description within the city,
except in a duly licensed shooting gallery, and except peace officers in the
due discharge of their duties, without having first obtained permission so to
do from the Police Chief, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
('61 Code, § 3-7.01) (Ord. 9A, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 69, passed - - )
§ 3-7.02 SLING SHOTS PROHIBITED.
   Any person who shall carry on his or her person any sling shot or instrument
commonly used, or which may be used, for throwing any shot, bullet, rock, or
other missile, or any person who in any manner uses the same to the danger of
persons or property in the city shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
('61 Code, § 3-7.02) (Ord. 9A, passed - - )
§ 3-7.03 DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND DANGEROUS ARTICLES ON CITY-OWNED OR LEASED
PROPERTIES PROHIBITED.
   The carrying, transportation, use or possession of dangerous weapons or
dangerous articles is prohibited in or upon any building owned by or leased to
the city.
(Ord. 832 C.S., passed 3-5-08)
§ 3-7.04 DANGEROUS WEAPONS DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this chapter, DANGEROUS WEAPONS shall include any
instrument commonly known as a blackjack, billy, metal knuckles, dagger, knife,
or any razor with an unguarded blade, a sling, slingshot, bow and arrow, spring
gun, air gun, BB gun, revolver, pistol, shotgun, rifle, or any other firearm of
similar design, or any device designed or intended to discharge, or capable of
discharging any dangerous missile, or any cartridge, shell, or ammunition.
(Ord. 832 C.S., passed 3-5-08)
§ 3-7.05 DANGEROUS ARTICLE DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this chapter DANGEROUS ARTICLE shall include any
explosive or flammable substance which can be exploded or burned in a manner
which is capable of producing bodily injury or damage to property, or any bomb,
grenade or similar device.
(Or. 832 C.S., passed 3-5-08)
§ 3-7.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The prohibitions of this chapter shall not apply to any judge,
sheriff, deputy sheriff, policeman, marshal, deputy marshal, member of the
California Highway Patrol, member of the California State Police, agent of the
Department of Justice, agent of the Bureau of Narcotic Enforcement, guard or
parole officer of the State Department of Corrections or California Youth
Authority, or probation or deputy probation officer who is acting in the course
of employment and who is lawfully authorized to possess such weapons.
   (B)   The prohibitions of this chapter shall not apply to any city employee
or agent of the city who is required to possess dangerous articles in order to
perform city business, work or service on city premises.
(Ord. 832 C.S., passed 3-5-08)
§ 3-7.07 PUNISHMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 832 C.S., passed 3-5-08)
CHAPTER 8: UNDERGROUND UTILITIES
Section
   
3-8.01   Definitions
   
3-8.02   Public hearing by Council
   
3-8.03   Designation of underground utility districts
   
3-8.04   Unlawful acts
   
3-8.05   Exception; emergency or unusual circumstances
   
3-8.06   Other exceptions
   
3-8.07   Notice to property owners and utility companies
   
3-8.08   Responsibility of utility companies
   
3-8.09   Responsibility of property owners
   
3-8.10   Responsibility of city
   
3-8.11   Extension of time
§ 3-8.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The Public Utilities Commission of the state.
   UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICT or DISTRICT. The area in the city within which
poles, overhead wires, and associated overhead structures are prohibited as
such area is described in a resolution adopted pursuant to the provisions of §
3-8.03 of this chapter.
   PERSON. Individuals, corporations, and partnerships, and their agents and
employees.
   POLES, OVERHEAD WIRES, and ASSOCIATED OVERHEAD STRUCTURES. Poles, towers,
supports, wires, conductors, guys, stubs, platforms, crossarms, braces,
transformers, insulators, cutouts, switches, communication circuits,
appliances, attachments, and appurtenances located aboveground within a
District and used or useful in supplying electric, communication, or similar or
associated service.
   UTILITY. All persons or entities supplying electric, communication, or
similar or associated service by means of electrical materials or devices.
('61 Code, § 3-8.01) (Ord. 123 C.S., passed 4-17-68)
§ 3-8.02 PUBLIC HEARING BY COUNCIL.
   The Council may from time to time call public hearings to ascertain whether
the public necessity, health, safety, or welfare requires the removal of poles,
overhead wires, and associated overhead structures within designated areas of
the city and the underground installation of wires and facilities for supplying
electric, communication, or similar or associated service. The City Clerk shall
notify all affected property owners as shown on the last equalized assessment
roll and utilities concerned by mail of the time and place of such hearings at
least ten days prior to the date thereof. Each such hearing shall be open to
the public and may be continued from time to time. At each such hearing all
persons interested shall be given an opportunity to be heard. The decision of
the Council shall be final and conclusive.
('61 Code, § 3-8.03) (Ord. 123 C.S., passed 4-17-68)
§ 3-8.03 DESIGNATION OF UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICTS.
   If, after any such public hearing, the Council finds that the public
necessity, health, safety, or welfare requires such removal and such
underground installation within a designated area, the Council shall, by
resolution, declare such designated area an Underground Utility District and
order such removal and underground installation. Such resolution shall include
a description of the area comprising such district and shall fix the time
within which such removal and underground installation shall be accomplished
and within which affected property owners shall be ready to receive underground
service. A reasonable time shall be allowed for such removal and underground
installation, having due regard for the availability of labor, materials, and
equipment necessary for such removal and for the installation of such
underground facilities as may be occasioned thereby.
('61 Code, § 3-8.03) (Ord. 123 C.S., passed 4-17-68)
§ 3-8.04 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   Whenever the Council creates an Underground Utility District and orders the
removal of poles, overhead wires, and associated overhead structures therein as
provided in §
3-8.03 of this chapter it shall be unlawful for any person or utility to erect,
construct, place, keep, maintain, continue, employ, or operate poles, overhead
wires, and associated overhead structures in the district after the date when
such overhead facilities are required to be removed by such resolution, except
such overhead facilities as may be required to furnish service to an owner or
occupant of property prior to the performance by such owner or occupant of the
underground work necessary for such owner or occupant to continue to receive
utility service as provided in §
3-8.09 of this chapter, and for such reasonable time required to remove such
facilities after such work has been performed, and except as otherwise provided
in this chapter.
('61 Code, § 3-8.04) (Ord. 123 C.S., passed 4-17-68)
§ 3-8.05 EXCEPTION; EMERGENCY OR UNUSUAL CIRCUMSTANCES.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, overhead facilities may be
installed and maintained for a period not to exceed ten calendar days without
authority of the city in order to provide emergency service.
('61 Code, § 3-8.05) (Ord. 123 C.S., passed 4-17-68; Am. Ord. 128 C.S., passed
9-4-68)
§ 3-8.06 OTHER EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter and any resolution adopted pursuant to the
provisions of §
3-8.03 of this chapter shall not, unless otherwise provided in such resolution,
apply to the following types of facilities:
   (A)   Any municipal facilities or equipment installed under the supervision
and to the satisfaction of the City Engineer;
   (B)   Poles or electroliers used exclusively for street lighting;
   (C)   Overhead wires (exclusive of supporting structures) crossing any
portion of a district within which overhead wires have been prohibited, or
connecting to buildings on the perimeter of a district, when such wires
originate in an area from which poles, overhead wires, and associated overhead
structures are not prohibited;
   (D)   Poles, overhead wires, and associated overhead structures used for the
transmission of electric energy at nominal voltages in excess of 34,500 volts;
   (E)   Overhead wires attached to the exterior surface of a building by means
of a bracket or other fixture and extending from one location on the building
to another location on the same building or to an adjacent building without
crossing any public street;
   (F)   Antennae, associated equipment, and supporting structures used by a
utility for furnishing communication services;
   (G)   Equipment appurtenant to underground facilities, such as surface
mounted transformers, pedestal mounted terminal boxes and meter cabinets, and
concealed ducts;
   (H)   Temporary poles, overhead wires, and associated overhead structures
used or to be used in conjunction with construction projects; and
   (I)   Such other exceptions which may be authorized by the Council through
the Director of Public Works.
('61 Code, § 3-8.06) (Ord. 123 C.S., passed 4-17-68)
§ 3-8.07 NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS AND UTILITY COMPANIES.
   (A)   Within ten days after the effective date of a resolution adopted
pursuant to the provisions of §
3-8.03 of this chapter, the City Clerk shall notify all affected utilities and
all persons owning real property within the District created by such resolution
of the adoption thereof. The City Clerk shall further notify such affected
property owners of the necessity that, if they or any person occupying such
property desire to continue to receive electric, communication, or similar or
associated service, they or such occupant shall provide all necessary facility
changes on their premises so as to receive such service from the lines of the
supplying utility at a new location.
   (B)   Notification by the City Clerk shall be made by mailing a copy of the
resolution adopted designating the district, together with the provisions of
this chapter, to affected property owners, as shown on the last equalized
assessment roll, and to the affected utilities.
('61 Code, § 3-8.07) (Ord. 123 C.S., passed 4-17-68)
§ 3-8.08 RESPONSIBILITY OF UTILITY COMPANIES.
   If underground construction is necessary to provide utility service within a
district created by any resolution adopted pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, the supplying utility shall furnish that portion of the conduits,
conductors, and associated equipment required to be furnished by it under its
applicable rules, regulations, and tariffs on file with the Commission.
('61 Code, § 3-8.08) (Ord. 123 C.S., passed 4-17-68)
§ 3-8.09 RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Every person owning, operating, leasing, occupying, or renting a
building or structure within a district shall construct and provide that
portion of the service connection on his or her property between the facilities
referred to in §
3-8.08 of this chapter and the termination facility on or within such building
or structure being served.
   (B)   In the event any person owning, operating, leasing, occupying, or
renting such property does not comply with the provisions of subsection §
3-8.09(A) of this section within the time provided for in the resolution
enacted pursuant to the provisions of §
3-8.03 of this chapter, the City Engineer shall post written notice on the
property being served and 30 days thereafter shall have the authority to order
the disconnection and removal of any and all overhead service wires and
associated facilities supplying utility service to such property.
('61 Code, § 3-8.09) (Ord. 123 C.S., passed 4-17-68)
§ 3-8.10 RESPONSIBILITY OF CITY.
   The city shall remove at its own expense all city-owned equipment from all
poles required to be removed hereunder in sufficient time to enable the owner
or user of such poles to remove the same within the time specified in the
resolution enacted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 3-8.10) (Ord. 123 C.S., passed 4-17-68)
§ 3-8.11 EXTENSION OF TIME.
   In the event any act required by this chapter or by a resolution adopted
pursuant to §
3-8.03 of this chapter cannot be performed within the time provided on account
of shortage of materials, war, restraint by public authorities, strikes, labor
disturbances, civil disobedience, or any other circumstances beyond the control
of the person responsible for performance, as determined by the City Engineer,
then the time within which such act shall be accomplished shall be extended for
a period equivalent to the time of such limitation.
('61 Code, § 3-8.11) (Ord. 123 C.S., passed 4-17-68)
CHAPTER 9: REGULATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
Section
   
3-9.01   Operating vehicles on certain public property prohibited
   
3-9.02   Operating vehicles on private property prohibited
   
3-9.03   Operating vehicles on private or public property; nuisances
   
3-9.04   Condition of vehicles
§ 3-9.01 OPERATING VEHICLES ON CERTAIN PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle, motorcycle, minibike,
trail bike, dune buggy, motor scooter, motor-driven cycle, jeep, or other form
of powered transportation upon any public property which is not held open to
the public for vehicular use and which is not subject to the provisions of the
Vehicle Code of the state, except for emergency vehicles, the vehicles of
governmental agencies and public utilities, and the vehicles of persons holding
a written permit from the Council or Police Chief.
('61 Code, § 3-9.01) (Ord. 284 C.S., passed 12-7-77)
§ 3-9.02 OPERATING VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle, motorcycle, motor-driven
cycle, minibike, trail bike, dune buggy, motor scooter, jeep, or other form of
powered transportation upon the private property of another which is not held
open to the public for vehicular use and which is not subject to the Vehicle
Code of the state, except for emergency vehicles, the vehicles of governmental
agencies or public utilities, and to persons or vehicles driving upon such
property with the consent of the owner or person in lawful possession of such
property and the members of the owner's family, employees and agents of the
owner, or lessees, or members of their families. No operator of any vehicle
described in this section shall operate such vehicle within 100 feet of any
dwelling, school, church, or assembly hall not owned by the operator without
having in his or her possession the signed, written consent of the owner of
such dwelling, church, school, or assembly hall or his or her agent.
('61 Code, § 3-9.02) (Ord. 284 C.S., passed 12-7-77)
§ 3-9.03 OPERATING VEHICLES ON PRIVATE OR PUBLIC PROPERTY; NUISANCES.
   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle described in §§
3-9.01 and
3-9.02 of this chapter on any vacant lot, parking lot, vacant property, public
property, or acreage within the city in such a manner as to disturb the peace
and quiet of any neighborhood or person by noise, dust, smoke, fumes, or other
causes arising out of the operation of such vehicle.
('61 Code, § 3-9.03) (Ord. 284 C.S., passed 12-7-77)
§ 3-9.04 CONDITION OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall start or run the motor of or drive any self-propelled
vehicle described in §§
3-9.01 and
3-9.02 of this chapter upon any public or private property unless such vehicle
is then equipped and functioning with all the noise inhibitors necessary for it
to be then lawfully driven upon a public highway in the city. No such muffler
system or noise inhibitor shall be equipped with a cutout or bypass system or
similar device. All such vehicles shall also be equipped with a spark arrestor
of sufficient size to effectively eliminate the possibility of a fire.
('61 Code, § 3-9.04) (Ord. 284 C.S., passed 12-7-77)
CHAPTER 10: REGULATION OF ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
General Provisions
   
3-10.01   Title
   
3-10.02   Purpose
   
3-10.03   Definitions
   
3-10.04   Audible alarm systems - required and prohibited features
   
3-10.05   Interconnecting automatic dialing devices
   
3-10.06   Robbery and panic alarms
   
3-10.07   Relaying messages to the police department
   
3-10.08   Maintaining and providing specified information
   
3-10.09   Failure to maintain or provide information
   
3-10.10   Fees as debt
   
3-10.11   Applicability to existing alarm systems
Permits
   
3-10.20   Permit required
   
3-10.21   Application for permit
   
3-10.22   Permit application fee
   
3-10.23   Issuance of permit
   
3-10.24   Expiration and renewal of permit
   
3-10.25   Transferability of permit
   
3-10.26   Denial of permit
   
3-10.27   Suspension of permit
   
3-10.28   Revocation of permit
Revocation and Appeal
   
3-10.40   Use during suspension or after revocation
   
3-10.41   Application for permit after revocation
   
3-10.42   Notice of intent to suspend or revoke
   
3-10.43   Service of notice of intent to suspend or revoke
   
3-10.44   Effect of service of mail
   
3-10.45   Request for a hearing
   
3-10.46   Notice of false alarm service fee assessment
   
3-10.47   Who may appeal
   
3-10.48   Filing notice of appeal
   
3-10.49   Content of notice
   
3-10.50   Effect of the notice
   
3-10.51   False alarm service fee
   
3-10.52   When a hearing is required
   
3-10.98   Effect of violation
   
3-10.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 3-10.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Security Alarm System Ordinance of the
city.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
§ 3-10.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the responsible use of security
alarm systems in order to facilitate the effective and efficient response to
alarms by the Madera Police Department.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
§ 3-10.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM COMPANY. Any person, retail establishment, organization, answering
service, central station or modified central station that installs, connects,
or monitors burglary, robbery, or other security alarm systems for
consideration. Such companies shall be licensed in accordance with the
provisions of Business and Professions Code § 7590 et seq.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any mechanical or electrical device designed to emit a sound
or generate a signal or message during the commission of an unlawful act in or
an unauthorized entry into a building, structure or facility. The following
devices shall not constitute an alarm system:
      (1)   Alarm devices affixed to motor vehicles; boats, boat trailers,
house trailers used for traveling or recreational purposes, recreational
vehicles, or aircraft.
      (2)   Alarm devices installed on a temporary basis by the Madera Police
Department;
      (3)   Hand-held/portable personal safety devices.
   ALARM USER. Any person responsible for operating an alarm system.
   ANSWERING SERVICE. A telephone answering service which provides as one of
its services the receiving, on a continuous basis, of emergency signals from
alarm systems. Immediately upon receiving the signal, the answering service
relays a message by live voice to the Madera Police Department's communication
center.
   AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE. An alarm system that automatically sends over
regular telephone lines, by direct connection or otherwise, a prerecorded voice
message indicating the existence of the emergency situation that the alarm
system is designed to detect.
   BURGLARY SYSTEM. Any electrical or mechanical device installed at a
residence or business and designed to instantly emit a signal when there is an
attempted unlawful entry.
   CENTRAL STATION. An office to which alarm systems are connected, where
operators supervise the circuits, and where security or other service personnel
are continuously present to investigate signals.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The person who occupies the office of the Chief of Police
for the Madera Police Department, or any person(s) the Chief of Police
designates to administer this chapter.
   DIRECT LINE. A telephone line leading directly from a central station to the
communication center of the Madera Police Department which is used solely to
report emergency signals on a person-to-person basis.
   EMERGENCY. Any condition which results in, or which could result in, the
response of police in an authorized emergency vehicle, or any condition which
jeopardizes or could jeopardize public safety and results in, or could result
in, the evacuation of any area, building, structure, facility, vehicle or any
other place which an individual may enter.
   EMERGENCY POWER SUPPLY. An uninterruptable power supply that will prevent
the failure or interruption of normal utility electricity.
   EXCESSIVE FALSE ALARMS. All false alarms actuated in excess of three false
alarms within 365 consecutive days.
   FALSE ALARM. The activation of an alarm system which results in a response
or the commencement of a response by the police where an emergency does not
exist.
   FALSE ALARM SERVICE FEE.  The amount a permittee shall pay the City of
Madera for police response to excessive false alarms to defray the cost of
responding to false alarms prompting the response.
   INFRACTION. An infraction as defined in the California Penal Code as a
public offense which is not punishable by imprisonment. A person charged with
an infraction shall not be entitled to a trial by jury. A person charged with
an infraction shall not be entitled to have the public defender or other
counsel appointed at public expense. Unless otherwise specified, infractions
under this chapter are punishable as provided in §
3-10.99 of this chapter.
   INTERCONNECT. To connect an alarm system to a telephone line, either
directly or through a mechanical device that utilizes a standard telephone, for
the purpose of using the telephone line to transmit an emergency message upon
the activation of the alarm system.
   MODIFIED CENTRAL STATION. An office to which alarm systems are connected,
where operators supervise the circuits but where security or other service
personnel are not present to investigate alarm signals.
   NOTICE. A sign or notice.
   OPERATIONAL TESTING. Any test of an alarm system conducted by a firm,
person, or corporation.
   PANIC ALARM. Any electrical or mechanical device designed to enable an
individual, 24 hours a day, to instantly alert others of the existence of an
emergency by the transmitting of a signal and/or sounding of audible alarm when
activated.
   PERMITTEE. The person to whom an alarm system permit is issued.
   PERSON. Natural persons without regard to number or gender, and any
partnership, corporation, and any other type of legal entity.
   PERSON-TO-PERSON. The method by which alarm activity is discussed by a
person in his or her actual live voice with a live voice at the Madera Police
Department.
   PRIMARY TRUNK LINE. A telephone line leading directly into the communication
center of the Madera Police Department, including 9-1-1 emergency lines, used
to respond to emergency calls on a person-to-person basis. A primary trunk line
is identified as such by a specific number included among the emergency numbers
listed in the telephone directory issued by the telephone company servicing
area within which the Madera Police Department has jurisdiction.
   REVOKE OR REVOCATION. The permanent cancellation of a permit. If an
individual's permit has been revoked and he or she desires to operate an alarm
system, he or she will be required to apply for a new permit.
   ROBBERY ALARM. Any device or system designed to operate 24 hours a day to
instantly transmit a silent signal from a business to alert others of an actual
armed robbery in progress.
   SIREN. Any audible noise similar to the sound that authorized emergency
vehicles are required to produce under the conditions set forth in § 21055 of
the California Vehicle Code.
   SUSPENSION. A period of time determined by the Chief of Police in which a
person with an otherwise valid permit is prohibited from operating an alarm
system. After the duration of the suspension, the permittee is not required to
reapply for a new permit. However, he or she may be required to comply with
conditions imposed by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
§ 3-10.04 AUDIBLE ALARM SYSTEMS - REQUIRED AND PROHIBITED FEATURES.
   (A)   Sirens. No alarm system which emits the sound of a siren shall be
installed or connected. This section shall not be construed to prohibit the use
of certain electronic horns or howlers that may be approved by the Chief of
Police, provided such devices do not emit a sound similar to a siren. Anyone
who installs, permits the installation of, or uses an alarm system that emits
the sound of a siren, is guilty of an infraction as provided in §
3-10.99 of this chapter.
   (B)   Automatic shut-off. Any alarm system that is designed to emit a sound
audible outside the structure in which the alarm system is lawfully installed,
maintained and operated shall include an automatic shut-off device that shuts
off the alarm system within 30 minutes of initial activation. Any person who
knowingly installs, causes the installation of, maintains or uses an audible
alarm without the required shut-off is guilty of an infraction as provided in §
3-10.99 of this chapter.
   (C)   Emergency power supply. All alarm systems installed after the
effective date of this section shall be equipped with an uninterruptable power
supply in such a manner that the failure or interruption of normal utility
electricity will not activate the alarm or deactivate the system. The emergency
power supply must be capable of at least four hours of operation. Any alarm
system installed prior to the effective date of this section shall add said
emergency power supply unit if said system generates three or more false alarms
in a 12-month period.
   (D)   Notice of name of servicer or occupant. Every audible alarm system
shall have a sign or notice posted on or near the audible device with the name
and telephone number of the person or company responsible for the maintenance
of the system. The notice shall be posted in such a position as to be readable
from the ground level outside and adjacent to the building. All silent alarm
systems shall have a notice on the premises which provides the same
information.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to conduct
any test on any alarm system as may be described in this chapter which might
generate a response of the city Police Department. The subscriber's alarm
agent, or alarm business shall be required to notify the Police Department
prior to conducting any test on said alarms. Failure to make such notification
will result in the alarm being designated as a "false alarm," which may be
subject to a fee for said response.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03) Penalty, see §
3-10.99
§ 3-10.05 INTERCONNECTING AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICES.
   (A)   Proper interconnection of automatic dialing devices. Persons using
automatic dialing devices shall have such devices interconnected to a telephone
line which transmits directly to a central station, a modified central station,
or an answering service.
   (B)   Interconnection to 9-1-1 operator. No automatic dialing device shall
be interconnected to dial the 9-1-1 operator. Any person who knowingly
interconnects or permits the interconnection of an automatic dialing device to
the 9-1-1 operator is guilty of an infraction as provided in §
3-10.99 of this chapter.
   (C)   Interconnection to primary trunk line. No automatic dialing device
shall be interconnected to a primary trunk line of the Madera Police
Department. Any person who interconnects or permits the interconnection of an
automatic dialing device to a primary trunk line of the Madera Police
Department is guilty of an infraction as provided in §
3-10.99 of this chapter.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03) Penalty, see §
3-10.99
§ 3-10.06 ROBBERY AND PANIC ALARMS.
   (A)   Robbery alarm. A robbery alarm system shall be activated only in the
event of a robbery or an attempted robbery. Any other use is prohibited. Any
violation of this section is an infraction as provided in §
3-10.99 of this chapter.
   (B)   Panic alarm. Any person who activates a panic alarm for reasons other
than signifying an emergency is guilty of an infraction as provided in §
3-10.99 of this chapter.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03) Penalty, see §
3-10.99
§ 3-10.07 RELAYING MESSAGES TO THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   Alarm transmitting messages to 9-1-1 operators. Alarm systems which transmit
messages directly to 9-1-1 operators without interfacing with a central
station, modified central station, or telephone answering service shall provide
for two-way conversation. Any person who installs, permits the installation of,
or operates an alarm system which when activated transmits messages directly to
9-1-1 operators and does not permit the 9-1-1 operators to speak directly to a
person is guilty of an infraction as provided in §
3-10.99 of this chapter.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03) Penalty, see §
3-10.99
§ 3-10.08 MAINTAINING AND PROVIDING SPECIFIED INFORMATION.
   Any central station, modified central station, or telephone answering
service that relays messages to the Madera Police Department, and requests the
dispatch of police officers to an alarm system location, shall maintain and
shall provide the following information to police dispatch at the time each
message is relayed:
   (A)   The name of the permittee;
   (B)   The address of the alarm system; and
   (C)   The alarm permit number.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
§ 3-10.09 FAILURE TO MAINTAIN OR PROVIDE INFORMATION.
   Any central station, modified central station, or telephone answering
service that fails to maintain or provide information as required by §
3-10.08 (A), (B) and (C) of this chapter is guilty of an infraction as provided
in §
3-10.99 of this chapter.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03) Penalty, see §
3-10.99
§ 3-10.10 FEES AS DEBT.
   The amount of any permit fee or false alarm service fees due and owing shall
be deemed a debt to the city. An action may be commenced in the name of the
city in any court of competent jurisdiction for the amount of any delinquent
fees. All fees shall be deemed delinquent 30 days from the date they are due
and payable. No permit shall be renewed, restored, or reissued until the
applicant has paid all delinquent fees in full.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
§ 3-10.11 APPLICABILITY TO EXISTING ALARM SYSTEMS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all alarm systems which were
installed, connected, operated or maintained on or prior to the date on which
this chapter becomes effective; provided, however, the permits required for
alarm systems existing on or before the effective date of this chapter shall be
obtained within 270 days from and after the date on which this chapter becomes
effective.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
PERMITS
§ 3-10.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Individual users. No person shall cause an alarm system to be
installed, connected, operated or maintained upon any property within the city
without first obtaining an alarm permit. Said permit shall be issued in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Any person who causes an alarm
system to be installed, connected, operated or maintained without first
obtaining a permit as required by this section is guilty of an infraction as
provided in §
3-10.99 of this chapter.
   (B)   Alarm companies - installation or connection. No alarm company shall
install or connect any alarm system upon any property located within the city
without first performing one of the following acts, whichever is most feasible:
      (1)   Obtaining a copy of the alarm system permit from the alarm user or
the Chief of Police;
      (2)   Obtaining a copy of the alarm permit fee receipt from the alarm
user or Chief of Police;
      (3)   Notifying the Chief of Police by declaration under penalty of
perjury that the permit application and the appropriate fees have been
personally delivered or mailed to the Chief of Police. The declaration under
penalty of perjury shall be signed by an authorized agent of the alarm company;
or
      (4)   Obtaining from the alarm user an executed declaration under penalty
of perjury that said user has previously personally delivered or mailed the
permit application and the appropriate fee to the Chief of Police. The
declaration under penalty of perjury shall be witnessed and signed by an
authorized agent of the alarm company. This declaration shall be personally
delivered or mailed to the Chief of Police by the alarm company.
   (C)   Proof of compliance required. One of the declarations referenced above
shall be personally delivered or mailed to the Chief of Police within 72 hours
of the date of installing or connecting an alarm system. An alarm company who
installs or connects an alarm system without complying with this section is
guilty of an infraction as provided in §
3-10.99 of this chapter.
   (D)   Unauthorized installation or service. An alarm company may install,
connect or maintain an alarm system only after it has established that the
intended user has a valid permit or has complied with the provisions of this
chapter for the issuance of a permit. If the Chief of Police notifies an alarm
company of a denial, non-renewal, suspension, revocation or of other conduct
rendering it illegal for the intended user to operate the alarm, the alarm
company shall discontinue service to that alarm system within 20 days of such
notification. The alarm company shall immediately notify the Chief of Police in
writing that the company has complied with this section. Any alarm company that
fails to comply with this section is guilty of an infraction as provided in §
3-10.99 of this chapter.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03) Penalty, see §
3-10.99
§ 3-10.21 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Applications and renewals. Applications and renewals shall be
personally delivered or mailed to the Chief of Police on forms he or she may
prescribe. Applications shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will
respond to an alarm, or render service or repairs to the alarm system on a 24
hour a day basis; and
      (2)   Such additional information as the Chief of Police shall reasonably
deem necessary for the evaluation and proper processing of the permit
application. Every alarm permit shall be kept on the premises where the alarm
system is installed for use.
   (B)   Permit applications for multiple alarms. Multiple alarms located at a
single address may be installed and operated under a single permit or under
multiple permits as specified below:
      (1)   Any person who desires to operate or maintain more than one alarm
system at any business or residential property may apply for a single alarm
permit for all alarms to be operated at a single address. If a single permit is
obtained for multiple alarm systems at a single address, for the purposes of
determining false alarm and false alarm service fees, all alarm activity by the
alarm systems under the single permit will be cumulative.
      (2)   Any person who desires to operate more than one alarm system at any
business or residential property may apply for separate permits for each alarm
system operated or maintained at such a location. If the applicant chooses to
secure a separate permit for each alarm system, a separate application shall be
submitted for each system, and a separate permit fee shall accompany each such
application. Where multiple permits are issued for multiple alarm systems at
one address, alarm activity will be charged only to the permit for the alarm
system which resulted in the alarm activity.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
§ 3-10.22 PERMIT APPLICATION FEE.
   (A)   Permit fee. A non-refundable permit application fee shall accompany
every initial application or renewal. The amount of the permit fee shall be
determined by the Chief of Police. The purpose of the permit fee is to defray
costs of processing applications and permits. This fee shall be in addition to
any other permit fee(s) imposed by the city.
   (B)   Receipt available. Applicants may request a receipt for the permit fee
at the time the fee is paid. The receipt may serve as a temporary alarm permit
for a period of time not to exceed 45 days commencing the day following payment
of fee.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
§ 3-10.23 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   By whom issued. Alarm system permits shall be issued by the Chief of
Police. The Chief of Police may issue alarm permits only after the requirements
of this chapter have been satisfied.
   (B)   To whom issued. Alarm permits may be issued to the person who is the
owner of, or in possession of, the property which the alarm system is designed
to protect.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
§ 3-10.24 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Length of permit period. Each alarm permit expires three years after
the date it is issued or renewed, unless the permit is revoked at an earlier
time. The date of issuance or renewal is the date shown on the permit. If a
permit is not renewed, or if it is revoked, the alarm system may not be
operated until a new permit is secured.
   (B)   Application for renewal. If an application for renewal is not
forwarded to the Chief of Police within 30 days of the permit's expiration
date, the permit will be canceled and the permittee will be guilty of an
infraction each day of continued use of the alarm after the date of
cancellation.
   (C)   Notice to alarm companies. If an alarm permit is not renewed within 30
days of the date of expiration, or is suspended or revoked, the Chief of Police
shall give notice of non-renewal, suspension, or revocation to the servicing
alarm company.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
§ 3-10.25 TRANSFERABILITY OF PERMIT.
   Any alarm system permit issued in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter shall be valid only as to the permittee named on the permit. No alarm
permit shall, in any manner be transferred to another without the prior written
consent of the Chief of Police. Any request to transfer a permit to another
shall be in writing on the standard Madera Police Department form. Said form
shall be submitted directly to the alarm inspector. Transfer of a permit shall
in no way affect the date of expiration of said permit. False alarms previously
charged to the transferor shall not be charged to the transferee. However, the
Chief of Police may deny any request to transfer an alarm system permit where,
after investigation, it appears that the transfer is requested for the purpose
of allowing the transferor to evade responsibility for prior false alarms.
Alarm permits may only be transferred from one person to another at the address
shown on the permit or from one property to another under the name of the
person shown on the permit.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
§ 3-10.26 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Grounds. An alarm permit shall be denied when objective evidence
demonstrates that the permit will be used for illegal purposes.
   (B)   Notice of denial. The Chief of Police shall give the permit applicant
written notice of the denial of the application. The notice of denial shall be
mailed not later than 10 days following the decision to deny the application.
The notice shall include the grounds for denial.
   (C)   Request for hearing. The applicant may request a hearing on the denial
by personally delivering or mailing to the Chief of Police a written request.
The request shall be delivered or mailed to the Chief of Police not later than
10 days after the date of mailing of the notice of denial.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
§ 3-10.27 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Grounds. The following shall constitute grounds for a suspension of an
alarm permit:
      (1)   Assessment of three or more false alarm service fees within any 12
consecutive months;
      (2)   Assessment of a subsequent false alarm service fee when a previous
false alarm service fee is delinquent or when two or more false alarm service
fees are delinquent;
      (3)   The violation of any provision of this chapter; or
      (4)   The violation of any condition imposed by the Chief of Police upon
an alarm permittee.
   (B)   Length of suspension. A suspension under subsections (A) (1) and (2)
of this section shall not exceed 15 days. A suspension under subsections (A)
(3) and (4) of this section shall not exceed 90 days.
   (C)   Effect of renewal on suspension. If any suspension extends beyond the
expiration date of the permit, renewal of the permit shall not alter the length
of the suspension. Operation of the alarm under a renewed permit shall not
commence until the suspension period has been fully served.
   (D)   Restoration of permit. On the day following the expiration of the
suspension period, the permit shall be restored by the Chief of Police. The
permit shall not be restored if any false alarm service fee remains delinquent.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
§ 3-10.28 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   An alarm permit shall be revoked upon the second suspension within 12
consecutive months of a previous suspension.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
REVOCATION AND APPEAL
§ 3-10.40 USE DURING SUSPENSION OR AFTER REVOCATION.
   (A)   Individual users. A permittee who allows an alarm to remain in a
usable state after the permit has been suspended or revoked is guilty of an
infraction as provided in §
3-10.99 of this chapter. Each day of use in violation of this section shall
constitute a new infraction.
   (B)   Penalty for unlawful use. A user who continues to send, or permits the
sending of, a silent alarm emergency signal to the Madera Police Department,
after the permittee's alarm permit has been suspended or revoked, is guilty of
an infraction punishable by a fine not to exceed $250 for the first infraction
and not to exceed $500 for each infraction thereafter within a period of any 12
consecutive months of such prior violation.
   (C)   Alarm companies. Any alarm company that does not cease providing
service to an alarm user within 15 days after having been notified by certified
mail that the user's alarm permit has been suspended or revoked is guilty of an
infraction as provided in §
3-10.99 of this chapter.
   (D)   Penalty for unlawful service. Any alarm company that continues to send
or permits the sending of an alarm user's silent alarm emergency signal to the
police department, after having been notified in writing that the user's alarm
system permit has been suspended or revoked, is guilty of an infraction
punishable by a fine not to exceed $250 for the first infraction and not to
exceed $500 for each infraction thereafter within a period of any 12
consecutive months of such prior violation.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03) Penalty, see §
3-10.99
§ 3-10.41 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT AFTER REVOCATION.
   Any person whose alarm permit has been revoked may apply for a new permit in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (A)   Application. All applications after revocation shall be personally
delivered or mailed to the Chief of Police on such forms as he or she may
prescribe.
   (B)   Investigation. The Chief of Police shall conduct an investigation to
determine whether the grounds for the prior revocation have been eliminated, or
are not likely to occur again in the foreseeable future. Such investigation may
include, but shall not be limited to, an on-site examination of the alarm
system and any specifications, diagrams, or descriptions pertaining thereto.
   (C)   Re-issuance of permit. If, after investigation and at his or her sole
discretion, the Chief of Police determines that the grounds for the revocation
have been eliminated, or that such grounds are not likely to occur again in the
future, an alarm permit shall be issued. No alarm permit will be issued until
all previous false alarm service fees have been paid. The Chief of Police may
impose such conditions on the alarm permit as he or she deems reasonably
necessary to insure that the permittee will comply with the provisions of this
chapter. Said conditions may include a probationary period during which the
alarm shall not actuate any false alarms.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
§ 3-10.42 NOTICE OF INTENT TO SUSPEND OR REVOKE.
   (A)   Written notice of intent to suspend or revoke a permit shall be served
on the permittee and upon the person who renders service or repairs to the
alarm system as designated on the permit application. Such notice shall be
served at least 20 days prior to the date set for the proposed suspension or
revocation. The notice shall include a brief statement of the grounds upon
which the proposed suspension or revocation will be based, and instructions on
how to request a hearing if the permittee so desires.
   (B)   The notice shall also inform the permittee that:
      (1)   Failure to request a hearing within 15 days of the date of the
notice shall constitute a waiver of the right to hearing;
      (2)   The request must actually be received by the Chief of Police within
the 15 day response period; and
      (3)   The proposed suspension shall be imposed without further notice if
a hearing is not timely requested.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
§ 3-10.43 SERVICE OF NOTICE OF INTENT TO SUSPEND OR REVOKE.
   Notices of intent required by this section may be served either by personal
delivery to the person(s) to be notified or by depositing the same in the U.S.
mail in a sealed envelope, postage prepaid, addressed to such person(s) to be
notified at the address last known to the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
§ 3-10.44 EFFECT OF SERVICE OF MAIL.
   Upon a showing of proof of service by mail, the failure of any person to
receive such notice shall not affect the validity of any proceedings taken
under this chapter.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
§ 3-10.45 REQUEST FOR A HEARING.
   Upon written receipt of a request for hearing by the Chief of Police, the
proposed suspension or revocation shall be stayed pending the conclusion of
said hearing.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
§ 3-10.46 NOTICE OF FALSE ALARM SERVICE FEE ASSESSMENT.
   The Chief of Police shall give the permittee notice of assessment of a false
alarm service fee. Notice of the false alarm service fee assessment shall be
mailed not less than 10 days, following the assessment. Notice shall include a
brief statement of the grounds for the assessment.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
§ 3-10.47 WHO MAY APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Chief of Police in denying,
suspending or revoking an alarm permit or in assessing a false alarm service
fee may appeal such decision to the City Council.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
§ 3-10.48 FILING NOTICE OF APPEAL.
   Notice of appeal complying with the appeal provisions of this code shall be
filed in writing with the city clerk not later than 15 days after the date of
service of notice of the action giving rise to the appeal. During the pendency
of said appeal, action by the Chief of Police shall be stayed. Notice of the
appeal shall also be mailed by the appellant to the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
§ 3-10.49 CONTENT OF NOTICE.
   The notice of appeal shall include the name, current address and phone
number of the appellant, a statement of the action which is being appealed, and
a statement of the facts and law on which the appeal is based. In addition, the
appeal shall be accompanied by a copy of the relevant applications, renewals,
and requests submitted to the Chief of Police and all notices and decisions
received from the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
§ 3-10.50 EFFECT OF THE NOTICE.
   The timely receipt of a proper notice of appeal shall not affect a
suspension, revocation or false alarm service fee assessment unless the
appellant seeks and is granted a stay by the Chief of Police. A request for
stay shall set forth facts demonstrating that the appellant would suffer an
extraordinary hardship if the stay is not granted.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
§ 3-10.51 FALSE ALARM SERVICE FEE.
   (A)   Assessment. Alarm users shall be assessed a false alarm service fee
for false alarms as specified below:
      (1)   For each false alarm in excess of three in the preceding 12 months.
         (a)   Burglary: $50 per each false activation.
         (b)   Robbery/panic/disturbance: $75 per each false activation.
      (2)   For each false alarm in excess of eight in the preceding 12 months.
         (a)   Burglary: $100 per each false activation.
         (b)   Robbery/panic/disturbance: $125 per each false activation.
   (B)   False alarm exemption. If a permittee presents sufficient proof that a
particular false alarm falls into one of the following categories, said alarm
shall not be counted against the permittee in determining whether the
permittee's alarm system actuated excessive false alarms:
      (1)   False alarms which the permittee can demonstrate were proximately
caused by violent acts of nature;
      (2)   False alarms which the permittee can demonstrate were actually
caused by the act of some person other than:
         (a)   The permittee. For the purpose of this subsection, the term
"permittee" includes officers, agents, employees, independent contractors, and
any other person subject to the direct or indirect control of the permittee;
         (b)   The person who installed, connected, operated, maintained or
serviced the alarm system;
         (c)   The manufacturer of the alarm system, including the
manufacturer's officers, agents, employees, independent contractors and any
other persons subject to the direct or indirect control of the manufacturer.
   (C)   Users who possess proof that a particular alarm meets the requirements
for false alarm exemption under subsection (B) of this section shall present
such proof to the alarm inspector within 20 days of the event resulting in said
alarm.
   (D)   Payment of fee. A false alarm service fee invoice shall be mailed to
the alarm user immediately following the assessment of the fee. Fees are due
and owing not later than 10 days after the date of mailing the invoice. The
date of mailing shall appear on the invoice.
   (E)   Reversal of false alarm service fee. Notwithstanding the provisions of
§
3-10.48 of this chapter, any person aggrieved by the assessment of a false
alarm service fee may make a written request to the Chief of Police to reverse
the false alarm service fee assessment.
   (F)   Request for reversal. Requests for reversal of the false alarm service
fee assessment shall be personally delivered or mailed to the Chief of Police
within five days of the date of mailing the assessment invoice. The request
shall include the reason(s) for requesting the reversal and shall be
accompanied by a crime report or crime report number that supports the
requester's position that the false alarm service fee should be reversed.
   (G)   Effect of request. The timely receipt of a proper request for reversal
shall result in a stay of the assessment until a decision has been reached on
the request. If the request is denied, the fee shall be payable immediately
upon notification of the denial. Said denial shall also tell the time period in
which an appeal shall be filed with the city clerk.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03; Am. Ord. 771 C.S., passed 8-4-04)
§ 3-10.52 WHEN A HEARING IS REQUIRED.
   No alarm permit shall be suspended or revoked until after the permittee has
been given the opportunity for a hearing by the Chief of Police. A hearing is
not required prior to the denial of an alarm permit. Hearings after denials
shall be held pursuant to §
3-10.26(C) of this chapter upon written request of the applicant.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
§ 3-10.98 EFFECT OF VIOLATION.
   The conviction or punishment of any person for violating any provision of
this chapter or for failing to secure a permit as required by this chapter
shall not relieve such person from paying the permit fee due and unpaid at the
time of such conviction or punishment, nor shall payment of any permit fee bar
a criminal prosecution for a violation of any provision of this chapter. All
remedies shall be cumulative and the use of one or more remedies by the city
shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
§ 3-10.99 PENALTY.
   Except where punishment is specifically provided elsewhere in this code, any
person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of an infraction
punishable by (1) a fine not to exceed $50 for a first violation; (2) a fine
not to exceed $100 for a second violation of any section of the chapter within
one year of any prior violation; and (3) a fine not to exceed $250 for the
third and each successive violation of any section of this chapter within one
year of any prior violation.
(Ord. 761 C.S., passed 10-15-03)
CHAPTER 11: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
3-11.01   Unlawful noise
   
3-11.02   Specific noise prohibitions
   
3-11.03   Parties
   
3-11.04   Misdemeanor for subsequent violation of this chapter
   
3-11.05   Liability for second police response
§ 3-11.01 UNLAWFUL NOISE.
   (A)   No person shall make, or cause or permit to be made or caused, upon
any premises owned, occupied, possessed, or controlled by them or upon any
public street, alley, or thoroughfare any unnecessary noise or sound which is
physically annoying to persons of ordinary and normal sensitivity or which is
so harsh or so prolonged unnatural or unusual in its use, time, and place as to
cause physical discomfort, or which is injurious to the lives health, peace,
and comfort of the inhabitants of the city.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to apply to any
public celebration, public holiday, or public occasion generally celebrated or
public parades held under authorized permits; nor shall such provisions apply
to any sporting event or activity conducted under the direction and supervision
of any public or private school; nor shall such provisions apply to the
operation of any mechanical devices used by public employees or utility
companies involved in remedying a dangerous, hazardous, or unhealthful
situation at any time of the day or night.
(Ord. 622, passed 5-18-94)
§ 3-11.02 SPECIFIC NOISE PROHIBITIONS.
   The following activities area specifically prohibited:
   (A)   Operating, playing, or permitting the operation or playing of any
radio, television set, loudspeaker, stereo, drum, musical instrument, or
similar device which produces or reproduces sound which is in violation of the
provisions of §
3-11.01 of this title.
   (B)   Between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day.
Noise sources associated with operating or causing the operation of any tools
or equipment used in construction, drilling, repair, alteration, remodeling,
paving, or grading of any real property or demolition work which creates sound
which is in violation of §
3-11.01 of this title is prohibited. Provided, however, the Community
Development Director or their designated representative may, for good cause,
exempt certain construction work from the provisions of this chapter for a
limited time when an unforeseen or unavoidable condition occurs during a
construction project and the nature of the project necessitates that work in
process be continued until a specific phase is completed. In such circumstance,
the contractor or owner shall be allowed to work after 8:00 p.m. and to operate
machinery and equipment necessary until the specific work in progress can be
completed in a manner which will not jeopardize the inspection or acceptance of
a project or create undue financial hardships for the contractor or property
owner.
   (C)   Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day.
Operating or permitting the operation of any mechanically powered saw, drill,
grinder, lawn or garden tool, or similar tool which creates sound which is in
violation of §
3-11.01 of this title.
(Ord. 622, passed 5-18-94; Am. Ord. 834 C.S., passed 4-16-08)
§ 3-11.03 PARTIES.
   (A)   Every person who conducts or allows to be conducted a party as defined
herein which has present and uses any electronic sound reproduction and or
amplification device and or similar system between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
8:00 a.m. of the following day, that produces sound in violation of §
3-11.01 of this title is guilty of a violation of this section.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the term PARTY means a gathering for
social and/or entertainment purposes at a private residence or other location.
   (C)   Any noise, commotion, or sound resulting from a party which can be
plainly heard at a distance of 50 feet from the location of the party or from
inside a neighboring residence shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of
this section.
(Ord. 622, passed 5-18-94)
§ 3-11.04 MISDEMEANOR FOR SUBSEQUENT VIOLATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   The first violation of any provision of this chapter is an infraction. Any
subsequent violation of this chapter by any person within 12 months from a
conviction for violating any provision of this chapter and/or the forfeiting of
bail in connection with a prior violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 622, passed 5-18-94)
§ 3-11.05 LIABILITY FOR SECOND POLICE RESPONSE.
   (A)   Liability.
      (1)   A second or subsequent response by police personnel. within eight
hours of the first response, to a location at which there was a violation of §
3-11.03 of this chapter, shall cause all persons responsible for such response
to be jointly and severally liable for the cost thereof. A second or subsequent
response to such an incident is an emergency response inasmuch as such response
requires immediate action in order to safeguard the public health, welfare, and
safety of the residents in the neighborhood where such violation is occurring.
      (2)   The person responsible for the party, and/or in charge of the
premises at which the party is located, shall be deemed liable for the cost of
the second police response, if either of those persons is a minor, the parents
or guardians of that minor shall be held jointly and equally liable for such
costs.
   (B)   The costs of any second or subsequent police response shall include
all reasonable costs incurred by the city in responding to the party location.
Costs shall include, but are not limited to, salary and benefits of city
personnel, use of and/or damages to city equipment, treatment of injuries to
city personnel, and administrative costs incurred to process, bill, and collect
appropriate costs of police response.
   (C)   An invoice shall be prepared and sent to the responsible party
notifying such person or persons of the specific charges for all reasonable
costs incurred by the city attributable to the second police response. The
responsible person or persons shall have a right to present any evidence or
argument challenging the invoiced amount within ten days of the date the
invoice was mailed. All challenges shall be made to the City Administrator or
his or her designee.
   (D)   The amount of all reasonable costs incurred by the city shall be
deemed a debt owed to the city by the person or persons liable for such costs
pursuant to subsection §
3-11.05(A) of this section.
   (E)   If the persons liable for such costs pursuant to subsection §
3-11.05(A) of this section are minors, both the minor and the parents or
guardians of such minor are jointly and severally liable for the costs of the
second response. Any person liable for such second response costs pursuant to
this section shall be liable in an action brought in the name of the city for
recovery of such costs, including reasonable attorney's fees.
   (F)   The liability imposed by this section for second response shall be in
addition to any fines penalties or forfeitures imposed for violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 622, passed 5-18-94)
CHAPTER 12: REGULATION OF SECURITY GUARDS, PRIVATE PATROL OPERATORS, ALARM
COMPANY SECURITY GUARDS, PRIVATE INVESTIGATORS
Section
   
3-12.01   Purpose
   
3-12.02   Definitions
   
3-12.03   Limitation of liability
   
3-12.04   City business license required
   
3-12.05   Investigation of application
   
3-12.06   Transfer of business license
   
3-12.07   Grounds for refusal to issue business license
   
3-12.08   State license prerequisite to issuance of business license
   
3-12.09   Filing certificate of valid insurance policy
   
3-12.10   Supervision and regulation
   
3-12.11   Registration required
   
3-12.12   Advertising
   
3-12.13   Revocation or suspension of permit
   
3-12.14   Applicability
§ 3-12.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards and controls for the
various types of private security, security guards, private patrol operators,
guard dog companies, private investigators, and alarm companies which provide
private security services or street patrol services to the public as allowed by
Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 7582.5.
(Ord. 695 C.S., passed 1-20-99)
§ 3-12.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BATON PERMIT. The permit issued to individuals certified by the State of
California Security and Investigative Services Bureau to carry and use a baton
while providing private security services.
   CHEMICAL AGENT PERMIT. The permit issued to individuals certified by the
State of California Security and Investigative Services Bureau to carry and use
mace or any other non-lethal chemical agent while providing private security
services.
   EMPLOYEE. An individual who works for an employer, is listed on the
employer's payroll records, and is under the employer's direction and control.
   EMPLOYER. A person who employs an individual for wages or salary, lists the
individual on the employer's payroll records, and withholds all legally
required deductions and contributions.
   FIREARMS PERMIT. The permit issued to individuals certified by the State of
California Security and Investigative Services Bureau to carry and use a
firearm while providing private security services.
   INSURANCE POLICY. Any and all insurance policies required of private
security services, private patrol, or private investigation services by the
State of California Security and Investigative Services Bureau.
   LICENSEE. A person licensed under this chapter and includes, but is not
limited to, private patrol operator, armored contract carrier and alarm company
security.
   MANAGER. The individual under whose direction, control, charge, or
management the business of a licensee is operated.
   PATROL SERVICE. Any service or system which furnishes to members,
subscribers or private individuals or residents, for a consideration, any
patrolman, guard or watchman, either uniformed or otherwise, or guard dog
services to patrol or guard any district, or to act to salvage, guard or
protect any property from theft, damage, fire or other hazard.
   PRIVATE INVESTIGATOR. A company or person who provides services to
individuals or companies for investigation of crimes, individuals, cause of
fires, losses, accidents, damage or injury, search for lost or stolen property
and to obtain evidence for use in court.
   PRIVATE PATROL OPERATOR. A person or company, other than an armored contract
carrier, who for any consideration whatsoever agrees to furnish, or furnishes,
a watchman, guard, patrol person, or other person to protect persons or
property or to prevent the theft, unlawful taking, loss, embezzlement,
misappropriation, or concealment of any goods, wares, merchandise, money,
bonds, stocks, notes, documents, papers, or property of any kind, or performs
the service of a watchman, guard, patrol person, or other person, for any of
these purposes.
   PROTECTION DOG OPERATOR. A company or person who provides security dog
handler patrols, guard dogs, or any other type of canine security service.
   REGISTRATION CARD.  The card issued to individuals certified by the State of
California Security and Investigative Services Bureau to operate as owners or
employees for private security services or private investigators.
   SUBSCRIBER. The homeowner, business, or other entity which contracts for
security or private investigator services.
(Ord. 695 C.S., passed 1-20-99)
§ 3-12.03 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   The city shall be under no duty or obligation to a subscriber or to any
other person by reason of any provision of this article or the exercise of
privileges of a subscriber hereunder, including but not limited to any defects
in an alarm system or any delays in transmission or response to any alarm or
other type of incident.
(Ord. 695 C.S., passed 1-20-99)
§ 3-12.04 CITY BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person, partnership or corporation desiring to engage in the
business of operating a private patrol service or private investigators service
shall make an application, in writing, for a city business license, signed
personally by each individual possessing a financial interest in the proposed
private patrol or private investigative service, and shall pay a quarterly
business license fee to the city as governed by the provisions relative to city
business licenses. The business license shall be granted temporarily, with
final approval contingent upon satisfactory completion of the background
investigation by the Abatement and Compliance Division as described in §
3-12.05 of this chapter.
   (B)   Every person, partnership or corporation applying for a business
license with the city shall also file an application, signed by all owner(s),
partners, officers or shareholders of the corporation, with the Abatement and
Compliance Division, which contains the following information:
      (1)   The full names, dates of birth, home and work address, home and
work phone number(s) of owner(s), partners, officers or shareholders of the
corporation.
      (2)   Name of person designated as the business manager or treasurer.
      (3)   Name of holder of the state issued "Private Patrol Operator"
(P.P.O.) number or Private Investigator license and the original of the license
issued by the state issuing authority under the provisions of the Private
Security Services Act, so that a copy may be made by the division.
      (4)   The business or occupation for the five years last past of each
person signing the application, giving the name and address of each employer,
the date of the commencement and termination of employment and the nature of
the services performed by each such person.
      (5)   The address of the principal place of business of the applicant, or
the proposed principal place of business and all existing or proposed branch
offices.
      (6)   All other information deemed necessary by the Abatement and
Compliance Division or Police Department to satisfactorily conduct a background
check for issuance of the business license.
   (C)   Every person, partnership or corporation who is issued a business
license by the city for Security Guard, Private Patrol Operators, Alarm Company
Security Guards, Private Investigator services shall maintain said business
license in force at all times and in accordance with Title VI of the Madera
Municipal Code.
   (D)   Whether any person signing the application has ever been convicted on
a charge of the commission of a felony, or a felony or misdemeanor charge
involving moral turpitude at any time, or convicted for any reason, giving full
details as to date, city, county or state, charges and disposition.
   (E)   If the applicant is a corporation, the application shall be
accompanied by a certified copy of the resolution or minutes authorizing the
application. This application shall be filed with the Abatement and Compliance
Division. In accordance with §
1-2.01 of the City Municipal Code, any second or subsequent violation of this
section within a period of 12 months of a prior conviction shall be a
misdemeanor and not an infraction.
(Ord. 695 C.S., passed 1-20-99)
§ 3-12.05 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATION.
   The Abatement and Compliance Division shall, upon receipt of the application
referred to in §
3-12.04, forward the application to the designated department or division for
an investigation to be made concerning the veracity of the facts set forth in
the application and the reputation, character, competency and integrity of each
person signing the application. Upon completion of such investigation, the
Abatement and Compliance Division shall file a written report with the
Community Development Director and the Finance Director setting forth the
results of the investigation and recommending approval or disapproval of the
application and final approval of the city business license.
(Ord. 695 C.S., passed 1-20-99)
§ 3-12.06 TRANSFER OF BUSINESS LICENSE.
   No business license granted under this section shall be transferred or sold
without approval of the city or without completion of a background check on the
new applicant(s) by the city.
   In accordance with §
1-2.01 of the City Municipal Code, any second or subsequent violation of this
section within a period of 12 months of a prior conviction shall be a
misdemeanor and not an infraction.
(Ord. 695 C.S., passed 1-20-99)
§ 3-12.07 GROUNDS FOR REFUSAL TO ISSUE BUSINESS LICENSE.
   The city may refuse to issue a business license if it finds:
   (A)   Former convictions. That any person signing the application or who has
a financial or other interest in the proposed private patrol or private
investigator service has ever been convicted of any felony or a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude.
   (B)   Moral character. Any person signing the application or who has a
financial or other interest in the proposed private patrol service of bad moral
character, or is not a financially responsible person.
   (C)   Other reasons. For any reason within the discretion of the City
Administrator, based upon recommendations from the Chief of Police, Community
Development Director and Finance Director, that a private patrol system would
not conform with the public welfare or the public safety.
(Ord. 695 C.S., passed 1-20-99)
§ 3-12.08 STATE LICENSE PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE OF BUSINESS LICENSE.
   No city business license shall be issued to any person or corporation who
does not possess a valid and existing private patrol operator or private
investigator license issued by the state under the provisions of the Private
Security Services Act.
(Ord. 695 C.S., passed 1-20-99)
§ 3-12.09 FILING CERTIFICATE OF VALID INSURANCE POLICY.
   Every person who under this chapter has been issued a city business license
to engage in a private patrol service, alarm company security services, or
private investigator in this city shall file, with the Abatement and Compliance
Division every six months or as necessary as determined thereafter, a written
statement, in duplicate, under penalty of perjury, certifying that said person
has a valid insurance policy filed with, and a valid license issued by, the
Bureau of Private Security and Investigative Services of the state as required
by Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code Chapter 11.5 of Division 3 §§ 7583.39 through
7583.42. Copies of such policies or licenses shall accompany said statement.
(Ord. 695 C.S., passed 1-20-99)
§ 3-12.10 SUPERVISION AND REGULATION.
   (A)   Every person lawfully engaged under this chapter in the business of
private patrol service or private investigator, or his/her agents, or
employees, shall be subject to the general supervision of the Abatement and
Compliance Division and such regulations as the latter may prescribe to
implement this chapter.
   (B)   For any dance, rally, fund raiser or event at which alcohol will be
served, the private security service shall advise the facility at which the
event is booked that the city requires a minimum of two security persons for
every 100 people in attendance.
   (C)   A schedule of such events as indicated above shall be supplied to the
Abatement and Compliance Division 24 hours prior to the date(s) of said events.
   (D)   In the event that regulations prescribed under this section are
claimed to be oppressive by the person engaged in the business of private
patrol service or private investigator, an appeal, in writing accompanied by a
filing fee, may be filed with the Community Development Director. The filing
fee therefore shall be as set by resolution of the City Council and subject to
revision as needed.
   (E)   If the Community Development Director concurs in whole or in part with
the regulations as set down by the Abatement and Compliance Division, an appeal
may be filed within ten days, in writing, accompanied by a filing fee, with the
City Administrator. The filing fee therefore shall be as set by resolution of
the City Council and subject to revision as needed.
   (F)   If the City Administrator concurs in whole or in part with the
regulations set down by the above, an appeal may be filed within ten days, in
writing, accompanied by a filing fee, may be made to the City Council. The
filing fee therefore shall be as set by resolution of the City Council and
subject to revision as needed.
(Ord. 695 C.S., passed 1-20-99)
§ 3-12.11 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every person or corporation operating as a private patrol service or private
investigator is required to register each owner, manager and non-clerical
employee with the city. This information shall be provided to the Abatement and
Compliance Division for the city. The Abatement and Compliance Program Manager
shall be advised within five working days (consisting of a normal work week,
Monday through Friday) of the hiring of any non-clerical employee of any
private patrol service or private investigator licensed to operate within the
city limits. The Abatement and Compliance Division shall provide this
information to the Police Department.
   The following information will be required, in addition to any other
information required by this chapter:
   (A)   Complete listing of all non-clerical persons employed by company.
   (B)   Copies of each non-clerical employee's state issued temporary or
permanent guard card and, if applicable, copies of each employee's firearms
permit, chemical agent permit and baton permit.
   (C)   Copy of each non-clerical employee's driver license.
   (D)   Two 2" x 2" color photos of each non-clerical employee.
   (E)   A listing of all vehicles used by the company, which includes year,
make, model, VIN number and license number, of each vehicle.
   (F)   A listing of all guns used by the company or their employees, to
include caliber, make, model and serial number. This information will include
which employee or owner uses the weapon.
   (G)   If canine patrol or guard dog services are provided, certificates of
training for dogs and/or handlers.
   (H)   If protection or guard dog services are provided, a listing of
business or residential names and addresses where those dogs are utilized, to
include hours when dogs are permitted to roam free on the premises.
   (I)   If radio communications are used, a copy of the FCC license and the
frequency utilized.
   No person designated above shall be permitted to work within the city of
Madera until this section has been complied with. All non-clerical employees or
owner/operators performing security duties shall be required to be clothed in a
uniform as approved by the Abatement and Compliance Division.
   Additionally, each company, prior to beginning patrol or security services
within the city, shall meet with the Abatement and Compliance Division Program
Manager and submit samples for approval of all uniform clothing items, to
include caps, jackets and other miscellaneous items of apparel. Each company
will also supply for visual inspection a vehicle with the markings and lighting
(lightbars, flashers, etc.) to be utilized so that such marking and lighting
equipment may be reviewed and approved. In addition to required patches,
jackets shall be marked with patches or lettering on the back, not less than 4
inches in height, which say "SECURITY" on the back as approved by the Abatement
and Compliance Program Manager. Photographs of approved uniforms and vehicles
will be taken and maintained by the Abatement and Compliance Division office,
with copies supplied to the Police Department. The Abatement and Compliance
Division, if necessary, will seek input from a Police Department employee
designated by the Chief of Police, prior to final approval of uniform apparel
or vehicle markings. No changes to vehicle markings, uniform apparel or badges
may be made without prior approval of the Abatement and Compliance Division.
Vehicles not marked in the approved fashion, or persons not wearing uniform
apparel consistent with that which was approved may be ordered off the streets
or to leave an event by a police officer or the Abatement and Compliance
Division.
   The Abatement and Compliance Program Manager shall also be advised, within
two working days, of the suspension, termination, or resignation of any non-
clerical employee of any private patrol service licensed to operate within the
city limits, the length and reason for such suspension or termination.
Notification of any badges, guns, identification cards which are lost, stolen
or not turned in upon termination of employment shall also be made to the
Program Manager within two working days. The Abatement and Compliance Division
shall provide copies of this information to the Police Department.
   In accordance with §
1-2.01 of the City Municipal Code, any second or subsequent violation of this
section within a period of 12 months of a prior conviction shall be a
misdemeanor and not an infraction.
(Ord. 695 C.S., passed 1-20-99)
§ 3-12.12 ADVERTISING.
   Every advertisement by a licensee soliciting or advertising business shall
contain information as specified in Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code Ch. 11.5 §§ 7582.20
and 7582.21. No private patrol or private investigator service shall advertise
services for which they do not possess the proper certification or training.
(Ord. 695 C.S., passed 1-20-99)
§ 3-12.13 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The business of private patrol or private investigator service
regulated by this chapter is one which affects the public interest and
therefore requires the regulations as set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   The business is under the general supervision of the Abatement and
Compliance Division.
   (C)   The City Administrator may suspend or revoke the permit to engage in
such business upon recommendation from the Police Chief, Community Development
Director and/or Finance Director, if in the judgement of the City Administrator
any person engaged in the business under the provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   Violates, or causes or permits to be violated, any of the
provisions of this chapter or fails to comply with any ordinance, state or
federal law, or suspends or discontinues service.
      (2)   Unlawfully harasses, annoys, molests, bothers or interferes in any
manner or by any means, directly or indirectly any other person, partnership,
or corporation lawfully engaged in security activities or duties associated
with such business.
      (3)   Makes untrue or unfounded statements or reports concerning any
other person lawfully engaged in such business.
      (4)   Becomes involved in any altercations of any kind with any other
person lawfully engaged in such business.
      (5)   Engages in any conduct which involves fraudulent business
practices, or which misrepresents the scope of their authority. Commits any act
which is a grounds for refusal to be issued a city business license.
   (D)   Upon learning of grounds for revocation or suspension of any permit,
the Abatement and Compliance Program Manager shall, by written notice, inform
the business owner(s) or manager of the violation and require them, by a set
time, to correct the matter and inform the Program Manager that such correction
has been made, which shall be subject to the inspection and approval of the
Abatement and Compliance Division.
   (E)   If the person, partnership or corporation fails to correct the
violation or to inform the Program Manager of the correction, the Program
Manager shall, by written notice, inform the person, partnership or corporation
or manager that a hearing to consider suspension or revocation of the permit or
denial of the renewal shall be held before a hearing board made up of the
Community Development Director and Program Manager, at a stated time and place.
   (F)   The hearing shall be conducted informally, may be continued, and upon
the close of the presentation of evidence and argument, and upon submission of
the matter, the Hearing Board may dismiss the matter, recommend revocation of
the permit or refusal of renewal, or recommend for suspension with terms and
conditions for reinstatement. Failure to comply with the terms and conditions
shall be deemed grounds for revocation or further suspension.
   (G)   If the person, partnership or corporation desires to appeal the
hearing action, the appeal shall be submitted, within ten working days, in
writing, accompanied by a filing fee, to the City Administrator. The filing fee
therefore shall be as set by resolution of the City Council and subject to
revision as needed.
   (H)   If the person, partnership or corporation desires to appeal the
decision of the City Administrator, the appeal shall be submitted, within ten
working days, in writing, accompanied by a filing fee, to the City Council. The
filing fee therefore shall be as set by resolution of the City Council and
subject to revision as needed. If at any level of the appeal process no appeal
is filed within the specified time, the last determination shall be final.
(Ord. 695 C.S., passed 1-20-99)
§ 3-12.14 APPLICABILITY.
   All provisions of this chapter shall apply to private patrol, security, or
private investigators doing business within the city limits prior to its
adoption.
(Ord. 695 C.S., passed 1-20-99)
CHAPTER 13: REGULATION OF FIREWORKS IN CITY PARKS
Section
   
3-13.01   Acts prohibited
   
3-13.02   Misdemeanor for subsequent violations of this chapter.
§ 3-13.01 ACTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall have in their possession, or ignite, discharge,
explode or otherwise set off, any fireworks, whether safe and sane fireworks or
not, or other flammable or explosive material, in Lions' Town and Country Park,
or on Granada Avenue, Industrial Avenue or Schnoor Avenue, adjacent thereto,
during the day or night of the city's annual Fourth of July Fireworks display.
All such fireworks used in violation of this provision shall be seized as
evidence of the violation and shall be considered contraband.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to apply to any
persons conducting the city-sponsored public fireworks display held under
authorized permit(s).
(Ord. 738 C.S., passed 5-15-02) Penalty, see §
3-13.02
§ 3-13.02 MISDEMEANOR FOR SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS OF THIS CHAPTER.
   The first violation of any provision of this chapter is an infraction and is
punishable by a fine not exceeding $100. A second violation of this chapter by
any person within 12 months of a prior violation of this chapter is an
infraction punishable by a fine not to exceed $200. Any third or subsequent
violation of this chapter by any person within 12 months of two prior
convictions for violating any provision of this chapter, and/or the forfeiting
of bail in connection with two prior violations of this chapter, is a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 738 C.S., passed 5-15-02)
CHAPTER 13B: FIREWORKS
Section
   
3-13B.01   Definitions
   
3-13B.02   Sale and use of fireworks
   
3-13B.03   Permit required for sale
   
3-13B.04   Qualifications and eligibility for permit
   
3-13B.05   Permit application
   
3-13B.06   Maximum number of permits and fireworks stands
   
3-13B.07   Permit issuance
   
3-13B.08   Non issuance of permits
   
3-13B.09   Validity of permit
   
3-13B.10   Sales and storage of fireworks
   
3-13B.11   Fireworks stand operating hours; dismantling of fireworks stands
   
3-13B.12   Regulations
   
3-13B.13   Seizure of fireworks
   
3-13B.14   Revocation of permit
   
3-13B.15   Violation a misdemeanor
§ 3-13B.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS FIREWORKS. Any fireworks specified as such in the State Fireworks
Law, Cal. Health & Safety Code §§ 12500 et seq., and such other fireworks as
may be determined to be dangerous by the State Fire Marshal.
   FIREWORKS. Any device containing chemical elements and chemical compounds
capable of burning independently of the oxygen of the atmosphere and producing
audible, visual, mechanical, or thermal effects which are useful as pyrotechnic
devices or for entertainment. The term FIREWORKS includes, but is not limited
to, devices designated by the manufacturer as fireworks, torpedoes, skyrockets,
roman candles, rockets, Daygo bombs, sparklers, party poppers, paper caps,
chasers, fountains, smoke sparks, aerial bombs, and fireworks kits.
   FIREWORKS STAND. Any building, counter or other structure of a temporary
nature used in the sale or offering for sale of fireworks.
   SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS. Any fireworks not designated as "dangerous
fireworks", except that, in any case, only end fuses shall be used.
(Ord. 887 C.S., passed 6-1-11)
§ 3-13B.02 SALE AND USE OF FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, have in his/her
possession, fire, set off, discharge or use any fireworks unless such fireworks
are classified as "safe and sane" by the State Fire Marshal, and then only in
accordance with the State Fireworks Law, Cal. Health & Safety Code §§ 12500 et
seq., California Code of Regulations, Title 19, §§ 975 et seq., and the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 887 C.S., passed 6-1-11)
§ 3-13B.03 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR SALE.
   No person or organization shall offer for sale or sell any fireworks of any
kind in the City of Madera without a valid permit issued in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, except as permitted by state law.
(Ord. 887 C.S., passed 6-1-11)
§ 3-13B.04 QUALIFICATIONS AND ELIGIBILITY FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   A fireworks permit shall be issued only to such applicants who meet
the following criteria:
      (1)   Applicant must be a duly organized not-for-profit charitable,
religious, civic, patriotic, or community service organization.
      (2)   The organization must be one that provides direct and regular
community services and benefits to the citizens of the City of Madera.
   (B)   An organization may be eligible if it has met the criteria in
subsections (A)(1) and (2) of this section for a continuous period of not less
than one year preceding its application for a permit.
   (C)   An organization may submit only one application per year. In any
calendar year in which there are fewer applicants than available permits, first
priority shall be given to those organizations that meet all of the
qualifications of this section. Any remaining permits shall be issued to
applicants regardless of whether or not the remaining applicants qualify under
subsections (A)(1) and (2) of this section.
(Ord. 887 C.S., passed 6-1-11)
§ 3-13B.05 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a permit to sell safe and sane fireworks may be
obtained from the city's Finance Department beginning May 1 of the same
calendar year in which the permit will be issued and must be completed and
returned to the Finance Department on or before 5:00 p.m., on the second Friday
in June, of the same calendar year. Each application must be accompanied by a
filing fee in the amount established in the Master Fee Schedule Resolution. The
application must include the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant organization.
      (2)   Evidence from the State of California of the applicant's status as
a nonprofit organization.
      (3)   The purpose for which the applicant organization was created.
      (4)   The names and addresses of the officers, if any, of the applicant.
      (5)   The date the applicant organization was founded/recognized.
      (6)   A description of the location of the intended fireworks sales.
      (7)   A complete site plan of the proposed location of the temporary
fireworks booth and storage. A separate site plan must be provided for storage
if it is not located on the same property.
      (8)   A written statement signed by the property owner authorizing the
applicant to use the property to erect a fireworks stand and to conduct sales
activities therefrom. Such statement must also contain the Assessor's Parcel
Number of the property.
      (9)   Evidence of possession of a valid State Fire Marshal's license to
sell safe and sane fireworks.
      (10)   A copy of a temporary seller's permit issued to applicant by the
State Board of Equalization.
      (11)   A copy of a temporary business license permit issued by the
Finance Department of the City of Madera.
      (12)   An assurance by the applicant that if a permit is issued to the
applicant, the applicant shall, at the time of receipt of such permit, deliver
to the city a certificate of insurance evidencing a one million dollar public
liability and property damage insurance policy, and products liability
insurance of one million dollars, designating the city and its officers, agents
and employees as additional insureds. The certificate shall specify the time,
location, and dates to be covered by the policy.
      (13)   In addition, a declaration shall be submitted by the applicant
stating, under penalty of perjury, that:
         (a)   The applicant provides direct and regular community services and
benefits within the City of Madera to the citizens of the city. Such services
and benefits shall be specifically enumerated in this declaration.
      (14)   Such other information as the Director of Finance for the City of
Madera deems appropriate.
   (B)   All applications must be signed by a duly appointed bona fide officer,
or other authorized individual, of the organization seeking the permit.
   (C)   In any calendar year in which there are fewer applicants than
available permits, first priority shall be given to those organizations that
meet all of the qualifications outlined in Section
3-13B.04. Any remaining permits shall be given on a first come first served
basis to applicants regardless of whether or not the remaining applicants
qualify under subsections (A)(1) and (2) of Section
3-13B.04. In the event such applicants apply for a permit, the applicants would
not be required to furnish the information required under Sections
3-13B.05(A)(2) and (13)(a).
(Ord. 887 C.S., passed 6-1-11)
§ 3-13B.06 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF PERMITS AND FIREWORKS STANDS.
   Only one fireworks stand may be operated per permit at the location
identified on the permit, and only one permit per 2,000 residents of the City
of Madera shall be approved based on the city's population as of March 1 of the
same calendar year in which permits are issued.
(Ord. 887 C.S., passed 6-1-11)
§ 3-13B.07 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   In the event the number of accepted applications that have complied with all
of the application requirements of Section
3-13B.05 exceeds the number of permits available for that calendar year, all of
such applications shall be randomly assigned a number and the Community
Development Director will, on or before third Friday in June, select such
numbers randomly by lot to establish a priority list. First priority shall be
given to those organizations that qualify under all of the provisions of
Section
3-13B.04. An attempt to notify all applicants of their assigned number and the
number of available permits will be made as soon as practicable after the
establishment of the priority list. Permits will then be issued in the order
established by the priority list. In the event a permit is denied to or revoked
from an applicant on the priority list, the opportunity to secure such permit
shall be provided to the next applicant on the priority list without a permit,
provided such applicant is ready, willing and able to successfully fulfill all
of the conditions of the permit.
(Ord. 887 C.S., passed 6-1-11)
§ 3-13B.08 NON ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   The final decision to issue or revoke permits shall rest with the Community
Development Director. In cases such as civil unrest, severe drought conditions,
or any other such situation deemed to be harmful to or having the possibility
of creating an extreme hazard to persons and/or property, the Community
Development Director shall be the final authority in granting and/or revoking
permits for fireworks sales. The right to refuse permits to applicants who have
violated any of the provisions of this chapter in previous years shall also
rest with the Community Development Director.
(Ord. 887 C.S., passed 6-1-11)
§ 3-13B.09 VALIDITY OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A permit issued under this chapter shall be valid only during the
period from 12 noon on June 28 through 12 noon on July 5 of the same calendar
year for which the permit is issued. The permit shall be nontransferable and
only valid as to the original applicant.
   (B)   Permits will only be valid and of full force and effect when delivered
to the applicant by the Fire Department after the final inspection of the
fireworks stand demonstrates full compliance with all of the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 887 C.S., passed 6-1-11)
§ 3-13B.10 SALES AND STORAGE OF FIREWORKS.
   Sale of fireworks is permitted in buildings classified as an approved
temporary sales building. Storage of fireworks is permitted in buildings
classified as explosives warehouses, approved temporary storage buildings or
approved containers. Storage of fireworks is prohibited in all other buildings,
including all dwellings, attached garages, educational facilities, assembly
occupancies, institutional or social care facilities. Sales and storage of
fireworks will be permitted subject to the following requirements.
   (A)   Site plan. The applicant shall provide a scaled drawing of the site.
The site plan shall include locations of the temporary sales building or
container and all adjacent property lines, buildings, structures, streets,
sidewalks or other public right of way. The site plan shall indicate the
address of the site, quantity (in pounds) of fireworks to be stored, distance
in feet to any adjacent streets or property lines, distance in feet to the
nearest buildings, and distance in feet to the nearest location where flammable
liquids are stored or used. The site plan shall show that no parking is allowed
within 25 feet of the fireworks storage building or container, and show how the
no parking area will be secured against traffic.
   (B)   Sales and storage sites shall be at least 30 feet from inhabited
buildings.
   (C)   Sales and storage sites shall be at least 100 feet from locations
where flammable liquids are used, stored or dispensed.
   (D)   Sales and storage sites shall be at least 25 feet from property lines.
   (E)   "No Smoking" signs shall be posted on all sides of any storage
building or container at a storage site. Smoking is prohibited within 25 feet
of any storage building or container at a storage site.
   (F)   A permit shall not be issued for a fireworks sales or storage site if,
during a field inspection of the site, it is determined not to be in compliance
with any of the distance requirements as set forth in this section.
   (G)   A minimum of one 2-A rated water type fire extinguisher and one 2A
10BC dry chemical type fire extinguisher with a valid and current State Fire
Marshal service tag attached, must be located at each sales or storage site.
   (H)   The use of enclosed trucks or trailers for the storage of fireworks
may be permitted upon inspection and approval by the Fire Department.
"Dangerous" placards in compliance with Department of Transportation
specifications must be placed on all four sides of any truck or trailer used
for storing fireworks.
   (I)   Sleeping inside or within 50 feet of any fireworks booth or fireworks
storage container, building or site is prohibited, including sleeping in
trailers, campers or other vehicles.
   (J)   The address of any storage site located outside of the city limits
must be provided with written approval of the fire authority having
jurisdiction at the storage site, prior to issuance of a retail sales permit
within the city.
(Ord. 887 C.S., passed 6-1-11)
§ 3-13B.11 FIREWORKS STAND OPERATING HOURS; DISMANTLING OF FIREWORKS STANDS.
   (A)   Fireworks stands may only be operated on the dates and at the hours
specified in this section.
   June 28   12:00 Noon - 11:00 PM
   June 29    7:00 AM - 11:00 PM
   June 30    7:00 AM - 11:00 PM
   July 1       7:00 AM - 11:00 PM
   July 2       7:00 AM - 11:00 PM
   July 3       7:00 AM - 11:00 PM
   July 4       7:00 AM - 10:00 PM
   July 5       7:00 AM - 12:00 Noon
   (B)   All fireworks stands shall be dismantled no later than 5:00 p.m., on
July 11 of each year.
(Ord. 887 C.S., passed 6-1-11)
§ 3-13B.12 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell fireworks to any person under 16 years of
age.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any organization that has obtained a permit
to sell fireworks, to allow another organization, or any person who is not
affiliated with or volunteering for the permitted organization, to sell
fireworks or otherwise participate in the operation of a fireworks stand.
   (C)   No person under 18 years of age shall be permitted in a fireworks
stand at any time.
   (D)   Each organization which receives a permit to sell fireworks shall have
at least two of its members attend an operator safety seminar conducted by the
fireworks manufacturer or distributor through whom the organization purchases
fireworks.
(Ord. 887 C.S., passed 6-1-11)
§ 3-13B.13 SEIZURE OF FIREWORKS.
   The Fire Chief or the designee thereof, shall seize, take, remove, or cause
to be removed, at the expense of the owner, all stocks of fireworks offered for
sale, stored, or held in violation of any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 887 C.S., passed 6-1-11)
§ 3-13B.14 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any violation of this chapter or other city laws, or the terms and
conditions of a permit issued pursuant to this chapter, or state laws or
administrative regulations, or safety rules of the Fire Department shall be
grounds for the immediate revocation of the permit. All officers, agents and
employees of the eligible organization shall be responsible for compliance with
all the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 887 C.S., passed 6-1-11)
§ 3-13B.15 VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 887 C.S., passed 6-1-11)
CHAPTER 14: SKATEBOARDS, COMMON ROLLER SKATES AND IN-LINE SKATES, USE AND
PROHIBITIONS
Section
   
3-14.01   Application
   
3-14.02   Definitions
   
3-14.03   Use and operation
   
3-14.04   Skate park designated
   
3-14.05   Required safety equipment in skate parks
   
3-14.06   Use of tobacco prohibited
   
3-14.07   Bicycles and scooters prohibited
   
3-14.08   Violation and penalties
§ 3-14.01 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply to the use and operation of skateboards, in-line
skates, common roller skates and scooters on all streets, alleys, sidewalks and
rights-of-way in the city, whether public or private, and all other property
owned by the city and upon private property for which a request for the
application of this chapter has been established.
(Ord. 807 C.S., passed 12-20-06)
§ 3-14.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter and the rules and regulations established
herein, certain words and phrases shall be construed herein as set forth in
this section, unless it is apparent from the context that a different meaning
is intended:
   COMMON ROLLER SKATE. A shoe, boot, or an apparatus worn on a shoe or boot
with wheels attached, whether permanently or temporarily, to such shoe, boot or
apparatus.
   IN-LINE SKATE. A common roller skate with wheels in a straight line
resembling the blade of an ice skate.
   SCOOTER. A vehicle, mechanism, device or conveyance consisting of a plank or
board, whether made of wood, fiberglass, plastic, metal or any other material,
with wheels and steering apparatus attached and is foot propelled or motorized,
commonly constructed to accommodate a standing person.
   SKATEBOARD. Any vehicle, mechanism, device or conveyance consisting of a
plank or board, whether of wood, fiberglass, plastic, metal or any other
material, with wheels attached thereto, and foot propelled without a steering
apparatus, commonly constructed to accommodate a standing person.
(Ord. 807 C.S., passed 12-20-06)
§ 3-14.03 USE AND OPERATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise specifically allowed in this chapter, no person
shall use or operate a skateboard, common roller skates, in-line skates, or a
scooter on a public or private street, trail or alley in the city if there is a
sidewalk adjacent and parallel to the street, trail or alley. If no such
sidewalk is present, skateboards, common roller skates, in-line skates, or
scooters may be used or operated on a street or alley as far to the right-hand
side of the roadway as is practicable and travel in the same direction as
traffic.
   (B)   No person shall use or operate a skateboard in Rotary Park other than
in the designated skate park.
   (C)   No person shall ride, use or operate a skateboard on those certain
streets generally identified as Gateway Avenue between Cleveland Avenue and the
Fresno River Bridge.
   (D)   No person shall use or operate skateboards, common roller skates, in-
line skates or scooters on benches, curbs, retaining walls, stairs, stair
railings, safety railings or similar street furniture in the public right of
way or City Parks.
   (E)   No person shall use or operate a skateboard, common roller skates, in-
line skates, or scooter on any public or private street, trail, alley, sidewalk
or right-of-way or on any property owned or controlled by the city in a manner
which endangers the safety of any other person or property. No person using or
operating a skateboard, common roller skates, in-line skates, or a scooter on a
public or private street, trail, alley, sidewalk, or right-of-way or any other
property owned or controlled by the city shall pass a pedestrian in a manner
forcing or causing them to yield the right-of-way or otherwise move to avoid
contact. If such street, trail, alley, sidewalk, or right-of-way is not
sufficiently wide to allow the skateboarder, common roller skater, in-line
skater, or person operating a scooter to pass the pedestrian while maintaining
such separation, the skateboarder, common roller skater, in-line skater, or
person operating a scooter shall cease to operate the skateboard, common roller
skates, in-line skates, or scooter and walk past the pedestrian until such time
as the skateboarder, common roller skater, in-line skater, or scooter can
maintain a safe separation distance.
   (F)   No person shall use or operate a skateboard, common roller skates, in-
line skates, or scooter within 20 feet of the entrance to any shop, store, or
commercial building while such shop, store, or commercial building is open for
business.
   (G)   The use of ramps, jumps or any other portable device used to force the
skateboard, common roller skates, in-line skates, or scooter off the pavement
shall be prohibited on any public street, alley, sidewalk or right-of-way,
public property or property owned or controlled by the city. The use of such
ramps are also prohibited on any private property unless consented to by the
owner or owner designee thereof.
   (H)   No person shall be towed on a skateboard, common roller skates, in-
line skates, or scooter by the use of any mechanical device or vehicle.
   (I)   No person shall use or operate a skateboard, common roller skates, in-
line skates, or scooter more than one-half hour after sunset or one-half hour
prior to sunrise without the use of an arm-mounted light or reflective arm band
or reflective clothing; except in a public owned and designated skateboard
park.
   (J)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this chapter, the use or
operation of skateboards, common roller skates, in-line skates, or scooter
shall be prohibited upon any public or private property or property owned or
controlled by the city when such property has been posted pursuant to this
section. The city and any owner or owner designee of public or private property
are authorized to post or erect signs, at their own expense, prohibiting the
use or operation of skateboards, common roller skates, in-line skates or
scooters in or on their property. The Madera Police Department is authorized to
enter upon any city, public or private property so posted, to enforce the
provisions of this chapter. A sign which states substantially, Skateboards,
Common Roller Skates, In-Line Skates, or Scooters Prohibited on Posted Property
by MMC Section 3-14.6, Madera Police Department" shall suffice to place
violators on notice that such actions are prohibited on the posted property.
   (K)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a motorized scooter,
as defined in Cal. Veh. Code § 407.5, which is operated in accordance with the
provisions of Cal. Veh. Code §§ 21200 through 21235, inclusive.
   (L)   The City Council may provide additional rules and regulations by
resolution which shall be enforced and subject to the penalties as provided in
this chapter.
(Ord. 807 C.S., passed 12-20-06)
§ 3-14.04 SKATE PARK DESIGNATED.
   (A)   The City Council may, from time to time, designate certain areas for
skateboard or in-line skating use. No person shall use the skateboard areas for
uses other than skateboarding or in-line skating except as otherwise
specifically provided in this chapter. The use of any public skateboard
facility shall be deemed a hazardous recreational activity within the
provisions of Cal. Govt. Code § 831.7. The City of Madera may not be held
liable for any injuries incurred by persons that participate in any such
hazardous recreational activity.
   (B)   The City of Madera designates and maintains as a skate park the
facility located in Rotary Park, and authorizes the use of skateboards and in-
line skates in such facility.
(Ord. 807 C.S., passed 12-20-06)
§ 3-14.05 REQUIRED SAFETY EQUIPMENT IN SKATE PARKS.
   It is unlawful for a person to ride or use a skateboard or in-line skates in
a skate park unless that person is wearing a helmet, elbow pads and knee pads,
where the skate park has a sign posted that provides that anyone riding a
skateboard in the park must wear a helmet, elbow pads and knee pads or be
subject to citation.
(Ord. 807 C.S., passed 12-20-06)
§ 3-14.06 USE OF TOBACCO PROHIBITED.
   Use of tobacco for any purpose (e.g., smoking or chewing) by any person
while in, on or placing himself or herself within any designated skate park
facility of the city is prohibited.
(Ord. 807 C.S., passed 12-20-06)
§ 3-14.07 BICYCLES AND SCOOTERS PROHIBITED.
   The riding or other use of bicycles and scooters is prohibited in the city's
designated skate park facility.
(Ord. 807 C.S., passed 12-20-06)
§ 3-14.08 VIOLATION AND PENALTIES.
   Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter may be grounds for
immediate removal from designated skateboarding/skating areas and shall be
punishable as an infraction under the provisions of §
1-2.01 of the Madera Municipal Code.
(Ord. 807 C.S., passed 12-20-06)
CHAPTER 3-15: WEED ABATEMENT REGULATIONS
Section
   
3-15.01   Definitions
   
3-15.02   Purpose
   
3-15.03   Clearance standards
   
3-15.04   Inspection
   
3-15.05   Owner responsibilities
   
3-15.06   Notice of violation declaring public nuisance
   
3-15.07   Right of entry
   
3-15.08   Costs recovery
   
3-15.09   Repeat violations
   
3-15.10   Violations; penalty
   
3-15.11   Procedure not exclusive
Editor’s note:
   This chapter was adopted on 4-1-09 by Ord. 856 C.S. and repealed and
replaced by Ord. 913 C.S., passed 1-7-15.
§ 3-15.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the subsequent definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATE AND/OR ABATEMENT.  An act used to remove, destroy, eliminate, seize,
impound, or any action taken to mitigate a public nuisance, including but not
limited to the removal of combustible growth and material from property. This
would include the investigation, inspection, preparation, service and/or
publication or administrative notices and other related costs, actual removal
of weeds and/or rubbish whether performed by the City Administrator, or his or
her designee.
   BRUSH.  All natural growth of bushes and vegetation such as is growing out
of place in the location where growing and is exceeding six inches in height,
and shall include all cuttings from trees and bushes, overhanging tree branches
or limbs which hang down to a height of six inches or lower from the ground,
and high and rank growth, which may conceal filthy deposits or otherwise
unsanitary conditions which cause blight.
   DIRT.  Any accumulation of earth, dirt, soil, and/or other pertinent
materials which constitute a hazard to the public health or safety, or may
cause erosion and/or drainage problems.
   FIREBREAK.  An area without weeds, growth, or combustible material that
supports or communicates fire. Firebreaks are constructed by thorough discing,
scraping the soil or by otherwise creating a perimeter safe of burn. This
includes any real property, or portion thereof, adjacent to any residential
property, or property that is residential in nature.
   LOCATION OF GROWTH.  All growths of weeds, rubbish, brush, rank growths,
and/or others, both natural and cultivated, on any property as defined
hereinabove, and on areas which includes alleys, parkways, driveways, sidewalks
and areas between sidewalks and curbs, shall be caused to be removed or abated.
   MOWING OF WEEDS AND/OR GROWTHS.  This shall include the use of equipment
and/or tools that cause for the trimming or cutting of clippings from weeds
and/or growths, and shall include the removal of any such clippings.
   NEGATIVE AESTHETICS.  Conditions that include, but not limited to, weed,
rubbish, brush, rank growths, and/or any other materials which deter investment
opportunities or depreciate the value of any real property, and/or which
constitute a public nuisance as set forth in §
10-3.1603 of this code. This shall include maintenance standards of a property
that do not conform to the neighborhood standard.
   NEIGHBORHOOD STANDARDS.  Those conditions present on a simple majority of
properties within a 300-foot radius of an individual property. A property that
is the subject of a neighborhood standard comparison, or any other abandoned or
unmaintained property within the 300-foot radius, shall not be counted toward
the simple majority.
   PROPERTY.  Any unimproved or improved real property or portion thereof,
situated in the city not inclusive of the buildings and structures located on
the property regardless of condition. This shall include but is not limited to:
      (1)   Any residential property, or portion thereof situated in the city,
intended, designed or permitted to be used for dwelling purposes, but does not
include the buildings and structures located on such real property. This
includes those which are residential in nature.
      (2)   Any improved or unimproved parcels of land within the City of
Madera.
   RANK GROWTH.  Any excessive or coarse growth of weeds or other plant forms,
natural or cultivated, which reach heights in excess of six inches, or which
have an offensive or strong odor.
   RUBBISH.  Means all combustible or noncombustible waste, including, without
limitation, waste paper, wood, cardboard, ashes, bottles, cans, carcasses of
dead animals, cloth, crockery, human or animal excrement, glass, abandoned or
unusable household furnishings or appliances, metals, plastics, flammable
material of any kind, waste building materials or items disregarded in such a
manner as to produce a reasonable likelihood of becoming a harborage for
insects or vermin, or disease, or otherwise pose a health or safety hazard.
   WEEDS.  All grasses, or noxious weeds as defined in the Cal. Food and
Agriculture Code § 5004, or plant growth which exceeds six inches in height and
is not regularly cultivated or maintained for foodstuffs or ornamental purposes
which, when or if dry, create a fire hazard. This shall without limitation
include the following:
      (1)   Weeds that are, no matter their current state, unsightly, useless,
troublesome or injurious herbaceous plant or such plant that is out of place at
the location where growing;
      (2)   Weeds which attain such large or noxious growth as to become, when
dry, a fire menace, are disruptive or cause a nuisance to adjacent property;
      (3)   Poison oak and poison ivy when the conditions of growth are such to
constitute a menace to the public health; and/or may cause blight;
      (4)   Those which are otherwise recognized as nocuous or dangerous;
      (5)   Weeds which may produce pollen which is injurious to the health,
safety, comfort, or welfare of the residents of the city or weeds which are
otherwise subject to abatement by law.
(Ord. 913 C.S., passed 1-7-15)
§ 3-15.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect citizens and residential
neighborhoods of the city. The chapter is essential for maintaining the city
healthy, clean, and safe from any pernicious, natural and/or unnatural
materials, including without limitations weeds, rubbish, dirt, and/or brush
which constitute a public nuisance.
(Ord. 913 C.S., passed 1-7-15)
§ 3-15.03 CLEARANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Parcels five acres or less. These properties constitute the majority
vacant land type-size within the corporate limit of the city, tend to be
situated in areas abutting residential and commercial real properties, and, in
consequence, have greater propensity to cause damage, or threaten lives and
properties. As such, total mowing and/or removal of weed, brush, rubbish, rank
growths and/or other hazardous debris is required. Any such items must be
properly disposed of in accordance with
Chapter 3 of Title V of this code.
   (B)   Parcels greater than five acres. These are large, vacant properties
typically situated on the periphery or outskirts of the city, or adjacent to
areas which are non-residential in nature. The location of such properties and
the danger they constitute shall restrict them to the following:
      (1)   A fire break of minimum 30 feet in width shall be maintained around
the perimeter of the property;
      (2)   Removal of weed clippings, rank growths, brush, any debris, any
rubbish, and/or other hazardous material is required;
      (3)   Any such items must be properly disposed of in accordance with
Chapter 3 of Title V of this code;
      (4)   A separation or firebreak of minimum 100 feet in width shall be
created and maintained surrounding any structure which is constructed of any
combustible material(s) within the property;
      (5)   Any outdoor storage of any material(s) or equipment(s) must be in
accordance with
Chapter 3 of Title X of this code.
(Ord. 913 C.S., passed 1-7-15)
§ 3-15.04 INSPECTION.
   The City Administrator, or his or her designee shall make a periodic
unscheduled survey of all improved and unimproved real property within the
corporate limits of the city and determine the existence of any violation(s) of
this chapter, and shall prepare a list of the owners thereof based on the most
recent County Assessor Office's records.
(Ord. 913 C.S., passed 1-7-15)
§ 3-15.05 OWNER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The owner, lessee, occupant or responsible party, of any parcel or real
property within city limits, upon being issued a notice of violation of any
code hereof, shall be required to abate the violation at his or her own
expense, or have it abated by his or her authorized designee, within the time
period stipulated in the notice of violation. Such abatement shall be performed
pursuant to the corrective actions provided in the notice and of all the codes
of the city. Any party performing abatement under this chapter shall refrain
from burning, or attempt to burn, any such weeds or other materials without the
acquisition of a written permission from the City Administrator, or his or her
designee. Any party performing abatement under this chapter shall refrain from
burying or any attempt to bury any trash, rubbish or debris found at or on the
property. The following shall be applied:
   (A)   All weeds, dirt, rubbish, brush, and rank growth of any kind, on
private property or in any street, alley, or public right-of-way in the city,
shall constitute a public nuisance, and shall be removed from the property,
buildings, grounds of lots and from the half-way point of the street, alley or
any other public right-of-way on which the property abuts, in accordance with
the procedures set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   If after the expiration of the time period provided to correct the
violation and the owner has not corrected the violation, the City Council may
thereafter direct the City Administrator, or his or her designee, to abate the
violation(s) at the sole expense and responsibility of the property owner.
(Ord. 913 C.S., passed 1-7-15)
§ 3-15.06 NOTICE OF VIOLATION DECLARING PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a Notice of Violation, it shall be the duty of every
owner, occupant, and person in control of any improved or unimproved real
property, or interest therein, to abate therefrom, and from all adjoining
public right-of-ways, all combustible material and hazardous vegetation that
constitute a public nuisance, fire and health hazard, or which may endanger or
damage neighboring property. The removal of such vegetative materials shall be
completed within the time period stipulated in the Notice of Violation, and if
property owner fails to address the violation in a timely manner as ordered in
the notice, the City Administrator, or his or her designee, shall thereafter
have the authority to seek legal right to abate the violations at the sole
expense and responsibility of the property owner.
   (B)   Publication and form of notice: the notice declaring the conditions
found on a particular property to be a public nuisance under the preceding
subsection shall contain:
      (1)   A specific description of the property shall be set forth in the
notice. The description shall include an assessor's parcel number, address and/
or approximate description of the location of such property.
      (2)   The notice shall include substantially the following text:
         “Notice is hereby given that:
         An inspection of your property was conducted on                    and
the following violations of the Madera Municipal Code were identified:
                                  . Corrective actions include but are not
limited to                              .” If compliance is met prior to the
time period stated in this notice, then you may disregard the hearing notice
herein below.
         “In order to avoid fines, penalties or otherwise accruing any costs
associated with this violation(s), please cause the violation(s) listed above
to be fully corrected on or before                  .”
         “All property owners having objections to the proposed abatement of
the nuisances are hereby notified to attend the public hearing to be held on
                , at                 , at                , where and when all
objections will be heard and given due consideration.”
         “If the violation is abated by the property owner within the time
period provided herein, you may thereafter disregard this notice, and the case
will be closed after re-inspection by the city accordingly. However, in the
event the violation is left unabated, the City of Madera, after acquiring the
approval of the City Council will thereof possess the authority to abate the
violation at the sole expense and responsibility of the property owner.
         Dated:                              Signed:
                                             ”
      (3)   The City Administrator of the City of Madera, or his or her
designee, will file a report and assessment list on abatement of weeds, dirt,
brush, rubbish and rank growth with the City Clerk and a copy posted at the
entrance to the City Hall, 205 W. 4th St., Madera. California.
      (4)   The property list will be presented to the City Council in the
Council Chambers of the City Hall for consideration and confirmation, and that
any and all persons interested, having any objections to said report or list,
or to any matter or item contained therein, may appear at said time and place
and be heard.
   (C)   Provide no less than 45 days for correction of the violation as set
forth on the notice.
   (D)   Public hearing. At the time and place stated in the Notice of
Violation, the City Council shall hear and consider any and/or all objections
of the proposed abatement of the nuisance. Upon the conclusion of the hearing,
the council shall provide findings on the matter, after which the council shall
be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction to perform the work of abating the
nuisance by the destruction or removal of the weeds, dirt, brush, rubbish or
rank growths and authorize the City Administrator, or his or her designee, to
conduct such abatement. The decision of the Council shall be final and
conclusive.
   (E)   Notice. Written notice of proposed abatement to be conducted pursuant
to this chapter shall be mailed to all persons who own property, having
conditions as described in this chapter. Any such notice shall be sent through
the United States Postal Service first class mail to the address on record.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the requirement in division (E), the City
Administrator, or his or her designee, may cause notices to be conspicuously
posted on or in front of the property in connection with which the nuisance
exists. If this procedure is utilized, he or she shall at minimum post:
      (1)   One notice to each separately owned parcel of property with 100
feet of frontage, or less.
      (2)   Notices of not more than 50 feet apart if the frontage of such a
parcel is greater than 100 feet.
(Ord. 913 C.S., passed 1-7-15)
§ 3-15.07 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   After the public hearing has been conducted, the City Council shall have
authorized the City Administrator, or his or her designee, to abate the
nuisance or cause it to be abated by having the weeds, dirt, brush, rubbish or
rank growth destroyed or removed. No person shall interfere with the entry of
the City Administrator, or his or her designee, acting in the official course
and scope of his or her duty.
(Ord. 913 C.S., passed 1-7-15)
§ 3-15.08 COST RECOVERY.
   (A)   Properties found in violation of this chapter and issued a Notice of
Violation, shall be assessed an administrative fee as shown on the city's
master fee schedule, that must be fully paid aside of any fines and penalties
related to the abatement of violations of this chapter.
   (B)   Report to City Council. The City Administrator, or his or her
designee, shall keep an account of the cost of abating the nuisance of weeds,
dirt, brush, rubbish or rank growths ordered to be abated under this chapter
upon each separate lot or property, and the abutting half of the street in
front, sidewalk(s) and alley, if any, adjacent thereto. It shall be filed with
the City Clerk and submitted to the City Council. The reports shall refer to
each separate lot or property by description sufficient to identify such lot or
parcel, together with the expense proposed to be assessed against each separate
lot or parcel of land thereof, respectively.
   (C)   Posting and publication. The City Clerk shall post a copy of the
report and assessment list on the cost of the abatement as required by the
preceding section in a prominent place at City Hall, together with a notice of
the filing thereof and of the time and place when and where it will be
submitted to the Council for hearing and confirmation. The posting shall be
made and completed at least ten days before the time such report shall have
been submitted to the City Council for costs confirmation.
   (D)   Notice of cost recovery. The notice shall substantially be in the
following form:
         “Notice is hereby given that:
         The Council of the City of Madera has confirmed the report of the City
Administrator, and his or her designee, on the abatement of weeds, dirt, brush
rubbish and rank growth, and your property has been assessed the amounts which
are shown here. You have twenty (20) days after the date the Council confirmed
the report in which to pay to the Finance Department the assessment as shown on
the list. The twentieth day ends at 5:00 p.m. on                       . If the
City does not receive your payment by that date, a penalty of ten percent (10%)
shall be assessed against the amount then due. The amount of the total due,
including the penalty, will be transmitted to the county auditor for entry upon
and collection with the next tax roll in the form of a lien against the
property. Thereafter, such amount shall be collected with property taxes, and
shall be subject to additional interest and penalties in the case of
delinquency, along with sale, because the assessment shall constitute a lien
upon your property. The cost of recording and removing a lien on property on
which this amount has been assessed will be borne by the property owner.
         All property owners having objections to the abatement costs recovery
are hereby notified to attend the public hearing to be held on
                     , at                        , where and when all
objections will be heard and given due consideration.
         Dated:                     , City of Madera.”
   (E)   Hearing by City Council. At the time and place fixed for receiving the
report of the cost of abatement pursuant to this section, the council shall
hear any objections which may be raised by any of the property owners liable to
be assessed for the work of abating such nuisance. The City Administrator, or
his or her designee, shall attend such meeting. The City Council may make such
modifications in the proposed assessments as deemed necessary, after which such
report and assessment list shall be confirmed by resolution.
   (F)   Debt owed to constitute lien on property. The amount of the cost of
abating the nuisance of weeds, dirt, brush, rubbish and rank growths upon, or
in front or rear of the various lots or parcels of land respectively referred
to in such report and the cost of recording and removing a lien on the
property, shall constitute special assessments against such respective lots or
parcels of land. Upon its confirmation, it shall constitute a lien on such
property for the amount of such assessments until paid.
   (G)   Collection by county. If the amounts owed are not paid in full by the
twentieth day after confirmation, the amount due may be turned over to the
County Tax Auditor for collection through the next tax roll. Upon confirmation
of the report and assessment list, the City Administrator, or his or her
designee, shall transmit a copy of the resolution, report and costs to the
property owners identified on such report and list, along with a letter as set
forth in §
1-9.11.
(Ord. 913 C.S., passed 1-7-15)
§ 3-15.09 REPEAT VIOLATIONS.
   Upon entry of a second violation within a one year period, and within the
validity of the Notice of Violation issued for violations of this chapter,
citations as prescribed in §
1-9 shall be issued in addition to the administrative fee being twice the
normal amount as set forth in §
3-15.08 and in addition to any other abatement costs.
(Ord. 913 C.S., passed 1-7-15)
§ 3-15.10 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   Penalty. Any person, partnership, association, corporation, fiduciary, or
other legal entity that owns, leases, occupies, controls or manages any
property subject to this chapter, and causes, permits, or maintains a violation
of this chapter as to that property, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 913 C.S., passed 1-7-15)
§ 3-15.11 PROCEDURE NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The special procedure provided in this chapter shall be cumulative and in
addition to any other procedure or procedures provided in ordinances of this
city or by state law for the abatement of weeds and rubbish, and abatement
under this chapter shall not prejudice or affect any other action, civil or
criminal, for the maintenance of any such condition.
(Ord. 913 C.S., passed 1-7-15)
CHAPTER 3-16: GRAFFITI
Section
   
3-16.01   Graffiti abatement
   
3-16.02   Graffiti prohibited
   
3-16.03   Aiding or abetting graffiti prohibited
   
3-16.04   Violation
   
3-16.05   Public property
   
3-16.06   Parent/guardian liability
   
3-16.07   Use of city funds to abate graffiti
   
3-16.08   Liability for expense of abatement
   
3-16.09   Preservation of evidence
   
3-16.10   Graffiti as a public nuisance
   
3-16.11   Display of aerosol spray paint containers and marker pens
   
3-16.12   Possession of graffiti implements by a minor
   
3-16.13   Punishment provisions
   
3-16.14   Severability
§ 3-16.01 GRAFFITI ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The Council of the City of Madera finds and
determines as follows.
      (1)    Graffiti on public or private, real or personal property reduces
the value of such property, promoting blight and deterioration of surrounding
property, resulting in loss of pride in affected neighborhoods, loss of
business to neighboring commercial enterprises, and loss of enjoyment of life
for persons using adjacent and surrounding properties.
      (2)   Graffiti that remains on property for a 48 hour period is a public
nuisance and its prolonged presence on property promotes additional graffiti
and crime in the area marked with graffiti.
      (3)   The presence of graffiti is inconsistent with the city’s goals of
maintaining property, preventing crime, and preserving aesthetic standards.
   (B)    Definitions. For the purposes of
chapter 3-16:
      (1)   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator of the City of Madera,
or his or her authorized representative.
      (2)   EXPENSE OF ABATEMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, court costs,
attorney’s fees, costs of removal of the graffiti or other inscribed material,
costs of repair and replacement of defaced property, costs of administering and
monitoring the participation of a responsible person and his or her parent(s)/
guardian(s) in a graffiti abatement program, and the law enforcement costs
incurred by the city in identifying and apprehending the responsible person(s)
or otherwise the cause of contributing or aiding and abetting in the placement
of graffiti or other inscribed material.
      (3)   GRAFFITI or INSCRIBED MATERIAL. Includes but is not limited to any
form of unauthorized inscription, word(s), figure(s), mark(s), design(s), or
other defacement, whether written, marked, etched, scratched, gouged, drawn,
painted or otherwise affixed, attached, or placed by means of a sticker or
decal on any real or personal, public or private property.
      (4)   IMPLEMENT. An aerosol paint container, a felt tip marker, a paint
stick, an aerosol paint activator tip, a masonry drill bit, a glass drill bit,
a carbide drill bit, a glass cutter, a grinding stone, an awl, a chisel, a
carbide scribe, or any other substance or implement that can be used to make
permanent scratches on any surface.
      (5)   MINOR. Any person under 18 years of age who has confessed to,
admitted to, or pled guilty or nolo contendre to a violation of Cal. Penal Code
§§ 594, 594.3, 640.5, 640.6 or 640.7, or a minor convicted by final judgment of
a violation of Cal. Penal Code §§ 594, 594.3, 640.5, 640.6, or 640.7, or a
minor declared a ward of the Juvenile Court pursuant to Cal. Welfare and
Institutions Code § 602 by reason of the commission of an act prohibited by
Cal. Penal Code §§ 594, 594.3, 640.5, 640.6, or 640.7.
      (6)   RESPONSIBLE PERSON. Any person violating this chapter or any person
who has confessed to, admitted to or pled nolo contendre to a violation of Cal.
Penal Code §§ 594, 594.3, 640.5, 640.6 or 640.7, or a person convicted by final
judgment of a violation of Cal. Penal Code §§ 594, 594.3, 640.5 or 640.7, or a
minor declared a ward of the Juvenile Court pursuant to Cal. Welfare and
Institutions Code § 602 by reason of the commission of an act prohibited by
Cal. Penal Code §§ 594, 594.3, 640.5, 640.6 or 640.7.
      (7)   UNAUTHORIZED. Either without the prior consent of the property
owner or in violation of any law or regulation.
(Ord. 891 C.S., passed 11-2-11)
§ 3-16.02 GRAFFITI PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person, regardless of age, to paint, etch, scratch,
gouge, or otherwise apply graffiti, as defined in §3-16.01, upon public or
private, real or personal property of any kind within the city.
(Ord. 891 C.S., passed 11-2-11) Penalty, see §
1-2.01
§ 3-16.03 AIDING OR ABETTING GRAFFITI PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, regardless of age, to aid, abet or
encourage another to paint, etch, scratch, gouge, or in any other manner apply
graffiti upon public or private, real or personal property of any kind within
the city.
(Ord. 891 C.S., passed 11-2-11) Penalty, see §
1-2.01
§ 3-16.04 VIOLATION.
   Any violation of Chapter 3-16 shall be a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 891 C.S., passed 11-2-11)
§ 3-16.05 PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Whenever a person violates Chapter 3-16 with respect to real property,
vehicles, signs, fixtures, or furnishings belonging to the city, or any other
public entity as defined in Cal. Gov’t Code § 811.2, or the federal government,
it shall be a permissive inference that the person neither owned the property
nor had the permission of the owner to deface, damage, or destroy the property.
(Ord. 891 C.S., passed 11-2-11)
§ 3-16.06 PARENT/GUARDIAN LIABILITY.
   If a person under 18 years of age is personally unable to pay an
administrative fine for acts prohibited by
Chapter 3-16, or any restitution ordered by the court after the minor is
declared a ward of the Juvenile Court pursuant to Cal. Welfare and Institutions
Code § 602, the parent(s) or guardian in custody or control of said person
shall be liable for the payment of the fine. The City Administrator may waive
payment of the fine or any part thereof by the parent/guardian upon a finding
of good cause.
(Ord. 891 C.S., passed 11-2-11)
§ 3-16.07 USE OF CITY FUNDS TO ABATE GRAFFITI.
   The city is authorized to use city funds to remove graffiti or other
inscribed material from publicly or privately owned real or personal property
located within the city and to replace or repair public or privately owned
property within the city that has been defaced with graffiti or other inscribed
material that cannot be removed cost effectively. Only the graffiti or
inscribed material itself shall be removed unless the graffiti or inscribed
material cannot be removed cost effectively, then repair or replacement of the
portion of the property that was defaced is permissible. The removal, repair or
replacement may be performed in the case of publicly owned real or personal
property, only after securing the consent of the public entity having
jurisdiction over the property, and in the case of privately owned real or
personal property, only after securing the consent of the owner or possessor.
(Ord. 891 C.S., passed 11-2-11)
§ 3-16.08 LIABILITY FOR EXPENSE OF ABATEMENT.
   (A)    Each responsible person shall be responsible to the city for the
expense of abatement. The city may seek recovery of the expense of abatement by
any means authorized by law.
   (B)   Pursuant to Cal. Gov’t Code § 38772, a minor and the parent(s) or
guardian(s) having custody and control of the minor are jointly and severally
liable to the city for the expense of abatement. The expense of abatement may
become a special assessment or a lien against the property of the minor and/or
the property of the parent(s) or guardian(s) having custody and control of the
minor. The procedures set forth in §
1-9.11 shall be followed for the imposition of a special assessment or a lien.
   (C)   Alternatively, the city may seek recovery of damages, including the
expense of abatement, pursuant to Cal. Civ. Code § 1714.1(b), jointly and
severally against the parent(s) or guardian having custody and control of
person under 18 years of age whose act of willful misconduct resulted in the
defacement of property of another with paint or similar substance.
   (D)   Any restitution amount received for the city’s abatement of graffiti
may be used to support the city’s graffiti abatement expenses.
(Ord. 891 C.S., passed 11-2-11)
§ 3-16.09 PRESERVATION OF EVIDENCE.
   The Police Department may promulgate procedures for the pre-removal
preservation of sufficient evidence of the graffiti or other inscribed material
for criminal prosecution or proceedings. Said procedures shall be followed by
the city prior to or during removal of the graffiti or other inscribed
material.
(Ord. 891 C.S., passed 11-2-11)
§ 3-16.10 GRAFFITI AS A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The presence of graffiti or other defacing words, letters, or drawings on
any building or structure, any motor vehicle, boat, trailer, or other property
for a 48 hour period is a public nuisance. It is the responsibility of the
property owner or occupant to remove graffiti within 48 hours unless consent is
given for abatement by the city.
   (A)   Enforcement. Failure to remove graffiti within 48 hours or to consent
to abatement by the city will result in enforcement pursuant to the procedures
set forth in
Chapter 1-9 of this code.
   (B)   Appeals. Appeal of any notice and order or administrative citation
issued for failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall be made
pursuant to the procedures in
Chapter 1-9 of this code.
   (C)   Administrative abatement. The city may proceed with administrative
abatement pursuant to this code if the property owner or occupant has failed to
timely comply with the final order after any notice and order issued for
failure to comply with the provisions of this section has become a final order,
either by decision of the hearing officer affirming or modifying the same, or
by failure to file an appeal within the time prescribed in §
1-9.09.
   (D)   Cost recovery. The city may seek recovery of costs associated with
abatement of graffiti from the property owner or occupant pursuant to Chapter
1-9 of this code.
(Ord. 891 C.S., passed 11-2-11)
§ 3-16.11 DISPLAY OF AEROSOL SPRAY PAINT CONTAINERS AND MARKER PENS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation doing business
within the city to store, stock, keep or display for sale or transfer any
aerosol spray paint container, or any indelible ink marker pen with a tip
exceeding four millimeters in width, in an area other than a place that is
locked and secure or is otherwise made unavailable to the public and which is
accessible only to employees of such businesses.
(Ord. 891 C.S., passed 11-2-11) Penalty, see §
1-2.01
§ 3-16.12 POSSESSION OF GRAFFITI IMPLEMENTS BY A MINOR.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any minor to possess a graffiti implement:
      (1)   While on public property; or
      (2)   While on private property without the consent of the owner of such
property. Such consent must be given in advance and must authorize the person’s
presence while in possession of the graffiti implement.
   (B)   This section shall not apply if possession of the graffiti implement
is for a lawful purpose. Lawful purpose includes:
      (1)   While the minor is attending, or traveling to or from a school at
which the person is enrolled, if the person is participating in a class at the
school, in which, as a requirement of the class, they need to use the graffiti
implement; and
      (2)   While the person is attending, or traveling to or from a place of
employment at which the person is employed, if as a requirement of the
employment, the person has the need to use the graffiti implement.
   (C)   This section is not intended to conflict with Cal. Penal Code §§ 594.1
and 594.2.
(Ord. 891 C.S., passed 11-2-11) Penalty, see §
1-2.01
§ 3-16.13 PUNISHMENT PROVISIONS.
   Police Diversion Program. Community service with minimum hours and parental
involvement. In lieu of, or as a part of, requesting prosecution of a petition
to declare a minor to be a ward of the court under Cal. Welfare and
Institutions Code § 602 (including, but not limited to, offenses which, in the
opinion of the Police Chief, constitute a violation of this chapter), the
Police Chief or his designated representative shall be authorized to order the
minor to perform such community service as the Police Chief deems appropriate,
but which community service shall contain the following minimum elements:
   (A)   The minor shall perform not less than 20 hours nor more than 100 hours
of community service.
   (B)   At least one of the custodial parents, or if none, guardian(s), shall
be in attendance at least 50% of the period of assigned community service.
   (C)   The entire period of community service shall be performed under the
supervision of a community service provider approved by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 891 C.S., passed 11-2-11)
§ 3-16.14 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
chapter is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the
decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter. The city council
declares that it would have adopted each section, subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, clauses, phrases or portions to be declared invalid or
unconstitutional.
(Ord. 891 C.S., passed 11-2-11)
CHAPTER 17: MILITARY EQUIPMENT USE POLICY
Section
   
3-17.01   Title of chapter
   
3-17.02   Findings
   
3-17.03   Determinations
§ 3-17.01 TITLE OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall be titled "Military Equipment Use Policy."
(Ord. 994 C.S., passed 6-15-22)
§ 3-17.02 FINDINGS.
   (A)   On September 30, 2021, Governor Gavin Newsom signed into law Assembly
Bill 481, relating to the use of military equipment by law enforcement
agencies.
   (B)   Assembly Bill 481, codified at Cal. Gov't Code §§ 7070 through 7075,
requires law enforcement agencies to obtain approval of the applicable
governing body, by an ordinance adopting a "military equipment" use policy, at
a regular meeting held pursuant to open meeting laws, prior to taking certain
actions relating to the funding, acquisition, or use of military equipment. The
term "military equipment" is defined in Cal. Gov't Code § 7070.
   (C)   Assembly Bill 481 allows the governing body of a city to approve the
funding, acquisition, or use of military equipment within its jurisdiction only
if it makes specified determinations.
   (D)   The proposed Military Equipment Use Policy is found within Madera
Police Department Policy § 709.
   (E)   The Military Equipment Use Policy as set forth in Madera Police
Department Manual § 709 was published on the Madera Police Department's
internet website on April 21, 2022. The Madera Police Department Policy § 709
was presented to City Council on April 21, 2022.
   (F)   The Military Equipment Use Policy as set forth in Department Policy §
709 meets the requirements of Cal. Gov't Code § 7070, subd. (d).
(Ord. 994 C.S., passed 6-15-22)
§ 3-17.03 DETERMINATIONS.
   Based on the findings above, in addition to information provided to the City
Council at the public hearing, the City Council determines as follows:
   (A)   The military equipment identified in Madera Police Policy § 709 is
necessary because there are no reasonable alternatives that can achieve the
same objectives of officer and civilian safety.
   (B)   The Military Equipment Use Policy as set forth in Madera Police Manual
§ 709 will safeguard the public's welfare, safety, civil rights, and civil
liberties.
   (C)   The military equipment identified as Madera Police Manual § 709 is
reasonably cost effective compared to available alternatives that can achieve
the same objective of officer and civilian safety.
   (D)   The Military Equipment Use Policy as set forth in Madera Police Manual
§ 709 is approved and adopted.
   (E)   A copy of the Madera Police Manual § 709 may be obtained from the
Madera Police Department or the City Clerk.
(Ord. 994 C.S., passed 6-15-22)
TITLE IV: PUBLIC WELFARE
Chapter
   
1.   ADVERTISING AND DISPLAY
   
2.   INTOXICATION
   
3.   JEWELRY AUCTION SALES
   
4.   LOITERING
   
5.   TAXICABS
   
6.   STREET TREES
   
7.   OPERATION OF AMBULANCES
   
8.   REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, WRECKED, DISMANTLED, OR INOPERATIVE VEHICLES FROM
PRIVATE OR PUBLIC PROPERTY
   
9.   PROHIBITION OF OBNOXIOUS CONDUCT
   
10.   BINGO GAMES
   
11.   PROHIBITED CONDUCT UPON OR NEAR SCHOOL GROUNDS
   
12.   DIAL-A-RIDE CONTRACTORS
   
13.   DRUG FREE ZONES
   
14.   CAMPING
   
15.   [RESERVED]
   
16.   RENTAL HOUSING INSPECTIONS
CHAPTER 1: ADVERTISING AND DISPLAY
Section
   
4-1.01   Distribution of advertising materials
   
4-1.02   Limitations upon display of certain materials
§ 4-1.01 DISTRIBUTION OF ADVERTISING MATERIALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to throw,
cast, distribute, deposit, place, hand out, or distribute to any person in or
upon any public street, alley, or park, or to place in, or upon, any automobile
or other vehicle, or upon private premises without having first obtained the
permission of the owner thereof, any notice, circular, paper, or printed or
written matter, or any sample which advertises for sale any merchandise,
product, or commodity or advertises any meeting, theatrical performance,
exhibition, or event of any kind for which an admission fee is charged for gain
or profit.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the right to
deliver noncommercial notices or other printed materials to those who are
willing to receive the same.
('61 Code, § 4-1.01) (Ord. 42 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 218 N.S., passed - -
; Am. Ord. 156 C.S., passed 10-19-70)
§ 4-1.02 LIMITATIONS UPON DISPLAY OF CERTAIN MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person, including any individual, partnership, firm, association,
corporation or other legal entity shall display harmful matter in a public
place, other than a public place from which minors are excluded, without
placing a device commonly known as a blinder rack in front of such matter, so
that the lower two-thirds of the material is not exposed to view.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section HARMFUL MATTER means matter taken as
a whole, the predominant appeal of which to the average person, applying
contemporary statewide standards, is to prurient interest, meaning a shameful
or morbid interest in nudity, sex, or excretion; and is patently offensive to
the prevailing standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what
is suitable material for minors, and lacks significant literary, artistic,
political education, or scientific value for minors.
   (C)   When it appears from the nature of the matter or the circumstances of
its dissemination, distribution, or exhibition that it is designed for clearly
defined deviant sexual groups, the predominant appeal of the matter shall be
judged with reference to its intended recipient group.
   (D)   In prosecutions under this section, where circumstances of production,
presentation, sale, dissemination, distribution, or publicity indicates that
matter is being commercially exploited by the defendant for the sake of its
prurient appeal, that evidence is probative with respect to the nature of the
matter and can justify the conclusion that the matter lacks significant
literary, artistic, political, educational, or scientific value for minors.
   (E)   MATTER. Any book, magazine, newspaper, or other printed or written
material or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture, or other
pictorial representation or any statue or other figure, or any recording,
transcription, or mechanical, chemical, or electrical reproduction or any other
articles, equipment, machines, or materials.
   (F)   DISPLAY. To place in plain view.
   (G)   MINOR. Any natural person under 18 years of age.
('61 Code, § 4-1.02) (Ord. 536 C.S., passed 12-20-89)
CHAPTER 2: INTOXICATION
Section
   
4-2.01   (Repealed)
   
4-2.02   Restrictions on use of intoxicants in public places; exceptions
§ 4-2.01 (REPEALED).
§ 4-2.02 RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF INTOXICANTS IN PUBLIC PLACES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink intoxicating liquor on
the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, vacant lots, or in public places within
the city except it shall be lawful to drink intoxicating liquor in public
places where intoxicating liquors are lawfully sold for consumption in such
public places under the laws of the state, except, it shall be lawful to drink
intoxicating liquors within the confines of the Rotary Public Park Picnic
Pavilion by those persons within a specific group who have obtained a permit
for rental of the Rotary Park Picnic Pavilion for use and have paid the permit
and security deposit fees therefor.
   (B)   Except as provided herein it shall be unlawful for any person to
possess any open container containing any alcoholic beverage in any public park
within the city.
   (C)   Violation of this section is expressly declared to be a misdemeanor.
('61 Code, § 4-2.02) (Ord. 71 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 140 C.S., passed 10-
15-69; Am. Ord. 155 C.S., passed 11-18-70; Am. Ord. 321 C.S., passed 8-1-79;
Am. Ord. 461 C.S., passed 8-20-86; Am. Ord. 567 C.S., passed 6-19-91)
CHAPTER 3: JEWELRY AUCTION SALES
Section
   
4-3.01   Auctioneer defined
   
4-3.02   Sale of merchandise by auction
   
4-3.03   Cappers and shillers prohibited from sales
   
4-3.04   Substitution of merchandise prohibited
   
4-3.05   Sale of jewelry by auction
   
4-3.06   Exemptions for sales of jewelry
   
4-3.07   Jewelry auction sales; time for holding
   
4-3.08   Jewelry auction sales; application for permit
   
4-3.09   Jewelry auction sales; issuance of permit
   
4-3.10   Jewelry auction sales; hours for holding
   
4-3.11   Bonding of permittee
   
4-3.12   Forfeits; permit non-transferable
   
4-3.13   Records of permittee
   
4-3.14   Auction places restricted
   
4-3.15   Grievances; fines
   
4-3.16   Charitable organizations exempted
§ 4-3.01 AUCTIONEER DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this chapter, AUCTIONEER shall mean any person who shall
at public outcry offer for sale as principal or agent to the highest bidder on
the premises any article of merchandise or property.
('61 Code, § 4-3.01) (Ord. 138 N.S., passed - - )
§ 4-3.02 SALE OF MERCHANDISE BY AUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or attempt to sell by auction or
advertise for sale by auction any goods, wares, or merchandise by falsely
representing or pretending that such goods, wares, and merchandise are in whole
or in part a bankrupt or insolvent stock, or damaged goods, or goods saved from
a fire, or by making any false statement as to the previous history, ownership,
quality, or character of such goods, wares, and merchandise.
('61 Code, § 4-3.02) (Ord. 138 N.S., passed - - )
§ 4-3.03 CAPPERS AND SHILLERS PROHIBITED FROM SALES.
   No person shall act in the capacity of or as a capper or shiller at any
auction sale or place for conducting public auctions, or offer or make any
false bid, or buy or pretend to buy any article sold or offered for sale at any
public auction.
('61 Code, § 4-3.03) (Ord. 138 N.S., passed - - )
§ 4-3.04 SUBSTITUTION OF MERCHANDISE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to offer for sale at auction any article
and adduce its purchase by any bidder, and then later to substitute any article
in lieu of that offered to, and purchased by, the bidder, except with the
bidder's knowledge and consent.
('61 Code, § 4-3.04) (Ord. 138 N.S., passed - - )
§ 4-3.05 SALE OF JEWELRY BY AUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, dispose of, or offer for sale,
in the city at public auction, or to cause or permit to be sold, disposed of,
or offered for sale in the city at public auction, any platinum, gold, silver
or plated ware, precious stones, or semi-precious stones, watches or other
jewelry, whether the same shall be their own property or whether they shall
sell the same as agents or employees of others, except as provided in §
4-3.06 of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 4-3.05) (Ord. 138 N.S., passed - - )
§ 4-3.06 EXEMPTIONS FOR SALES OF JEWELRY.
   The provisions of §
4-3.05 shall not apply to:
   (A)   Judicial sales, or sales by executors or administrators;
   (B)   Sales by, or on behalf of, licensed pawnbrokers of unredeemed pledges
in the manner provided by law; or
   (C)   The sale at public auction of the stock on hand of any person who
shall, for the period of one year next preceding such sale, have been
continuously in business in the city as a retail or wholesale merchant of
platinum, gold, silver or plated ware, precious stones or semi-precious stones,
or watches or other jewelry.
('61 Code, § 4-3.06) (Ord. 138 N.S., passed - - )
§ 4-3.07 JEWELRY AUCTION SALES; TIME FOR HOLDING.
   Sale at public auction of the stock on hand of such merchants, as provided
in subsection §
4-3.06(C), shall be held on successive days, Sundays and legal holidays
excepted, and shall not continue for more than 30 days in all from the
commencement of the sale, and shall be permitted only where such merchant is
disposing of his or her stock for the purpose of retiring from business.
('61 Code, § 4-3.07) (Ord. 138 N.S., passed - - )
§ 4-3.08 JEWELRY AUCTION SALES; APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Not less than 15 days nor more than 30 days previous to conducting any such
sale, as provided in §
4-3.07, the merchant must file with the City Clerk a sworn written application
to the Council for a permit so to do, specifying under oath the name and
address of the applicant, the location and purpose of the sale and its expected
duration, and itemizing in detail the quality, quantity, kind, or grade of each
item of goods, wares, and other articles to be sold, the wholesale market value
thereof, and the name of the auctioneer who shall conduct the sale.
('61 Code, § 4-3.08) (Ord. 138 N.S., passed - - )
§ 4-3.09 JEWELRY AUCTION SALES; ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   Immediately upon its filing with the City Clerk the application shall be
furnished to the Police Chief who shall investigate and report to the Council
at the next succeeding Council meeting his or her findings as to the character
of the applicant and his or her auctioneer, the bona fide nature of the
proposed sale, and whether the place where it is proposed to carry on the sale
is a proper place. The Council must also be furnished satisfactory evidence
that the jewelry proposed to be sold is a bona fide part of the merchant's
stock in trade, and not secured, purchased, or brought into the place of
business for, or in anticipation of, the sale. The Council, in considering the
application and the attending facts, shall exercise a reasonable and sound
discretion in granting or denying the permit applied for.
('61 Code, § 4-3.09) (Ord. 138 N.S., passed - - )
§ 4-3.10 JEWELRY AUCTION SALES; HOURS FOR HOLDING.
   In no event shall any auction sale of jewelry be conducted at public auction
between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
('61 Code, § 4-3.10) (Ord. 138 N.S., passed - - )
§ 4-3.11 BONDING OF PERMITTEE.
   The applicant must furnish and file with the Council, prior, to the granting
of any such permit, a bond issued by a surety company authorized to do business
in the state, in the principal sum of $1,000, or a bond in cash in the sum of
$1,000, for the faithful performance of the provisions of this chapter, which
bond shall be payable to the city and which bond shall be approved by the
Council and filed in the office of the City Clerk. The bond may be cancelled
and terminated within not less than six months from the date of termination of
the auction upon proper proof being made to the City Clerk, whose statement of
termination and cancellation shall be evidence thereof. If the bond shall be
cash, the cash shall be returned to the person furnishing the same within not
less than six months from the date of termination of the auction upon the same
terms and conditions.
('61 Code, § 4-3.11) (Ord. 138 N.S., passed - - )
§ 4-3.12 FORFEITS; PERMIT NON-TRANSFERABLE.
   (A)   For every violation of this chapter, the applicant shall, in addition
to any other penalties provided by law, forfeit to the city the sum of $250,
which shall be recoverable on the bond.
   (B)   The applicant shall, under the bond, be responsible and liable for the
acts of any auctioneer or crier employed in carrying out the auction sale.
   (C)   The permit granted under this chapter shall not be transferable, nor
shall the same be loaned or used by any other person.
('61 Code, § 4-3.12) (Ord. 138 N.S., passed - - )
§ 4-3.13 RECORDS OF PERMITTEE.
   (A)   Each applicant, or his or her auctioneer, must keep a record book in
which he or she must enter all sales, the amount paid, and the date of each
sale, which book must be open at all times for the inspection of the Police
Department. The record book shall be filed with the City Clerk upon the
termination of the auction, to be held by the City Clerk in the City Clerk's
office for public inspection for a period of not less than six months, and to
be delivered by the City Clerk to the applicant personally, or forwarded by
United States mail, postage prepaid, upon the termination of the six-month
period.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the person whose merchandise is thus being
sold at public auction to give each and every purchaser of an article, the
selling price of which amounts to, or exceeds, the sum of $2.50, an invoice
containing a full description of the article and the selling price thereof,
together with a statement giving each and every warranty under which the
article was sold. Duplicate copies of the invoices shall be kept.
('61 Code, § 4-3.13) (Ord. 138 N.S., passed - - )
§ 4-3.14 AUCTION PLACES RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an applicant who shall have
complied with the terms of this chapter, to hold, conduct, carry on, or
maintain any auction room or place for holding public auction sales, or to
advertise the same, or to conduct, carry on, or maintain any sale of goods by
public auction, bona fide or otherwise.
('61 Code, § 4-3.14) (Ord. 138 N.S., passed - - )
§ 4-3.15 GRIEVANCES; FINES.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved or damaged by any act of an auctioneer in the
city in violation of, or contrary to, the provisions of this chapter may have
an action against such auctioneer and the bond for such auction.
   (B)   Any fines paid by any person under the provisions of this chapter for
any violation thereof shall be paid into the treasury of the city for the use
of the general fund of the city.
('61 Code, § 4-3.15) (Ord. 138 N.S., passed - - )
§ 4-3.16 CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS EXEMPTED.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any auction held for
charitable or benevolent purposes, or for any church fair, festival, or bazaar.
('61 Code, § 4-3.16) (Ord. 138 N.S., passed - - )
CHAPTER 4: LOITERING
Section
   
4-4.01   Definitions
   
4-4.02   Curfew restrictions
   
4-4.03   Aiding and abetting
   
4-4.04   Detention of juveniles
   
4-4.05   Restrictions on use of parks
   
4-4.06   Reserved areas in parks
   
4-4.07   Parents must call for children
   
4-4.08   Violation
   
4-4.09   Costs of enforcement
§ 4-4.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURFEW HOURS. The period from 10:00 p.m. any evening of the week, until 6:00
a.m. the following day.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including but not limited to any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN. (1) A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or (2) a public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed
by the court.
   MINOR. Any person under 18 years of age.
   PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of
another person.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
   RESPONSIBLE ADULT. A person at least 18 years of age, authorized by a parent
or guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
(Ord. 683 C.S., passed 4-1-98)
§ 4-4.02 CURFEW RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any minor to be present in any public place or on
the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian or a minor knowingly to
permit, or by insufficient control to allow, the minor to be present in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during
curfew hours.
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (A) or (B) that the
minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian, or by a responsible
adult;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian, or
the responsible adult, without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution; or
      (9)   Emancipated pursuant to law.
   (D)   Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a police
officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in the
public place or on the premises of the establishment during curfew hours. The
officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under this section unless
the officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and that, based on
any responses and other circumstances, no defense under §
4-4.02 (C) is present or applicable.
   (E)   Each violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
   (F)   It is unlawful for the parent, guardian, or other person having the
legal care, custody, or control of any minor under the age of 18 years to allow
or permit such minor to violate any provision of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 4-4.02) (Ord. 106 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 182 N.S., passed - -
; Am. Ord. 633 C.S., passed 2-15-95; Am. Ord. 683 C.S., passed 4-1-98)
§ 4-4.03 AIDING AND ABETTING.
   It is unlawful for any person to assist, aid, abet, or encourage any minor
under the age of 18 years to violate any provision of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 4-4.03) (Ord. 106 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 633 C.S., passed 2-
15-95)
§ 4-4.04 DETENTION OF JUVENILES.
   Any minor under the age of 18 years found in violation of this chapter and
taken into temporary custody therefor shall either be taken to the proper place
for detention for such minors or detained until the arrival of a parent,
guardian, or proper person to care for the minor. This provision shall not
prohibit the transportation of such minors to their residence or their proper
abode.
('61 Code, § 4-4.04) (Ord. 106 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 633 C.S., passed 2-
15-95)
§ 4-4.05 RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF PARKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter, remain in, or loiter in
any park in the city between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and daylight immediately
following during the period from November 1, to and including March 1, and
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and daylight immediately following during the
period from March 2, to and including October 31, without the written
permission of the Police Chief. The Police Chief is authorized to issue permits
for the use of the city park after the above hours upon receipt of a written
application therefor on such form and within such time prior to any special use
as prescribed by the Police Chief and after determination by the Police Chief
that the proposed activity will not be detrimental to the public health,
safety, and general welfare. Such determination to the Police Chief shall be
based upon his or her assessment and evaluation of police problems which may
arise from the proposed activity, the age of the participants, the hours of the
conduct of the activity, the conditions of the park premises to be used, the
current status of the level of delinquency in the community at large and the
locale of the proposed activity, and such other similar and pertinent factors
which will enable the Police Chief to make a determination of the advisability
of issuing a permit. The Police Chief may impose such conditions as he or she
deems necessary to the granting of such permit, considering the nature of the
activity, the use of the park property, the accumulation of trash, and such
other factors necessary to preserve the health, safety, and general welfare of
the community.
   (B)   Violation of this section is expressly declared to be a misdemeanor.
('61 Code, § 4-4.05) (Ord. 131 C.S., passed 10-3-68; Am. Ord. 424 C.S., passed
- - ; Am. Ord. 567 C.S., passed 6-19-91)
§ 4-4.06 RESERVED AREAS IN PARKS.
   It is unlawful for any person to interfere with or refuse to vacate any part
or portion of any park which at the time is reserved by permit for the use of
any other person or group.
('61 Code, § 4-4.06) (Ord. 458, C.S., passed 7-16-86)
§ 4-4.07 PARENTS MUST CALL FOR CHILDREN.
   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or person having a minor in
his or her charge, after receiving notice of the apprehension and detention of
said minor, to fail or neglect, without reasonable delay, to go in person or
send some suitable person after the minor so detained.
(Ord. 633 C.S., passed 2-15-95)
§ 4-4.08 VIOLATION.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and if such violator is a juvenile, they shall be dealt with in
accordance with the appropriate sections of the California Welfare and
Institutions Code and with juvenile court law and procedure.
(Ord. 633 C.S., passed 2-15-95)
§ 4-4.09 COSTS OF ENFORCEMENT.
   A fee for the costs of administrative and transportation services for the
return of the minor to his or her parents or legal guardian, shall be charged
jointly or severally to the minor, his or her parents, or legal guardian, in an
amount not to exceed these actual costs. This section shall be effective upon
the adoption of a resolution by the City Council which outlines the procedure
and implementation of the fee described herein.
(Ord. 633 C.S., passed 2-15-95)
CHAPTER 5: TAXICABS
Section
   
4-5.01   Definitions
   
4-5.02   Taxicab and drivers permits required
   
4-5.03   Application for taxicab permit
   
4-5.04   Issuance of taxicab permit
   
4-5.05   Repealed
   
4-5.06   Application for taxicab drivers permit
   
4-5.07   Application investigation and issuance of taxicab drivers permit
   
4-5.08   Taxicab and taxicab drivers permits; general provisions
   
4-5.09   Breach of duty not a waiver
   
4-5.10   City held harmless
   
4-5.11   Liability insurance
   
4-5.12   Control; city officers
   
4-5.13   Rules and regulations
   
4-5.14   Equipment and condition of taxicabs
   
4-5.15   Visual inspection by Code Enforcement Officer
   
4-5.16   Significant safety hazard
   
4-5.17   Rules for taxicab drivers
   
4-5.18   Operating rules
   
4-5.19   Rates of fares
   
4-5.20   Penalty for refusal to pay fare
   
4-5.21   Applicability to existing taxicab permits
   
4-5.22   Violations and penalties
§ 4-5.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER. Every person in charge of, or operating, any passenger-carrying or
motor propelled vehicle, as defined in this section, either as agent, employee,
or otherwise of the owner, as owner, or under the direction of the owner.
   DROP CHARGE.  The initial charge made on the taximeter when the ride begins.
   INSPECTION REPORT. A document from an approved automotive repair facility
certifying that a particular vehicle meets all vehicle safety standards set
forth in this chapter and in regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter.
   OWNER. Every person having the use or control of any passenger-carrying
automobile or motor- propelled vehicle, as defined in this section, whether as
owner, lessee, or otherwise.
   QUALIFIED AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR FACILITY. A repair facility certified by the
State of California to perform safety inspections and repairs.
   STREET. Any place commonly used for the purpose of public travel.
   TAXICAB. Any motor vehicle designed for carrying not more than ten
passengers, including the driver operated in the streets of the city other than
over a defined or fixed route, for the transportation of persons for hire at
the direction of the passengers.
   TAXICAB DRIVERS PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to this chapter, to a
person for the privilege of operating a taxicab.
   TAXICAB PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to this chapter for the operation
of a taxicab on city streets.
   TAXICAB PERMITTEE. The person or company in whose name taxicab permits and
taxicab driver permits are issued.
   TAXIMETER. Any instrument or device attached to a taxicab, and designed or
intended to measure mechanically or electronically the distance traveled by
such taxicab, or to record the time the taxicab is in waiting, and to indicate,
by figures or designs, the fare to be charged in dollars and cents.
('61 Code, § 4-5.01) (Ord. 145 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 801 C.S., passed 9-
6-06; Am. Ord. 941 C.S., passed 6-7-17)
§ 4-5.02 TAXICAB AND DRIVERS PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any taxicab, regardless of
whether such operation extends beyond the boundary limits of the city, without
a valid taxicab permit first having been obtained authorizing such operation,
and a valid taxicab driver's permit having been obtained for the driver,
provided that no taxicab or taxicab drivers permit shall be required for a
taxicab which is lawfully transporting a passenger from a point outside this
city to a destination within this city, or which is en route from a point
outside this city to a destination outside this city; provided that no driver
of a taxicab without such taxicab permit and taxicab driver's permit shall
solicit or accept a passenger or passengers from within this city for
transportation to any destination whatsoever. Violation of this section shall
be a misdemeanor.
('61 Code, § 4-5.02) (Ord. 145 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 746 C.S., passed 2-
5-03; Am. Ord. 801 C.S., passed 9-6-06)
§ 4-5.03 APPLICATION FOR TAXICAB PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person desiring to secure a taxicab permit shall submit an
application therefor to the City Administrator or his or her designee. The
application shall be in a form approved by the City Administrator or his or her
designee and shall include the following:
      (1)   The applicant's name, home address, business address, and telephone
numbers, including information as to persons doing business under fictitious
names, as members of partnerships, or as officers or corporations or
associations;
      (2)   The number of permits desired and a list of vehicles to be used as
taxicabs, including a full description of each vehicle; provided, that the full
description of new vehicles may be submitted within 30 days of the date of
issuance of a permit hereunder;
      (3)   A full description of the location and operation of the applicant's
place of business, including radio operation, if any;
      (4)   The date upon which the applicant desires the permit to be issued;
      (5)   Such other and further information as the City Administrator or his
or her designee may require.
   (B)   The application shall be under penalty of perjury, and shall not be
accepted unless it is clearly filled out in full with all required information
and is accompanied by the non-refundable application fees designated in the
Master Fee Resolution for each permit requested.
('61 Code, § 4-5.03) (Ord. 145 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 746 C.S., passed 2-
5-03; Am. Ord. 801 C.S., passed 9-6-06; Am. Ord 941 C.S., passed 6-7-17)
§ 4-5.04 ISSUANCE OF TAXICAB PERMIT.
   (A)   The City Administrator or his or her designee, with the assistance of
the Police Chief or his or her designee, shall cause an investigation to be
made of the facts stated in the taxicab permit application, and shall, within
60 days, determine the following:
      (1)   Whether the applicant has had a taxicab permit revoked for any
cause within the last 24 months;
      (2)   Whether the application fee has been paid;
      (3)   Whether any fact exists that would be cause for revocation of a
taxicab permit because of a violation of any of the terms of this article or
rules promulgated pursuant thereto;
      (4)   Whether any statement made in the application is false;
      (5)   Whether the applicant, including all persons doing business under
fictitious names as members of partnerships, or as officers of corporations or
associations, has been convicted within the last five years of a crime or other
offense involving moral turpitude, or a conviction of use, possession or sale
of a controlled substance within the past three years.
   (B)   If the City Administrator or his or her designee makes a finding
unfavorable to the applicant, with respect to any of the above factors, the
City Administrator or his or her designee shall deny issuance of the permit and
shall give the applicant prompt written notice of such finding and decision.
The notice shall include a statement of the specific reasons for denial,
including any complaints received against any applicant presently holding a
permit and a notice that the applicant has a right to file an appeal under
Chapter 4 of Title I of this code.
   (C)   Should the City Administrator or his or her designee's report conclude
that the applicant meets the requirements of this chapter, the City
Administrator or his or her designee shall issue such permit or permits. Each
permit shall be numbered and shall state the name and address of the permittee
and the date of issuance. One permit shall be issued for each taxicab. The fees
paid by unsuccessful applicants shall not be refunded.
('61 Code, § 4-5.04) (Ord. 145 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 746 C.S., passed 2-
5-03; Am. Ord. 801 C.S., passed 9-6-06; Am. Ord. 941 C.S., passed 6-7-17)
§ 4-5.05 REPEALED.
§ 4-5.06 APPLICATION FOR TAXICAB DRIVERS PERMIT.
   Any person desiring to secure a taxicab driver's permit shall submit an
application therefor to the City Administrator or his or her designee. The
application shall be in a form approved by the City Administrator or his or her
designee and shall include the following:
   (A)   The applicant's name, home address, business address, and telephone
numbers;
   (B)   The applicant's age and place of birth;
   (C)   The date upon which the applicant wishes the permit to be issued:
   (D)   Identification, including the number, of any previous driver's permit
issued to the applicant;
   (E)   Three current identification pictures of the applicant; one for the
city issued ID card, one to be kept on file with the application and one to be
kept on file at the Police Department;
   (F)   A report of a Department of Transportation exam within the last 12
months, by a doctor of medicine, showing the applicant to be in a proper
physical condition to operate a taxicab safely;
   (G)   A statement of the applicant's criminal convictions within the last
five years, excluding parking violations:
   (H)   A copy of the drivers Class "B" California driver's license or a copy
of the driver's Class "C" license and a medical examination certificate as
required for the issuance of a Class"B" license;
   (I)   A letter from a current cab company certifying that the driver is
employed or will be employed by that company;
   (J)   Such other information as the City Administrator or his or her
designee may require. The application shall be under penalty of perjury, and
shall not be accepted unless it is clearly filled out in full with all required
information and is accompanied by the nonrefundable permit fee designated in
the Master Fee Resolution.
   (K)   Provide an approved Live Scan background check.
   (L)   A ten year history driving record issued by the California Department
of Motor Vehicles.
(Ord. 801 C.S., passed 9-6-06; Am. Ord. 941 C.S., passed 6-7-17)
§ 4-5.07 APPLICATION INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE OF TAXICAB DRIVERS PERMIT.
   (A)   The City Administrator or his or her designee, with the assistance of
the Police Chief or his or her designee, shall cause an investigation to be
made of the facts stated in the application and shall, within 30 days,
determine the following:
      (1)   Whether the applicant has had a taxicab driver's permit revoked for
any cause within the last 24 months, has ever had a taxicab driver's permit
revoked for a cause involving reckless driving or drunkenness, or has had an
application for a taxicab driver's permit denied within the last six months;
      (2)   Whether any statement made in the application is false;
      (3)   Whether the taxicab driver's permit has not been paid;
      (4)   Whether the applicant has been convicted within the last five years
of a crime involving moral turpitude or a conviction of use, possession or sale
of a controlled substance within the past three years, or a conviction
including any of the following:
         (a)   Any crimes listed in 290 CPC;
         (b)   DUI - Within five years of the date of fingerprinting;
         (c)   Vehicle theft;
         (d)   Fraud;
         (e)   Stolen property;
         (f)   Crimes of violence;
         (g)   Any felony crime relating to narcotics or any controlled
substance;
         (h)   Any other crimes enumerated in 2432.3 of the CVC;
         (i)   Actively on parole or on any form of probation;
         (j)   Crimes resulting in the applicant becoming a sex, arson or
narcotics registrant;
         (k)   Other felony or violent misdemeanor conviction;
      (5)   Whether any fact exists that would be cause for suspension or
revocation of a taxicab driver's permit because of a violation of any of the
terms of this article or rules promulgated pursuant thereto;
      (6)   Whether the applicant possesses a valid California Class "B"
driver's license or a Class"C" license and documentation of the required
medical examination for a Class"B" license;
      (7)   Whether the applicant has submitted three recent pictures, has been
fingerprinted, and has presented proof of a physical examination within the
last 12 months showing the applicant to be in a proper physical condition to
operate a taxicab.
   (B)   The City Administrator or his or her designee may deny issuance of a
permit in the event he or she makes a finding adverse to the applicant with
respect to any of the above factors. If a permit is denied, the City
Administrator or his or her designee shall give the applicant prompt written
notice of such decision. The notice shall include a statement of the specific
reasons for denial including any complaints received against any applicant
currently holding a permit.
   (C)   If the City Administrator or his or her designee concludes that the
applicant meets the requirements of this chapter, the City Administrator or his
or her designee shall issue the taxicab driver's permit.
   (D)   An applicant denied issuance of a taxicab driver's permit under this
section may appeal the denial pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 4 of Title I of this code.
(Ord. 199 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 323 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 136 C.S.,
passed 5-7-69; Am. Ord. 204 C.S., passed 9-5-73; Am. Ord. 256 C.S., passed 2-2-
77; Am. Ord. 338 C.S., passed 5-5-80; Am. Ord. 375 C.S., passed 8-17-81; Am.
Ord. 746 C.S., passed 2-5-03; Am. Ord. 801 C.S., passed 9-6-06; Am. Ord. 941
C.S., passed 6-7-17)
§ 4-5.08 TAXICAB AND TAXICAB DRIVERS PERMITS; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No vested right or property interest of any type is acquired by a
taxicab permit or taxicab driver's permit issued to any person under this
chapter.
   (B)   All taxicab permits and taxicab driver's permits are revocable and
subject to suspension in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and
are to be exercised only in conformance with the regulations provided in this
chapter.
   (C)   A permittee shall not permit any right or privilege granted by his or
her permit to be exercised by another, nor shall his or her permit or any
interest therein or any right or privilege there under be sold, transferred,
leased, assigned or otherwise disposed of except as provided in this chapter. A
transfer in violation of this subsection shall be grounds for revocation or
suspension of the permit. Upon the death of any taxicab permittee, the permit
may be exercised by the executor or administrator of the deceased permittee's
estate during the period of estate administration. The period shall not exceed
one year from the permittee's death.
      (1)   A deceased permittee's surviving heir(s) who inherits the
permittee’s entire taxicab company may reapply for taxicab permits in an amount
equal to the permits possessed by the deceased permittee.
      (2)   A permittee may sell his/her taxicab company, or one or more
taxicabs, to another current permittee without invoking any minimum permit
regulations in force at that time. The permittee purchasing the taxicabs may
then apply for taxicab permits for all the taxicabs for which the selling
company possessed permits. Any permittee purchasing such taxicabs who is
otherwise not required to operate under a radio-dispatched system shall be
required to so operate as a result of such purchase.
   (D)   The renewal fee for each taxicab permit shall be the annual amount
designated in the Master Fee Resolution. If any permit is not exercised, the
fee shall not be refunded. The fee required is a permit fee and shall not be
deemed to be in lieu of a business license tax as required by the provisions of
this code. Prior to the payment of the annual permit renewal fee for a taxicab
permit the permittee must submit a valid State of California vehicle
registration card.
   (E)   A permittee who has a taxicab permit but does not exercise this permit
due to the taxicab vehicle being out-of-service, wrecked, unavailable for
service, or without liability insurance, for a period of 180 days shall
automatically forfeit that permit, except for those vehicles mentioned in
subsection (H) of this section.
   (F)   Taxicab driver's permits are annual permits which expire on the
following June 30, provided, that whenever a taxicab driver's permit has been
applied for and issued within a period of 60 days before June 30, it shall be
valid when issued and may be issued for the next ensuing year. Application for
renewal must be received by the City Administrator or his or her designee
before expiration of the permit and will require a records update from the
Police Department and will, if permittee has been arrested within the past 12
months, require the permittee to be fingerprinted. The City Administrator or
his or her designee shall determine whether the permittee possesses a valid
California Class "B" driver's license or a Class "C" license with the required
medical examination.
   (G)   The renewal fee for a taxicab driver's permit shall be the annual
amount designated in the Master Fee Resolution. If any permit is not exercised,
the fee shall not be refunded.
   (H)   Each taxicab permit holder may have one additional vehicle, which must
be permitted, insured, and otherwise ready for use, for every three permits he
or she holds.
('61 Code, § 4-5.08) (Ord. 145 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 801 C.S., passed 9-
6-06; Am. Ord. 941 C.S., passed 6-7-17)
§ 4-5.09 BREACH OF DUTY NOT A WAIVER.
   By permitting or overlooking any obligation of a taxicab permittee or
driver, the city does not waive or bar its right to require prompt performance,
when due, of all other such obligations.
(Ord. 801 C.S., passed 9-6-06)
§ 4-5.10 CITY HELD HARMLESS.
   A taxicab permittee shall, and by acceptance of his or her permit does,
agree to indemnify, defend and hold the city free and harmless from any and all
claims, costs, liability, damages or expenses, including costs of suit and
fees, including attorneys' fees, on account of any damages arising out of the
taxicab permittee's operation of a taxicab business under the permit, except
for that liability caused by the sole negligence of the city.
(Ord. 801 C.S., passed 9-6-06)
§ 4-5.11 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any taxicab unless there shall be
filed and deposited with the City Clerk a current and valid certificate of
insurance executed and delivered by a company authorized to carry on an
insurance business in the state, the financial responsibility of which company
shall be evidenced by an A.M. Best Rating of at least A:VII. The certificate of
insurance shall identify coverage in force for the following minimum amounts:
      (1)   General liability coverage in the following minimum amounts:
         (a)   $1,000,000 limit for each occurrence;
         (b)   $1,000,000 limit for personal injury;
         (c)   $1,000,000 general aggregate limit;
         (d)   $5,000 medical expense limit for any one person;
         (e)   $100,000 limit for damage to rented premises.
      (2)   Automobile liability with a combined single limit of $1,000,000 for
each accident; and
      (3)   Workers' compensation and employer liability as required by the
State of California. The city may require at its option, a copy of all policies
and endorsements of required insurance in addition to certificates of
insurance.
   (B)   Certificates of insurance shall contain a provision against
cancellation except upon 30 day(s) prior written notice thereof to the city.
   (C)   Any deductibles or self insured retentions must be declared to and
approved by the city. Approval will not be unduly withheld if the operator is
able to provide evidence of sufficient financial means that would allow meeting
the deductible or self insured retention.
   (D)   The insurance policies are to be endorsed to contain the provisions
noted below and such endorsements are to be identified on the certificate(s) of
coverage (and/or policies and endorsements) that are to be provided to the city
by the operator with any mandatory endorsements.
   (E)   Endorsements. The city, its officers, officials, employees, and
volunteers are to be covered as additional insured with respect to liability
arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of
the operator.
('61 Code, § 4-5.06) (Ord. 145 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 192 C.S., passed 10-
18-72 ; Am. Ord. 746 C.S., passed 2-5-03; Am. Ord. 801 C.S., passed 9-6-06)
§ 4-5.12 CONTROL; CITY OFFICERS.
   Subject to the general control of the City Administrator, the regulation of
taxicab permits shall be within the power and duties of the City Administrator
or his or her designee. The City Administrator or his or her designee shall
immediately inform the Police Chief, or his or her designee, of the suspension
or revocation of taxicab permits or taxicab driver's permits for any reason.
(Ord. 801 C.S., passed 9-6-06; Am. Ord. 941 C.S., passed 6-7-17)
§ 4-5.13 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The City Administrator or his or her designee is hereby empowered to
make rules and regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter
as may be necessary or desirable to aid in the enforcement of the provisions
and purposes of this chapter. The rules and regulations may include, but are
not limited to, a system of identification and numbering of taxicabs and
drivers.
   (B)   Any violation of such rules and regulations shall be grounds for
denial, suspension or revocation of a taxicab permit, or taxicab driver's
permit.
(Ord. 801 C.S., passed 9-6-06; Am. Ord. 941 C.S., passed 6-7-17)
§ 4-5.14 EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION OF TAXICABS.
   Each taxicab and other equipment used by a taxicab permittee shall be
maintained and used strictly in conformance with the following:
   (A)   Taximeter. Every taxicab shall be equipped with an accurate taximeter.
It shall be unlawful to tamper with any taximeter or other measuring instrument
used for the purpose of gauging or indicating distance traveled, or waiting
time, or for the purpose of fixing rates to be collected from the public, or
the lead tags or seal thereof.
      (1)   Every taximeter or other measuring instrument used for the purpose
of gauging or indicating distance traveled, or waiting time, or for the purpose
of computing fares to be collected from the public shall be of a type inspected
and approved, and subject to inspection, at all times, by the County Bureau of
Weights and Measures.
      (2)   The taximeter shall be so placed in the taxicab that the reading
dial showing the amount to be charged shall be well lighted and readily
discernible by the passenger riding in such taxicab, unless such taximeter is
equipped and operated as a receipt-printing taximeter.
      (3)   The driver of a taxicab shall not throw the flag of the taximeter
in a recording position when such taxicab is not actually employed. The driver
of a taxicab shall throw the flag of such taximeter to the non-recording
position at the termination of each service.
      (4)   The driver of a taxicab while carrying passengers or under
employment, except on an hourly basis or contract basis, shall not display the
flag affixed to such taximeter in such position as to denote that he or she is
employed at a rate of fare different from that to which he or she is entitled.
      (5)   A taxicab having a broken lead tag and/or lead wire, an out-of-date
seal or a notification from the County Bureau of Weights and Measures that the
meter of that taxicab is red flagged" shall have its permit suspended for so
long as the condition existing beginning one work day after the taxicab
permittee is notified by the City or County Bureau of Weights and Measures that
the condition exists. A taxicab permit shall be suspended for ten days if the
above condition occurs three times in any six month period for that taxicab.
Such suspension may be appealed using the procedure described in Chapter 9, §
1-9.10.
   (B)   Color. Each taxicab of any permittee shall be of a distinctive uniform
color scheme, and no vehicle covered by the terms of this chapter shall be
operated whose color scheme, identifying design, monogram, or insignia to be
used herein shall, in the opinion of the City Administrator or his or her
designee, conflict with or imitate any color scheme, design, monogram or
insignia used on or in a vehicle or vehicles operating under another taxicab
permit of the city, or pursuant to any other law or statute, in such manner as
to be misleading or intended to deceive or defraud the public. Taxicabs may
bear an advertising sign, space, or placard on the rear thereof, which shall
not be of a size so as to interfere with the vision of the driver or a view of
the license plate, name, or permittee, or number of taxicab.
   (C)   Display of names, rates and service status.
      (1)   Rate structure. The rate structure must include the distance for
which the initial flag drop pays, the rate per mile thereafter and the charge
per minute of waiting time, if any. Unit rates smaller or larger than one
minute may also be included.
      (2)   Exterior signs. There shall be on the outside of each taxicab,
signs, cards or plates, of a durable or permanent nature, showing the
permittee's taxicab business name, taxicab permit number, current telephone
number and rate structure. The taxicab business name and telephone number shall
be displayed prominently on both sides of the taxicab. The taxicab's rate
structure shall be displayed on both sides of the taxicab in the manner
prescribed in the City Administrator or his or her designee's rules and
regulations.
      (3)   Interior signs. There shall be displayed in the passenger
compartment of each taxicab, in full view of the passenger, a sign or card of
heavy material not less than four inches by eight inches in size, securely
attached, providing the following information in letters and numbers as large
as the size of the sign will allow: the name of the taxicab permittee and any
fictitious name under which the taxicab operates, the current business address
and telephone number of the permittee, a correct schedule of the rates to be
charged for conveyance in the taxicab, and the name, address and telephone
number of the agency issuing the taxicab permit, i.e., the City Administrator
or his or her designee of the City of Madera.
      (4)   Any taxicab which is not available for fares, such as an off-duty
taxicab, a taxicab being driven by a non-permitted driver, or having had the
permit suspended, must display in both side rear windows signs which state,
"Out of Service." The letters of the sign shall not be less than one inch high
nor less than one-quarter inch wide.
   (D)   Prior to the issuance of any new taxicab permit and at the discretion
of the City Administrator or his or her designee and at least once a year, the
owner shall present to the City Administrator or his or her designee an
inspection report by a qualified automotive repair facility, which must be a
certified inspection facility by the Bureau of Automotive Repair, certifying
that an inspection involving the mileage, engine, gears, transmission, brake
system, lighting system, exhaust and air pollution control system, tires and
wheels has taken place and the automobile complies with all federal and state
safety requirements along with any other items specified by the City
Administrator or his or her designee. Throughout the duration of a permit all
taxicabs shall be maintained in a clean and mechanically safe condition.
   (E)   Seats, upholstery and rugs must be kept in good repair and must not be
torn or ripped. Seat springs must not be broken or protrude through the
upholstery. Seats shall be firm and comfortable and the tension of the seat
springs shall be evenly distributed. All taxicab vehicles must have seatbelts
in all seating positions where passengers may ride. These seatbelts must be in
working order and available and observable for use by passengers at all times.
   (F)   All taxicab vehicle tires must comply with the requirements set forth
in the California Vehicle Code.
   (G)   All taxicab vehicles shall at all times have a functional spare tire
and a working jack and wrench to replace a flat tire.
   (H)   Only objects required by law or approved by the City Administrator or
his or her designee may be placed on taxicab vehicle windows in conformance
with Cal. Veh. Code § 26078. Nothing shall be placed on any portion of the
taxicab vehicle which blocks the driver's vision. All windows and the
windshield shall be kept clean and clear.
   (I)   All interior and exterior lights must function properly and all lenses
of same are to be reasonably intact.
   (J)   The taxicab vehicle shall have a rear-view mirror and a side-view
mirror on the drivers side.
   (K)   The taxicab vehicle speedometer and odometer shall be in good working
order.
   (L)   The taxicab vehicle horn shall be in good working order.
      (M)   The taxicab vehicle heater and air conditioner shall be in good
working order.
   (N)   The taxicab vehicle shall be structurally sound and operate with a
minimum of vibration and noise.
   (O)   The exterior of the taxicab vehicle, including the paint, shall be
kept in good condition.
   (P)   The taxicab vehicle door hinges, locks and latches must be in good
mechanical order, and all doors shall operate easily and close securely from
either the outside or inside of the taxicab vehicle.
   (Q)   The taxicab vehicle wheels must have hubcaps attached, unless the
wheels are of custom design, or otherwise of an appearance that hubcaps are not
necessarily for a satisfactory appearance.
   (R)   The taxicab bumpers and body moldings must be in good condition and
properly attached as installed by the manufacturer.
   (S)   The taxicab vehicle shock absorbers and springs must be in good
working order.
   (T)   The taxicab windshield wipers shall be operable and the blades in good
condition.
   (U)   The taxicab vehicle suspension, steering, brakes, emergency brakes and
exhaust system must be in good condition.
   (V)   The taxicab vehicle dashboard and rear shelf shall not have any loose
items lying about.
   (W)   The taxicab vehicle trunk and/or baggage area shall be kept clean,
free of items or materials that could damage or stain passengers' baggage, and
free of any containers containing flammable liquids.
   (X)   All numbers and letters painted on or attached to the sides, front, or
rear of the taxicab vehicle as required by this chapter shall be the same color
and in good contrast to the distinctive color scheme.
   (Y)   All taxicab vehicles must have at least three passenger doors.
   (Z)   The driver of a taxicab vehicle shall at all times when operating the
taxicab vehicle display the permit card supplied by the taxicab operator as set
forth in this chapter.
Taxicabs not maintained in a clean and mechanically safe condition shall be
subject to revocation of that taxicab's permit.
(Ord. 801 C.S., passed 9-6-06; Am. Ord. 941 C.S., passed 6-7-17)
§ 4-5.15 VISUAL INSPECTION BY CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   At a time specified by the City Administrator or his or her designee, each
taxicab shall be inspected by the City Administrator or his or her designee to
ascertain compliance with the requirements of this chapter. If such inspection
reveals a significant safety hazard, the permit shall be automatically
suspended, and the taxicab shall immediately be ordered out of service. Prior
to being placed back in service, the taxicab shall be re-inspected to determine
that the deficiency has been corrected. An inspection fee for a rescheduled
inspection or a re-inspection will be charged as designated in the Master Fee
Schedule.
(Ord. 801 C.S., passed 9-6-06; Am. Ord. 941 C.S., passed 6-7-17)
§ 4-5.16 SIGNIFICANT SAFETY HAZARD.
   (A)   The existence of a significant safety hazard shall be grounds for the
automatic suspension of a taxicab permit by the City Administrator or his or
her designee. The taxicab shall immediately be ordered out of service. Prior to
being placed back in service, the permittee shall submit to the City
Administrator or his or her designee verification from a qualified mechanic
approved by the City Administrator or his or her designee that the deficiency
has been corrected.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter, a significant safety hazard shall be
deemed to include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   For excessive leakage of oil, grease or any other substance from
any part of the taxicab, including leakage into the taxicab.
      (2)   Existence of any defects in the frame of the taxicab.
      (3)   Failure to maintain any movable parts of the taxicab, including
doors, windows, handles, hood, trunk and lights, in good operating condition.
      (4)   Failure to maintain the tires, horn, exterior lights, turning
signals or brakes in good operating condition.
      (5)   Failure to maintain the motor, steering, and other mechanical parts
of the taxicab in good operating condition.
      (6)   Failure to have an adequate exhaust system, properly installed and
in good operating condition.
      (7)   Presence within the interior of the taxicab of any hard or sharp
protrusion not necessary for the operation of the taxicab, or the presence of
any large or heavy item which is not securely anchored to prevent movement in
case of a sudden stop or collision.
      (8)   Obstructions of the windshield, or the side or rear windows.
(Ord. 801 C.S., passed 9-6-06; Am. Ord. 941 C.S., passed 6-7-17)
§ 4-5.17 RULES FOR TAXICAB DRIVERS.
   Taxicab drivers shall be familiar with and obey the following rules:
   (A)   Taxicab drivers shall not park their taxicab on any public street in
the Central Business District, except where a driver is answering a call or
parked at an authorized parking area or zone.
   (B)   Taxicab drivers shall, upon request, give any passenger making payment
a receipt for the amount of the fare charged.
   (C)   Each taxicab driver shall wear a nametag having the driver's first
name, driver number, and current picture attached to the driver's breast pocket
or other readily visible location at all times while the driver is operating a
taxicab for hire. The driver's permit shall be readily available at all times
for inspection by the City Administrator or his or her designee or a Police
Officer, while the driver is operating a taxicab.
   (D)   Taxicab operators, managers, or drivers shall not drive, or permit to
be driven, a taxicab vehicle with an unclean interior.
   (E)   Every taxicab operator and driver placing in service, driving, or
causing to be driven, any taxicab vehicle in the City of Madera shall be
responsible for the thorough washing of each taxicab vehicle operated or driven
by them at least once a week, and shall also carefully sweep and clean each
taxicab vehicle and trunk compartment at the completion of each shift of
operation: and whenever required in writing by the Department of Public Health
of the County of Madera every taxicab operator and driver operating or causing
to be operated a taxicab vehicle within the city limits shall be responsible
for immediately disinfecting each taxicab vehicle so operated or driven by them
by spraying them with a disinfectant.
   (F)   Taxicab drivers shall not consume or be under the influence of any
alcohol, controlled substance, or prescribed or non-prescribed drug which
affects their driving, while operating a taxicab vehicle.
   (G)   Taxicab drivers shall comply with all the reasonable requests of a
passenger, including but not limited to the giving of their name, permit
number, the taxicab permit number, and informing the passenger of the complaint
form available in the Neighborhood Revitalization Department.
   (H)   Taxicab drivers shall not threaten, harass or abuse any passenger or
use or attempt to use any physical force against a passenger except in self-
defense or in the defense of another.
   (I)   Taxicab drivers shall not refuse to transport a passenger's luggage,
wheelchair, crutches, or other similar property or a guide dog or other orderly
pet.
   (J)   Taxicab drivers shall, if requested, assist a handicapped, disabled or
elderly person to, into and out of the taxicab vehicle if within the physical
capacity of the driver.
   (K)   Upon request of a passenger, taxicab drivers shall load or unload
luggage in or from the taxicab vehicle's interior or trunk compartment if
within the physical capacity of the driver.
   (L)   Taxicab drivers shall not smoke, drink or eat while a passenger is in
the taxicab vehicle.
   (M)   Taxicab drivers shall not operate any radio, except the radio dispatch
system, or any radio or tape player while a passenger is in the taxicab vehicle
unless the passenger so requests.
   (N)   Taxicab drivers shall be neatly attired and shall not wear short
pants; ragged, torn, or dirty clothing of any type; unsightly or unsafe
footwear; any clothing with offensive or obscene words, statements or phrases;
T-shirts (unless covered by an overshirt or designated as part of a uniform by
the driver's employer): or any other clothing inappropriate to the conduct of
business. Violations of this section shall be grounds for revocation of
permittee's taxi driver permit.
(Ord. 801 C.S., passed 9-6-06; Am. Ord. 941 C.S., passed 6-7-17)
§ 4-5.18 OPERATING RULES.
   All taxicabs shall be used strictly in conformance with the following rules:
   (A)   Carrying of additional passengers. When a taxicab is engaged, the
occupant shall have the exclusive right to the full use of the passenger
compartment, and the owner or driver of such taxicab shall not solicit or carry
additional passengers without the consent of the occupant.
   (B)   Calls to be answered as received. The driver of any taxicab shall
answer all calls received in the order of their receipt.
   (C)   Limitation on number of passengers. No driver of any taxicab shall
transport any larger number of passengers than the rated seating capacity of
his or her taxicab.
   (D)   Circuitous routes. Any driver employed to carry passengers to a
definite point shall take the most direct route possible that will carry the
passengers safely and expeditiously to their destination.
   (E)   Radio dispatch. All new taxicab permittees shall operate under a radio
dispatch system.
(Ord. 801 C.S., passed 9-6-06)
§ 4-5.19 RATES OF FARE.
   (A)   The rates of fare to be charged to the public for use of taxicabs
shall be the same for all taxicabs operated by the permittee, and shall be
based upon time and distance traveled.
   (B)   The Council, by resolution, may establish rates for mileage, drop
charges, and waiting time applicable to all taxicabs. This rate shall increase
due to changes in the Consumer Price Index.
(Ord. 801 C.S., passed 9-6-06)
§ 4-5.20 PENALTY FOR REFUSAL TO PAY FARE.
   Except where credit is extended, any person who shall willfully or
fraudulently fail or refuse to pay, at the end of the trip, or the termination
or discharge of service, the legal fare for a taxicab that he or she has hired,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 801 C.S., passed 9-6-06)
§ 4-5.21 APPLICABILITY TO EXISTING TAXICAB PERMITS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all taxicab companies which
were conducting business prior to the date on which this chapter becomes
effective; provided however, the permits required for taxicab companies
existing on or before the effective date of this chapter shall comply with all
provisions of this chapter within 120 days from and after the date on which
this chapter becomes effective.
(Ord. 801 C.S., passed 9-6-06)
§ 4-5.22 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by
forfeiture of his or her permits in addition to any other fine or imprisonment
as provided in
Chapter 2 of Title 1 of this code.
(Ord. 801 C.S., passed 9-6-06)
CHAPTER 6: STREET TREES
Section
   
4-6.01   Approved trees
   
4-6.02   Tree replacement
   
4-6.03   Protection during erection or repair of buildings
   
4-6.04   Unsafe trees
   
4-6.05   Abuse of trees
§ 4-6.01 APPROVED TREES.
   Except as hereinafter provided, from and after July 1, 1965, no tree or
trees shall be planted or transplanted on public property or rights-of-way or
planted on private property so as to hang over public property except those
trees designated upon an approved street tree list as specified by resolution
of the Council. In the event any person desires to plant a tree within a public
right-of-way, or which may overhang a public right-of-way, which tree is not
upon the approved street tree list, such planting may be permitted if
authorized by the Director of Parks and Community Services. The Director of
Parks and Community Services shall not issue any such permit unless he or she
finds and determines that such tree is of a variety having desirable
characteristics with regard to surface roots, disease, falling leaves, and
other qualities pertinent to the maintenance of preferable street trees in the
city.
('61 Code, § 4-6.01) (Ord. 78 C.S., passed 7-7-65; Am. Ord. 397 C.S., passed 7-
19-82)
§ 4-6.02 TREE REPLACEMENT.
   Whenever it becomes necessary to remove a tree to prevent damage to
sidewalks or curbs, or to remove a dying, dead, decayed, diseased, or hazardous
tree, such tree or trees shall be removed by the owner of the property abutting
that portion of the public right-of-way where the tree is located; provided,
however, upon removal thereof, the property owner shall replace the tree with a
tree of an approved type as designated on the approved street-tree list unless
the area from which the tree was removed is no longer suitable for planting.
Nothing in this section, however, shall preclude the removal by city forces of
any tree without the request of a property owner.
('61 Code, § 4-6.02) (Ord. 78 C.S., passed 7-7-65; Am. Ord. 397 C.S., passed 7-
19-82)
§ 4-6.03 PROTECTION DURING ERECTION OR REPAIR OF BUILDINGS.
   During the erection, repair, alteration, or removal of any building, house,
or structure in the city, no person in charge of such work shall leave any
tree, shrub, or plant in any street, park, pleasure ground, boulevard, alley,
or public place of the city in the vicinity of such building or structure
without such good or sufficient guards or protectors as shall prevent injury to
the tree, shrub, or plant arising out of, or by reason of, the erection,
repair, alteration, or removal.
('61 Code, § 4-6.03) (Ord. 78 C.S., passed 7-7-65)
§ 4-6.04 UNSAFE TREES.
   Any trees or shrubs growing in a public parking strip or in any public place
or in private property, which trees or shrubs are endangering, or which in any
way may endanger, the security or usefulness of any public street, sewer,
sidewalk, or the full and safe operation of public utility wires, are declared
to be a public nuisance, and the Director of Code Enforcement may require the
property owner to remove or trim any such tree on private property or on a
parking strip abutting upon such owner's property.
('61 Code, § 4-6.04) (Ord. 78 C.S., passed 7-7-65; Am. Ord. 397 C.S., passed 7-
19-82)
§ 4-6.05 ABUSE OF TREES.
   It shall be unlawful to abuse, destroy, or mutilate any tree, shrub, or
plant in a public parking strip or any other public place, or to attach or
place any rope or wire (other than one used to support a young or broken tree),
sign, poster, handbill, or other thing to, or on, any tree growing in a public
place, or to cause or permit any wire charged with electricity to be attached
to any such tree, or to allow any gaseous, liquid, or solid substance which is
harmful to such trees to come in contact with their roots or leaves.
('61 Code, § 4-6.05) (Ord. 78 C.S., passed 7-7-65)
CHAPTER 7: OPERATION OF AMBULANCES
Section
   
4-7.01   Definitions
   
4-7.02   Applicability
   
4-7.03   Certificates of public convenience and necessity
   
4-7.04   Applications
   
4-7.05   Notices
   
4-7.06   Hearing
   
4-7.07   Suspension and revocation
   
4-7.08   Certificates; prerequisite to license
   
4-7.09   Insurance
   
4-7.10   Mandatory requirements
§ 4-7.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMBULANCE. Any vehicle meeting the requirements of the State Administrative
Code that is specifically constructed, modified, equipped, designed, and used
and operated for transporting sick, injured, convalescent, infirm, or other
incapacitated persons.
   AMBULANCE ATTENDANT. Any person whose duty it is to care for any person
being transported in an ambulance.
   AMBULANCE SERVICE. The transportation for hire of the sick, injured,
convalescent, infirm, or other incapacitated persons or entity other than a
governmental agency.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives an ambulance.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN. An individual trained in life support in
accordance with standards set forth in the State Administrative Code and who
holds a valid certificate issued pursuant to the code. Emergency Medical
Technician may be classified as Emergency Medical Technician-I (EMT- I),
Emergency Medical Technician-II (EMT-II). or Emergency Medical Technician-
Paramedic (EMT-P).
   LICENSE. A business license issued by the Director of Finance.
   NON-EMERGENCY MEDICAL TRANSPORTATION. Transportation for hire of persons
with stable medical conditions which may require the use of a litter, gurney,
or other equipment, and which can be provided in a vehicle not routinely
equipped with the medical equipment or personnel required for the specialized
care provided in an ambulance.
   OPERATOR. The person, persons, or entity which owns or otherwise controls
the operation of an ambulance service.
('61 Code, § 4-7.01) (Ord. 144 C.S., passed 3-18-70; Am. Ord. 402 C.S., passed
1-20-83; Am. Ord. 414 C.S., passed 8-1-83)
§ 4-7.02 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the operation of any
vehicle used for the limited purpose of delivering passengers or patients
within the city from some point outside the city, to any ambulance picking up a
patient within the city when such ambulance operator shall have been informed
by the person requesting such service that no certificate holder hereunder is
willing or able to render such service and the Police Department of the city is
then notified that such pickup shall be made, or to any ambulance when such
services shall have been summoned or requested by any police, fire, or civilian
defense authority.
('61 Code, § 4-7.02) (Ord. 144 C.S., passed 3-18-70; Am. Ord. 402 C.S., passed
1-20-83; Am. Ord. 414 C.S., passed 8-1-83)
§ 4-7.03 CERTIFICATES OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY.
   No person shall operate, cause, permit, or allow to be operated any
ambulance service in the city without having first obtained a certificate of
public convenience and necessity from the City Council; provided, however, in
the event there is no ambulance service of any kind serving the city at the
time of making an application for such certificate, the City Administrator is
authorized to issue an interim certificate of public convenience and necessity
allowing immediate operation of the service pending a hearing by the Council,
provided there is full compliance with all other terms and conditions of this
chapter.
('61 Code, § 4-7.03) (Ord. 144 C.S., passed 3-18-70; Am. Ord. 402 C.S., passed
1-20-83; Am. Ord. 414 C.S., passed 8-1-83)
§ 4-7.04 APPLICATIONS.
   An application for a certificate of public convenience and necessity shall
be filed with the City Clerk upon forms provided by the city, accompanied by a
fee of $25. Such application shall contain at least the following information:
the name and address of the applicant and the street number and exact location
of the place of business, the name if the insurance carrier who has or is
prepared to provide insurance required by this chapter, evidence that the
vehicles to be used as ambulances have met the requirements of state law, and
such other additional information that may be specified by the city.
('61 Code, § 4-7.04) (Ord. 144 C.S., passed 3-18-70; Am. Ord. 402 C.S., passed
1-20-83; Am. Ord. 414 C.S., passed 8-1-83)
§ 4-7.05 NOTICES.
   Upon filing of such application, the City Clerk shall fix a time and place
for a public hearing thereon not less than ten, nor more than 30, days after
the filing of the application. Notice of such hearing shall be given to the
applicant five days before such hearing by mail at the address set out in the
application. Any interested person may file with the Council a memorandum in
support of, or in opposition to, the issuance of a certificate of public
convenience and necessity.
('61 Code, § 4-7.05) (Ord. 144 C.S., passed 3-18-70; Am. Ord. 402 C.S., passed
1-20-83; Am. Ord. 414 C.S., passed 8-1-83)
§ 4-7.06 HEARING.
   (A)   At the time set for the hearing of such application, the Council may
examine the applicant and all persons interested on the matters set forth in
the application. The Council may by resolution or minute order, direct the
Director of Finance to issue a certificate of public convenience and necessity
in accordance with the application, subject to the filing and approval of
evidence of insurance as provided in this chapter and upon such conditions as
may be designated by the City Council.
   (B)   The following may constitute grounds for denial of the request for
issuance of a certificate:
      (1)   The application is not in the form, or does not contain the
information, required;
      (2)   The location of the place of business as stated in the application
is such as to congest or interfere with travel on any public street or located
in an area of the city from which response time to calls for ambulance services
within the city would be inadequate;
      (3)   The applicant has at some prior time had a certificate of public
convenience and necessity for the operation of an ambulance revoked for reason;
      (4)   Investigation by the Police Department discloses conviction of a
felony, addiction to alcohol or narcotics, or other adverse characteristics of
the applicant; or
      (5)   There is an existing ambulance service in the community and the
Council finds and determines that because of the economic conditions attendant
to the operation of such service, the issuance of an additional certificate of
public convenience and necessity cannot be sustained.
('61 Code, § 4-7.06) (Ord. 144 C.S., passed 3-18-70; Am. Ord. 402 C.S., passed
1-20-83; Am. Ord. 414 C.S., passed 8-1-83)
§ 4-7.07 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   A certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to
this chapter may be suspended or revoked by the City Council upon
recommendation of the County Service Provider Review Committee, to whom all
injuries and complaints concerning ambulance service shall be referred after
the issuance of the certificate of public convenience and necessity, or where a
certificate holder has abandoned its operation for a period of five or more
days, provided however, acts of God, labor disputes, and other acts beyond the
control of a certificate holder which cause abandonment or limitation of
service shall not be considered an abandonment within the meaning of this
section.
   (B)   No suspension or revocation shall be effective until after a hearing
is held by the City Council and the certificate holder has been given not less
than five days notice of such hearing by certified mail, setting forth the
grounds of such proposed revocation, and providing that holder shall be
afforded any and all reasonable opportunity to present such evidence as the
holder may have in connection therewith. Nothing in this section shall be
deemed to limit the authority of the City Council on its own motion, or
recommendation of the City Administrator or the Chief of Police, to revoke or
suspend a certificate of public convenience and necessity.
('61 Code, § 4-7.07) (Ord. 144 C.S., passed 3-18-70; Am. Ord. 402 C.S., passed
1-20-83; Am. Ord. 414 C.S., passed 8-1-83)
§ 4-7.08 CERTIFICATES; PREREQUISITE TO LICENSE.
   No person shall be entitled to receive a business license to operate an
ambulance service without first having received a certificate of public
convenience and necessity.
('61 Code, § 4-7.08) (Ord. 144 C.S., passed 3-18-70; Am. Ord. 402 C.S., passed
1-20-83; Am. Ord. 414 C.S., passed 8-1-83)
§ 4-7.09 INSURANCE.
   Before the issuance of a certificate of public convenience and necessity,
the applicant shall file with the City Clerk policies of insurance, or
certificates evidencing issuance of policies, issued by an insurance company
authorized to do business in the state in a form acceptable to the City
Administrator, evidencing insurance coverage in amounts fixed by the City
Administrator providing for general liability, automobile liability, and
professional malpractice liability. Such insurance policy shall be maintained
as long as the certificate of public convenience and necessity is in force. The
City shall be named as additional insured on all policies and all such policies
shall contain an endorsement requiring 30 days written notice to the City Clerk
before cancellation, modification, or reduction of the limits of the policy by
the insurer.
('61 Code, § 4-7.09) (Ord. 144, C.S., passed 3-18-70; Am. Ord. 402 C.S., passed
1-20-83; Am. Ord. 414 C.S., passed 8-1-83; Am. Ord. 463, C.S., passed 7-7-86)
§ 4-7.10 MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS.
   The following rules and regulations shall be observed by all persons
operating any ambulance service:
   (A)   All ambulances shall be kept in good mechanical condition and
inspected and approved for operation by the State Highway Patrol. All
ambulances shall be kept clean and sanitary and be available for inspection by
the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Two ambulances shall be available for operation at all times. Subject
to weather, traffic, safety considerations and other pertinent factors, all
reasonable efforts shall be made to be able to respond to calls for an
ambulance within the city limits of the city within five minutes. Operators
shall be required to make every effort to ensure that response time with a
secondary or backup ambulance shall be as prompt as possible, with personnel
available at the ambulance office within ten minutes after the first call.
   (C)   A proficiency test of all ambulance drivers covering their knowledge
and locations of various streets and how to get from one location to another
shall be conducted every six months by the Police Department.
   (D)   Each ambulance shift must have at least one EMT-II on duty. All
attendants must be certified unless exempted by the City Health Officer.
('61 Code, § 4-7.10) (Ord. 144 C.S., passed 3-18-70; Am. Ord. 402 C.S., passed
1-20-83; Am. Ord. 414 C.S., passed 8-1-83)
CHAPTER 8: REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, WRECKED, DISMANTLED, OR INOPERATIVE VEHICLES
FROM PRIVATE OR PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
   
4-8.01   Findings and determinations
   
4-8.02   Definitions
   
4-8.03   Exceptions
   
4-8.04   Effect on other laws
   
4-8.05   Administration and enforcement
   
4-8.06   Right of entry of certain persons
   
4-8.07   Administrative costs
   
4-8.08   Notices; hearings
   
4-8.09   Hearings; determinations
   
4-8.10   (Repealed)
   
4-8.11   Removal
   
4-8.12   Removal; notices
   
4-8.13   Assessment of costs
   
4-8.14   Violation of this chapter
§ 4-8.01 FINDINGS AND DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   In addition to, and in accordance, with the determination made and the
authority granted by the state pursuant to the provisions of Cal. Veh. Code §
22660 to remove abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or inoperative vehicles, or
parts thereof, as public nuisances, the Council makes the following findings
and declarations in §
4-8.01(B).
   (B)   The accumulation and storage of abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or
inoperative vehicles, or parts thereof, on private or public property,
including highways, is found to create a condition tending to reduce the value
of private property, to promote blight and deterioration, to invite plundering,
to create fire hazards, to constitute an attractive nuisance creating a hazard
to the health and safety of minors, to create a harborage for rodents and
insects, and to be injurious to the health, safety, and general welfare.
Therefore, the presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or inoperative
vehicle, or part thereof, on private or public property, including highways,
except as expressly permitted by the provisions of this chapter, is declared to
constitute a public nuisance which may be abated as such in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 4-8.01) (Ord. 186 C.S., passed 8-2-72; Am. Ord. 782 C.S., passed
7-6-05)
§ 4-8.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. A vehicle that is left on a highway, public property, or
private property in such inoperable or neglected condition that the owner's
intent to relinquish all further rights or interests in it may be reasonably
concluded.
   DISMANTLED VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is partially or wholly disassembled.
   HIGHWAY. A way or place of whatever nature, publicly maintained and open to
the use of the public for the purposes of vehicular travel. HIGHWAY shall
include street, public right of way and alley.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE. Any vehicle prohibited from being operated on a public
street or highway and/or any vehicle that cannot be moved under its own power.
   VEHICLE. A device by which any person or property may be propelled, moved,
or drawn upon a highway, except a device moved by human power or used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   WRECKED VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is damaged to such an extent that it
cannot be operated upon the highway.
('61 Code, § 4-8.02) (Ord. 186 C.S., passed 8-2-72; Am. Ord. 716 C.S., passed
3-15-00; Am. Ord. 782 C.S., passed 7-6-05)
§ 4-8.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   A vehicle, or part thereof, which is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or other
public or private property; or
      (2)   A vehicle, or part thereof, which is stored or parked in a lawful
manner on private property in connection with the business of a licensed
dismantler, licensed vehicle dealer, or junk dealer, or when such storage or
parking is necessary to the operation of a lawfully conducted business or
commercial enterprise.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not authorize the maintenance of
a public or private nuisance as defined pursuant to provisions of law other
than the provisions of the Cal. Veh. Code Chapter 10 (commencing with Cal. Veh.
Code § 22650) of Division 11 and this chapter.
('61 Code, § 4-8.03) (Ord. 186 C.S., passed 8-2-72)
§ 4-8.04 EFFECT ON OTHER LAWS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be the exclusive regulation of
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or inoperable vehicles within the city. The
provisions of this chapter shall supplement and be in addition to the other
regulatory codes, statutes, and laws heretofore or hereafter enacted by the
city, the state, or any other legal entity or agency having jurisdiction.
('61 Code, § 4-8.04) (Ord. 186 C.S., passed 8-2-72)
§ 4-8.05 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the provisions of this chapter
shall be administered and enforced by the Community Development Director or his
or her designee. In the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, the
Community Development Director and his or her designee may enter upon private
or public property to examine a vehicle, or part thereof, or obtain information
as to the identity of a vehicle declared to be a nuisance pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 4-8.05) (Ord. 186 C.S., passed 8-2-72; Am. Ord. 716 C.S., passed
3-15-00)
§ 4-8.06 RIGHT OF ENTRY OF CERTAIN PERSONS.
   When the Council has contracted with any person or entity for the removal of
vehicles, such person or entity shall be authorized to enter upon private
property or public property to remove or cause the removal of a vehicle, or
part thereof, declared to be a nuisance pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.
('61 Code, § 4-8.06) (Ord. 186 C.S., passed 8-2-72)
§ 4-8.07 ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.
   The Council shall from time to time determine and fix an amount to be
assessed as administrative costs, excluding the actual cost of the removal of
any vehicle, or part thereof, for the purposes of administering the provisions
of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 4-8.07) (Ord. 186 C.S., passed 8-2-72)
§ 4-8.08 NOTICES; HEARINGS.
   (A)   Not less than ten-day notice of intention to abate and remove an
alleged abandoned, wrecked, inoperable or dismantled vehicle or part thereof
shall be issued to the owner of the vehicle and, if applicable, to the property
owner where the vehicle is located, unless the property owner and the owner of
the vehicle have signed releases authorizing the removal and waiving further
interest in the vehicle, or part thereof. Such notice shall contain a statement
of the hearing rights of the owner of the property upon which the vehicle is
located and the owner of the vehicle, including notice that the property owner
may appear in person at a hearing or may submit a sworn written statement
denying responsibility for the presence of the vehicle on the land, with his or
her reasons for such denial, in lieu of appearing. The notice of intention
shall be mailed by registered or certified mail to the owner of the land, as
shown on the last equalized assessment roll, and to the last registered and
legal owners of record, unless the vehicle is in such condition that
identification numbers are not available to determine ownership. Upon the
request of the owner of the vehicle or the owner of the land where the vehicle
is located, the Police Chief or his or her designee shall hold a public hearing
upon such abatement; provided, however, such request shall be made to the
Police Chief or his or her designee within ten calendar days after the mailing
of the notice of intention to abate and remove. Submission of the owners of the
land of the above-mentioned statement denying responsibility within such period
shall be construed as a request for such hearing which does not require the
presence of the owner submitting such request.
   (B)   A notice of intention to abate shall not be required if all of the
following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The vehicle or part thereof is inoperable due to the absence of a
motor, transmission, or wheels and is incapable of being towed;
      (2)   The vehicle or part thereof is valued at less than $200 by the
Police Chief or his or her designee;
      (3)   The vehicle or part thereof is determined by the city to be a
public nuisance presenting an immediate threat to public health or safety;
      (4)   The property owner has signed a release authorizing the removal and
waiving further interest in the vehicle or part thereof; and
      (5)   The vehicle is located upon a parcel that is either zoned for
agricultural use or is not improved with a residential structure containing one
or more dwelling units.
   (C)   If a vehicle is removed pursuant to subsection (B) above, prior to
final disposition of the vehicle, the registered or legal owner of the vehicle
shall be notified of the intent to dispose of the vehicle or parts thereof. If
the vehicle or part thereof is not claimed and removed from the scrapyard,
automobile dismantler's yard or public disposal area within 12 days after the
notice to dispose of the vehicle is mailed, final disposition may proceed.
('61 Code, § 4-8.08) (Ord. 186 C.S., passed 8-2-72; Am. Ord. 271 C.S., passed
7-20-77; Am. Ord. 716 C.S., passed 3-15-00; Am. Ord. 782 C.S., passed 7-6-05)
§ 4-8.09 HEARINGS; DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   All hearings held pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be
held before the Police Chief or his or her designee, who shall hear all facts
and testimony he or she deems pertinent. Such facts and testimony may include
testimony on the condition of the vehicle, or part thereof, and the
circumstances concerning its location on private property or public property.
The hearing officer shall not be limited by the technical rules of evidence.
The owner of the land on which the vehicle is located may appear in person at
the hearing, or present a written statement in time for consideration at the
hearing, and deny responsibility for the presence of the vehicle on the land,
with his or her reasons for such denial.
   (B)   The hearing officer may impose such conditions and take such other
action as he or she deems appropriate under the circumstances to carry out the
purposes of this chapter. The hearing officer may delay the time for the
removal of the vehicle, or part thereof, if, in his or her opinion, the
circumstances so justify. At the conclusion of the public hearing, the hearing
officer may find that a vehicle, or part thereof, has been abandoned, wrecked,
or dismantled or is inoperative on private or public property, order the same
removed from the property as a public nuisance and disposed of as provided in
this chapter, and determine the administrative costs and the costs of removal
to be charged against the owner of the parcel of land on which the vehicle, or
part thereof, is located. The order requiring removal shall include a
description of the vehicle, or part thereof, and the correct identification
number and license number of the vehicle if available at the site.
   (C)   If it is determined at the hearing that the vehicle was placed on the
land without the consent of the landowner and that he or she has not
subsequently acquiesced in its presence, the hearing officer shall not assess
the costs of administration or removal of the vehicle against the property upon
which the vehicle is located or otherwise attempt to collect such costs from
such landowner.
   (D)   If an interested person makes a written presentation to the hearing
officer but does not appear, such person shall be notified in writing of the
decision.
('61 Code, § 4-8.09) (Ord. 186 C.S., passed 8-2-72; Am. Ord. 716 C.S., passed
3-15-00)
§ 4-8.10 (REPEALED).
§ 4-8.11 REMOVAL.
   Five days after the adoption of the order declaring the vehicle, or part
thereof, to be a public nuisance, or five days after the date of the mailing of
the notice of the decision, if such notice is required by the provisions of §
4-8.09 of this chapter, or 15 days after such action of the Council authorizing
removal following an appeal the vehicle, or part thereof, may be disposed of by
removal to a scrap yard or automobile dismantler's yard. After a vehicle has
been removed it shall not thereafter be reconstructed or made operable, unless
it is a vehicle which qualifies for either horseless carriage license plates or
historical vehicle license plates pursuant to Cal. Veh. Code § 5004, in which
cases such vehicles may be reconstructed or made operable.
('61 Code, § 4-8.11) (Ord. 186 C.S., passed 8-2-72; Am. Ord. 271 C.S., passed
7-20-77)
§ 4-8.12 REMOVAL; NOTICES.
   Within five days after the date of the removal of the vehicle, or part
thereof, notice shall be given to the Department of Motor Vehicles of the state
identifying the vehicle, or part thereof, removed. At the same time there shall
be transmitted to the Department of Motor Vehicles any evidence of registration
available, including registration certificates, certificates of title, and
license plates.
('61 Code, § 4-8.12) (Ord. 186 C.S., passed 8-2-72)
§ 4-8.13 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   If the administrative costs and the costs of removal which are charged
against the owner of a parcel of land pursuant to the provisions of §
4-8.09 of this chapter are not paid within 30 days after the date of the order,
or the final disposition of an appeal therefrom, such costs shall be assessed
against the parcel of land pursuant to the provisions of Cal. Gov't Code §
38773.5 and shall be transmitted to the Tax Collector for collection. Such
assessment shall have the same priority as other city taxes.
('61 Code, § 4-8.13) (Ord. 186 C.S., passed 8-2-72)
§ 4-8.14 VIOLATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   It is unlawful and shall be an infraction for any person to abandon,
store, leave, or permit the abandonment, storing, or leaving of any licensed or
unlicensed vehicle or parts thereof which is abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or
inoperable upon any private or public property, including highways, within the
city for a period in excess of 72 or more consecutive hours unless such storage
is pursuant to the exceptions described in §
4-8.03 of this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful and shall be an infraction for any person to fail or
refuse to remove an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or inoperable vehicle or
part thereof, or refuse to abate such nuisance when ordered to do so in
accordance with the abatement provisions of this chapter or state law, where
such state law is applicable.
(Ord. 782 C.S., passed 7-6-05)
CHAPTER 9: PROHIBITION OF OBNOXIOUS CONDUCT
Section
General Provisions
   
4-9.01   Public exposure by employees, entertainers, or participants in live
acts prohibited
   
4-9.02   Abuse of police canine units
Graffiti
   
4-9.10   Graffiti abatement
   
4-9.11   Cost recovery; parental civil liability
   
4-9.12   Display of aerosol spray paint containers
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 4-9.01 PUBLIC EXPOSURE BY EMPLOYEES, ENTERTAINERS, OR PARTICIPANTS IN LIVE
ACTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Every person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor who, as an employee,
entertainer, or as a participant in any live act or demonstration or
exhibition, whether for compensation or not, exposes his or her genitals, or
any portion of the female breast at, or below, the areola thereof, in any
establishment which serves food, beverages, or food and beverages, including,
but not necessarily limited to, alcoholic beverages, or in any public place, or
place open to the public, or place open to public view.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a theater, concert,
or similar establishment which is primarily devoted to theatrical performances.
('61 Code, § 4-9.01) (Ord. 202 C.S., passed 7-4-73)
§ 4-9.02 ABUSE OF POLICE CANINE UNITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tease, torment, strike, injure,
disable or attempt any such conduct against any dog used by the Police
Department or in the custody of any representative of the Police Department or
designated police dog handlers, or to interfere with any such dog or the use of
such dog in the performance of any function or duty of the Police Department.
Violation of this section is expressly designated a misdemeanor.
('61 Code, § 4-9.02) (Ord. 388 C.S., passed 3-1-82)
GRAFFITI
§ 4-9.10 GRAFFITI ABATEMENT.
   Intent and purpose. The City Council finds and declares that graffiti on
public or private property creates a condition tending to reduce the value of
such property, promotes blight and deterioration of surrounding property, and
invites further vandalism; and it results in loss of pride in affected
neighborhoods and loss of business to neighboring commercial enterprises.
Although state law prohibits the sale of products used in graffiti to persons
under the age of eighteen, graffiti continues to proliferate in the city due in
part to the theft of aerosol paint products. Supplemental local deterrents to
the availability for use of aerosol containers of paint are needed to further
inhibit their use for graffiti purposes. (Ord. 613 C.S., passed 2-2-94)
§ 4-9.11 COST RECOVERY; PARENTAL CIVIL LIABILITY.
   (A)   Cal. Civ. Code § 1714.1(b) provides that any act of willful misconduct
by a minor in applying graffiti in violation of any provision of the state
Penal Code, where such misconduct causes damage to property, shall cause the
parent or guardian having custody and control of the minor to be jointly and
severally liable with the minor for any damages resulting from such misconduct
in an amount up to $10,000. State law further provides that such liability
shall include but not be limited to, the costs expended to remove or otherwise
abate such graffiti damage, court costs, and attorneys' fees. Pursuant to this
provision of state law the City Administrator shall seek recovery of, and have
the authority to seek reimbursement for, the city's damages including the cost
of removal and abatement of graffiti to any city property pursuant to Cal. Civ.
Code § 1714.1(b).
   (B)   The city shall provide assistance in the form of notification, advice,
and counsel for private citizens in the city seeking to obtain recovery under
Cal. Civ. Code § 1714.1(b) for damage to their property occurring in the city.
(Ord. 613 C.S., passed 2-2-94)
§ 4-9.12 DISPLAY OF AEROSOL SPRAY PAINT CONTAINERS.
   (A)   On and after April 1, 1994, every person who owns, conducts, operates,
or manages a retail commercial establishment selling aerosol paint containers
containing anything other than a solution which can be removed with water after
it dries, shall store or cause such aerosol paint containers to be stored in an
area which is not accessible to the public in the regular course of business
without employee assistance, pending legal sale or disposition of such paint
containers.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, NOT ACCESSIBLE TO THE PUBLIC means that
such merchandise is kept in a locked storage area so that the merchandise
cannot be removed without assistance from an employee of the retail
establishment. Such stores area may be visible to the public as long as the
merchandise in the storage area cannot be physically accessed by the public
without employee assistance.
(Ord. 613 C.S., passed 2-2-94)
CHAPTER 10: BINGO GAMES
Section
   
4-10.01   Organizations authorized
   
4-10.02   Licenses
   
4-10.03   General provisions
§ 4-10.01 ORGANIZATIONS AUTHORIZED.
   Organizations exempted from the payment of the State Bank and Corporation
Tax by the provisions of Cal. Rev & Tax. Code § 23701, subsections (a), (b),
(e), (f), (g), and (l), mobile home park associations, and senior citizens
organizations are authorized to conduct bingo games in the city upon obtaining
a license therefor as set forth in this chapter provided the proceeds of such
games are used only for charitable purposes.
('61 Code, § 4-10.01) (Ord. 290 C.S., passed 4-5-78)
§ 4-10.02 LICENSES.
   Upon making an application to the Director of Finance and paying a fee of
$50, and upon a determination of the Director of Finance that the applicant is
an organization or association as defined in §
4-10.01 of this chapter, the Director of Finance shall issue a license to such
organization or association authorizing the conduct of bingo games. Such
license shall be for a period of one year and shall be renewable annually upon
the payment of a $50 renewal fee. If an application for a license or the
renewal thereof is denied, one-half of any such fee paid shall be refunded to
the organization or association applying therefor. ('61 Code, § 4-10.02) (Ord.
290 C.S., passed 4-5-78)
§ 4-10.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   All bingo games shall be open to the public, shall be conducted only on
property owned or leased by the licensees authorized to conduct the games, and
shall be operated and staffed only by employees of the authorized organizations
which organized the games. The total value of prizes awarded during the conduct
of any bingo game shall not exceed $250 in cash or kind, or both, for each
separate game which is held. In addition to the regulations set forth in this
chapter, the conduct of all bingo games in the city shall be governed by the
terms and provisions of Cal. Penal Code § 326.5 as it presently exists or as it
may hereafter be amended.
('61 Code, § 4-10.03) (Ord. 290 C.S., passed 4-5-78)
CHAPTER 11: PROHIBITED CONDUCT UPON OR NEAR SCHOOL GROUNDS
Section
   
4-11.01   Conduct prohibited
§ 4-11.01 CONDUCT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not a student or employee of any school
to remain in any school building or upon any school ground, or street,
sidewalk, or public way adjacent thereto, or to return to any such place
without lawful business in, or at, such place within a period of 90 days after
such person has been asked or directed to leave such school building or ground,
or street, sidewalk, or public way adjacent thereto, by the school's chief
administrative officer, or by his or her designated representative, or by a
peace officer for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Doing or committing any act prescribed by Cal. Penal Code §§ 415 or
626.8 or the rules and regulations of the school district's governing board;
   (B)   The conviction of any offense requiring registration under Cal. Penal
Code § 290;
   (C)   The conviction of any offense included in Cal. Health & Safety Code,
Division 10 or Division 10.5;
   (D)   Being repeatedly or frequently present in, or about, any school
building or school ground, or street, sidewalk, or public way adjacent thereto,
without having lawful business at such place; or
   (E)   If the principal or his or her designated representative concludes
that the continued presence of the person requested to leave would be
disruptive of, or would interfere with, classes or other activities of the
school.
('61 Code, § 4-11.01) (Ord. 308 C.S., passed 9-18-78)
CHAPTER 12: DIAL-A-RIDE CONTRACTORS
Section
   
4-12.01   Liability insurance requirements
§ 4-12.01 LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Regardless of the provisions of any other ordinances or provisions of the
City Municipal Code, providers of Dial-A-Ride services under contract with the
city shall obtain and maintain in full force and effect during the course of
their contract liability insurance in the amount of $1,000,000 for each
accident and $1,000,000 for injuries in any one occurrence and property damage
liability in the sum of $100,000, naming the city as an additional insured and
which policy shall provide that the city shall be given 30 days written notice
prior to the cancellation of any such policy.
('61 Code, § 4-12.01) (Ord. 447 C.S. Special, passed 6-17-85)
CHAPTER 13: DRUG FREE ZONES
Section
   
4-13.01   Intent and purpose
   
4-13.02   City parks designated
§ 4-13.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Health and Safety Code Section 11380.5 was enacted January 1, 1995.
This code section provides for additional penalties for persons who are
convicted of the possession for sale or the sale of heroin, cocaine, cocaine
base, methamphetamine, or phencyclidine (PCP). Any person convicted of any of
these offenses shall be imprisoned in the state prison for an additional one
year in addition to the punishment imposed for that conviction, if that
violation occurred upon the grounds of a public park, including adjacent public
parking lots and sidewalks if the City Council adopts an ordinance designating
the park as a "drug-free zone" and notice of the bill's provisions are posted
at the public park.
   (B)   The City Council hereby finds and declares that illegal drug use or
sale in public parks and adjacent public areas is a condition which threatens
the health and safety of the public, promotes blight and deterioration of
surrounding property, invites vandalism, and results in a loss of pride in
affected neighborhoods.
   (C)   The necessity in the public interest for the provisions and
prohibitions hereinafter contained and enacted, is declared as a matter of
legislative determination and public policy, and it is further declared that
the provisions and prohibitions hereinafter contained and enacted are in
pursuance of and for the purpose of securing and promoting the public health,
safety, welfare and prosperity of the city and its inhabitants.
(Ord. 644 C.S., passed 10-18-95)
§ 4-13.02 CITY PARKS DESIGNATED.
   All public parks in the city, including but not limited to Lions' Town and
Country Park (Howard Rd. between Schnoor Ave. and Granada Drive), Rotary Park
(North Gateway Dr. south of Cleveland Ave.), McNally Park (Roosevelt and South
"A" Streets), Pan Am Park (Sherwood Wy. and North Lake Street), Knox Park (Knox
Ave. and South "A" Street), Millview Park (1901 Clinton Avenue), Swimming Pool
Park (Fourth and Flume Streets) and Courthouse Park (Yosemite Ave. and "G"
Street) are hereby declared to be "Drug Free Zones," pursuant to Health and
Safety Code Section 11380.5.
(Ord. 644 C.S., passed 10-18-95)
CHAPTER 14: CAMPING
Section
   
4-14.01   Definitions
   
4-14.02   Unlawful camping
   
4-14.03   Storage of personal property on public or private property
   
4-14.04   Permit for special events required
   
4-14.05   Posting copy of permit
   
4-14.06   Power of the City Administrator to make rules and regulations
   
4-14.07   Violation a misdemeanor
§ 4-14.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMP. The placing, pitching, or occupying of camp facilities; to live
temporarily in a camp facility or outdoors; to use camp paraphernalia.
   CAMP FACILITIES. Includes, but is not limited to, facilities such as tents,
huts, vehicles, lean- tos, vehicle camping outfits or temporary shelter.
   CAMP PARAPHERNALIA. Includes, but is not limited to, items such as bedrolls,
tarpaulins, cots, beds, sleeping bags, hammocks or cooking facilities and
similar equipment.
   ESTABLISH. To set up or move equipment, supplies or materials on to public
or private property to camp or operate camp facilities.
   MAINTAIN. To keep or permit equipment, supplies or materials to remain on
public or private property in order to camp or operate camp facilities.
   OPERATE. To participate or assist in establishing or maintaining a camp or
camp facility.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All private property including, but not limited to,
streets, sidewalks, alleys, and improved or unimproved land not generally open
to the public.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
   STORE. To put aside or accumulate for use when needed, to put for
safekeeping, to place or leave in a location.
(Ord. 791 C.S., passed 12-7-05)
§ 4-14.02 UNLAWFUL CAMPING.
   (A)   It is unlawful and public nuisances for any person to camp, occupy
camp facilities, or use camp paraphernalia in the following areas:
      (1)   Any public property, or
      (2)   Any private property.
   (B)   It is not intended by this section to prohibit overnight camping on
private residential property by friends or family of the property owner, so
long as the owners thereof consent and the overnight camping is limited to not
more than one consecutive night.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to prohibit or make unlawful,
activities of any owner of private property or other lawful user of private
property that are normally associated with and incidental to the lawful and
authorized use of private property for residential or other purposes; and
provided further, nothing is intended to prohibit or make unlawful, activities
of a property owner or other lawful user if such activities are expressly
authorized by the city's comprehensive zoning ordinance or other laws,
ordinances and regulations.
   (D)   The City Administrator or his/her designee may, as provided in §
4-14.04 of this chapter, issue a temporary permit to allow camping on public or
private property in connection with a special event.
(Ord. 791 C.S., passed 12-7-05)
§ 4-14.03 STORAGE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful and a public nuisance for any person to store personal
property, including camp paraphernalia, in the following areas, except as
otherwise provided by resolution or ordinance of the City Council:
   (A)   Any public property; or
   (B)   Any private property without the written consent of the owner.
(Ord. 791 C.S., passed 12-7-05)
§ 4-14.04 PERMIT FOR SPECIAL EVENTS REQUIRED.
   The City Administrator, or his/her designee, may, in his or her discretion,
issue a permit to establish, maintain and operate a camp or a camp facility in
connection with a special event. A special event is intended to include, but
not be limited to, programs operated by the departments of the city, youth or
school events, marathons or other sporting events and scouting activities. The
City Administrator may consult with various departments, the county health
officer and the public prior to issuing any temporary permit. Each department
or person consulted may provide comments regarding any health, safety or public
welfare concerns and provide recommendations pertaining to the issuance, denial
or conditioning of the permit. A reasonable fee, to be set by the City Council
by resolution, shall be paid, in advance, by the applicant. The fee shall be
returned if the application is denied. In exercising his or her discretion to
issue a temporary permit, the City Administrator may consider any facts or
evidence bearing on the sanitary, health, safety and welfare conditions on or
surrounding the area or tract of land upon which the proposed temporary camp or
camp facility is to be located.
(Ord. 791 C.S., passed 12-7-05)
§ 4-14.05 POSTING COPY OF PERMIT.
   It is unlawful for any person to establish, maintain, conduct or carry on
any camp or camp facility unless there shall be at all times posted in a
conspicuous place upon the area or tract of land upon which the camp or camp
facility is located a permit obtained from the City Administrator in accordance
with the provisions of §
4-14.04 of this chapter.
(Ord. 791 C.S., passed 12-7-05)
§ 4-14.06 POWER OF THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO MAKE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Administrator, or his/her designee, is further empowered to
ascertain that the operation or maintenance of any camp or camp facilities to
which a temporary permit shall apply will in no way jeopardize the public
health, safety or welfare and for this purpose may make additional rules and
regulations pertaining to their establishment, operation or conduct. The City
Administrator may also impose conditions on the establishment, maintenance and
operation of the camp or camp facility, including, but not limited to,
security, sanitation facilities, the number of occupants, posting of bonds or
deposits, insurance, quiet hours, duration of the permit and permitted
activities on the premises. When the City Administrator, or his/her designee,
shall issue any permit under the terms of §
4-14.04 of this chapter, the same may be revoked at any time thereafter by the
City Administrator, or his/her designee, if the City Administrator becomes
satisfied that the maintenance or continuing operation of the camp or camp
facilities is adverse to the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 791 C.S., passed 12-7-05)
§ 4-14.07 VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and constitutes a public nuisance. In addition to remedies provided
in Cal. Penal Code § 370, the City Attorney may institute civil actions to
abate a public nuisance or use the administrative process to prosecute a
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 791 C.S., passed 12-7-05)
CHAPTER 15: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 16: RENTAL HOUSING INSPECTIONS
Section
   
4-16.01   Purpose and findings
   
4-16.02   Definitions
   
4-16.03   Scope
   
4-16.04   Exemptions
   
4-16.05   License and registration required
   
4-16.06   Inspections required
   
4-16.07   Fees established
   
4-16.08   Local contact representative
   
4-16.09   Self-certification
   
4-16.10   Qualifications
   
4-16.11   Implementation
   
4-16.12   Inspection notice
   
4-16.13   Re-scheduling an inspection
   
4-16.14   Entry
   
4-16.15   Non-compliance
   
4-16.16   Inspection results
   
4-16.17   Abatement
   
4-16.18   Non-exclusivity
   
4-16.19   Recovery of costs of enforcement
   
4-16.20   Notice to vacate
   
4-16.21   Displacement
   
4-16.22   Notice to occupants
   
4-16.23   Renters' bill of rights
   
4-16.24   Relocation benefits
   
4-16.25   Outreach
   
4-16.26   Penalties
§ 4-16.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   The City Council of the City of Madera recognizes that local
government can and shall develop and preserve decent affordable housing and at
the same time provide services to the most vulnerable in our communities.
According to 2014 US Census estimates there are more than 8,500 Rental Housing
Units within the City, which is approximately half of all housing units in the
City. The City has a significant interest in ensuring that rental housing
remains a desirable housing option for its citizens.
   (B)   Preventing or eliminating slums and blight and addressing community
development needs have a particular urgency because rental housing often
deteriorates over time, resulting in substandard housing conditions. These
substandard conditions adversely affect the economic values of neighboring
structures and pose a serious and immediate threat to the health or welfare of
a community. In many cases, property Owners choose not to make the necessary
repairs to avoid financial expenses, and tenants do not report such
deficiencies out of lack of knowledge of the city's role in correcting
substandard housing conditions or because they fear retaliatory evictions.
   (C)   In order to ensure compliance of Rental Housing Units with minimum
standards of health and safety, on a city wide basis, routine inspections need
to be conducted. It is the intent of the City Council to enact a Rental Housing
Inspection Program that would reasonably guarantee compliance with minimum
standards. Such a program is in the best interest of the public as it would
protect the supply of decent, safe and sanitary housing.
(Ord. 942 C.S., passed 6-21-17)
§ 4-16.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases and words
shall have the meanings given:
   COMMON AREAS. Those areas that are available for shared use by all tenants,
(or) groups of tenants and their invitees.
   ENGAGE IN THE BUSINESS OF RENTAL HOUSING. Renting or offering to rent a
Rental Housing Unit.
   INSPECTOR. Any employee of the City authorized by the City Administrator to
conduct inspections in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   LOCAL. Within 40 road/driving miles distance of the subject property.
   OWNER. The last known owner of record or person having recorded title to the
property according to records maintained by the County of Madera County
Recorder's Office.
   RENT. To grant the possession or enjoyment of, in exchange for money or any
other consideration.
   RENTAL HOUSING PROPERTY. A parcel of real property, as shown on the latest
equalized tax assessment role as maintained by the Assessor of the County of
Madera, upon which a Rental Housing Unit is maintained.
   RENTAL HOUSING UNIT. A single unit of residence for a Single Housekeeping
Unit of one or more persons, that is being rented, or is intended to be rented,
where such rental occupancy is for a period of more than 30 days. Examples of
housing units covered by this chapter include, but are not limited to,
apartment units, condominiums, duplexes and single-family houses. Rental
Housing Unit also includes other types of residential units that provide for
sleeping accommodations but toileting or cooking facilities are shared by
occupants of more than one unit, such as residential or single room occupancy
hotels. This does not include units used for transient lodging such as
dormitories, group homes, rooming or boarding houses, hotels, motels, and bed
and breakfast inns.
   SELF-CERTIFICATION PROGRAM. A designation given to a section of the Rental
Housing Inspection Program where the Owner or Local contact representative of a
property assumes the role of inspector for a portion of the regular periodic
inspections and reports findings back to the City.
   SINGLE HOUSEKEEPING UNIT. Any household whose members are a non-transient
interactive group of persons jointly occupying a dwelling unit, including joint
access to and use of all common areas including living, kitchen and eating
areas within the dwelling unit, and sharing household activities, and
responsibilities such as meals, chores, expenses and maintenance, and whose
makeup is determined by the members of the unit rather than by the landlord,
property manager, or other third party. This does not include a boarding or
rooming house.
(Ord. 942 C.S., passed 6-21-17)
§ 4-16.03 SCOPE.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all existing residential
Rental Housing Properties and Rental Housing Units located within the City
limits.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall be supplementary and
complementary to all of the provisions of this Code, state law and any law
cognizable at common law or equity, and nothing herein shall be construed,
read, or interpreted in any manner so as to limit any existing right or power
of the City to abate and prosecute any and all nuisances or to enforce any
other conditions in violation of state or local codes, including, but not
limited to, any building, housing, property maintenance and public nuisance
ordinances.
(Ord. 942 C.S., passed 6-21-17)
§ 4-16.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specified in this section, the following Rental
Housing Units shall be exempt from the requirements of this chapter:
      (1)   Rental Housing Units that are subject to routine periodic
inspections by another government agency, where Rental Housing Units are
inspected at least once every three years to address substandard building
violations as defined in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 17920.3; or
      (2)   Rental Housing Units that, within the past ten years, either have
been issued a certificate of occupancy or have passed final inspection by the
City.
   (B)   A Rental Housing Unit that is determined to be exempt pursuant to §
4-16.04(A), above, shall become subject to the requirements of this chapter if
an Administrative Citation relating to the Rental Housing Property is issued
pursuant to the provisions of this Code.
   (C)   Any Rental Housing Unit subject to the requirements of this chapter
pursuant to §
4-16.04(B), above, shall become exempt from the requirements of this chapter if
all of the following circumstances exist:
      (1)   After the last inspection conducted pursuant to this chapter, the
inspector determines that either no violations exist on the property or the
violations identified in an administrative citation were abated within 30 days;
and
      (2)   The property Owner is not delinquent on any payment to the City of
fees, penalties, taxes or any other monies related to the property.
   (D)   At such time that it is sufficiently demonstrated that a property is
maintained in compliance with the requirements of this Code, that property
shall become exempt from the requirements of this Code for a period of time not
to exceed six years. Units may become temporarily exempt from the requirements
of this chapter if:
      (1)   No violations of this chapter existed after two consecutive routine
inspections.
   (E)   A Rental Housing Property that is determined to be temporarily exempt
pursuant to §
4-16.04(D) above, shall become subject to the requirements of this Code if:
      (1)   A valid complaint is lodged against such property and a notice of
violation is issued regardless of subsequent correction.
      (2)   A change in ownership occurs.
(Ord. 942 C.S., passed 6-21-17)
§ 4-16.05 LICENSE AND REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
rental housing, unless:
      (1)   A City Rental Business License is obtained by the Owner of such
Rental Housing Unit(s) and all properties located within the limits of the City
that are owned by the same Owner are listed under such Rental Business License
and an accurate account of the gross receipts are provided. Pursuant to §§
6-1.22 and
6-1.28 of this code; and
      (2)   Each Rental Housing Unit is registered with the City pursuant to
subsection
4-16.05(B) of this section; and
      (3)   All fees associated with the provisions of this chapter are paid
when payment is due.
   (B)   A Rental Housing Unit is registered with the City when the owner of
the corresponding Rental Housing Property submits the following to the
Neighborhood Revitalization Department:
      (1)   A completed registration form, made available by the City, that
contains the following information:
         (a)   Description of the Rental Housing Property, including, but not
limited to, the street address and Assessor's Parcel Number;
         (b)   Quantity and description of all Rental Housing Units on the
Rental Housing Property;
         (c)   Name and current contact information for the owner of the Rental
Housing Property;
         (d)   Name and current contact information for the Local contact
representative as described in §
4-16.08 of this code; and
         (e)   Any other information as reasonably required by the City
Administrator or his or her designee.
         (f)   The contact information shall remain confidential and for
internal City use only, to the extent allowed by law.
      (2)   The Rental Housing Inspection Program fee, and
      (3)   Any outstanding fees that were previously imposed pursuant to this
chapter.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly make a false statement of
fact or knowingly omit any information that is required to register a Rental
Housing Unit pursuant to this section.
   (D)   Registration shall be valid for a period of three years or until one
of the following circumstances occurs, whichever is sooner:
      (1)   The Owner fails to notify the Rental Housing Inspections Division
of any change in the information submitted pursuant to §
4-16.05(B) of this section, within 30 days of such change; or
      (2)   The Owner fails to pay any of the Rental Housing Inspection Program
fees.
(Ord. 942 C.S., passed 6-21-17)
§ 4-16.06 INSPECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All Rental Housing Properties and Rental Housing Units are subject to
routine periodic inspection by the City as provided by this chapter to
determine whether they comply with applicable provisions of this Code.
Specifically the maintenance or the failure to maintain any real property,
structures, or uses or activities thereon in violation of any of the provisions
of Titles III, IV, V, VII, IX and X of the Madera Municipal Code, or as
specified in Cal. Health and Safety Code §§ 17920.3 et seq., or of the State
Housing Law or § 104 of the Uniform Code for Building Conservation, except
those Rental Housing Units inspected through the Self-Certification Program
where a minimum of 10% of such units shall be subject to routine periodic
inspection by the City.
   (B)   If there are multiple Rental Housing Units on a single Rental Housing
Property, the inspection shall be made of all Common Areas and all Rental
Housing Units.
   (C)   The Owner or Local contact representative, or their designee, shall be
present at the Rental Housing Property at the time of the inspection. The time
of the inspection shall be the time indicated in the notice issued pursuant to
§
4-16.12 of this Code, or the time that the inspection was properly re-scheduled
in accordance with §
4-16.13 of this Code. Violation of this subsection may result in the imposition
of a re-scheduling fee.
   (D)   The frequency of such routine periodic inspections shall be set on a
three year basis where each Rental Housing Property or Rental Housing Unit
subject to the provisions of this chapter shall be inspected at least once
every three years unless otherwise set pursuant to §
4-16.09 or §
4-16.15 of this Code.
(Ord. 942 C.S., passed 6-21-17)
§ 4-16.07 FEES ESTABLISHED.
   The following fees are established and imposed pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter:
   (A)   Initial Inspection Fee. A fee is established for the initial
inspection required pursuant to §
4-16.06 of this Code. Such inspection fee shall be actual cost not to exceed
three hours per unit. Hourly cost is set by the City of Madera Master Fee
Schedule as may be updated from time to time.
   (B)   Re-scheduling Fee. A fee is established for the administrative costs
of re-scheduling an inspection that is cancelled in violation of §
4-16.13 of this Code. Such Re-scheduling Fee is set by the City of Madera
Master Fee Schedule as may be updated from time to time.
   (C)   Re-inspection Fee. A fee is established for an additional inspection
required by the City pursuant to §
4-16.15 of this Code. Such Re-inspection Fee is set by the City of Madera
Master Fee Schedule as may be updated from time to time.
   (D)   Registration Delinquency Fee. A fee is established for the failure of
any Owner or agent to properly register any Rental Housing Unit subject to the
provisions of this Code. The City shall mail notice to owners with an
application for registration. Owners shall have 30 days from receipt of said
notice to submit registration information to the City. Failure to submit
complete and accurate registration information within 30 days from receipt of
notice from the City, shall result in the assessment of a Registration
Delinquency Fee. Such Registration Delinquency Fee is set by the City of Madera
Master Fee Schedule as may be updated from time to time.
(Ord. 942 C.S., passed 6-21-17)
§ 4-16.08 LOCAL CONTACT REPRESENTATIVE.
   (A)   All Owners of Rental Housing Properties shall designate a Local
contact representative with full authority to act on behalf of the Owner for
all purposes under this chapter, including the acceptance of service of all
notices from the City. The Owner of the Rental Housing Property may act as the
Local contact representative.
   (B)   A Local contact representative must establish and maintain a Local
telephone number and a residence or business address.
(Ord. 942 C.S., passed 6-21-17)
§ 4-16.09 SELF-CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Owners of Rental Housing Properties that are in the Self-Certification
Program, or their designees, shall certify each and every Rental Housing Unit
on the property at least once every three years. Self-certification shall be
accomplished in the manner set forth below:
      (1)   Inspect each Rental Housing Unit for compliance with the
requirements of the Self-Certification form provided by the City;
      (2)   Immediately make any repairs to the Rental Housing Unit that are
necessary to achieve compliance with the requirements set forth in the Self-
Certification form;
      (3)   Complete the Self-Certification form; and
      (4)   Provide a copy of the completed Self-Certification form to the City
Administrator or his or her designee.
   (B)   If any Rental Housing Unit cannot be self-certified because necessary
repairs cannot or will not be made, the Owner shall notify the City within 30
days of determining repairs cannot or will not be made.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to falsify any material information required on
the Self-Certification form.
   (D)   The City will verify program compliance by inspecting a random sample
of 10% of Rental Housing Units. Such 10% random sample shall be selected by the
City Administrator or his or her designee.
(Ord. 942 C.S., passed 6-21-17)
§ 4-16.10 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   A Rental Housing Property shall be placed in the Self-Certification
Program if all of the following circumstances exist:
      (1)   After the last inspection conducted pursuant to this chapter, the
inspector determines that either no violations exist on the property or the
violations identified were abated within 30 days;
      (2)   The Owner and Local contact representative are in compliance with
all applicable provisions of this chapter; and
      (3)   The property Owner is not delinquent on any payment to the City of
fees, penalties, taxes or any other monies related to the property.
   (B)   A Rental Housing Property may be removed from the Self-Certification
Program or such random inspection sample as described in §
4-16.09(D) may be increased, for every occurrence set forth in subsections (1)
through (3) below, by 10%, up to 30% after which such property shall be removed
from the Self-Certification Program:
      (1)   A notice of violation relating to the Rental Housing Property is
issued pursuant to the provisions of this Code and the violations identified
are not abated within 30 days;
      (2)   The Rental Housing Property is in violation of this Code or any
other applicable law, on three separate and consecutive occasions even though
the violations are abated within 30 days; or
      (3)   Any of the circumstances set forth in §
4-16.10(A) of this section cease to exist.
(Ord. 942 C.S., passed 6-21-17)
§ 4-16.11 IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   Initial implementation of residential Rental Housing Unit inspections
may be limited to those Rental Housing Units which have been issued a
certificate of occupancy or have passed final inspection by the City in the
year 1970 or prior.
   (B)   Continued implementation may be set forth as follows subject to the
recommendation of the City Administrator or his or her designee:
      (1)   Three years after the adoption of this chapter all residential
Rental Housing Units that have been issued a certificate of occupancy or have
passed final inspection by the City in the year 1980 or prior may become
eligible for routine inspection.
      (2)   Six years after the adoption of this chapter all residential Rental
Housing Units that have been issued a certificate of occupancy or have passed
final inspection by the City in the year 1990 or prior may become eligible for
routine inspection.
      (3)   Nine years after the adoption of this chapter all residential
Rental Housing Units that have been issued a certificate of occupancy or have
passed final inspection by the City in the year 2000 or prior may become
eligible for routine inspection.
      (4)   Twelve years after the adoption of this chapter all residential
Rental Housing Units in the City may become eligible for routine inspection.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the ability of the
City to inspect Rental Housing Units where a complaint has been submitted or
where a history of non-compliance has been established or a reasonable
suspicion of a violation addressed in this chapter exists.
(Ord. 942 C.S., passed 6-21-17)
§ 4-16.12 INSPECTION NOTICE.
   The City shall serve written notice of the date and time of any inspection
to be conducted pursuant to this chapter, by mailing such notice at least 30
calendar days prior to the date of the inspection. Notice shall be mailed to
the Owner and the Local contact representative at their last known address. In
the case of multiple Owners of the same property, notice to any one of the
property Owners is sufficient notice.
(Ord. 942 C.S., passed 6-21-17)
§ 4-16.13 RE-SCHEDULING AN INSPECTION.
   An inspection may be rescheduled once by the Owner or Local contact
representative by giving notice to the Neighborhood Revitalization Department
at least five calendar days prior to the scheduled inspection date. An
inspection may only be rescheduled to a date within 30 calendar days of the
previously scheduled inspection date. Violation of this section may result in
the imposition of a re-scheduling fee.
(Ord. 942 C.S., passed 6-21-17)
§ 4-16.14 ENTRY.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the Owner and the Local contact
representative to obtain the consent of the occupants to inspect the subject
Rental Housing Units or otherwise obtain legal access to the units pursuant to
the terms of any applicable lease.
   (B)   If consent to enter onto any Rental Housing Property or any Rental
Housing Unit is refused or otherwise cannot be obtained, or if requested by the
Owner or occupant of the Rental Housing Unit, the City Administrator or his/her
designee is authorized to seek an inspection warrant from a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 942 C.S., passed 6-21-17)
§ 4-16.15 NON-COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   If, during an inspection conducted pursuant to this chapter, an
inspector discovers that the property is in violation of this Code or any other
applicable law, the City may require additional inspections of the property in
accordance with this chapter, to ensure continued compliance.
   (B)   If a Rental Housing Property is repeatedly in violation of this Code
or any other applicable law, even though the violations are abated within 30
days the frequency of the regular periodic inspections may be increased to the
satisfaction of the City Administrator or his or her designee to ensure
continued compliance.
   (C)   In addition to requiring additional inspections pursuant to §
4-16.15(A), above, the City may commence enforcement action in accordance with
any provisions of this Code including, but not limited to
Title I Chapter 9 of this Code.
   (D)   An extension to complete corrections listed on a notice of violation
pursuant to the provision of this chapter, where administrative penalties are
postponed, may be granted by the City Administrator or his or her designee if
the Owner or agent establishes by substantial evidence to the reasonable
satisfaction of the City Administrator or his or her designee that the Rental
Housing Property owner is progressing diligently to complete the abatement of
such listed violations. Extensions shall not apply to re-inspection fees.
(Ord. 942 C.S., passed 6-21-17)
§ 4-16.16 INSPECTION RESULTS.
   Upon completion of an inspection conducted pursuant to this chapter by the
City, the inspector shall provide the Owner or Local contact person with a copy
of the written results of the inspection.
(Ord. 942 C.S., passed 6-21-17)
§ 4-16.17 ABATEMENT.
   Upon receipt of a notice of violation, it shall be the duty of every Owner
of any Rental Housing Property or Rental Housing Unit to abate therefrom, all
listed violations of this Code. The removal of such violations shall be
completed within the time period stipulated in the notice of violation, and if
such owner fails to address the violation in a timely manner as ordered in the
notice, the City Administrator, or his or her designee, shall thereafter have
the authority to seek legal right to abate the violations, including but not
limited to securing an abatement warrant, at the sole expense and
responsibility of the property Owner.
(Ord. 942 C.S., passed 6-21-17)
§ 4-16.18 NON-EXCLUSIVITY.
   None of the inspection provisions contained in this chapter shall prohibit,
condition or otherwise limit any inspection conducted pursuant to any other
provision of this Code or other applicable law.
(Ord. 942 C.S., passed 6-21-17)
§ 4-16.19 RECOVERY OF COSTS OF ENFORCEMENT.
   At any time during the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter or when
proceedings under this chapter result in the correction of a violation of this
Code or in a final judgement that a violation exists subsequent to the date
specified in a notice of violation issued pursuant to the provision of this
Code, costs of such proceedings incurred by the City may be assessed against
the subject property as a lien or special assessment, pursuant to
Title I, Chapter 9 of this Code. Such costs may include, but not be limited to,
those incurred in inspecting property, publication, mailing and posting
notices, conducting hearings, processing appeals and pursuing any judicial
action and attorneys' fees.
(Ord. 942 C.S., passed 6-21-17)
§ 4-16.20 NOTICE TO VACATE.
   (A)   If the Chief Building Official has determined that the dwelling or
portion thereof is in such a condition as to make it immediately dangerous to
the life, health, property or safety of its occupants, the public or adjacent
property, the City Administrator or his or her designee shall order that the
dwelling, or portion thereof, shall be vacated within a time certain from the
date of the order as determined reasonable by the City Administrator or his or
her designee under all of the circumstances, including the safety of the
occupants and the public, as well as the purposes and intent of this chapter.
The City Administrator or his or her designee shall give notice of this order
as provided in §
1-9.07 of this Code concerning method of service and shall post such order as
herein described.
   (B)   Whenever a notice is required to be given under this section, unless
different provisions herein are otherwise specifically made in the Code, such
notice may be given either by personal delivery thereof to the person to be
notified or by deposit in the US mail in a sealed envelope, postage prepaid,
addressed to such person to be notified at the person's last known business or
residence address as the same appears in the public records of the City or
other records pertaining to the matter to which such notice is directed.
Service by mail shall be deemed to have been completed at the time of deposit
in the post office.
(Ord. 942 C.S., passed 6-21-17)
§ 4-16.21 DISPLACEMENT.
   If during the course of any action pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter a qualified low income housing candidate is displaced, the City may
make a request to the Housing Authority of the City to expedite the placement
of such individuals in subsidized housing maintained by the Housing Authority.
Such a request shall not be made if it is demonstrated that the tenant being
displaced has caused or substantially contributed to the condition giving rise
to such necessity to vacate, or if any guest or invitee of the tenant has
caused or substantially contributed to the condition giving rise to such
necessity to vacate. Nothing in this section shall be deemed a guarantee of a
right to placement in a Housing Authority unit.
(Ord. 942 C.S., passed 6-21-17)
§ 4-16.22 NOTICE TO OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, occupants of a
dwelling which is the subject of a violation under this chapter shall be
provided notice of any violation described herein, including any decision by
the City Administrator or his or her designee of the City to vacate, repair or
demolish, and the issuance of a building permit or demolition permit following
issuance of such notice and order by the City Administrator or his or her
designee.
   (B)    The notice described hereinabove may be provided either by first
class mail to each affected dwelling unit, or by posting a copy of the document
in a prominent place on the affected dwelling at the discretion of the City
Administrator or his or her designee.
(Ord. 942 C.S., passed 6-21-17)
§ 4-16.23 RENTERS' BILL OF RIGHTS.
   Tenants have basic legal rights and responsibilities that are always present
no matter what their rental agreement or lease states. A listing of such rights
and responsibilities shall be made available to tenants by the Owner or the
Owner's agent of a Rental Housing Unit by providing a copy of the tenant's
rights and responsibilities upon executing a rental agreement or lease with
such tenant or once each calendar year thereafter, upon request by the tenant.
These rights and responsibilities shall include but may not be limited to those
set forth in Ca. Civil Code § 1941.1 regarding Owner obligations and tenantable
dwellings, § 1941.2 regarding tenant obligations, and § 1942.5 regarding
retaliation.
(Ord. 942 C.S., passed 6-21-17)
§ 4-16.24 RELOCATION BENEFITS.
   In addition to those remedies in this chapter, and any other remedies
provided by law, the City may seek a court order requiring the Owner to pay
reasonable relocation benefits to each lawful tenant as set forth in Cal.
Health and Safety Code §§ 17975 et seq.
(Ord. 942 C.S., passed 6-21-17)
§ 4-16.25 OUTREACH.
   The City shall implement an outreach program where Owners and tenants may be
made aware of their rights and responsibilities pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter. Features of such a program may include but not by way of
limitation:
   (A)   Tenants' rights and responsibilities presentations;
   (B)   Owners' rights and responsibilities presentations;
   (C)   Housing and credit counseling workshops and presentations.
(Ord. 942 C.S., passed 6-21-17)
§ 4-16.26 PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. In addition, the City may also impose administrative penalties
pursuant to
Title I, Chapter 9 of this Code and seek injunctive relief and civil penalties
in the superior court for violations of this chapter. The remedies provided for
in this chapter shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any other federal, state or local laws.
(Ord. 942 C.S., passed 6-21-17)
TITLE V: SANITATION AND HEALTH
Chapter
   
1.   ANIMALS
   
2.   FOOD HANDLING
   
3.   GARBAGE, REFUSE AND RECYCLING
   
3A.   ORGANIC WASTE DISPOSAL REDUCTION, RECYCLING, AND SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
   
4.   SEWAGE DISPOSAL
   
5.   WATER SYSTEM
   
6.   WATER CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
   
7.   SMOKING REGULATIONS
   
8.   BAN ON SELF SERVICE TOBACCO DISPLAYS
CHAPTER 1: ANIMALS
Section
   
5-1.01   Short title
   
5-1.02   Definitions
   
5-1.03   Animal shelter established
   
5-1.04   License required
   
5-1.05   Issuance of license
   
5-1.06   License tags
   
5-1.07   License fees
   
5-1.08   Exemptions from license fees
   
5-1.09   Kennel license; fees
   
5-1.10   Kennel permit or commercial animal structure; inspections
   
5-1.11   Impounding dogs or other animals
   
5-1.12   Disposition of impounded unlicensed dogs or other animals
   
5-1.13   Disposition of licensed dogs
   
5-1.14   Sale of impounded dogs or other animals
   
5-1.15   Redemption of impounded animals
   
5-1.15.5   Voluntary surrender; fees
   
5-1.16   Duty of owner of suspected rabid animal
   
5-1.17   Quarantine of animals
   
5-1.18   Quarantined area
   
5-1.19   Vaccination
   
5-1.20   Violation of quarantine
   
5-1.21   Right to enter premises
   
5-1.22   Restraint of certain dogs
   
5-1.23   Vicious animals; potentially dangerous animals; abatement; hearing
procedure
   
5-1.24   Dogs interfering with the use of highways
   
5-1.25   Noisy animals
   
5-1.26   Dogs or other animals committing public nuisances
   
5-1.27   (Repealed)
   
5-1.28   Dogs running at large; leash requirements
   
5-1.29   Police canine units; exemptions
   
5-1.30   Private security/guard dogs/sentry dogs
   
5-1.31   Livestock
   
5-1.32   Exotic pets, wildlife rescue programs
   
5-1.33   Appeals hearing process
   
5-1.34   Animals to be curbed
   
5-1.35   Cage and pen requirements
   
5-1.36   Sanitary enclosures
   
5-1.37   Violations and penalties
   
5-1.38   Abatement
   
5-1.39   Commencement of proceedings
   
5-1.40   Hearings; notice
   
5-1.41   Hearing conduct
   
5-1.42   Order of abatement
   
5-1.43   Appeal of abatement order
   
5-1.44   Council action
   
5-1.45   Notice of Council decision
   
5-1.46   Cost of abatement
   
5-1.47   Report; hearing and proceedings
§ 5-1.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the "City Animal Control Regulations."
('61 Code, § 5-1.01) (Ord. 254, N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 686 C.S., passed 7-
15-98)
§ 5-1.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The person, organization, or entity so designated by
the City Administrator or their designee.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. The Madera County Animal Shelter.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the of the person owning, or having
possession, charge, custody, or control of, the animal and not under the
immediate control of a person by means of an enclosure, leash, rope, or other
means of immediate effective physical control; and shall mean on such premises
of the person owning or possessing the animal, and not under such immediate
effective physical control or under the immediate vocal command of a person,
provided that whenever an animal control officer, employee, or officer of the
city determines that an animal is loose on said premises outside of an
enclosure and no person can be found on the premises or no person responds to
the officer or employee's sounding of the door buzzer or bell or knock at the
door of the main house on said premises, said animal is at large; and provided
further, however, that the term shall not include any dog while being trained
in an obedience or other training class or being exhibited at a show or
obedience trial, or being used for bona fide hunting purposes, and while under
the immediate physical or vocal control of a person.
   AUTHORIZED AGENT. The person, organization, or entity so designated by the
City administrator or City Council to administer the rabies vaccinating and/or
licensing program for the city.
   CURB. To so restrain or control an animal so that it does not defecate on
property other than that of its owner except by the express consent of the
owner of such property.
   EXCESSIVE NOISE. The utterance, by any animal, of barks, howling, whining,
cries, screeching, squeaking, squawking, or any noise which is loud, frequent
and continual over a period of time and which disturbs the peace and comfort of
a person or persons of ordinary sensitivity. Provided, however, it shall not be
deemed to be excessive noise if at the time of the noise a person or persons
reporting the excessive noise were trespassing or threatening to trespass upon
the private property of the owner, or if the subject animal was being teased or
provoked by someone not peaceably and lawfully on the property.
   GUARD DOG. Any State of California certified dog trained to work with
supervision for purposes of crowd control and to deter or detain unauthorized
persons. Proof of certification is subject to review and approval by the
Abatement and Compliance Division.
   GUIDE DOG. Any certified dog trained to lead a blind person. Proof of
certification is subject to review and approval by the Abatement and Compliance
Division.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer of the city, and his or her assistants,
deputies, and employees.
   KENNEL. Any lot, building, structure, enclosure, or premises where any
animal is boarded, trained, or kept for the purpose of sale or breeding whether
in special buildings or runways or not.
   OWNER. The legal owner or anyone in lawful possession or charge of a dog or
other animal.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal engaged in activity deemed to disturb the peace
or comfort of any neighborhood or interfere with the reasonable or comfortable
enjoyment of life or property of any person. These acts may include, but are
not limited to, running at large, excessive and continual barking, howling, or
other animal noises, defecating on or destroying the property of another.
   SENTRY DOG. Any State of California certified dog trained to work without
supervision in a fenced facility and to deter or detain unauthorized persons
found within the facility. Proof of certification is subject to review and
approval by the Abatement and Compliance Division.
   SERVICE DOG. Any certified dog trained to assist the physically disabled.
Proof of certification is subject to review and approval by the Abatement and
Compliance Division.
   SIGNAL DOG. Any certified dog trained to assist a deaf person. Proof of
certification is subject to review and approval by the Abatement and Compliance
Division.
('61 Code, § 5-1.02) (Ord. 254 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 673, passed 5-21-97;
Am. Ord. 686 C.S., passed 7-15-98; Am. Ord. 840 C.S., passed 6-18-08)
§ 5-1.03 ANIMAL SHELTER ESTABLISHED.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the Madera County Animal Shelter will be
utilized as the designated animal shelter facilities for the city.
('61 Code, § 5-1.03) (Ord. 254 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 686 C.S., passed 7-
15-98)
§ 5-1.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Every owner of any dog over the age of four months in the city shall procure
a license therefor from the authorized agent of the city. The license shall be
transferable with transfer of ownership of the dog. The owner of any dog
entering the city shall obtain a license within 30 days after the date of
entry. Such dogs shall also be vaccinated as required by this chapter, or the
owner shall present a proper certificate of such vaccination. In accordance
with Section 1-201 of the Madera Municipal Code, any second or subsequent
violations of this section within a period of 18 months of a prior conviction
of this offense shall be a misdemeanor.
('61 Code, § 5-1.04) (Ord. 254 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 19 C.S., passed 12-
20-61; Am. Ord. 686 C.S., passed 7-15-98)
§ 5-1.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon application made upon the form prescribed by the city and payment of
the fees, the authorized agent of the city shall issue a dog license which
shall contain a brief description of the dog as to breed, age, sex, and color
and include the name and address of the owner, a serial number, and the
expiration date thereof. The Finance Director shall keep a copy thereof as a
permanent file in his or her office and shall give the name and address of any
licensee upon request of any person.
('61 Code, § 5-1.05) (Ord. 254 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 673, passed 5-21-97;
Am. Ord. 686 C.S., passed 7-15-98)
§ 5-1.06 LICENSE TAGS.
   With the issuance of the license, the authorized agent of the city shall
issue a tag made of durable material, which tag shall bear the inscription
"Madera City Dog License," and the serial number. The dog tag shall be firmly
attached to the collar or harness of the dog for which the license was issued.
The Animal Control Officer, or his designee, shall impound any dog not bearing
a current city dog license tag. In the event of the loss or defacement of a
license tag, it shall be replaced by the authorized agent of the city upon the
payment to the authorized agent of a tag replacement fee as set by resolution
of the Council and subject to revision as needed. It shall be unlawful to affix
a tag to any dog for which it has not been issued, to maintain upon any dog
without the authority of the owner thereof, or to make or have in possession
any unauthorized tags, imitations, or facsimiles thereof. It shall be unlawful
for a person to affix a tag to a dog for which it has not been issued, or
making or having in their possession any unauthorized tags, imitations, or
facsimiles thereof. In accordance with Section 1-201 of the Madera Municipal
Code, any second or subsequent violation of this section within a period of 18
months of a prior conviction of this offense shall be a misdemeanor.
('61 Code, § 5-1.06) (Ord. 254 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 260 C.S., passed 5-
4-77; Am. Ord. 412 C.S., passed 6-20-83; Am. Ord. 673, passed 5-21-97; Am. Ord.
686 C.S., passed 7-15-98)
§ 5-1.07 LICENSE FEES.
    Fees for dog licenses shall be as set by resolution of the Council and
subject to revision as needed.
   Before a city dog license may be issued for the lower annual license fee for
a dog which has been spayed or neutered, the owner or custodian of such dog
shall provide evidence that the dog has been spayed or neutered. Such evidence
shall be a certificate signed by a doctor of veterinary medicine, on his or her
letterhead stationary or on a form provided by the city for such purpose, or by
the sworn statement of the owner or custodian on a form provided by the city.
Any such form or certificate shall state the name of the clinic where such
operation was performed, the street address of such doctor of veterinary
medicine or clinic, the telephone number thereof, if available, the precise or
approximate date when the operation was performed, and a sufficient description
of the dog, inclusive of age and name of the animal.
   At the time the license fees are paid, the owner or custodian of the dog
shall have the dog vaccinated with the appropriate rabies vaccine, and shall
present a vaccination certificate signed by a license indicating the period of
time elapsing from the date of vaccination to the date of expiration of the
vaccination. Any certificate of vaccination which was issued in excess of 30
months prior to the date of application for the license shall not be accepted
and the owner shall be required to obtain a new vaccination and certificate for
the dog. A dog license shall be issued only after presentation of the
vaccination certificate. The vaccination certificate need not be presented
whenever the dog has a condition or illness which is being treated for by a
veteran, and when determined by the veterinarian, renders it unfit to be
vaccinated, and this is proved to the satisfaction of the person authorized to
issue the license, or if the issuer is a licensed veterinarian, written proof
shall be provided by the veterinarian to the Abatement and Compliance Division,
thereof upon a form approved by the city.
('61 Code, § 5-1.07) (Ord. 254 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 82 C.S., passed 8-
18-65; Am. Ord. 260 C.S., passed 5-4-77; Am. Ord. 412 C.S., passed 6-20-83; Am.
Ord. 458 C.S., passed 7-16-86; Am. Ord. 673, passed 5-21-97; Am. Ord. 686 C.S.,
passed 7-15-98)
§ 5-1.08 EXEMPTIONS FROM LICENSE FEES.
   If an application for a dog license shows that the dog for which such
license is sought had been honorably discharged from service of the Armed
Forces of the United States, or is a seeing-eye dog in the service of any blind
person, or is being trained or raised for seeing-eye service, or is a signal
dog in the service of any deaf person, or is being trained or raised for signal
service, or is a service dog in the service of any physically disabled person,
or is being rained or raised for physically disabled service or is owned by a
person who is 55 years of age or older, a license shall be issued gratuitously
and shall contain thereon a statement of the reason for such gratuitous
issuance. A gratuitous license issued to a dog owned by a person 55 years of
age or older shall be limited to one license per person, per household, per
calendar year.
('61 Code, § 5-1.08) (Ord. 254 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 673, passed 5-21-97;
Am. Ord. 686 C.S., passed 7-15-98)
§ 5-1.09 KENNEL LICENSE; FEES.
   Every person owning or operating a kennel or place where five or more dogs
or other animals are kept for breeding, boarding, training, or other commercial
purposes shall obtain a kennel license and all other necessary city inspections
and permits for all dogs or other animals regularly kept therein in lieu of
obtaining licenses for the individual dogs or other animals kept therein. The
fee therefor shall be as set by resolution of the Council and subject to
revision as needed.
   Every person who regularly engages in the breeding of and selling of dogs
and/or cats, or who breeds and sells dogs and/or cats more than once a year, or
other animals, will be considered to be engaged in the business of being a
kennel or other commercial business. Such persons shall be subject to all
related fee, permit, license and inspection requirements.
   (A)   All kennels or other animal facilities shall be so constructed as to
prevent the animals confined therein from running at large off the premises
where said kennels are maintained. All kennels shall be operated and
constructed in a sanitary and proper manner so that the same will not become a
nuisance to the neighborhood thereof.
   (B)   No kennel license shall be issued until an inspection has been
completed and a certificate is issued stating that the kennel is constructed
and operated in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the
appropriate building and health inspection permits were obtained for
construction of said kennel or animal facility.
('61 Code, § 5-1.09) (Ord. 254 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 673, passed 5-21-97;
Am. Ord. 686 C.S., passed 7-15-98)
§ 5-1.10 KENNEL PERMIT OR COMMERCIAL ANIMAL STRUCTURE; INSPECTIONS.
   Before a kennel license or other animal related commercial permit is issued,
a permit therefor shall be obtained from the Health Officer. All kennels or
other animal structures shall be so constructed as to prevent dogs or other
animals confined therein from running at large where such kennel or commercial
animal structure is maintained. The kennel or other commercial animal structure
shall be operated and constructed in a sanitary and proper manner so that such
kennel or other commercial animal structure shall not become a nuisance to the
neighborhood thereof. The operation of all kennels or other commercial animal
structures licensed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to reasonable regulations of the Health Officer, and annual inspections by the
Animal Control Officer or designee and it shall be unlawful for any person
holding a license for such kennel or other commercial animal structure to
maintain or operate such kennel or other commercial animal structure in
violation of the regulations therefor issued by the Health Officer. Any kennel
not passing inspection by the Animal Control Officer or designee shall be
subject to a re-inspection. In accordance with § 1-201 of this Code, any second
or subsequent violation of this section within a period of 18 months of a prior
conviction of this offense shall be a misdemeanor. The fee therefor shall be as
set by resolution of the City Council and subject to revision as needed.
('61 Code, § 5-1.10) (Ord. 254 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 686 C.S., passed 7-
15-98)
§ 5-1.11 IMPOUNDING DOGS OR OTHER ANIMALS.
   Any Animal Control Officer, designee, or police officer may take up and
impound in the animal shelter any licensed dog, unlicensed dog, or dog bearing
no license tag which dog may be found running at large, whether the same is in
the presence of the owner or not, and whether or not the same is in the
presence of the owner or a member of his or her family.
   Any other animal that may be found wandering, or running at large, whether
the same is in the presence of the owner or not, and whether or not the same is
in the presence of the owner or a member of his or her family may also be taken
and impounded.
('61 Code, § 5-1.11) (Ord. 254 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 125 C.S., passed 7-
3-68; Am. Ord. 686 C.S., passed 7-15-98)
§ 5-1.12 DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED UNLICENSED DOGS OR OTHER ANIMALS.
   Any unlicensed dog or dog bearing no license tag taken up and impounded, or
other impounded animal, which is not redeemed in the manner provided in this
chapter within a period of three full days from the time of the taking up, may
be euthanized by the designated animal shelter, Animal Control Officer or
designee in a human manner. If such animal is salable, it may be sold for cash
at a private sale, without notice, for such price as the Animal Control Officer
or designated animal control shelter deems reasonable and proper, or the Animal
Control Officer or designated animal shelter may deliver such unredeemed dogs
to the US military authorities.
   Unclaimed impounded animals shall not be authorized by the city to be sold
or used for scientific purposes.
('61 Code, § 5-1.12) (Ord. 254 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 686 C.S., passed 7-
15-98)
§ 5-1.13 DISPOSITION OF LICENSED DOGS.
   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer or designee, within 24
hours after the impounding of any dog bearing a license tag, to attempt to
contact by phone at the last known phone number, or attempt to contact the
owner at the last address shown by the application therefor on file with the
Finance Director, or to mail a notice of such impounding in a sealed envelope
directed to the dog's owner at the address shown by the application therefor on
file with the Finance Director. Any dog taken up and impounded which bears a
valid license tag and which is not redeemed within a period of seven calendar
days from the date of the taking up, or any unlicensed dog which is not
redeemed in three calendar days from the date of the taking up, may be
euthanized by the designated animal shelter or Animal Control Officer or
designee in a humane manner. If such dog is salable, it may be sold for cash at
a private sale, without notice, for such price as the designated animal shelter
or Animal Control Officer or designee deems reasonable and proper, or the
designated animal shelter or Animal Control Officer or designee may deliver
such unredeemed dog to the US military authorities.
('61 Code, § 5-1.13) (Ord. 254 N.S, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 125 C.S., passed 7-3-
68; Am. Ord. 192 C.S., passed 10-18-72; Am. Ord. 686 C.S., passed 7-15-98)
§ 5-1.14 SALE OF IMPOUNDED DOGS.
   When any dog or other animal is sold by the designated animal shelter or
Animal Control Officer as provided in this chapter, it shall be his or her duty
to deliver to the purchaser of such animal a statement in writing, which shall
contain a description of the animal sold, the date of the sale, and the amount
of the purchase price. Before a dog or cat is released to the purchaser, he or
she shall sign an agreement, as approved by the City Attorney, to have said dog
or cat vaccinated and spayed or neutered, and licensed within 30 days of the
release unless said dog or cat is medically unable to be vaccinated and spayed
or neutered. The Animal Control Officer or designee shall retain a duplicate of
all statements issued by him or her in connection with the sale. All sales made
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall convey a good and valid title
to the purchaser, and the previous owner of the animal so sold shall thereafter
be barred from all rights to recover the same; provided, however, if such
original owner appears within three months after the date of such sale and
proves to the satisfaction of the Animal Control Officer or designee that he or
she was the owner of such animal, and makes a verified claim therefor to the
Council, he or she shall be reimbursed for any sum which shall have been
realized from the sale of the animal, less such redemption fees as he or she
would have been required to pay had he or she redeemed the animal on the date
of such sale, less the further administrative fees as set by resolution of the
Council and subject to revision as needed.
('61 Code, § 5-1.14) (Ord. 254 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 673, passed 5-21-97;
Am. Ord. 686 C.S., passed 7-15-98)
§ 5-1.15 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   The owner of any animal, other than a potentially dangerous or vicious
animal, a sick, injured or mistreated animal, or animal prohibited in the city,
may reclaim and redeem such animal upon:
      (1)   Payment of the costs and expenses incurred by the city and county
for impounding and maintaining such animal;
      (2)   Payment of a redemption fee;
      (3)   Payment of any fees or penalties provided for in this chapter;
      (4)   Payment of any previously incurred fees, penalties and sustained
administrative citation fines under this chapter relating to the impounded
animal; and
      (5)   For animals at large, proof satisfactory to the Auxiliary Services
Supervisor that the animal will be securely confined and adequately cared for.
   (B)   Notwithstanding satisfaction of the requirements for redemption, the
Auxiliary Services Supervisor, at his/her discretion, may refuse to permit the
redemption of any animal impounded pursuant to the provisions of this chapter,
or any other municipal, county or state law, until in his/her opinion the need
for the retention of such animal no longer exists. The Auxiliary Services
Supervisor shall document in writing the need for the retention of an animal
under this subsection and notify the owner of his/her right to contest that
determination by filing a written request for a hearing within two working days
of receipt of the determination. If the owner requests a hearing, the Auxiliary
Services Supervisor shall schedule a hearing before a hearing officer appointed
pursuant to the city's administrative hearing ordinance. The hearing shall be
held within not less than five and no more than ten working days of the
request. The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures set
forth in the city's administrative hearing ordinance.
   (C)   The owner of any impounded animal shall be liable for all fees and
costs incurred by the city in connection with the impounding of such animal
regardless of whether the animal is redeemed by the owner.
('61 Code, § 5-1.15) (Ord. 254 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 82 C.S., passed 8-
18-65; Am. Ord. 192 C.S., passed 10-18-72; Am. Ord. 351 C.S., passed 6-30-80;
Am. Ord. 673, passed 5-21-97; Am. Ord. 686 C.S., passed 7-15-98; Am. Ord. 840
C.S., passed 6-18-08)
§ 5-1.15.5 VOLUNTARY SURRENDER; FEES.
   (A)   Upon request, an owner may surrender his/her animal to the Madera City
Animal Control for placement for adoption at the Animal Shelter. Any animal
that is voluntarily surrendered to or deposited with the Madera City Animal
Control by the owner shall immediately thereafter become the property of the
Animal Shelter. It shall be understood that no guarantee of placement will be
made, and humane disposal will be at the discretion of the Animal Shelter.
   (B)   Any owner of an animal who voluntarily surrenders an animal to the
Madera City Animal Control shall be subject to a fee as set forth in the city's
fee schedule for each animal over the age of four months.
   (C)   The surrender of an animal by an owner to Madera City Animal Control
or the Madera County Animal Shelter, subsequent to impoundment for a violation
of this chapter or any provisions of state law, shall not relieve the owner of
the obligation to pay such charges as set forth in this chapter, incurred prior
to such surrender, plus accumulated boarding charges, veterinary charges or any
other charges related to the impounding and keeping of the animal.
(Ord. 840 C.S., passed 6-28-08)
§ 5-1.16 DUTY OF OWNER OF SUSPECTED RABID ANIMAL.
   Whenever the owner of any animal shall observe or learn that such animal has
shown symptoms of rabies, or has acted in a manner which could cause a
reasonable person to suspect that it might have rabies, or that it has been
bitten by an animal having rabies or suspected of having rabies, or is
otherwise exposed to rabies, such person shall immediately notify the Health
Officer, and the Animal Control Officer or designee shall immediately confine
such animal.
('61 Code, § 5-1.16) (Ord. 254 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 686 C.S., passed 7-
15-98)
§ 5-1.17 QUARANTINE OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Quarantine. Whenever any dog or other animal has bitten any human
being or other animal, or whenever the Health Officer or Animal Control Officer
has reasonable grounds to suspect that a dog or other animal has rabies, the
Health Officer or Animal Control Officer is empowered to immediately quarantine
such dog or other animal, either upon the premises of the owner or within the
city designated animal shelter. Such quarantine shall be by written notice
served upon the owner of the dog or other animal and shall contain a statement
that such dog or other animal is quarantined and the instructions to be
followed. The dog or other animal shall be restrained for a sufficient period
to determine whether or not it is infected with rabies and shall be euthanized
if determined to be rabid or, if not, released to the owner. Upon its release
the owner shall be notified in writing, and the dog or other animal shall be
released to him upon the payment of an amount to be set by resolution of the
Council and subject to revision as needed, as a charge for keeping the animal.
If no person lawfully entitled to the dog or other animal shall appear within
three days from the notice and claim the dog or other animal and pay the
charges, the dog or other animal may be sold or euthanized as provided for in
this chapter. Additionally, there shall be an administrative fee as set by
resolution of the City Council and subject to revision as needed for inspection
and final release of any animal quarantined under this section.
   (B)   On other premises. If the quarantine is upon the premises of the owner
of the dog or other animal, it shall be immediately confined within a locked
enclosure so constructed that it cannot escape or have contact with any animal
or human being other than the person responsible for its care. At the
discretion of the Health Officer or Animal Control Officer, it may be kept
under restraint by leash in charge of a responsible person or under such other
restrictions as the Health Officer or Animal Control Officer may deem
necessary. In lieu of the quarantine of the dog or other animal upon the
premises, the owner may place the dog or other animal in the care of a duly
licensed veterinary surgeon for the purpose of confinement or for the purpose
of having the standard anti-rabies treatment administered. The owner of any
such dog or other animal quarantined on the premises shall immediately report
to the Health Officer or Animal Control Officer any change in disposition or
unusual actions of the dog or other animal. The dog or other animal shall be
kept quarantined and restrained until the Health Officer or Animal Control
Officer shall order, in writing, its destruction or release.
('61 Code, § 5-1.17) (Ord. 254 N.S, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 82 C.S., passed 8-18-
65; Am. Ord. 192 C.S., passed 10-18-72; Am. Ord. 673, passed 5-21-97; Am. Ord.
686 C.S., passed 7-15-98)
§ 5-1.18 QUARANTINED AREA.
   Whenever rabies is known to have become endemic or epidemic within a given
area, the Health Officer may establish a quarantine area and specify the
animals subject to quarantine. All such animals within the quarantine area,
including dogs, shall be kept in strict confinement upon the premises of the
owner; provided, however, with the written consent of the Health Officer, such
animals may be moved under such conditions and restrictions as the Health
Officer may impose. The Health Officer is empowered to impose such other
restrictions as he or she may deem necessary.
('61 Code, § 5-1.18) (Ord. 254 N.S., passed - - )
§ 5-1.19 VACCINATION.
   Every dog owner, after his or her dog attains the age of four months, shall
at least once every 36 calendar months procure at his or her own expense its
vaccination with an anti-rabies vaccine by a veterinarian. Vaccination shall be
held as a prerequisite to the licensing of dogs.
   (A)   The Animal Control Officer or designee may impound any dog which has
not been vaccinated as required by this section.
('61 Code, § 5-1.19) (Ord. 254 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 19 C.S,, passed 12-
20-61; Am. Ord. 137 C.S., passed 5-21-69; Am. Ord. 686 C.S., passed 7-15-98)
§ 5-1.20 VIOLATION OF QUARANTINE.
   When any dog is quarantined, it shall be unlawful for the owner or person in
possession of such dog to violate the quarantine by removing such dog from the
premises, allowing it to run at large, destroying it without authorization,
concealing it from the Health Officer or the Animal Control Officer or
designee, or disobeying any other quarantine restriction which may have been
imposed by the Health Officer.
('61 Code, § 5-1.20) (Ord. 254 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 686 C.S., passed 7-
15-98)
§ 5-1.21 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   It shall be lawful for the Health Officer, the Animal Control Officer or
Designee, or any peace officer to enter upon the premises of any person for the
purposes of enforcing the provisions of this chapter. In accordance with §
1-2.01 of the City Municipal Code, any person interfering with any officer in
the performance of his or her duties pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
('61 Code, § 5-1.21) (Ord. 254 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 686 C.S., passed 7-
15-98)
§ 5-1.22 RESTRAINT OF CERTAIN DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to cause or permit such dog to
stray or run at large off the premises of the owner or in any public place
while in heat, and such owner shall also keep any such dog under confinement or
control in such manner as to avoid attracting other dogs to such owner's
property or areas adjacent thereto. It shall be the duty of any officer to take
up and impound such dog, whether licensed or unlicensed, which is found running
at large in violation of this section. Such dog may be redeemed only after the
expiration of a period of ten days after the date of such impounding provided
payment is made of such fees and charges required by this chapter for the
redemption of such dogs. All dogs under four months of age shall be confined to
the premises of, or kept under physical restraint by, the owner, keeper, or
harborer. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the sale or
transportation of a puppy four months old or younger.
('61 Code, § 5-1.22) (Ord. 254 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 19 C.S., passed 12-
20-61; Am. Ord. 311 C.S., passed 12-20-78)
§ 5-1.23 VICIOUS ANIMALS; POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMALS; ABATEMENT; HEARING
PROCEDURE.
   Purpose and intent. Within the City of Madera there are vicious dogs which
constitute a public nuisance which should be abated. The provisions of this
section provide an administrative procedure by which dogs found to be a
nuisance may be abated following a hearing at which oral and documentary
evidence is considered. This section is intended to supplement rather than
supplant any other remedy available either under state law or the Madera
Municipal Code.
   (A)   Vicious dog defined. Any dog, except one assisting a peace officer
engaged in law enforcement duties, which demonstrates any of the following
behavior, is presumed vicious:
      (1)   Any dog which, when unprovoked, in an aggressive manner, inflicts a
physical injury to a human being that results in muscle tears or disfiguring
lacerations or requires multiple sutures or corrective or cosmetic surgery, or
any dog which kills a human being; or
      (2)   Any dog previously determined to be and currently listed as
potentially dangerous dog which, after its owner has been notified of this
determination, continues the behavior described in §
5-1.23(B).
   (B)   Potentially dangerous dog defined.
      (1)   Any dog which when unprovoked, on two separate occasions within the
prior 36-month period, engages in behavior that requires a defensive action by
any person to prevent bodily injury when the person and the dog are off the
property of the owner or keeper of the dog; or
      (2)   Any dog, which when unprovoked, bites a person causing a less
severe injury than as defined in §
5-1.23(A)(1); or
      (3)   Any dog, which when unprovoked, on two separate occasions within
the prior 36-month period has killed, seriously bitten, inflicted injury or
otherwise caused injury attacking a domestic animal off the property of the
owner or keeper of the dog.
   (C)   Investigation. Any incident reported to the Madera Police Department
concerning a vicious or potentially dangerous dog may be investigated by the
Police Chief, or his/her designee. The investigation may consist of reports of
officers made at the time of the incident, or follow-up reports. If, based on
the investigation, the Police Chief, or his/her designee concludes that there
is probable cause to believe that the dog is vicious or potentially dangerous
he shall so certify in writing within ten working days following completion of
the investigation to the person owning or controlling the dog. Thereafter a
hearing shall be held pursuant to subsections (E), (F) and (G) below.
   (D)   Confinement of dog. If the Police Chief, or his/her designee certifies
that there is probable cause to believe that a dog is potentially dangerous or
vicious and a risk to public safety, he may direct any animal control officer,
police officer or other authorized employee of the city to enter the yard of
any private residence or business in order to seize any such dog, whether
running at large or not, and confine said dog at an appropriate animal shelter
pending the decision of the Administrative Hearing Officer following the
hearing provided for in subsections (E), (F) and (G) below. The cost of said
confinement shall be paid by the person owning or controlling such dog. The dog
shall not be released until such costs have been paid in full.
   (E)   Hearing - schedule. A hearing date shall be set not sooner than five,
and not later than ten working days from the date of notice of certification
and notice of the hearing. The Auxiliary Services Supervisor shall mail or
otherwise deliver a notice of the hearing to the owner or person controlling
the dog, at least five working days prior to the date set for hearing.
   (F)   Hearing - procedure. At the hearing, which may be continued from time
to time, both oral and documentary evidence may be taken from any interested
person and considered in determining whether the dog is potentially dangerous
or vicious. Any owner who fails to appear after proper notice as provided
herein was given, without obtaining a continuance from the Auxiliary Services
Supervisor or an appointed hearing officer, may be deemed to have waived any
right to introduce evidence or object to an order made by the Administrative
Hearing Officer.
   (G)   Hearing - findings; public nuisance. If, based upon the evidence
presented at the hearing, the Administrative Hearing Officer upholds the
findings of the Auxiliary Services Supervisor that the dog is potentially
dangerous or vicious, the Administrative Hearing Officer shall so specify in
writing together with the reasons therefor. Any dog found to be vicious is
hereby deemed a public nuisance and shall be, pursuant to the order of the
Administrative Hearing Officer, humanely destroyed, removed from the city, or
the nuisance otherwise abated by appropriate order of the Administrative
Hearing Officer including, but not limited to, confinement, fencing, muzzling
or leashing. The decision of the Administrative Hearing Officer shall be made
within ten working days after the conclusion of the hearing and shall be final.
A copy of the decision shall be sent by certified mail or personally served
upon the person owning or controlling the dog.
   (H)   Cost of impoundment. If the Administrative Hearing Officer finds the
dog is potentially dangerous or vicious, the costs of impoundment incurred by
the city, including any abatement period, shall be paid by the owner or the
person controlling the dog and shall become a lien against the real property
upon which the dog was kept and maintained until said lien is paid. If the
order includes the release of a dog found to be potentially dangerous or
vicious to the owner or person controlling it, the dog shall not be released
until such costs have been paid in full. If such costs have not been paid
within 30 calendar days after the date of mailing or delivery of the order, the
Auxiliary Services Supervisor may dispose of the dog in any manner provided by
law, or return the dog and pursue alternative collection procedures. The total
amount of the impoundment charges may be entered on the next fiscal year tax
roll as a lien against the property upon which the dog was maintained and shall
be subject to the same penalties as are provided for other delinquent taxes,
liens or assessments of the city, or an action may be brought in the name of
the city to recover the costs of impoundment.
   (I)   Criminal sanctions. The first violation of any order issued pursuant
to subsection (G) above shall constitute an infraction. The second and any
further violations within 24 months of the order shall be misdemeanors.
('61 Code, § 5-1.23) (Ord. 254, N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 311 C.S., passed
12-20-87; Am. Ord. 496 C.S., passed 2-4-88; Am. Ord. 686 C.S., passed 7-15-98;
Am. Ord. 840 C.S., passed 6-18-08)
§ 5-1.24 DOGS INTERFERING WITH THE USE OF HIGHWAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog which habitually attacks,
worries, or barks at pedestrians, bicycles, vehicles, or other users of public
highways to permit such dog to run at large.
('61 Code, § 5-1.24) (Ord. 254 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 686 C.S., passed 7-
15-98)
§ 5-1.25 NOISY ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any animal in his or her
possession to habitually destroy the peace and quiet of any person or
neighborhood by causing to be created excessive noise as defined in this
chapter.
('61 Code, § 5-1.25) (Ord. 254 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 686 C.S., passed 7-
15-98; Am. Ord. 840 C.S., passed 6-18-08)
§ 5-1.26 DOGS OR OTHER ANIMALS COMMITTING PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any dog or other animal owned
by him or her, or in his or her possession, or under his or her control to
habitually commit a nuisance in any public place or on the property of another.
   Any dog or other animal impounded or cited more than twice for any violation
of this chapter in a 12-month period may be determined to be a public nuisance
and subject to being prohibited from being in the city limits.
('61 Code, § 5-1.26) (Ord. 254 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 686 C.S., passed 7-
15-98)
§ 5-1.27 (REPEALED).
§ 5-1.28 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE; LEASH REQUIREMENTS.
   No person owning any dog or having the care, custody, control, or possession
of any dog shall offer, allow, or permit such dog to run, be, or remain at
large on any public street, road, alley, park, square, or other public place,
or upon any private unenclosed property within the city, and all dogs may be
deemed running at large within the meaning of this section unless tied,
restrained by chain, strap, or cord attached to their collars and actually held
by some person, or tied or restrained in an automobile or other vehicle, or
unless such dog is staked or fastened. Any dog found running at large on any
public street, road, alley, park, square, or other public place, or upon any
private unenclosed property within the city, shall be subject to seizure and
impoundment. In accordance with §
1-2.01 of the Madera Municipal Code, any second or subsequent violation of this
section within a period of 18 months of a prior conviction of this offense
shall be a misdemeanor.
('61 Code, § 5-1.28) (Ord. 125 C.S., passed 7-3-68; Am. Ord. 686 C.S., passed
7-15-98)
§ 5-1.29 POLICE CANINE UNITS; EXEMPTIONS.
   The terms and provisions of this chapter, except as may be required to
comply with rabies vaccination requirements or compliance with any Health or
Safety Regulation, shall not be applicable to any dog used by the Police
Department or Sheriff Department for law enforcement purposes. The owner of the
dog shall provide necessary proof of certification of training for the dog and
a letter from the Chief of Police or Sheriff of the department by which they
are employed in order to receive this exemption.
('61 Code, § 5-1.29) (Ord. 396 C.S., passed 7-19-82; Am. Ord. 686 C.S., passed
7-15-98)
§ 5-1.30 PRIVATE SECURITY/GUARD DOGS/SENTRY DOGS.
   (A)   Any dog owned or utilized by private security companies or patrols, or
private business owners shall provide proof of current vaccination and license
of said animals to the Abatement and Compliance Division prior to a business
license being issued. Companies acquiring security or guard dogs after issuance
of a business license shall provide proof of vaccination and licensing of said
dogs within ten days of obtaining these dogs.
   (B)   Any dog owned by a private security company, being transported within
the city limits, shall be transported in a vehicle clearly marked "Canine" or
"K-9" on each side and the rear of the vehicle in black or dark blue letters
not less then seven inches high. These vehicle markings must be approved by the
Abatement and Compliance Division.
   (C)   Any commercial business within the geographical limits of the city who
utilizes guard dogs or sentry dogs which run loose in an enclosed area, is
required to provide information as to the location of the area the guard dogs
are to be utilized to the Abatement and Compliance Division of the city. This
information shall be forwarded to the Police Department by that division.
(Ord. 686 C.S., passed 7-15-98)
§ 5-1.31 LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   Livestock kept within areas of the city limits must be kept according
to the following. This would include, but not be limited to horses, mules,
burros, pigs, cows, sheep, goats, chickens, ducks, rabbits:
      (1)   No more than three may be kept at any one location, or as
determined by other applicable city ordinance or the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Animals must be contained in an enclosed pen, which must be
enclosed on all sides including the top where required to keep such livestock
contained and not permitted to wander loose.
      (3)   Animal pens must be maintained in a sanitary manner, so as not to
cause a health hazard or odor problem.
      (4)   Any such animals creating a public nuisance, such as complaints
received of noise shall be subject to a hearing process to determine if said
animals must be removed from the city limits. Such hearing by designated
persons will be held as specified in §
5-1.33.
      (5)   No such animals shall be slaughtered, butchered or killed in
residential areas, or in commercial areas not authorized for this purpose.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any properties that are zoned or used
for agricultural or industrial purposes.
(Ord. 686 C.S., passed 7-15-98)
§ 5-1.32 EXOTIC PETS, WILDLIFE RESCUE PROGRAMS.
   Exotic pets include, but are not limited to, snakes, turtles, monkeys,
chinchilla and other unusual animals, or animals being cared for as a result of
wildlife rescue programs. Any persons operating a wildlife rescue program
within the city limits must file copies of applicable permits from state and
federal agencies with the Abatement and Compliance Division.
   (A)   Animals considered to be exotic pets or wildlife must be contained in
such a structure or housed in such a manner as to prevent their escape. Owners
of exotic pets which escape and require the services of the Animal Control
Officer to capture will be charged all applicable fees as set by resolution of
the City Council and subject to revision as needed, related to those services,
in addition to any fines applicable, or fees for damages caused to public
properties.
   (B)   Any exotic pets or wildlife maintained by those persons which require
special permits from state or federal agencies will be required to file those
permits with the Abatement and Control Division of the city and pay any
applicable fees. Persons maintaining those types of animals may be required to
obtain local permits to maintain these animals within the city limits. Housing
for such animals may be subject to inspection and approval by the Animal
Control Officer before local permits may be issued. Any pet or animal under
this section which escapes shall be subject to obtaining a permit for keeping
the animal in the city limits. Fees for these permits and associated
administrative costs shall be as set by resolution of the City Council and
subject to revision as needed.
(Ord. 686 C.S., passed 7-15-98)
§ 5-1.33 APPEALS HEARING PROCESS.
   There shall be a board consisting of the Community Development Director and
the Auxiliary Services Supervisor or other designated person(s) who will hear
appeals on enforcement actions taken under this chapter. Request for appeals
must be filed in writing by the owner or custodian of the animal with the
Auxililary Services Supervisor within two days of the action. If the owner or
custodian of an animal desires to appeal a decision of the hearing board, they
may do so to the City Administrator within two days of the determination. A
non-refundable administrative fee must be paid at the time the request for this
hearing is filed. This fee shall be as set by resolution of the City Council
and subject to revision as needed.
(Ord. 686 C.S., passed 7-15-98; Am. Ord. 686 C.S., passed 7-15-98; Am. Ord. 840
C.S., passed 6-18-08)
§ 5-1.34 ANIMALS TO BE CURBED.
   Should any dog, cat or other animal defecate on any public property or on
the private property of any person, the person owning or having custody of the
animal shall immediately remove the feces from any such place to a site not
prohibited by law. A violation of this section is an infraction.
(Ord. 840 C.S., passed 6-18-08)
§ 5-1.35 CAGE AND PEN REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall keep or maintain any live animal in a cage, coop, hutch,
pen, yard or space which is less than three times as large in floor space as
the total size of all live animals which may be kept therein, and which is not
of sufficient height to permit each animal to stand in a natural erect
position. This section shall not apply to the Animal Shelter nor shall it
preclude a veterinarian, any person engaged in showing animals, or any animal
groomer from temporarily confining an animal in a container which does not
satisfy the minimum requirements of this section, for medical, showing or
grooming purposes.
(Ord. 840 C.S., passed 6-18-08)
§ 5-1.36 SANITARY ENCLOSURES.
   (A)   Every person keeping any animal shall at all times maintain cages,
coops, hutches, pens, yards or other enclosures wherein such animal is kept in
a clean and sanitary condition, and shall remove excreta and manure therefrom
every day, or as often as is necessary so as not to become a nuisance in the
neighborhood or to any person in the neighborhood.
   (B)   No person shall at any time maintain any lot or other premises, or any
portion thereof, in the city, upon which any animal is kept in an unsanitary
condition or in such condition as to cause the same to be infested with flies
or insects or to create any noxious or offensive odors.
(Ord. 840 C.S., passed 6-18-08)
§ 5-1.37 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of an infraction, unless otherwise specified, and upon conviction thereof shall
be punished as provided in the Government Code of the State of California;
provided, however, the Council hereby finds and determines that violations of
this chapter shall constitute a public nuisance and the Council hereby declares
that it may take such additional lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation hereof through the injunctive process. Owners or
custodians of animals as regulated by this chapter shall be responsible for all
fees and/or fines associated with this chapter and will be subject to all
administrative costs or court costs associated with collection of these fees
and/or fines. When any fines have been assessed pursuant to this chapter
against an owner or custodian of an animal, such fees or fines shall be payable
within 60 days.
(Ord. 840 C.S., passed 6-18-08)
§ 5-1.38 ABATEMENT.
   Any public nuisance found, as provided in this chapter, shall be abated by
the procedures set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 845 C.S., passed 10-1-08)
§ 5-1.39 COMMENCEMENT OF PROCEEDINGS.
   Whenever the Auxiliary Services Supervisor reasonably believes a nuisance
exists under this chapter, he or she shall commence abatement proceedings. The
Auxiliary Services Supervisor shall have responsibility for abating nuisances
pertaining to the animal control ordinances in this chapter of the Municipal
Code.
(Ord. 845 C.S., passed 10-1-08)
§ 5-1.40 HEARING; NOTICE.
   (A)   Where the Auxiliary Services Supervisor finds that the nuisance
exists, he or she shall give not less than seven days written notice of a
hearing to determine whether a nuisance exists to the owner(s) of an animal
causing a nuisance by mailing the same to the owner's address as indicated
thereon by certified letter, and further, by conspicuously posting on the
premises of the owner's address a copy of the notice. The term OWNER shall mean
the owner of a subject animal or any person who was in possession of a subject
animal at the time a nuisance under this chapter was alleged to have occurred
or exist.
   (B)   The notice shall indicate the nature of the alleged nuisance, the
description of the animal involved, and the designation of the time and place
of the hearing to determine whether the same constitutes a nuisance, and the
manner of its proposed abatement if the same is found to be a nuisance.
   (C)   The failure of any person to receive the notice shall not affect the
validity of any proceedings under this section.
(Ord. 845 C.S., passed 10-1-08)
§ 5-1.41 HEARING CONDUCT.
   The hearing to determine whether a nuisance exists shall be conducted by the
Auxiliary Services Supervisor or a duly authorized representative, who shall
act as the Hearing Officer. At the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall consider
all relevant evidence, including but not limited to applicable staff reports.
He or she shall give any interested person a reasonable opportunity to be heard
in conjunction therewith. Based upon the evidence so presented, the Hearing
Officer shall determine whether a nuisance within the meaning of this chapter
exists.
(Ord. 845 C.S., passed 10-1-08)
§ 5-1.42 ORDER OF ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The decision of the Hearing Officer shall be final and conclusive in
the absence of an appeal as provided in the Municipal Code.
   (B)   The Hearing Officer shall, within five working days, give written
notice of his or her decision to the owner and to any other person requesting
the same. The notice shall contain an order of abatement, if a nuisance is
determined to exist, directed to the owner of the subject animal, and shall set
forth the nature of the nuisance, its location and the time and manner for its
abatement.
   (C)   Where an appeal is filed as provided in this code, the order of
abatement shall be suspended pending the review of the determination in the
manner set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 845 C.S., passed 10-1-08)
§ 5-1.43 APPEAL OF ABATEMENT ORDER.
   (A)   The owner of the subject animal shall have the right of appeal to the
City Council.
   (B)   The appeal shall be filed with the City Clerk within five working days
following the decision of the Hearing Officer. The appeal shall be in writing
and shall state the grounds for the appeal.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall set the matter for a public hearing before the
Council at a date and time not less than ten nor more than 35 days following
the filing of the appeal. The City Clerk shall then notify the appellant, by
mail, of the date and time of the hearing. The City Council may continue the
hearing date where necessary.
   (D)   The Council may, by resolution, establish a fee for the processing of
an appeal.
(Ord. 845 C.S., passed 10-1-08)
§ 5-1.44 COUNCIL ACTION.
   (A)   At the time and place set for such hearing, the City Council shall
review the decision of the Hearing Officer and shall afford the appellant a
reasonable opportunity to be heard in connection therewith.
   (B)   If the City Council finds from the relevant evidence presented at the
hearing that the action taken was in conformity with the provisions of the
code, it shall require compliance with the order of abatement within 30 days
after the mailing of a copy of its order to the affected property owner unless
a period of time in excess of 30 days is specifically authorized within which
to abate the nuisance.
   (C)   If the nuisance is not abated within the 30-day period or within such
longer period as the Council may provide, the Auxiliary Services Supervisor or
his or her designee is expressly authorized and directed to enter upon the
premises for the purpose of abating the nuisance after obtaining the permission
of the owner of the equitable interest therein, or after obtaining a warrant or
court order specifically authorizing entrance upon the premises for the express
purpose of abating the nuisance.
(Ord. 845 C.S., passed 10-1-08)
§ 5-1.45 NOTICE OF COUNCIL DECISION.
   A copy of the Council's order shall be mailed to the owner, and to any other
person requesting the same, by the City Clerk within five working days after
the adoption thereof. The Council's decision shall be final and conclusive.
Pursuant to Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 1094.6, any action to review the decision of
the Council shall be commenced not later than 19 days after the date the
Council's order is adopted.
(Ord. 845 C.S., passed 10-1-08)
§ 5-1.46 COST OF ABATEMENT.
   Where the Auxiliary Services Supervisor or his or her designee is required
to cause the abatement of a public nuisance pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, he or she shall keep an accounting of the cost thereof, including
incidental expenses for the abatement. The term INCIDENTAL EXPENSES includes
but is not limited to the actual expenses and costs of the city in the
preparation of notices, specifications, and contracts, and the costs of
printing and mailings required under this chapter. Upon conclusion of the
abatement, he or she shall submit an itemized statement of costs to the city
and set the same for a hearing before the Hearing Officer. The Director shall
cause notice of the time and place of the hearing to be given to the owners of
the property to which the same relate, and to any other interested person
requesting the same, by US mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the person at
his or her last known address at least five days in advance of the hearing.
(Ord. 845 C.S., passed 10-1-08)
§ 5-1.47 REPORT; HEARING AND PROCEEDINGS.
   At the time and place fixed for receiving and considering the report, the
Hearing Officer shall hear and pass upon the report of the Auxiliary Services
Supervisor or his or her designee together with any objections or protests
raised by any of the persons liable to be assessed for the cost of abating the
nuisance. Thereupon, the City Manager shall make such revision, correction, and
modification to the report, as he or she may deem just, after which the report
is submitted, or as revised, corrected, or modified, shall be confirmed. The
hearing may be continued from time to time.
(Ord. 845 C.S., passed 10-1-08)
CHAPTER 2: FOOD HANDLING
Section
   
5-2.01   Definitions
   
5-2.02   Food handling establishments; permit required
   
5-2.03   Registration of personnel
   
5-2.04   Revocation and suspension of registration card
§ 5-2.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOD HANDLING ESTABLISHMENT. Any restaurant, itinerant restaurant, coffee
shop, cafeteria, short-order cafe, luncheonette, tavern, sandwich stand, soda
fountain, delicatessen, bakery, grocery, confectionery, meat market and any
other establishment which manufactures, processes, caters, stores, displays,
sells or offers for sale to the public food or drink, wholesale or retail,
simple or compound, as well as rooms in which food or drink is prepared for
sale or distribution elsewhere.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer of the city.
('61 Code, § 5-2.01) (Ord. 195 N.S., passed - - )
§ 5-2.02 FOOD HANDLING ESTABLISHMENTS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each food handling establishment shall obtain a permit from the Health
Officer. An application for the permit, upon a form to be provided by the
Health Officer, shall be filed by each food handling establishment with the
Health Officer. The Health Officer thereupon shall issue to each applicant a
permit, provided that satisfactory proof is presented to the Health Officer
that each owner, operator, manager, and employee of the food handling
establishment has had issued to him or her a registration card as provided by
this chapter.
   (B)   All permits shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of
issuance thereof unless the same are sooner suspended or revoked.
('61 Code, § 5-2.02) (Ord. 195 N.S., passed - - )
§ 5-2.03 REGISTRATION OF PERSONNEL.
   (A)   Approval of Health Officer. It shall be unlawful for any owner,
operator, manager, or employee of any food handling establishment to work or
employ personnel in any food handling establishment until he or she has been
registered with and approved by the Health Officer. It shall be the duty of
every operator, manager, or employee, before he or she is employed in any food
handling establishment, and annually thereafter, to register with the Health
Officer and apply for a registration card. The issuance of a registration card
to a person shall be deemed approval of the Health Officer to the person to
work in the food handling establishment.
   (B)   Chest X-ray. Each person applying for a registration card shall give
accurate and verified information concerning his or her health and shall be
required to submit to a chest X-ray 70 mm to determine his or her freedom from
tuberculosis. The Health Officer shall not issue a registration card until the
chest X-ray has been taken. The Health Officer may issue the registration card
immediately upon application and the taking of the chest X-ray, but in the
event that subsequent examination of the chest X-ray indicates that the chest
examination is positive, the Health Officer shall immediately revoke or suspend
the registration card.
('61 Code, § 5-2.03) (Ord. 195 N.S., passed - - )
§ 5-2.04 REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF REGISTRATION CARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator, manager, or employee to work
in any food-handling establishment when the registration card issued to him or
her has been revoked or suspended by the Health Officer. Upon the revocation or
suspension of any registration card by the Health Officer, the employee or food
handling establishment adversely affected may demand a hearing before the
Health Officer, which hearing shall be set by the Health Officer not later than
30 days after the demand has been filed. The decision of the Health Officer may
be reviewed by the Council upon its own motion or upon the request of any
interested person in connection with such proceeding.
('61 Code, § 5-2.04) (Ord. 195 N.S., passed - - )
CHAPTER 3: GARBAGE, REFUSE AND RECYCLING
Section
   
5-3.01   Definitions
   
5-3.02   Charges for refuse collection and recycling services
   
5-3.03   Refuse containers (Repealed)
   
5-3.04   Premises to be kept free from refuse
   
5-3.05   Organic waste recycling
   
5-3.06   Placement of refuse
   
5-3.07   Disposal of certain uncollectible materials
   
5-3.08   Enforcement of chapter; collection regulations
   
5-3.09   Penalties for violations of this chapter
   
5-3.10   Interference with containers
   
5-3.11   Transportation of garbage
   
5-3.12   Special disposal service
   
5-3.13   (Repealed)
   
5-3.14   Right to collect garbage and rubbish
   
5-3.15   Segregation of garbage, rubbish, and recyclable materials
   
5-3.16   Recycling service
   
5-3.17   (Reserved)
   
5-3.18   Recycling anti scavenging
   
5-3.20   City owned containers
   
5-3.21   Fines
   
5-3.22   Restoration of service
   
5-3.23   Curb collection
   
5-3.24   Storage of containers
   
5-3.25   Green waste collection
   
5-3.26   Removal or interference with container contents prohibited
   
5-3.27   Burying garbage prohibited
   
5-3.28   Additional container service
   
5-3.29   Annual reporting of recyclable materials diverted from landfill
   
5-3.30   Construction and demolition debris recycling
   
5-3.31   Penalties for non-compliance
§ 5-3.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, SOLID WASTE means any of a variety
of materials, which are discarded or rejected as being worthless and includes,
but is not limited to garbage, rubbish, or offal.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUTHORIZED AGENT. The city or any private party authorized by written
agreement executed by the city to collect solid waste, including recyclables
and green waste from residential and/or commercial customers within the city
limits.
      COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL BINS. Bins provided by a contract agent, usually
one to six cubic yards, more or less in capacity, designed for the deposit of
solid waste, placed by an authorized agent at commercial premises for the
collection of commercial solid waste and charged at commercial rates.
COMMERCIAL BINS do not include construction and demolition bins placed at
residential premises.
      COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL PREMISES. All premises in the city, other than
residential premises, where commercial/industrial solid wastes are generated or
accumulated.
      COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL SOLID WASTE. All types of solid waste, including
organics and recyclable solid waste, generated or accumulated at commercial
premises and placed in commercial bins for accumulation and collection.
COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTES do not include residential solid waste.
      CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS (C&D). Disposal materials resulting
from construction, remodeling, repair, clean up, or demolition operations that
are not hazardous as defined in California Code of Regulations, Title 22, §§
66261.3 et seq. This term includes but is not limited to asphalt, concrete,
cement concrete, brick, lumber, gypsum wallboard, cardboard, and other
associated packaging, roofing material, ceramic tile, carpeting, plastic pipe
and steel, as well as vegetative matter resulting from land clearing and
landscaping including but not limited to rock, soil, and tree stumps.
      FRONT YARD. The front yard zoning setback of any dwelling or property as
determined by the Zoning Code.
      GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of food. This term specifically does not
include food processing wastes from canneries, slaughterhouses, packing plants
or similar industries, and does not include large quantities of condemned food
products.
      GREEN/YARD WASTE MATERIAL. The following materials to be collected by the
city through its authorized agents: waste at their source of generation which
are derived from plant material, including, but limited to, leaves, grass,
clippings, weeds, tree trimmings, untreated wood waste, or shrubbery cuttings.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste materials or mixture of wastes defined as a
"hazardous substance" or "hazardous waste" pursuant to the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA),
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 9601 et seq., and all future amendments to either, or as
defined by the California Integrated Waste Management Board. Where there is a
conflict in the definitions employed by two or more agencies having
jurisdiction over hazardous or solid waste, the term HAZARDOUS WASTE shall be
construed to have the broader, more encompassing definition.
      INDUSTRIAL REFUSE. The solid waste materials from factories, processing
plants, and other manufacturing enterprises, including condemned animals or
parts of animals from slaughterhouses or similar places.
      NONCOMBUSTIBLE SOLID WASTE. Ashes, bottles, broken crockery, glass, tin
cans, metal and metallic substances which will not incinerate through contact
with flame of ordinary temperature.
      OFFAL. Those animals that die naturally from disease or are accidentally
killed but shall not mean condemned animals or parts of animals from
slaughterhouses or similar places.
      ORGANIC WASTE. The term "organic waste" means "organic waste" as defined
in Cal. Pub. Res. Code § 42649.8. In particular, it means "food waste, green
waste, landscape and pruning waste, non-hazardous wood waste, and food-soiled
paper waste that is mixed in with food waste.
      ORGANIC WASTE GENERATOR. The term "organic waste generator" means
"organic waste generator" as defined in Cal. Pub. Res. Code § 42649.8 and a
business subject to Cal. Pub. Res. Code § 42649.81(a).
      RECYCLABLE MATERIAL. A material which has commercial value and which is
sold for compensation or donated to an entity other than a solid waste
authorized agent or enterprise. RECYCLABLE MATERIALS lose their character as
RECYCLABLE MATERIALS upon being disposed of in the waste stream and become
solid waste subject to this chapter.
      RECYCLABLES/RECYCLABLE MATERIAL. Shall mean the following materials to be
collected by the city through its authorized agents: newspaper, tin, aluminum,
glass, plastic (polyethylene teraphthelate and high density polyethylene
plastic) and cardboard.
      RECYCLABLE SERVICE. The process, by written agreement with an authorized
agent, by which recyclable materials are placed in special containers, normally
blue in color, at curbside by residential and commercial customers for
collection by the city's authorized agent.
      RECYCLABLE SOLID WASTE. A form of solid waste designated as a recyclable
solid waste by the city, the California Integrated Waste Management Board, or
other agency with jurisdiction over solid waste, and which has been separated
by a solid waste service recipient from nonrecyclable solid waste. RECYCLABLE
SOLID WASTE is a part of the solid waste stream which can be reused or
processed into a form suitable for reuse through reprocessing or remanufacture,
consistent with the requirements of the California Integrated Waste Management
Act. The term RECYCLABLE SOLID WASTE includes both mixed recyclables which have
been separated from other solid waste and source-separated single-category
recyclable solid waste. RECYCLABLE SOLID WASTE does not include those
potentially recoverable items which are commingled with nonrecyclable solid
waste, i.e. commingled solid waste and potentially recyclable articles or
materials, or recyclable material.
      REFUSE. All putrescible solid waste, semisolid, and liquid waste,
including garbage, trash, refuse, paper, ashes, and any other solid and semi-
solid waste. REFUSE does not include hazardous waste or radioactive waste.
      RESIDENTIAL. All single-family residences and those multi-family
residences (including mobile home parks) which have curbside or alley
capability and are designated by the City Administrator for recyclable and
green/yard waste collection.
(‘61 Code, § 5-3.01) (Ord. 326 N.S., passed - -; Am. Ord. 605 C.S., passed 12-
1-93; Am. Ord. 643 C.S., passed 10-4-95; Am. Ord. 715 C.S., passed 3-15-00; Am.
Ord. 842 C.S., passed 8-20-08; Am. Ord. 970 C.S., passed 4-1-20)
§ 5-3.02 CHARGES FOR REFUSE COLLECTION AND RECYCLING SERVICES.
   (A)   All occupied premises within the city shall have refuse and recycling
collection services for the collection, removal, and disposal of refuse and
recycling of recyclable materials produced upon the premises for which services
a charge shall be collected. The charges for such services shall be based upon
the average volume of refuse and recycling of materials presented for disposal
and from the services necessary in order to facilitate recycling collection and
refuse disposal as determined by the City Administrator or his/her designee.
All charges for these services shall be established by resolution of the
Council pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, which resolution shall
provide for additional charges for special services over and above those
contemplated in this chapter. If any customer is delinquent in payment for
services for 90 days or more, the city may remove any or all waste containers.
   (B)   The charges referred to herein shall be delinquent on the first day of
the month following the month for which such charges shall be due. If any such
charge remains delinquent over one calendar month, there shall be added to such
charge a base penalty of 10% which shall be collectible at the time of payment
of such charge. In addition, if such charge and such base penalty remain unpaid
after the first day of the third month after which such services were rendered,
an additional penalty of one half percent (.05%) per month for nonpayment of
the charge and the basic penalty shall be added to the amount due. Collection
of the penalties provided for herein shall be made by the Director of Finance
at the time of the payment of the base charge. The charges for service referred
to herein furnished by the city shall constitute a lien against the lot or
parcel of land against which the charge was imposed if such charge remains
delinquent for a period of 60 days, and the Director of Finance is directed to
include a statement on the bill to each property owner notifying such owner of
the lien provided for by this section. In the event refuse service and
recycling service is provided to property not occupied by the owner thereof,
and the occupant is being billed and charged therefor, and payment for such
service has been guaranteed by the property owner, the Director of Finance is
authorized and directed to notify such owner of any delinquencies hereunder
upon their occurrence.
('61 Code, § 5-3.02) (Ord. 326 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 641 C.S., passed 9-
20-95; Am. Ord. 643 C.S., passed 10-4-95; Am. Ord. 715 C.S., passed 3-15-00)
§ 5-3.03 REFUSE CONTAINERS (REPEALED).
§ 5-3.04 PREMISES TO BE KEPT FREE FROM REFUSE.
   Any person owning or occupying any building, lot, or premises in the city
shall not allow or permit any refuse of any kind to collect and remain upon any
such lot or premises; provided, however, the provisions of this section shall
not be construed to limit the use of lots or buildings under construction.
Every contractor or builder engaged in the erection or repair of a building
shall provide a receptacle at, or near, such building for the disposal of any
garbage or other refuse produced by the employees or workmen engaged in such
construction or repair. Such receptacle shall be furnished by the authorized
agent.
('61 Code, § 5-3.04) (Ord. 326 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 715 C.S., passed 3-
15-00)
§ 5-3.05 ORGANIC WASTE RECYCLING.
   The city shall ensure that organic waste generators shall comply with the
requirements in Chapter 12.9 of Part 3 of Division 30 of the Cal. Pub. Res.
Code (§ 42649.8 et seq.) as may be amended regarding organic waste recycling.
The city shall provide notice to any organic waste generator that fails to
comply with this section. The city may enact administrative rules and
regulations to provide for the compliance of this section.
(Ord. 970 C.S., passed 4-1-20)
§ 5-3.06 PLACEMENT OF REFUSE.
   No person shall throw or deposit any refuse upon the premises of any other
person or upon any street, alley, or other public place in the city except at
such times and places as may be authorized by the Council with respect to the
collection and disposal of rubbish.
('61 Code, § 5-3.06) (Ord. 326 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 199 C.S., passed 3-
7-73)
§ 5-3.07 DISPOSAL OF CERTAIN UNCOLLECTIBLE MATERIALS.
   No person shall place, deposit, or keep in any refuse container designated
for municipal pickup any of the following: dead animals; wearing apparel,
bedding, or other refuse from any home or place where any highly infectious or
contagious disease has prevailed; explosive substances; radioactive materials;
drugs; or poisons. The owner or occupant of any premises wherein or whereon any
such items are located shall forthwith notify the County Health Officer and
shall dispose of such items in accordance with his or her direction.
('61 Code, § 5-3.07) (Ord. 326 N.S., passed - - )
§ 5-3.08 ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER; COLLECTION REGULATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the City Administrator or his/her designee to
enforce the provisions of this chapter and control the storage, collection, and
disposal of refuse in the city as provided by this chapter. The City
Administrator is authorized and directed to prepare and publish regulations
concerning the days of collection, location of waste containers, and other
regulations reasonably necessary pertaining to the collection and disposal of
waste within the city consistent with the purposes of this chapter, but in no
event shall collection service be less often than once a week. The City
Administrator and his/her designees shall have the power and authority to enter
all premises during reasonable hours for the purpose of determining whether or
not the provisions of this chapter are being carried out.
('61 Code, § 5-3.08) (Ord. 326 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 641 C.S., passed 9-
20-95)
§ 5-3.09 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS OF THIS CHAPTER.
   In accordance with §
1-2.01 of the Madera Municipal Code, violation of this chapter is specifically
declared to be a misdemeanor and not an infraction. Furthermore, the city shall
have authority to impose a fine of not more than $500 for a first violation; a
fine of not more than $750 for a second violation; and a fine of not more than
$1,000 for a third and each subsequent violation.
(Ord. 783 C.S., passed 7-6-05; Am. Ord. 970 C.S., passed 4-1-20)
§ 5-3.10 INTERFERENCE WITH CONTAINERS.
   No person other than an owner or any officer, employee or authorized agent
of the city shall interfere in any manner with any container used for the
accumulation of refuse, nor shall remove any such container from its location
upon the owner's property, or adjacent to the owner's property if collection
service is provided from an alley or street right-of-way, nor shall any person
remove the contents from any such container.
('61 Code, § 5-3.10) (Ord. 326 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 715 C.S., passed 3-
15-00)
§ 5-3.11 TRANSPORTATION OF GARBAGE.
   No person, except officers and employees of the city and authorized agents,
shall move or transport any garbage from any residential unit in the city upon,
across, or along any public street, alley, or other public place in the city.
The City Administrator is authorized to issue permits for the hauling of non-
residential garbage to those persons who make an application for such a permit
and who secure a special written permit approving the hauling by such person
from the Health Officer. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit
any person from transporting any rubbish from premises within the city owned or
controlled by him so long as all the provisions of this chapter relating to the
preparation and containment of rubbish are met, and so long as no leakage,
spillage, or escape of such refuse shall occur during such transportation.
('61 Code, § 5-3.11) (Ord. 326 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 641 C.S., passed 9-
20-95; Am. Ord. 715 C.S., passed 3-15-00)
§ 5-3.12 SPECIAL DISPOSAL SERVICE.
   Special disposal service shall be offered for the collection and disposal of
refuse too large in size or quantity to fit into an approved container, and for
refuse that does not comply with the rules and regulations pertaining to refuse
collection and disposal (except for the materials described in §
5-3.07 of this chapter), and for service requested at times different from the
regular established route times. The rules and regulations pertaining to such
special disposal service and the charges therefor shall be as established by
resolution of the Council.
('61 Code, § 5-3.12) (Ord. 326 N.S, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 199 C.S., passed 3-7-
73)
§ 5-3.13 (REPEALED).
§ 5-3.14 RIGHT TO COLLECT GARBAGE AND RUBBISH.
   (A)   The City Council may award an exclusive contract for the collection of
solid waste within the city. Such an exclusive contract may be awarded with or
without bidding under Cal. Pub. Res. Code § 40059.
   (B)   Only the city and its authorized agents, employees, or persons holding
a permit, or contract for the collection of garbage and rubbish in the city,
shall have the right to gather and collect the solid waste.
   (C)   The collection of garbage and rubbish in the city without first
complying with this section is a violation of the City Municipal Code.
(Ord. 605 C.S., passed 12-1-93)
§ 5-3.15 SEGREGATION OF GARBAGE, RUBBISH, AND RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
   (A)   Every producer of garbage, rubbish, and recyclable materials may
segregate the same into garbage and rubbish and recyclable materials. When
recyclable materials are so segregated, they may be given or sold to a
collector of recyclable materials.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, RECYCLABLE MATERIALS means those
materials that may be economically collected, sorted, cleaned, treated,
reconstituted, and returned to the economic mainstream in the form of raw
material for new, reused, or reconstituted products which meet the quality
standards necessary to be used in the marketplace that would otherwise become
solid waste.
(Ord. 605 C.S., passed 12-1-93)
§ 5-3.16 RECYCLING SERVICE.
   All blue bags to be used in connection with recycling services described
herein are to be acquired and paid for by the recycling customer. The customers
shall separate and place recyclables in the gray solid waste container in the
manner specified by resolution.
(Ord. 643 C.S., passed 10-4-95; Am. Ord. 715 C.S., passed 3-15-00)
§ 5-3.17 (RESERVED).
§ 5-3.18 RECYCLING ANTI SCAVENGING.
   Except for the city and or its authorized agents, it shall be unlawful for
any other person to pick up, collect, take, appropriate or remove any
recyclables/recyclable materials from any waste container after it has been
placed at curbside/alley by the customer for collection under these provisions
of the City Municipal Code.
(Ord. 643 C.S., passed 10-4-95; Am. Ord. 715 C.S., passed 3-15-00)
§ 5-3.20 CITY OWNED CONTAINERS.
   (A)   The city shall provide containers to the customer for the sole purpose
of collecting solid waste and/or green/yard waste. Containers are considered
the property of the city and damage or destruction of such containers is
prohibited and considered vandalism. Normal wear of containers is expected.
Normal wear is considered to be equal to the condition of 90% of the containers
placed in the city.
   (B)   The responsibility for the care and allowable contents of the
containers are as follows:
      (1)   No part of the container shall be removed or altered from the
condition first delivered to the property to be served.
      (2)   Containers shall not be removed from the property first delivered.
Removal of containers shall be considered theft of private property.
      (3)   The placing of materials that will damage the containers is
prohibited. Such materials include but are not limited to: hot ashes, hot
briquettes, corrosive materials or chemicals, heavy sharp objects, large rocks
or concrete, batteries, or automotive oils or fluids.
      (4)   The customer may be issued a new container by the city to replace
any container that is damaged beyond the normal wear. The charge for the cost
of the replacement container shall be borne by the customer in an amount
established by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 715 C.S., passed 3-15-00)
§ 5-3.21 FINES.
   If, after levying such fines as allowed by resolution for failure to comply
with the green/yard waste recycling program, the person continues to violate
the provisions of this section, the city may remove the green/yard waste
container and replace it with another refuse container for the purpose of
normal collections. The person shall be charged for the additional container
consistent with the rates for collection established by resolution of the City
Council.
(Ord. 715 C.S., passed 3-15-00)
§ 5-3.22 RESTORATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Restoration of green/yard waste container and collection service may
be granted by the City Engineer. The customer shall request restoration of
service by filing a written request with the City Engineer.
   (B)   If the customer disagrees with the decision of the City Engineer, the
customer may appeal the decision to the City Council. The customer shall
receive written notice at least ten days prior to the hearing for consideration
of the restoration of green/yard waste container and collection service to the
customer. The Council will hear and consider any written and oral evidence of
the customer concerning the restoration of the green/yard waste container and
collection service prior to making a decision.
(Ord. 715 C.S., passed 3-15-00)
§ 5-3.23 CURB COLLECTION.
   Authorized collection containers shall be placed at the curb of a public
street on the travelway side of the curb or the edge of the travelway if no
curb is present on the day of collection or the property's rear alley, if
existing and authorized by the City Engineer. The containers shall be readily
accessible to the collection vehicle and not blocked by any vehicle or other
obstacle that would prohibit collection.
(Ord. 715 C.S., passed 3-15-00)
§ 5-3.24 STORAGE OF CONTAINERS.
   Containers shall be removed from the point of collection and placed on the
customer's property between the front yard setback line and the rear yard
fence. Removal of the containers from their pick- up location shall be
accomplished not later than midnight on the day of collection.
(Ord. 715 C.S., passed 3-15-00)
§ 5-3.25 GREEN WASTE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, it shall be
mandatory for every solid waste collection customer in the city to participate
in the program of sorting of green/yard waste from garbage prior to the pickup
of garbage, facilitated by and through the city. There shall be separate
collections for green/yard waste and for garbage, on a schedule to be
determined by the city.
   (B)   The city retains the right to levy a fine, the amount of which is to
be reasonable and determined by resolution, against any customer who fails to
comply with the following provisions:
      (1)   It is unlawful to fail to sort the green/yard waste from garbage
prior to the collection of garbage, or to place any garbage other than green/
yard waste into the green container.
      (2)   If any person does not wish to participate in the city's green
waste recycling program, that person shall provide, individually, for the
recycling of his own green/yard waste, but he/she shall not, in any event,
discard into the city's waste stream by placing such materials into the gray
container or otherwise green wastes, as if they were nonrecyclable garbage.
(Ord. 715 C.S., passed 3-15-00)
§ 5-3.26 REMOVAL OR INTERFERENCE WITH CONTAINER CONTENTS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person other than the owner or officer or any
employee of the city or any employee of any person or persons holding a
contract with the city for the collection or removal or garbage to interfere in
any manner with any receptacle used for the accumulation or handling or garbage
or to remove any such receptacle from the location where it shall have been
placed by the owner or persons lawfully in control thereof or to remove the
contents from any such receptacle. It is unlawful for any person to take or
pilfer, for his/her own use or benefit, the rubbish or any part of it. The
customer owns all garbage, green/yard waste and rubbish until possession
thereof is taken by the city, at which time ownership shall pass to the city.
(Ord. 715 C.S., passed 3-15-00)
§ 5-3.27 BURYING GARBAGE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to place or bury garbage in any hole or
excavation within the city.
(Ord. 715 C.S., passed 3-15-00)
§ 5-3.28 ADDITIONAL CONTAINER SERVICE.
   Customers may request additional gray (garbage) or green (green waste)
container service. Charges for additional containers shall be established by
resolution of the City Council pursuant to the provisions of this chapter,
which resolution shall provide for additional charges for additional services.
Requests for additional services requiring one or more additional containers
shall be for a minimum period of 12 months.
(Ord. 715 C.S., passed 3-15-00)
§ 5-3.29 ANNUAL REPORTING OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS DIVERTED FROM LANDFILL.
   (A)   Submission of annual recycling report. Those persons that are involved
in the business of recycling materials in the city shall annually prepare an
annual recycling report on a form prepared by the city and submit same to the
City Engineer no later than February 1 following the calendar year for which
the report is made.
   (B)   Contents of annual recycling report. The completed annual recycling
report shall include and indicate all of the following:
      (1)   The type of material along with the volume or weight of those
materials collected in the city that were diverted via reuse or recycling for
the prior calendar year;
      (2)   The vendor or facility that the business used to collect and/or
receive the diverted material.
   (C)   Supporting documentation. Those persons which submit the annual
recycling report shall retain receipts and weight tags for a period of three
years for the quantities of materials reused, salvaged, and/or recycled as
indicated in the annual recycling report. Each person submitting an annual
recycling report shall make such records available to the city for inspection
and copying upon request.
   (D)   Penalty. Violations of any of the provisions of this section shall be
infractions subject to the provisions of §
1-2.01.
(Ord. 743 C.S., passed 12-18-02)
§ 5-3.30 CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS RECYCLING.
   (A)   Construction and demolition debris generated under a city issued
building, renovation, or demolition permit and equal to or exceeding eight
cubic yards of material by volume shall have necessary mixed and/or source
separated C&D recycling bin(s) or roll-off boxes for the removal and recycling
of all construction and demolition debris from the project site. The project
permittee, designated hauler, or recycler shall provide to the City of Madera a
monthly C&D report which contains at a minimum the construction site address,
weight of material hauled, date hauled, material type, recycling facility name
and address, and assurances from the recycling facility that a minimum of 50%
of the C&D material has been recycled.
   (B)   The city will provide the proper documentation form: however, other
forms of documentation can be used as long as it is deemed by city staff to be
acceptable and complete.
(Ord. 842 C.S., passed 8-20-08)
§ 5-3.31 PENALTIES FOR NON-COMPLIANCE.
   Any property owner, developer, or individual who does not comply with any
requirement of the construction and demolition debris recycling provisions of
this chapter may be assessed an administrative penalty for non-compliance
pursuant to Chapter 9 of this code. The amount of the penalty assessed shall be
$1,000 for each project. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a
new and separate offense. Without full payment of fees, final occupancy,
acceptance of subdivision, or sign off on demolition permit will not be
granted.
(Ord. 842 C.S., passed 8-20-08; Am. Ord. 1004 C.S., passed 11-15-23)
CHAPTER 3A: ORGANIC WASTE DISPOSAL REDUCTION,
RECYCLING, AND SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
Section
   
5-3A.01   Title of chapter
   
5-3A.02   Purpose and findings
   
5-3A.03   Definitions
   
5-3A.04   Requirements for single-family generators
   
5-3A.05   Requirements for commercial businesses
   
5-3A.06   Waivers for generators
   
5-3A.07   Requirements for commercial edible food generators
   
5-3A.08   Requirements for food recovery organizations and services
   
5-3A.09   Requirements for haulers and facility operators
   
5-3A.10   Self-hauler requirements
   
5-3A.11   Compliance with CALGreen recycling requirements
   
5-3A.12   Model Water Efficient Landscaping Ordinance requirements (MWELO)
   
5-3A.13   Procurement requirements for city departments, direct service
providers, and vendors
   
5-3A.14   Inspections and investigations
   
5-3A.15   Enforcement
   
5-3A.16   Coordination and interpretation in conjunction with related solid
waste ordinances
§ 5-3A.01 TITLE OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall be entitled "Organic Waste Disposal Reduction, Recycling
and Solid Waste Collection." References herein to "ordinance" shall refer to
this chapter.
(Ord. 983 C.S., passed 2-2-22)
§ 5-3A.02 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   The city finds and declares:
   (A)   State recycling law, Assembly Bill 939 of 1989, the California
Integrated Waste Management Act of 1989 (Cal. Public Resources Code §§ 40000 et
seq., as amended, supplemented, superseded, and replaced from time to time),
requires cities and counties to reduce, reuse, and recycle (including
composting) solid waste generated in their cities to the maximum extent
feasible before any incineration or landfill disposal of waste, to conserve
water, energy, and other natural resources, and to protect the environment.
   (B)   State recycling law, Assembly Bill 341 of 2011 (approved by the
Governor of the State of California on October 5, 2011, which amended §§ 41730,
41731, 41734, 41735, 41736, 41800, 42926, 44004, and 50001 of, and added §§
40004, 41734.5, and 41780.01 and Chapter 12.8 (commencing with § 42649) to Part
3 of Division 30 of, and added and repealed § 41780.02 of, the Cal. Public
Resources Code, as amended, supplemented, superseded and replaced from time to
time), places requirements on businesses and multi-family property owners that
generate a specified threshold amount of solid waste to arrange for recycling
services and requires cities to implement a mandatory commercial recycling
program.
   (C)   State organics recycling law, Assembly Bill 1826 of 2014 (approved by
the Governor of the State of California on September 28, 2014, which added Cal.
Public Resources Code Division 30, Part 3, Chapter 12.9 (commencing with §
42649.8), relating to solid waste, as amended, supplemented, superseded, and
replaced from time to time), requires businesses and multi-family property
owners that generate a specified threshold amount of solid waste, recycling,
and organic waste per week to arrange for recycling services for that waste,
requires cities to implement a recycling program to divert organic waste from
businesses subject to the law, and requires cities to implement a mandatory
commercial organics recycling program.
   (D)   SB 1383, the Short-lived Climate Pollutant Reduction Act of 2016,
requires CalRecycle to develop regulations to reduce organics in landfills as a
source of methane. The regulations place requirements on multiple entities
including cities, residential households, commercial businesses and business
owners, commercial edible food generators, haulers, self-haulers, food recovery
organizations, and food recovery services to support achievement of statewide
organic waste disposal reduction targets.
   (E)   SB 1383, the Short-lived Climate Pollutant Reduction Act of 2016,
requires cities to adopt and enforce an ordinance or enforceable mechanism to
implement relevant provisions of SB 1383 regulations. This chapter will also
help reduce food insecurity by requiring commercial edible food generators to
arrange to have the maximum amount of their edible food, that would otherwise
be disposed, be recovered for human consumption.
(Ord. 983 C.S., passed 2-2-22)
§ 5-3A.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLUE CONTAINER. Has the same meaning as in 14 CCR § 18982.2(a)(5) and shall
be used for the purpose of storage and collection of source separated
recyclable materials.
   C&D. Construction and demolition debris.
   CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATIONS or CCR. The State of California Code of
Regulations. CCR references in this chapter are preceded with a number that
refers to the relevant Title of the CCR (e.g., "14 CCR" refers to Title 14 of
the CCR).
   CALRECYCLE. California's Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery,
which is the department designated with responsibility for developing,
implementing, and enforcing SB 1383 regulations.
   CITY. The City of Madera, California, within its jurisdictional boundaries.
   CITY ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. The City Manager or authorized designee(s) who
is/are partially or wholly responsible for enforcing this chapter.
   COMMERCIAL BUSINESS or COMMERCIAL. A firm, partnership, proprietorship,
joint-stock company, corporation, or association, whether for-profit or
nonprofit, strip mall, industrial facility, or a multi-family residential
dwelling, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(6). A multi-family
residential dwelling that consists of fewer than five units is not a commercial
business for purposes of implementing this chapter.
   COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATOR. Includes a tier one or a tier two
commercial edible food generator as defined herein below of this section or as
otherwise defined in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(73) and (a)(74). For the purposes of
this definition, food recovery organizations and food recovery services are not
commercial edible food generators pursuant to 14 CCR § 18982(a)(7).
   COMMUNITY COMPOSTING. Any activity that composts green material,
agricultural material, food material, and vegetative food material, alone or in
combination, and the total amount of feedstock and compost on-site at any one
time does not exceed 50 cubic yards and 750 square feet, as specified in 14 CCR
§ 17855(a)(4); or, as otherwise defined by 14 CCR § 18982(a)(8). Additionally,
such activity may only be undertaken in accordance with the city's Zoning
Ordinance.
   COMPLIANCE REVIEW. A review of records by a city to determine compliance
with this chapter.
   COMPOST. Has the same meaning as in 14 CCR § 17896.2(a)(4), which stated, as
of the effective date of this chapter, that COMPOST means the product resulting
from the controlled biological decomposition of organic solid wastes that are
source separated from the municipal solid waste stream, or which are separated
at a centralized facility.
   CONTAMINATION or CONTAMINATED CONTAINER. A container, regardless of color,
that contains prohibited container contaminants, or as otherwise defined in 14
CCR § 18982(a)(55).
   DESIGNEE. An entity that a city contracts with or otherwise arranges to
carry out any of the city's responsibilities of this chapter as authorized in
14 CCR § 18981.2. A designee may be a government entity, a hauler, a private
entity, or a combination of those entities.
   EDIBLE FOOD. Food intended for human consumption, or as otherwise defined in
14 CCR § 18982(a)(18). For the purposes of this chapter or as otherwise defined
in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(18), EDIBLE FOOD is not solid waste if it is recovered and
not discarded. Nothing in this chapter or in 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12
requires or authorizes the recovery of edible food that does not meet the food
safety requirements of the California Retail Food Code.
   ENFORCEMENT ACTION. An action of the city to address non-compliance with
this chapter including, but not limited to, issuing administrative citations,
fines, penalties, or using other remedies.
   EXCLUDED WASTE. Hazardous substance, hazardous waste, infectious waste,
designated waste, volatile, corrosive, medical waste, infectious, regulated
radioactive waste, and toxic substances or material that facility operator(s),
which receive materials from the city and its generators, reasonably believe(s)
would, as a result of or upon acceptance, transfer, processing, or disposal, be
a violation of local, state, or federal law, regulation, or ordinance,
including, without limitation: land use restrictions or conditions, waste that
cannot be disposed of in Class III landfills or accepted at the facility by
permit conditions, waste that in the city's or its designee's reasonable
opinion would present a significant risk to human health or the environment,
cause a nuisance or otherwise create or expose city, or its designee, to
potential liability; but not including de minimis volumes or concentrations of
waste of a type and amount normally found in single-family or multi-family
solid waste after implementation of programs for the safe collection,
processing, recycling, treatment, and disposal of batteries and paint in
compliance with Cal. Public Resources Code §§ 41500 and 41802. EXCLUDED WASTE
does not include used motor oil and filters, household batteries, universal
wastes, and/or latex paint when such materials are defined as allowable
materials for collection through the city's collection programs and the
generator or customer has properly placed the materials for collection pursuant
to instructions provided by the city or its designee for collection services.
   FOOD DISTRIBUTOR. A company that distributes food to entities including, but
not limited to, supermarkets and grocery stores, or as otherwise defined in 14
CCR § 18982(a)(22).
   FOOD FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in Cal. Health and Safety Code §
113789.
   FOOD RECOVERY. Actions to collect and distribute food for human consumption
that otherwise would be disposed, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR § 18982(a)
(24).
   FOOD RECOVERY ORGANIZATION. An entity that engages in the collection or
receipt of edible food from commercial edible food generators and distributes
that edible food to the public for food recovery either directly or through
other entities or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(25), including, but
not limited to:
      (1)   A food bank as defined in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 113783; and
      (2)   A nonprofit charitable temporary food facility as defined in Cal.
Health and Safety Code § 113842.
      (3)   A FOOD RECOVERY ORGANIZATION is not a commercial edible food
generator for the purposes of this chapter and implementation of 14 CCR,
Division 7, Chapter 12 pursuant to 14 CCR § 18982(a)(7).
      (4)   If the definition in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(25) for FOOD RECOVERY
ORGANIZATION differs from this definition, the definition in 14 CCR § 18982(a)
(25) shall apply to this chapter.
   FOOD RECOVERY SERVICE. A person or entity that collects and transports
edible food from a commercial edible food generator to a food recovery
organization or other entities for food recovery, or as otherwise defined in 14
CCR § 18982(a)(26). A food recovery service is not a commercial edible food
generator for the purposes of this chapter and implementation of 14 CCR,
Division 7, Chapter 12 pursuant to 14 CCR § 18982(a)(7).
   FOOD SCRAPS. All food such as, but not limited to, fruits, vegetables, meat,
poultry, seafood, shellfish, rice, beans, pasta, bread, cheese, and eggshells.
FOOD SCRAPS exclude fats, oils, and grease when such materials are source
separated from other FOOD SCRAPS.
   FOOD SERVICE PROVIDER. An entity primarily engaged in providing food
services to institutional, governmental, commercial, or industrial locations of
others based on contractual arrangements with these types of organizations, or
as otherwise defined in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(27).
   FOOD-SOILED PAPER. Compostable paper material that has come in contact with
food or liquid, such as, but not limited to, compostable paper plates, paper
coffee cups, napkins, and pizza boxes.
   FOOD WASTE. Food scraps and food-soiled paper.
   GRAY CONTAINER. Has the same meaning as in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(28) and shall
be used for the purpose of storage and collection of gray container waste. Per
the definition provided in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(28), the GRAY CONTAINER may be
black, or the body and/or lid of the container may be black or gray.
   GRAY CONTAINER WASTE. Solid waste that is collected in a gray container that
is part of a three-container organic waste collection service that prohibits
the placement of organic waste in the gray container as specified in 14 CCR §
18984.1(a) and (b), or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR § 17402(a)(6.5).
   GREEN CONTAINER. Has the same meaning as in 14 CCR § 18982.2(a)(29) and
shall be used for the purpose of storage and collection of source separated
green container organic waste.
   GROCERY STORE. A store primarily engaged in the retail sale of canned food;
dry goods; fresh fruits and vegetables; fresh meats, fish, and poultry; and any
area that is not separately owned within the store where the food is prepared
and served, including, without limitation, a bakery, deli, and meat and seafood
departments, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(30).
   HAULER ROUTE. The designated itinerary or sequence of stops for each segment
of the city's collection service area, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR §
18982(a)(31.5).
   INSPECTION. A site visit where a city reviews records, containers, and an
entity's collection, handling, recycling, or landfill disposal of organic waste
or edible food handling to determine if the entity is complying with
requirements set forth in this chapter, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR §
18982(a)(35).
   LARGE EVENT. An event, including, but not limited to, a sporting event or a
flea market, that charges an admission price or is operated by a local agency,
and serves an average of more than 2,000 individuals per day of operation of
the event at a location that includes, but is not limited to, a public,
nonprofit, or privately owned park, parking lot, golf course, street system, or
other open space when being used for an event. If the definition in 14 CCR §
18982(a)(38) differs from this definition, the definition in 14 CCR § 18982(a)
(38) shall apply to this chapter.
   LARGE VENUE. A permanent venue facility that annually seats or serves an
average of more than 2,000 individuals within the grounds of the facility per
day of operation of the venue facility. For purposes of this chapter and
implementation of 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12, a venue facility includes,
but is not limited to, a public, nonprofit, or privately owned or operated
stadium, amphitheater, arena, hall, amusement park, conference or civic center,
zoo, aquarium, airport, racetrack, horse track, performing arts center,
fairground, museum, theater, or other public attraction facility. For purposes
of this chapter and implementation of 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12, a site
under common ownership or control that includes more than one large venue that
is contiguous with other large venues in the site, is a single large venue. If
the definition in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(39) differs from this definition, the
definition in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(39) shall apply to this chapter.
   LOCAL EDUCATION AGENCY. A school district, charter school, or county office
of education that is not subject to the control of city or county regulations
related to solid waste, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(40).
   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DWELLING or MULTI-FAMILY. Of, from, or pertaining
to residential premises with five or more dwelling units. MULTI-FAMILY premises
do not include hotels, motels, or other transient occupancy facilities, which
are considered commercial businesses.
   NON-COMPOSTABLE PAPER. Includes but is not limited to paper that is coated
in a plastic material that will not breakdown in the composting process, or as
otherwise defined in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(41).
   NON-LOCAL ENTITY. The following entities that are not subject to the city's
enforcement authority, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(42):
      (1)   Special district(s) located within the boundaries of the city;
      (2)   Federal facilities, including, without limitation, military
installations, located within the boundaries of the city;
      (3)   Prison(s) located within the boundaries of the city, excepting that
private prisons are considered commercial businesses and do not fall within
this definition;
      (4)   Facilities operated by the state park system located within the
boundaries of the city;
      (5)   Public universities (including community colleges) located within
the boundaries of the city;
      (6)   County fairgrounds located within the boundaries of the city; and
      (7)   State agencies located within the boundaries of the city.
   NON-ORGANIC RECYCLABLES. Non-putrescible and non-hazardous recyclable wastes
including but not limited to bottles, cans, metals, plastics and glass, or as
otherwise defined in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(43).
   NOTICE OF VIOLATION (NOV). A notice that a violation has occurred that
includes a compliance date to avoid an action to seek penalties, or as
otherwise defined in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(45) or further explained in 14 CCR §
18995.4.
   ORGANIC WASTE. Solid wastes containing material originated from living
organisms and their metabolic waste products, including but not limited to
food, green material, landscape and pruning waste, lumber, wood, paper
products, printing and writing paper, manure, biosolids, digestate, and sludges
or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(46). Biosolids and digestate are
as defined by 14 CCR § 18982(a).
   ORGANIC WASTE GENERATOR or GENERATOR. A person or entity that is responsible
for the initial creation of organic waste, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR §
18982(a)(48).
   PAPER PRODUCTS. Include, but are not limited to, paper janitorial supplies,
cartons, wrapping, packaging, file folders, hanging files, corrugated boxes,
tissue, and toweling, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(51).
   PRINTING AND WRITING PAPERS. Include, but are not limited to, copy,
xerographic, watermark, cotton fiber, offset, forms, computer printout paper,
white wove envelopes, manila envelopes, book paper, note pads, writing tablets,
newsprint, and other uncoated writing papers, posters, index cards, calendars,
brochures, reports, magazines, and publications, or as otherwise defined in 14
CCR § 18982(a)(54).
   PROHIBITED CONTAINER CONTAMINANTS. The following:
      (1)   Discarded materials placed in the blue container that are not
identified as acceptable source separated recyclable materials for the city's
blue container;
      (2)   Discarded materials placed in the green container that are not
identified as acceptable source separated green container organic waste for the
city's green container;
      (3)   Discarded materials placed in the gray container that are
acceptable source separated recyclable materials and/or source separated green
container organic wastes to be placed in city's green container and/or blue
container; and
      (4)   Excluded waste placed in any container.
   RECOVERED ORGANIC WASTE PRODUCTS. Products made from California, landfill-
diverted recovered organic waste processed in a permitted or otherwise
authorized facility, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(60).
   RECOVERY. Any activity or process described in 14 CCR § 18983.1(b), or as
otherwise defined in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(49).
   RECYCLED-CONTENT PAPER. Paper products and printing and writing paper that
consists of at least 30%, by fiber weight, postconsumer fiber, or as otherwise
defined in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(61).
   REGIONAL AGENCY. Regional agency as defined in Cal. Public Resources Code §
40181.
   REMOTE MONITORING. The implementation and use of the internet of things
(IoT) and/or wireless electronic devices to visualize the contents of blue
containers, green containers, and gray containers for purposes of identifying
the quantity of materials in containers (level of fill) and/or presence of
prohibited container contaminants.
   RENEWABLE GAS. Gas derived from organic waste that has been diverted from a
California landfill and processed at an in-vessel digestion facility that is
permitted or otherwise authorized by 14 CCR to recycle organic waste, or as
otherwise defined in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(62).
   RESTAURANT. An establishment primarily engaged in the retail sale of food
and drinks for on-premises or immediate consumption, or as otherwise defined in
14 CCR § 18982(a)(64).
   ROUTE REVIEW. A visual inspection of containers along a hauler route for the
purpose of determining container contamination and may include mechanical
inspection methods such as the use of cameras, or as otherwise defined in 14
CCR § 18982(a)(65).
   SB 1383. Senate Bill 1383 of 2016 approved by the Governor on September 19,
2016, which added Cal. Health and Safety Code §§ 39730.5, 39730.6, 39730.7, and
39730.8, and added Cal. Public Resources Code Division 30, Part 3, Chapter 13.1
(commencing with § 42652), establishing methane emissions reduction targets in
a statewide effort to reduce emissions of short-lived climate pollutants as
amended, supplemented, superseded, and replaced from time to time.
   SB 1383 REGULATIONS or SB 1383 REGULATORY. For the purposes of this chapter,
the short-lived climate pollutants: organic waste reduction regulations
developed by CalRecycle and adopted in 2020 that created 14 CCR, Division 7,
Chapter 12 and amended portions of regulations of 14 CCR and 27 CCR.
   SELF-HAULER. A person who hauls solid waste, organic waste or recyclable
material he or she has generated to another person. SELF-HAULER also includes a
person who back-hauls waste, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(66).
Back-haul means generating and transporting organic waste to a destination
owned and operated by the generator using the generator's own employees and
equipment, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(66)(A).
   SINGLE-FAMILY. Of, from, or pertaining to any residential premises with
fewer than five units.
   SOLID WASTE. Has the same meaning as defined in Cal. Public Resources Code §
40191, which defines SOLID WASTE as all putrescible and non putrescible solid,
semisolid, and liquid wastes, including garbage, trash, refuse, paper, rubbish,
ashes, industrial wastes, demolition and construction wastes, abandoned
vehicles and parts thereof, discarded home and industrial appliances,
dewatered, treated, or chemically fixed sewage sludge which is not hazardous
waste, manure, vegetable or animal solid and semi-solid wastes, and other
discarded solid and semisolid wastes, with the exception that SOLID WASTE does
not include any of the following wastes:
      (1)   Hazardous waste, as defined in Cal. Public Resources Code § 40141;
      (2)   Radioactive waste regulated pursuant to the State Radiation Control
Law (Cal. Health and Safety Code Division 104, Part 9, Chapter 8 (commencing
with § 114960)).
      (3)   Medical waste regulated pursuant to the State Medical Waste
Management Act (Cal. Health and Safety Code Division 104, Part 14 (commencing
with § 117600)). Untreated medical waste shall not be disposed of in a solid
waste landfill, as defined in Cal. Public Resources Code § 40195.1. Medical
waste that has been treated and deemed to be solid waste shall be regulated
pursuant to Cal. Public Resources Code, Division 30.
   SOURCE SEPARATED. Materials, including commingled recyclable materials, that
have been separated or kept separate from the solid waste stream, at the point
of generation, for the purpose of additional sorting or processing those
materials for recycling or reuse in order to return them to the economic
mainstream in the form of raw material for new, reused, or reconstituted
products, which meet the quality standards necessary to be used in the
marketplace, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR § 17402.5(b)(4). For the
purposes of this chapter, SOURCE SEPARATED shall include separation of
materials by the generator, property owner, property owner's employee, property
manager, or property manager's employee into different containers for the
purpose of collection such that SOURCE SEPARATED materials are separated from
gray container waste or other solid waste/mixed waste for the purposes of
collection and processing.
   SOURCE SEPARATED GREEN CONTAINER ORGANIC WASTE. Source separated organic
waste that can be placed in a green container that is specifically intended for
the separate collection of organic waste by the generator, excluding source
separated blue container organic waste; non-compostable paper; paper products;
printing and writing paper; and any other organic waste that an organic waste
facility may reject to maintain any organic-related composting certifications
including but not limited to organic carpets and textiles, contaminated wood or
lumber, manure, digestate, biosolids, and sludges.
   SOURCE SEPARATED RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Source separated non-organic
recyclables and source separated blue container organic waste.
   STATE. The State of California.
   SUPERMARKET. A full-line, self-service retail store with gross annual sales
of $2,000,000 or more, and which sells a line of dry grocery, canned goods, or
nonfood items and some perishable items, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR §
18982(a)(71).
   TIER ONE COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATOR.
      (1)   A commercial edible food generator that is one of the following:
         (a)   Supermarket;
         (b)   Grocery store with a total facility size equal to or greater
than 10,000 square feet;
         (c)   Food service provider;
         (d)   Food distributor; or
         (e)   Wholesale food vendor.
      (2)   If the definition in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(73) of TIER ONE COMMERCIAL
EDIBLE FOOD GENERATOR differs from this definition, the definition in 14 CCR §
18982(a)(73) shall apply to this chapter.
   TIER TWO COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATOR.
      (1)   A commercial edible food generator that is one of the following:
         (a)   Restaurant with 250 or more seats, or a total facility size
equal to or greater than 5,000 square feet;
         (b)   Hotel with an on-site food facility and 200 or more rooms;
         (c)   Health facility with an on-site food facility and 100 or more
beds;
         (d)   Large venue;
         (e)   Large event;
         (f)   A state agency with a cafeteria with 250 or more seats or total
cafeteria facility size equal to or greater than 5,000 square feet; or
         (g)   A local education agency facility with an on-site food facility.
      (2)   If the definition in 14 CCR § 18982(a)(74) of TIER TWO COMMERCIAL
EDIBLE FOOD GENERATOR differs from this definition, the definition in 14 CCR §
18982(a)(74) shall apply to this chapter.
   WHOLESALE FOOD VENDOR. A business or establishment engaged in the merchant
wholesale distribution of food, where food (including fruits and vegetables) is
received, shipped, stored, prepared for distribution to a retailer, warehouse,
distributor, or other destination, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR § 189852
(a)(76).
(Ord. 983 C.S., passed 2-2-22)
§ 5-3A.04 REQUIREMENTS FOR SINGLE-FAMILY GENERATORS.
   Organic waste generators shall subscribe to a three container collection
service which includes a blue container, green container and gray container,
and shall comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Shall subscribe to city's organic waste collection services for all
organic waste generated as described in division (B) below. The city or its
designee shall have the right to review the number and size of a generator's
containers to evaluate adequacy of capacity provided for each type of
collection service for proper separation of materials and containment of
materials; single-family generators shall adjust their service level for their
collection services as requested by the city or its designee. Nothing in this
section prohibits an organic waste generator from preventing or reducing waste
generation, managing organic waste on site, or using a community composting
site pursuant to 14 CCR § 18984.9(c).
   (B)   Shall participate in the city's organic waste collection service(s) by
placing designated materials in designated containers as described below, and
shall not place prohibited container contaminants in collection containers:
      (1)   Generators shall place source separated green container organic
waste, including food waste, in the green container; source separated
recyclable materials in the blue container; and gray container waste in the
gray container.
      (2)   Generators shall not place materials designated for the gray
container into the green container or blue container.
   (C)   Any materials self-hauled must be hauled to facilities permitted to
accept source separated green container organic waste (including food waste),
source separated recyclable materials, and gray container waste. Nothing in
this division shall relieve self-haulers that generate waste from subscribing
to a three container collection service.
(Ord. 983 C.S., passed 2-2-22)
§ 5-3A.05 REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL BUSINESSES.
   Generators that are commercial businesses, including multi-family
residential dwellings, shall:
   (A)   Subscribe to the city's three-container collection services and comply
with requirements of those services as described below in division (B) below.
The city or its designee shall have the right to review the number and size of
a generator's containers and frequency of collection to evaluate adequacy of
capacity provided for each type of collection service for proper separation of
materials and containment of materials. Commercial businesses shall adjust
their service level for their collection services as requested by the city or
its designee.
   (B)   Participants in the city's organic waste collection service(s) shall
place designated materials in designated containers as described below.
      (1)   Generators shall place source separated green container organic
waste, including food waste, in the green container; source separated
recyclable materials in the blue container; and gray container waste in the
gray container. Generators shall not place materials designated for the gray
container into the green container or blue container.
      (2)   Supply and allow access to adequate number, size and location of
collection containers with sufficient labels or colors (conforming with
divisions (3)(a) and (b) below) for employees, contractors, tenants, and
customers, consistent with city's blue container, green container, and gray
container collection service or if self-hauling, per the commercial businesses'
instructions to support its compliance with its self-haul program, in
accordance with § 8-12.05.
      (3)   Excluding multi-family residential dwellings, provide containers
for the collection of source separated green container organic waste and source
separated recyclable materials in all indoor and outdoor areas where disposal
containers are provided for customers, for materials generated by that
business. Such containers do not need to be provided in restrooms. If a
commercial business does not generate any of the materials that would be
collected in one type of container, then the business does not have to provide
that particular container in all areas where disposal containers are provided
for customers. Pursuant to 14 CCR § 18984.9(b), the containers provided by the
business shall have either:
         (a)   A body or lid that conforms with the container colors provided
through the collection service provided by city, with either lids conforming to
the color requirements or bodies conforming to the color requirements, or both
lids and bodies conforming to color requirements. A commercial business is not
required to replace functional containers, including containers purchased prior
to January 1, 2022, that do not comply with the requirements of the division
prior to the end of the useful life of those containers, or prior to January 1,
2036, whichever comes first.
         (b)   Container labels that include language or graphic images, or
both, indicating the primary material accepted and the primary materials
prohibited in that container, or containers with imprinted text or graphic
images that indicate the primary materials accepted and primary materials
prohibited in the container. Pursuant to 14 CCR § 18984.8, the container
labeling requirements are required.
      (4)   Multi-family residential dwellings are not required to comply with
container placement requirements or labeling requirement in division (3)(b)
pursuant to 14 CCR § 18984.9(b).
      (5)   To the extent practical through education, training, inspection,
and/or other measures, excluding multi-family residential dwellings, shall not
prohibit employees from placing materials in a container not designated for
those materials per the city's blue container, green container, and gray
container collection service or, if a self-hauler, per the commercial
businesses' instructions to support its compliance with its self-haul program,
in accordance with § 8-12.05.
      (6)   Excluding multi-family residential dwellings, semi-annually inspect
blue containers, green containers, and gray containers for contamination and
inform employees if containers are contaminated and of the requirements to keep
contaminants out of those containers pursuant to 14 CCR § 18984.9(b)(3).
      (7)   Annually provide information to employees, contractors, tenants,
and customers about organic waste recovery requirements and about proper
sorting of source separated green container organic waste and source separated
recyclable materials.
      (8)   Provide education information before or within 14 days of
occupation of the premises to new tenants that describes requirements to keep
source separated green container organic waste and source separated recyclable
materials separate from gray container waste (when applicable) and the location
of containers and the rules governing their use at each property.
      (9)   Provide or arrange access for city or its designee to their
properties during all inspections conducted in accordance with §
5-3A.14 to confirm compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (10)   Accommodate and cooperate with city's remote monitoring program
for inspection of the contents of containers for prohibited container
contaminants, which may be implemented by city at a later date, to evaluate the
generator's compliance with division (B) below. The remote monitoring program
shall involve installation of remote monitoring equipment on or in the blue
containers, green containers, and gray containers.
      (11)   At a commercial business's option and subject to any approval
required from the city, implement a remote monitoring program for inspection of
the contents of its blue containers, green containers, and gray containers for
the purpose of monitoring the contents of containers to determine appropriate
levels of service and to identify prohibited container contaminants. Generators
may install remote monitoring devices on or in the blue containers, green
containers, and gray containers subject to written notification to or approval
by the city.
      (12)   If a commercial business wants to self-haul, meet the self-hauler
requirements in § 8-12.05 of the Madera Municipal Code.
      (13)   Nothing in this section prohibits a generator from preventing or
reducing waste generation, managing organic waste on site, or using a community
composting site pursuant to 14 CCR § 18984.9(c).
      (14)   Commercial businesses that are tier one or tier two commercial
edible food generators shall comply with food recovery requirements, pursuant
to § 5-3A.07.
(Ord. 983 C.S., passed 2-2-22)
§ 5-3A.06 WAIVERS FOR GENERATORS.
   (A)   De minimis waivers. The city may waive a commercial business'
obligation (including multi-family residential dwellings) to comply with some
or all of the organic waste requirements of this chapter if the commercial
business provides documentation that the business generates below a certain
amount of organic waste material as described in division (A)(2) below.
Commercial businesses requesting a de minimis waiver shall:
      (1)   Submit an application specifying the services that they are
requesting a waiver from and provide documentation as noted in division (A)(2)
below.
      (2)   Provide documentation that either:
         (a)   The commercial business' total solid waste collection service is
two cubic yards or more per week and organic waste subject to collection in a
blue container or green container comprises less than 20 gallons per week per
applicable container of the business' total waste; or
         (b)   The commercial business' total solid waste collection service is
less than two cubic yards per week and organic waste subject to collection in a
blue container or green container comprises less than ten gallons per week per
applicable container of the business' total waste.
      (3)   Notify the city if circumstances change such that commercial
business's organic waste exceeds threshold required for waiver, in which case
waiver will be rescinded.
      (4)   Provide written verification of eligibility for de minimis waiver
every five years if the city has approved a de minimis waiver.
   (B)   Physical space waivers. The city may waive a commercial business' or
property owner's obligations (including multi-family residential dwellings) to
comply with some or all of the recyclable materials and/or organic waste
collection service requirements if the city has evidence from its own staff, a
hauler, licensed architect, or licensed engineer demonstrating that the
premises lacks adequate space for the collection containers required for
compliance with the organic waste collection requirements of §
5-3A.05. A commercial business or property owner may request a physical space
waiver through the following process:
      (1)   Submit an exemption request form to the city's Public Works
Department specifying the type(s) of collection services for which they are
requesting a compliance waiver.
      (2)   Provide documentation that the premises lack adequate space for
blue containers and/or green containers including documentation from its
hauler, licensed architect, or licensed engineer.
      (3)   Provide written verification to the Public Works Department that it
is still eligible for a physical space waiver every five years if the city has
approved application for a physical space waiver.
(Ord. 983 C.S., passed 2-2-22)
§ 5-3A.07 REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATORS.
   (A)   Tier one commercial edible food generators must comply with the
requirements of this section commencing January 1, 2022, and tier two
commercial edible food generators must comply commencing January 1, 2024,
pursuant to 14 CCR § 18991.3.
   (B)   Large venue or large event operators not providing food services, but
allowing for food to be provided by others, shall require food facilities
operating at the large venue or large event to comply with the requirements of
this section, commencing January 1, 2024.
   (C)   Commercial edible food generators shall comply with the following
requirements:
      (1)   Arrange to recover the maximum amount of edible food that would
otherwise be disposed.
      (2)   Contract with or enter into a written agreement with food recovery
organizations or food recovery services for:
         (a)   The collection of edible food for food recovery; or
         (b)   Acceptance of the edible food that the commercial edible food
generator self-hauls to the food recovery organization for food recovery.
      (3)   Shall not intentionally spoil edible food that is capable of being
recovered by a food recovery organization or a food recovery service.
      (4)   Allow city's designated enforcement entity or designated third
party enforcement entity to access the premises and review records pursuant to
14 CCR § 18991.4.
      (5)   Keep records that include the following information, or as
otherwise specified in 14 CCR § 18991.4:
         (a)   A list of each food recovery service or organization that
collects or receives its edible food pursuant to a contract or written
agreement established under 14 CCR § 18991.3(b).
         (b)   A copy of all contracts or written agreements established under
14 CCR § 18991.3(b).
         (c)   A record of the following information for each of those food
recovery services or food recovery organizations:
            1.   The name, address and contact information of the food recovery
service or food recovery organization;
            2.   The types of food that will be collected by or self-hauled to
the food recovery service or food recovery organization;
            3.   The established frequency that food will be collected or self-
hauled; and
            4.   The quantity of food, measured in pounds recovered per month,
collected or self-hauled to a food recovery service or food recovery
organization for food recovery.
      (6)   Commencing no later than July 1, 2022 for tier one commercial
edible food generators and July 1, 2024 for tier two commercial edible food
generators, provide an annual food recovery report, every July 1, to the city
that includes the records listed in division (C)(5)(c).
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit or conflict with
the protections provided by the California Good Samaritan Food Donation Act of
2017, the Federal Good Samaritan Act, or share table and school food donation
guidance pursuant to Senate Bill 557 of 2017 (approved by the Governor of the
State of California on September 25, 2017, which added Cal. Education Code
Title 2, Division 4, Part 27, Chapter 9, Article 13 (commencing with § 49580),
and to amend Cal. Health and Safety Code § 114079, relating to food safety, as
amended, supplemented, superseded and replaced from time to time).
(Ord. 983 C.S., passed 2-2-22)
§ 5-3A.08 REQUIREMENTS FOR FOOD RECOVERY ORGANIZATIONS AND SERVICES.
   (A)   Food recovery services collecting or receiving edible food directly
from commercial edible food generators, via a contract or written agreement
established under 14 CCR § 18991.3(b), shall maintain the following records, or
as otherwise specified by 14 CCR § 18991.5(a)(1):
      (1)   The name, address, and contact information for each commercial
edible food generator from which the service collects edible food;
      (2)   The quantity in pounds of edible food collected from each
commercial edible food generator per month;
      (3)   The quantity in pounds of edible food transported to each food
recovery organization per month; and
      (4)   The name, address, and contact information for each food recovery
organization that the food recovery service transports edible food to for food
recovery.
   (B)   Food recovery organizations collecting or receiving edible food
directly from commercial edible food generators, via a contract or written
agreement established under 14 CCR § 18991.3(b), shall maintain the following
records, or as otherwise specified by 14 CCR § 18991.5(a)(2):
      (1)   The name, address, and contact information for each commercial
edible food generator from which the organization receives edible food;
      (2)   The quantity in pounds of edible food received from each commercial
edible food generator per month; and
      (3)   The name, address, and contact information for each food recovery
service that the organization receives edible food from for food recovery.
   (C)   Food recovery organizations and food recovery services shall inform
generators about the California and Federal Good Samaritan Food Donation Act
protection in written communications, such as in their contract or agreement
established under 14 CCR § 18991.3(b).
   (D)   Food recovery organizations and food recovery services that have their
primary address physically located in the city and contract with or have
written agreements with one or more commercial edible food generators pursuant
to 14 CCR § 18991.3(b) shall report to the city it is located in the total
pounds of edible food recovered in the previous calendar year from the tier one
and tier two commercial edible food generators they have established a contract
or written agreement with pursuant to 14 CCR § 18991.3(b) no later than July 1
of each year.
   (E)   In order to support edible food recovery capacity planning assessments
or other studies conducted by the county, city, special district that provides
solid waste collection services, or its designated entity, food recovery
services and food recovery organizations operating in the city shall provide
information and consultation to the city, upon request, regarding existing, or
proposed new or expanded, food recovery capacity that could be accessed by the
city and its commercial edible food generators. A food recovery service or food
recovery organization contacted by the city shall respond to such request for
information within 60 days unless a shorter timeframe is otherwise specified by
the city.
(Ord. 983 C.S., passed 2-2-22)
§ 5-3A.09 REQUIREMENTS FOR HAULERS AND FACILITY OPERATORS.
   (A)   Exclusive franchised hauler(s) providing residential, commercial, or
industrial organic waste collection services to generators within the city's
boundaries shall meet the following requirements as a condition of approval of
a contract, agreement, or similar contractual authorization with the city to
collect organic waste:
      (1)   Through written notice to the city annually on or before July 1,
2022, identify the facilities to which they will transport organic waste
including facilities for source separated recyclable materials and source
separated green container organic waste.
      (2)   Transport source separated recyclable materials and source
separated green container organic waste to a facility, operation, activity, or
property that recovers organic waste as defined in 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter
12, Article 2. Notwithstanding the foregoing, hauler shall not be required to
transport any containers with prohibited container contaminants to a facility,
operation, activity, or property that recovers organic waste.
      (3)   Obtain approval from the city to haul organic waste, unless it is
transporting source separated organic waste to a community composting site or
lawfully transporting C&D in a manner that complies with 14 CCR § 18989.1, and
§ 8.12.05 of this Code.
      (4)   Exclusive franchised hauler(s) authorization to collect organic
waste shall comply with any education, equipment, signage, container labeling,
container color, contamination, monitoring, and reporting requirements relating
to the collection of organic waste contained within its franchise agreement.
   (B)   Requirements for community composting operations. Community composting
operators, upon city request, shall provide information to the city to support
organic waste capacity planning, including, but not limited to, an estimate of
the amount of organic waste anticipated to be handled at the community
composting operation. Entities contacted by the city shall respond within 60
days.
(Ord. 983 C.S., passed 2-2-22)
§ 5-3A.10 SELF-HAULER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Self-haulers shall source separate all recyclable materials and
organic waste (materials that the city otherwise requires generators to
separate for collection in the city's organics and recycling collection
program) generated on-site from solid waste in a manner consistent with 14 CCR
§§ 18984.1 and 18984.2, or shall haul organic waste to a high diversion organic
waste processing facility as specified in 14 CCR § 18984.3.
   (B)   Self-haulers shall haul their source separated recyclable materials to
a facility that recovers those materials; and haul their source separated green
container organic waste to a solid waste facility, operation, activity, or
property that processes or recovers source separated organic waste.
Alternatively, self-haulers may haul organic waste to a high diversion organic
waste processing facility.
   (C)   Self-haulers that are commercial businesses (including multi-family
residential dwellings) shall keep a record of the amount of organic waste
delivered to each solid waste facility, operation, activity, or property that
processes or recovers organic waste; this record shall be subject to inspection
by the city. The records shall include the following information:
      (1)   Delivery receipts and weight tickets from the entity accepting the
waste.
      (2)   The amount of material in cubic yards or tons transported by the
generator to each entity.
      (3)   If the material is transported to an entity that does not have
scales on-site, or employs scales incapable of weighing the self-hauler's
vehicle in a manner that allows it to determine the weight of materials
received, the self-hauler is not required to record the weight of material but
shall keep a record of the entities that received the organic waste.
   (D)   A residential organic waste generator that self-hauls organic waste is
not required to record or report information in division (C) above.
   (E)   Self-haulers that are commercial businesses (including multi-family
self-haulers) shall provide information collected in division (C) above to the
city if requested and within ten days of such request.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall relieve self-haulers from the
requirement to subscribe and receive regular three-container services.
(Ord. 983 C.S., passed 2-2-22)
§ 5-3A.11 COMPLIANCE WITH CALGREEN RECYCLING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Persons applying for a permit from the city for new construction
and building additions and alternations shall comply with the requirements of
this section and all required components of the California Green Building
Standards Code, 24 CCR, Part 11, known as CALGreen, as amended, if its project
is covered by the scope of CALGreen or more stringent requirements of the city.
If the requirements of CALGreen are more stringent then the requirements of
this section, the CALGreen requirements shall apply.
      (2)   Project applicants shall refer to the city's Building and/or
Planning Code for complete CALGreen requirements.
   (B)   For projects covered by CALGreen or more stringent requirements of the
city, the applicants must, as a condition of the city's permit approval, comply
with the following:
      (1)   Where five or more multi-family dwelling units are constructed on a
building site, provide readily accessible areas that serve occupants of all
buildings on the site and are identified for the storage and collection of blue
container and green container materials, consistent with the three container
collection program offered by the city, or comply with provision of adequate
space for recycling for multi-family and commercial premises pursuant to §§
4.408.1, 4.410.2, 5.408.1, and 5.410.1 of the California Green Building
Standards Code, 24 CCR, Part 11 as amended provided amended, requirements are
more stringent than the CALGreen requirements for adequate recycling space
effective January 1, 2020.
      (2)   New commercial construction or additions resulting in more than 30%
of the floor area shall provide readily accessible areas identified for the
storage and collection of blue container and green container materials,
consistent with the three-container collection program offered by the city, or
shall comply with provision of adequate space for recycling for multi-family
and commercial premises pursuant to §§ 4.408.1, 4.410.2, 5.408.1, and 5.410.1
of the California Green Building Standards Code, 24 CCR, Part 11 as amended
provided amended requirements are more stringent than the CALGreen requirements
for adequate recycling space effective January 1, 2020.
      (3)   Comply with CALGreen requirements and applicable law related to
management of C&D, including diversion of organic waste in C&D from disposal
and comply with all written and published city policies and/or administrative
guidelines regarding the collection, recycling, diversion, tracking, and/or
reporting of C&D.
(Ord. 983 C.S., passed 2-2-22)
§ 5-3A.12 MODEL WATER EFFICIENT LANDSCAPING ORDINANCE REQUIREMENTS (MWELO).
   (A)   Property owners or their building or landscape designers, including
anyone requiring a building or planning permit, plan check, or landscape design
review from the city, who are constructing a new (single-family, multi-family,
public, institutional, or commercial) project with a landscape area greater
than 500 square feet, or rehabilitating an existing landscape with a total
landscape area greater than 2,500 square feet, shall comply with §§ 492.6(a)(3)
(B), (C), (D), and (G) of the MWELO, including sections related to use of
compost and mulch as delineated in this section.
   (B)   The compost and mulch use requirements that are part of the MWELO are
now also included as requirements of this chapter. Other requirements of the
MWELO are in effect and can be found in 23 CCR, Division 2, Chapter 2.7.
   (C)   Property owners or their building or landscape designers that meet the
threshold for MWELO compliance outlined in division (A) above shall:
      (1)   Comply with §§ 492.6 (a)(3)(B), (C), (D) and (G) of the MWELO,
which requires the submittal of a landscape design plan with a soil
preparation, mulch, and amendments section to include the following:
         (a)   For landscape installations, compost at a rate of a minimum of
four cubic yards per 1,000 square feet of permeable area shall be incorporated
to a depth of six inches into the soil. Soils with greater than 6% organic
matter in the top six inches of soil are exempt from adding compost and
tilling.
         (b)   For landscape installations, a minimum three-inch layer of mulch
shall be applied on all exposed soil surfaces of planting areas except in turf
areas, creeping or rooting groundcovers, or direct seeding applications where
mulch is contraindicated. To provide habitat for beneficial insects and other
wildlife, up to 5% of the landscape area may be left without mulch. A
designated insect habitat must be included in the landscape design plan as
such.
         (c)   Organic mulch materials made from recycled or post-consumer
materials shall take precedence over inorganic materials or virgin forest
products unless the recycled post-consumer organic products are not locally
available. Organic mulches are not required where prohibited by local fuel
modification plan guidelines or other applicable local ordinances.
      (2)   The MWELO compliance items listed in this section are not an
inclusive list of MWELO requirements; therefore, property owners or their
building or landscape designers that meet the threshold for MWELO compliance
outlined in division (A) shall consult the full MWELO for all requirements.
   (D)   If, after the adoption of this chapter, the California Department of
Water Resources, or its successor agency, amends 23 CCR, Division 2, Chapter
2.7, §§ 492.6(a)(3)(B), (C), (D), and (G) of the MWELO September 15, 2015
requirements in a manner that requires jurisdictions to incorporate the
requirements of an updated MWELO in a local ordinance, and the amended
requirements include provisions more stringent than those required in this
section, the revised requirements of 23 CCR, Division 2, Chapter 2.7 shall also
apply and be enforced.
(Ord. 983 C.S., passed 2-2-22)
§ 5-3A.13 PROCUREMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR CITY DEPARTMENTS, DIRECT SERVICE
PROVIDERS, AND VENDORS.
   (A)   City departments, and direct service providers to the city, as
applicable, must comply with the city's recovered organic waste product
procurement policy and recycled-content paper procurement policy.
   (B)   All vendors providing paper products and printing and writing paper to
the city shall:
      (1)   If fitness and quality are equal, provide recycled-content paper
products and recycled-content printing and writing paper that consists of at
least 30%, by fiber weight, postconsumer fiber instead of non-recycled products
whenever recycled paper products and printing and writing paper are available
at the same or lesser total cost than non-recycled items;
      (2)   Provide paper products and printing and writing paper that meet
Federal Trade Commission recyclability standard as defined in 16 Code of
Federal Regulations (CFR) § 260.12;
      (3)   Certify in writing, under penalty of perjury, the minimum
percentage of postconsumer material in the paper products and printing and
writing paper offered or sold to the city. This certification requirement may
be waived if the percentage of postconsumer material in the paper products or
printing and writing paper, or both, can be verified by a product label,
catalog, invoice, or a manufacturer or vendor internet website;
      (4)   Certify in writing, on invoices or receipts provided, that the
paper products and printing and writing paper offered or sold to the city is
eligible to be labeled with an unqualified recyclable label as defined in 16
Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) § 260.12 (2013).
      (5)   Provide records to the city in accordance with the city's recycled-
content paper procurement policy(ies) of all paper products and printing and
writing paper purchases within 30 days of the purchase (both recycled-content
and non-recycled content, if any is purchased) made by any division or
department or employee of the city. Records shall include a copy (electronic or
paper) of the invoice or other documentation of purchase, written
certifications as required in divisions (B)(3) and (B)(4) above for recycled-
content purchases, purchaser name, quantity purchased, date purchased, and
recycled content (including products that contain none); and if non-recycled-
content paper products or printing and writing papers are provided, include a
description of why recycled-content paper products or printing and writing
papers were not provided.
(Ord. 983 C.S., passed 2-2-22)
§ 5-3A.14 INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   City representatives and/or its designated entity, including designees
are authorized to conduct inspections and investigations, at random or
otherwise, of any collection container, collection vehicle loads, or transfer,
processing, or disposal facility for materials collected from generators or
source separated materials to confirm compliance with this chapter by organic
waste generators, commercial businesses (including multi-family residential
dwellings), property owners, commercial edible food generators, haulers, self-
haulers, food recovery services, and food recovery organizations, subject to
applicable laws. This section does not allow the city to enter the interior of
a private residential property for inspection. For the purposes of inspecting
commercial business containers for compliance with § 5-3A.05(B), the city may
conduct container inspections for prohibited container contaminants using
remote monitoring, and commercial businesses shall accommodate and cooperate
with the remote monitoring pursuant to §
5-3A.05(B)(10).
   (B)   Organic waste generators, commercial businesses (including multi-
family residential dwellings), property owners, commercial edible food
generators, haulers, self-haulers, food recovery services, and food recovery
organizations shall provide or arrange for access during all inspections (with
the exception of residential property interiors) and shall cooperate with the
city's employee or its designee during such inspections and investigations.
Such inspections and investigations may include confirmation of proper
placement of materials in containers, edible food recovery activities, records,
or any other requirement of this chapter described herein. Failure to provide
or arrange for: (i) access to an entity's premises; (ii) installation and
operation of remote monitoring equipment; or (iii) access to records for any
inspection or investigation is a violation of this chapter and may result in
penalties described.
   (C)   Any records obtained by the city during its inspections, remote
monitoring, and other reviews shall be subject to the requirements and
applicable disclosure exemptions of the Public Records Act as set forth in Cal.
Gov't Code §§ 6250 et seq.
   (D)   City representatives, its designated entity, and/or designees are
authorized to conduct any inspections, remote monitoring, or other
investigations of organic waste generators, commercial businesses (including
multi-family residential dwellings), property owners, commercial edible food
generators, haulers, self-haulers, food recovery services, and food recovery
organizations as reasonably necessary to further the goals of this chapter,
subject to applicable laws.
   (E)   The city shall receive written complaints from persons regarding an
entity that may be potentially non-compliant with SB 1383 regulations,
including receipt of anonymous complaints.
(Ord. 983 C.S., passed 2-2-22)
§ 5-3A.15 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute grounds
for issuance of a notice of violation and/or assessment of a fine by a City
Enforcement Official or representative. Enforcement actions under this chapter
include, but are not limited to, issuance of an administrative citation and
assessment of a fine, except that the administrative fine amounts in this
chapter shall prevail. In addition to the procedures in this section, the city
may enforce this chapter consistent with the procedures in Chapters 1.18, 1.20,
and 1.32 of this Code.
   (B)   Other remedies allowed by law may be used for enforcement, including,
but not limited to, civil action or prosecution as misdemeanor or infraction.
The city may pursue civil actions in the California courts to seek recovery of
unpaid administrative citations. The city may choose to delay court action
until such time as a sufficiently large number of violations or cumulative size
of violations exist such that court action is a reasonable use of city staff
and resources.
   (C)   Responsible entity for enforcement. Enforcement pursuant to this
chapter may be undertaken by the City Enforcement Official, which may be the
City Manager or their designated entity, legal counsel, or combination thereof.
      (1)   The City Enforcement Official(s) or designee will interpret this
chapter; determine the applicability of waivers, if violation(s) have occurred;
implement enforcement actions; and determine if compliance standards are met.
      (2)   The City Enforcement Official(s) or designee may issue notices of
violation(s).
   (D)   Process for enforcement.
      (1)   City Enforcement Official(s) or designee, will monitor compliance
with this chapter randomly and through compliance reviews, route reviews,
investigation of complaints, and an inspection program that may include remote
monitoring. §
5.3A.14 establishes the city's right to conduct inspections and investigations.
      (2)   The city may issue an official notification to notify regulated
entities of its obligations under this chapter.
   (E)   Penalty amounts for types of violations. The penalty levels for city-
issued notices of violation are as follows:
      (1)   Commercial business.
         (a)   For a first violation, the amount of the base penalty shall be
$100 per violation.
         (b)   For a second violation, the amount of the base penalty shall be
$200 per violation.
         (c)   For a third or subsequent violation, the amount of the base
penalty shall be $500 per violation.
      (2)   Single-family.
         (a)   For a first violation, the amount of the base penalty shall be
$50 per violation.
         (b)   For a second violation, the amount of the base penalty shall be
$100 per violation.
         (c)   For a third or subsequent violation, the amount of the base
penalty shall be $250 per violation.
   (F)   Compliance deadline extension considerations. The city may extend the
compliance deadlines set forth in a notice of violation issued in accordance
with this section if it finds that there are extenuating circumstances beyond
the control of the respondent that make compliance within the deadlines
impracticable, including the following:
      (1)   Acts of God such as earthquakes, wildfires, flooding, and other
emergencies or natural disasters;
      (2)   Delays in obtaining discretionary permits or other government
agency approvals; or
      (3)   Deficiencies in organic waste recycling infrastructure or edible
food recovery capacity and the city is under a corrective action plan with
CalRecycle pursuant to 14 CCR § 18996.2 due to those deficiencies.
   (G)   Appeals process. Persons receiving an administrative citation
containing a penalty for an uncorrected violation may request a hearing to
appeal the citation pursuant to the appeals procedures in Chapter 1.28 of this
Code.
   (H)   Education period for non-compliance. Beginning January 1, 2022 and
through December 31, 2023, the city will conduct inspections, remote
monitoring, route reviews or waste evaluations, and compliance reviews,
depending upon the type of regulated entity, to determine compliance with this
chapter, and if the city determines that organic waste generator, hauler, self-
hauler, tier one commercial edible food generator, food recovery organization,
food recovery service, or other entity is not in compliance, it shall provide
educational materials to the entity describing its obligations under this
chapter and a notice that compliance is required by January 1, 2022, and that
violations may be subject to administrative civil penalties starting on January
1, 2024.
   (I)   Civil penalties for non-compliance. Beginning January 1, 2024, if the
city determines that an organic waste generator, hauler, self-hauler, tier one
or tier two commercial edible food generator, food recovery organization, food
recovery service, or other entity is not in compliance with this chapter, it
shall document the noncompliance or violation, issue a notice of violation, and
take enforcement action pursuant to this section, as needed. The foregoing
shall not apply to violations arising from incidences where a hauler discovers
prohibited container contaminants found in containers.
   (J)   Enforcement table - non-exclusive list of violations.
TABLE 1
LIST OF VIOLATIONS
CODE SECTION REQUIREMENT DESCRIPTION OF VIOLATION
TABLE 1
LIST OF VIOLATIONS
CODE    REQUIREMENT    DESCRIPTION OF VIOLATION
SECTION
        Commercial     Commercial business fails to provide or arrange for organic waste
        business and   collection services consistent with city requirements and as outlined
§      commercial     in this chapter, for employees, contractors, tenants, and customers,
5-3A.05 business owner including supplying and allowing access to adequate numbers, size,
        responsibility and location of containers and sufficient signage and container
        requirement    color.
        Commercial     Tier one commercial edible food generator fails to arrange to recover
§      edible food    the maximum amount of its edible food that would otherwise be
5-3A.07 generator      disposed by establishing a contract or written agreement with a food
        requirement    recovery organization or food recovery service and comply with this
                       section commencing Jan. 1, 2022.
        Commercial     Tier two commercial edible food generator fails to arrange to recover
§      edible food    the maximum amount of its edible food that would otherwise be
5-3A.07 generator      disposed by establishing a contract or written agreement with a food
        requirement    recovery organization or food recovery service and comply with this
                       section commencing Jan. 1, 2024.
        Commercial     Tier one or tier two commercial edible food generator intentionally
§      edible food    spoils edible food that is capable of being recovered by a food
5-3A.07 generator      recovery organization or food recovery service.
        requirement
                       A hauler providing residential, commercial or industrial organic
§      Hauler         waste collection service fails to transport organic waste to a
5-3A.09 requirement    facility, operation, activity, or property that recovers organic
                       waste, as prescribed by this chapter.
§      Hauler         A hauler providing residential, commercial, or industrial organic
5-3A.09 requirement    waste collection service fails to obtain applicable approval issued
                       by the city to haul organic waste as prescribed by this chapter.
§      Hauler         A hauler fails to keep a record of the applicable documentation of
5-3A.09 requirement    its approval by the city, as prescribed by this chapter.
§§    Organic waste  Organic waste generator fails to comply with requirements adopted
5-3A.04 generator      pursuant to this chapter for the collection and recovery of organic
and     requirement    waste.
5-3A.05
        Organic waste
        generator,
        commercial
        business
§§    owner,
5-3A.05 commercial     Failure to provide or arrange for access to an entity's premises for
and     edible food    any Inspection or investigation.
5-3A.07 generator,
        food recovery
        organization
        or food
        recovery
        service
        Recordkeeping
§      requirements   Tier one or tier two commercial edible food generator fails to keep
5-3A.07 for commercial records, as prescribed by §
        edible food    5-3A.07.
        generator
        Recordkeeping
        requirements   A food recovery organization or food recovery service that has
§      for food       established a contract or written agreement to collect or receive
5-3A.08 recovery       edible food directly from a commercial edible food generator pursuant
        services and   to 14 CCR § 18991.3(b) fails to keep records, as prescribed by §
        food recovery  5-3A.08.
        organizations
§      Self-hauler    A generator who is a self-hauler fails to comply with the
5-3A.10 requirement    requirements of 14 CCR § 18988.3(b).
 
(Ord. 983 C.S., passed 2-2-22)
§ 5-3A.16 COORDINATION AND INTERPRETATION IN CONJUNCTION WITH RELATED SOLID
WASTE ORDINANCES.
   In interpreting this chapter in conjunction with the city's general solid
waste regulations (Municipal Code Chapter 8.12 entitled "Collection, Recycling
and Disposal of Solid Waste" and in the event of any conflict between this
Chapter 5.3A. and Chapter 8.12 that cannot be reasonably harmonized through the
application of lawful principles of statutory construction, the provisions of
this chapter shall control with respect to all issues specific to the
regulation of organic and food waste collection, disposal, enforcement, and
penalties.
(Ord. 983 C.S., passed 2-2-22)
CHAPTER 4: SEWAGE DISPOSAL
Section
   
5-4.01   Sewer connections required within specified time
   
5-4.02   Sewer connections required immediately
   
5-4.03   Wastewater collection and treatment; regulations (Repealed)
   
5-4.04   General provisions
   
5-4.05   Regulations
   
5-4.06   Enforcement
   
5-4.07   Industrial users
   
5-4.08   Compliance procedures for a significant noncompliance user
   
5-4.09   (Repealed)
   
5-4.10   (Repealed)
   
5-4.11   (Repealed)
   
5-4.12   (Repealed)
   
5-4.13   (Repealed)
   
5-4.14   Sewer service charges; delinquencies; liens (Repealed)
   
5-4.15   Sewer connections outside the city
   
5-4.16   Sewer service charges outside the city
   
5-4.17   Sewer connections outside the city; application
   
5-4.18   Sewer connection fees outside the city
   
5-4.19   Sewer department to make all sewer connections
§ 5-4.01 SEWER CONNECTIONS REQUIRED WITHIN SPECIFIED TIME.
   Each residence, building, or place of business within the city shall be
connected onto the sanitary sewer system of the city where sewer mains are
located within 100 feet of the premises of such residence or building. No
sanitary sewer connection shall serve more than one ownership. All connections
shall be made within two years from the time that sewer mains are constructed
within 100 feet from the premises, and all human waste and waste water from
human sanitation shall be discharged into the sanitary sewers of the city
within two years from the time that such sewer mains are constructed within 100
feet from the premises. The provisions of this section shall be enforced by the
Health Officer.
('61 Code, § 5-4.01) (Ord. 243 N.S., passed - - )
§ 5-4.02 SEWER CONNECTIONS REQUIRED IMMEDIATELY.
   Whenever sanitary sewer mains are constructed within 100 feet of any
premises within the city and the Health Officer determines that such premises
shall be connected immediately to the adjacent sewer mains for purposes of
health and sanitation, the Health Officer shall be empowered to order the
immediate connection by the premises onto the sewer system without waiting for
the two-year period of time to lapse. The provisions of this section shall be
enforced by the Health Officer.
('61 Code, § 5-4.02) (Ord. 243 N.S., passed - - )
§ 5-4.03 WASTEWATER COLLECTION AND TREATMENT; REGULATIONS (REPEALED).
('61 Code, § 5-4.03) (Ord. 17 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 42 C.S., passed 3-6-
63; Am. Ord. 407 C.S., passed 2-21-83)
Editor's note:
   This section, containing provisions regarding discharge restrictions,
violations, and penalties, was repealed by Ord. 895 C.S., passed 3-21-12.
§ 5-4.04 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose and policy. These regulations set forth uniform requirements
for direct and indirect contributors into the wastewater collection and
treatment system for the city.
      (1)   The objectives of these regulations are:
         (a)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
         (b)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system inadequately treated or
otherwise be incompatible with the system; and
         (c)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters
and sludges from the system.
      (2)   These regulations provide for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system through the issuance of permits
to certain nondomestic users and through enforcement of general requirements
for the other users and authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities.
      (3)   These regulations apply to the city and to persons outside the city
who are, by permit from the city, users of the publicly owned treatment works
(POTW). Except as otherwise provided herein, the Director of Public Works of
the city shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of these
regulations.
   (B)   Definitions. Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the
following terms have the meanings hereinafter designated.
      THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean
Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES or BMPs. Schedules of activities, prohibitions
of practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to
implement the prohibitions listed in 40 C.F.R. §§ 403.5(a)(1) and (b). BMPs
also include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices to
control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or
drainage from raw materials storage.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen required by
sewage for biochemical oxidation in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams
per liter (mg/l).
      BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of an
owner to a public sewer.
      COMMERCIAL USER. Any user not defined as a residential, industrial, or
other type user not specifically mentioned.
      COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, total suspended solids,
pH, coliform bacteria, and oil and grease.
      CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the waters of the city by
waste to a degree which creates a hazard to the public health through poisoning
through the spread of disease. CONTAMINATION shall include any equivalent
effect resulting from the disposal of wastewater, whether or not waters of the
city are affected.
      COOLING WATER. Water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling, or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added to the water is
heat.
      DIRECTOR. The Public Works Director of the city or such other person as
may be designated by the Public Works Director.
      DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Waterborne waste derived from the ordinary living
processes and coming from residences, business buildings, or institutions, as
distinct from industrial wastes.
      GARBAGE. Any solid waste from domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking, and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of
food.
      HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels,
chemical toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum pump tank trucks.
      INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which is not a compatible pollutant
as defined in this section.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the
POTW from any nondomestic source regulated under Section 307(b), (c), or (d) of
the Clean Water Act.
      INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge.
      INTERFERENCE. A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, both (1) inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its
treatment processes or operations, or its sludge processes, use, or disposal;
and (2) therefore is a cause of violation of any requirement of the POTW's
permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation) or
of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with the
following statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued thereunder (or
more stringent state or local regulations): Section 405 of the Clean Water Act,
the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (including Title II, more commonly referred
to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and including state
regulations contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to
Subtitle D of the SWDA), the Clean Air Act, and the Toxic Substances Control
Act. (40 C.F.R. § 403.3(k)(2))
      MASS EMISSION RATE. The weight of material discharged to the sewer system
during a given time interval. Unless otherwise specified, the MASS EMISSION
RATE shall mean pounds per day of a particular constituent or combination of
constituents.
      NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES). The program for
issuing, conditioning, and denying permits for the discharge of pollutants
pursuant to Section 402 of the Act.
      NEW SOURCE. Any new, additional, or replacement building, structure,
facility, or installation from which there is or may be a discharge of
pollutants, the construction of which commenced after the publication of
proposed pretreatment standards under Section 307(c) of the Act which will be
applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter promulgated in
accordance with that section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located; and/or
         (b)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; and/or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating process of the building,
structure, facility, or installation is substantially independent of an
existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should
be considered.
      PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW in quantities or
concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges
from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW's
permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation).
      PERSON or OWNER. Any individual, firm, company, corporation, partnership,
association, and private, public, and municipal corporations' responsible
corporate officer, the United States of America, the State of California,
districts, and all political subdivisions and governmental agencies.
      POLLUTANT. Any dredged soil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical waste, biological material,
radioactive material, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar
dirt, or industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste discharged into water.
      POLLUTION. The man-made or man induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological, and radiological integrity of water.
      PRETREATMENT. Application of physical, chemical, and biological processes
to reduce the amount of pollutants in or alter the nature of the pollutant
properties in a wastewater prior to discharging such wastewater into the
publicly owned wastewater treatment system.
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard, imposed
on an industrial user.
      PRETREATMENT STANDARDS, NATIONAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS, or STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with Section 307(b) and (c) of the Act, which applies to industrial
users. This term includes prohibitive discharge limits established pursuant to
Section 430.5.
      PUBLIC SEWER. Sewer owned and operated by the city which collects sewage
waste and transports same to facilities owned and operated by the city. Such
sewer also includes property outside the established city limits which are
tributary to the main sewer trunk line to the wastewater treatment plant.
      SEWAGE or SANITARY SEWAGE. A combination of domestic sewage and
industrial wastes.
      SEWAGE SYSTEM. The facilities for the collection, treatment, and disposal
of sanitary sewage.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). All industrial users (IUs) subject to
categorical pretreatment standards under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6 and 40 C.F.R., Ch.
I, subch. N and any other IU that discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more
of process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and
boiler blowdown wastewater), contributes a process waste stream which makes up
5% or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW
treatment plant or is designated as such by the POTW on the basis that the IU
has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operations or for
violating a pretreatment standard or requirement (in accordance with 40 C.F.R.
§ 403.8(f)(6)).
      SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE. Any SIU or industrial user which meets one or
more of the criteria defined in 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(2)(viii)(A) - (H):
         (A)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here
as those in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) a
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits,
as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(l);
         (B)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as
those in which 33% or more of all of the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of
the numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous
limits, as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(l) multiplied by the applicable TRC
(TRC = 1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oil, and grease, and 1.2 for all other
pollutants except pH);
         (C)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(l) (daily maximum, long-term average,
instantaneous limit, or narrative standard) that the POTW determines has
caused, alone or in combination with other discharge, interference or pass
through (including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general
public);
         (D)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent
endangerment to human health, welfare, or to the environment or has resulted in
the POTW's exercise of its emergency authority under 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(1)
(vi)(B) to halt or prevent such a discharge;
         (E)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
         (F)   Failure to provide within 45 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports,
periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance
schedules;
         (G)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
         (H)   Any other violation or group of violations, which may include a
violation of best management practices, which the POTW determines will
adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program.
      SLUG DISCHARGE. Any discharge of a nonroutine, episodic nature,
including, but not limited to, an accidental spill or noncustomary batch
discharge.
      STANDARD METHODS. The latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution
Control Association.
      STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
      UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water not containing any pollutants limited or
prohibited by the effluent standards in effect or water whose discharge will
not cause any violation of receiving water quality standards.
      USER. Any person contributing wastewater to the public sewer system as
provided in these regulations.
      WASTE. Any discharge into the public sewer system that contains
pollutants.
      WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes
from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, or institutions,
together with any groundwater, surface water that may be present, whether
treated or untreated, which is discharged into or permitted to enter the city's
treatment works.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM or PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). Any
device, facility, structure, or equipment owned or used by the city for the
purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling, or reclamation of
industrial and domestic wastes necessary to recycle or reuse water, including
intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewer collections systems, pumps, power
plants, and other equipment, and their appurtenances, extensions, improvements,
remodeling, additions, and alterations thereof; and any works, including site
acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the treatment process
or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such treatment.
(Ord. 895 C.S., passed 3-21-12)
§ 5-4.05 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Prohibitions on discharge. Wastewater which contains any of the
following shall not be discharged into a public sewer:
      (1)   Explosive mixtures. Prohibited materials include gasoline,
kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones,
aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides,
sulfides, or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas with a closed
cup flashpoint of less than 140°F or 60°C using the test methods specified in
40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (2)   Noxious materials. Noxious solids, liquids, or gases, which, either
singly or by interaction with other wastes, are capable of creating a hazard to
life, or prevent entry into a public sewer for its maintenance and repair;
      (3)   Improperly shredded garbage. Garbage that has been ground or
comminuted to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely in
suspension under flow conditions normally prevailing in the public sewers;
      (4)   Radioactive wastes. Radioactive wastes or isotopes that violate
regulations or orders issued by the appropriate authority having control over
their use and which will or may cause damage or hazards to the wastewater
treatment system or to personnel operating the system;
      (5)   Solid or viscous wastes. Solid or viscous wastes which will or may
cause obstruction to the flow in a public sewer resulting in interference.
Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to, uncomminuted garbage,
animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, earth, bones, feathers, ashes, cinders,
sand, spent lime, cement, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings,
grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, wastepaper, wood, plastic,
tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or
lubricating oil, and similar substances;
      (6)   Excessive discharge rate. Wastewaters at a flow rate or containing
such concentrations or quantities of pollutants, including oxygen demanding
pollutants, (e.g., BOD), that exceed for any time period longer than 15 minutes
more than five times the average 24-hour concentration, or quantities of flow
and/or pollutant concentration during normal operation that would cause a
treatment process upset and subsequent loss of treatment efficiency;
      (7)   Toxic substances. Toxic substances in amounts exceeding standards
promulgated by the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
pursuant to Section 307(a) of the Act, or as established by the city; and
chemical elements or compounds, phenols or other taste or odor-producing
substances, or any other substances which are not susceptible to treatment or
which may interfere with the treatment processes or efficiency of the treatment
system, and therefore will be unsuitable for reclamation and reuse;
      (8)   Unpolluted waters. Any unpolluted water including, but not limited
to, water from cooling systems or of storm water origin, which will increase
the hydraulic load on the wastewater treatment system;
      (9)   Corrosive wastes. Any wastes which will cause corrosion or
deterioration of the treatment system. All wastes discharged to the public
sewer system must have a pH value in the range of six to ten standard units.
Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to, acids, sulfides,
concentrated chloride and fluoride compounds, and substances which will react
with water to form acidic products;
      (10)   Temperature. Any waste having a temperature higher than 104°F
(40°C);
      (11)   Oil and grease. Any waste containing more than 300 mg/l of oil and
grease;
      (12)   Limitations on point of discharge. No user shall discharge any
substances directly into a manhole or other opening in a public sewer other
than through an approved building sewer, or specifically designated outside
discharge point, unless the owner has been issued a permit by the Director of
Public Works;
      (13)   Cannery wastes. Any fruit or vegetable processing wastes or any
other processing plant wastes which are retained on a screen having 20 meshes
per square inch; or
      (14)   Trucked or hauled pollutants. Any trucked or hauled pollutants,
except at discharge points designated by the POTW.
   (B)   Limitations on discharge.
      (1)   Allowable limits of BOD and TSS to be discharged to the public
sewer shall be determined by the Director. Limits will be based upon wastewater
treatment plant design capacity and volume of flow from the discharger. No user
shall discharge wastewater containing excessive amounts of BOD or TSS (based on
24-hour composite sample) without a valid wastewater discharge permit.
      (2)   Except where expressly authorized to do so by pretreatment
standards or requirements, no IU shall ever increase the use of process water,
or in any other way attempt to dilute a discharge for the purpose of reducing
pollutant concentration levels, as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with pretreatment requirements.
   (C)   Incompatible pollutants. To protect the wastewater treatment system,
to prevent the discharge of pollutants which would pass through the wastewater
treatment system without sufficient treatment, to prevent contamination of
recovered by-products produced by the wastewater treatment system, and so as
not to cause the city to violate applicable state and federal regulations and
requirements, all users discharging into a public sewer shall be required to
remove incompatible pollutants which cause pass through or interference from
their waste.
      (1)   Any user requesting a permit to discharge to the sewer system shall
conduct a sampling and laboratory analyses program to the satisfaction of the
city to establish the quantities and concentrations of incompatible pollutants.
At the option of the city, the analyses may include, but not be limited to,
measurement of arsenic, barium, cadmium, calcium, chemical oxygen demand,
copper, cyanide, fluoride, iron, lead, magnesium, mercury, methyl blue active
substances, nickel, nitrogen, potassium, radioactivity, silver, sodium, total
chromium, total filterable residue, toxicity, zinc, chlorinated hydrocarbons,
and phenolic compounds.
      (2)   The city will evaluate the probable impact of the discharge on the
operation of the wastewater treatment system, the ability of the system to meet
its effluent limitations, and the impact on recoverable by-products. The city
may then establish specific limitations on any incompatible pollutants as the
city determines necessary.
      (3)   However, in no case shall a user discharge wastewater containing an
excess of:
Metal Allowable, mg/l
Metal    Allowable, mg/l
Aluminum 5
Arsenic  5
Barium   10
Boron    15
Cadmium  0.1
Chromium 5
Copper   5
Cyanide  1
Lead     5
Mercury  0.2
Nickel   5
Selenium 1
Silver   5
Zinc     5
 
      (4)   Notwithstanding the above requirements, all users discharging into
publicly owned treatment works are required to remove incompatible pollutants
from their waste in conformance with national pretreatment standards as issued
by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
   (D)   State requirements. State requirements and limitations on discharges
shall apply in any case where they are more stringent than federal requirements
and limitations or those in these regulations.
   (E)   Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards. Upon the promulgation of
the Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards for a particular industrial
subcategory, the federal standard shall supersede the limitations imposed in
these regulations if the federal standard is more stringent than limitations
imposed under these regulations. The National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards, located in 40 C.F.R. Ch. I, subch. N, pts. 405 - 471, are hereby
incorporated into these regulations. The Director shall notify all affected
users of the applicable reporting requirements under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12.
   (F)   Discharge reports. The Director may require that any person
discharging wastewater into a city sewer file a periodic discharge report. The
discharge report may include, but need not be limited to, nature of process,
volume, rates of flow, mass emission rate, production quantities, hours of
operation, number and classification of employees, or other information which
relates to the generation of waste including wastewater constituents and
characteristics in the wastewater discharge. Such reports may also include the
chemical constituents and quantity of liquid or gaseous materials stored on
site even though they may not normally be discharged. In addition to discharge
reports, the city may require information in the form of wastewater discharge
permit applications and self-monitoring reports.
   (G)   Negligence through equipment or waste – right to discontinue service.
The city may refuse to furnish sewer service and may discontinue all services
to any premises where apparatus, appliances, or equipment using water is found
by the Director to be dangerous or unsafe or where the use of water on such
premises is found by the Director to be detrimental or injurious to the sewer
service furnished by the city to other premises, or where the Director finds
that negligent or wasteful use of water exists on any premises which affects
the city's sewer service.
(Ord. 895 C.S., passed 3-21-12)
§ 5-4.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Duty of Public Works Department. The Public Works Department of the
city by and through its Director or his or her designee is charged with the
duty of enforcing these regulations, or causing their enforcement by other city
departments or other agencies, including county jurisdiction, when necessary.
   (B)   Disconnection for violation. In the event of violation of any
provisions of these regulations, the Director may disconnect any premises from
the sewer system after first notifying in writing the person causing, allowing,
or committing such violation, specifying the violation and, if applicable, the
time after which (upon failure of such person to prevent or rectify the
violation) the Director shall exercise his or her authority to disconnect the
premises from the sewer system, provided that such time shall not be less than
five days after the date of presentation of such notice, provided further that
in the event such violation results in a public hazard, menace, or nuisance,
then the Director may enter upon the premises without notice and do such things
and expend such sums as may be necessary to abate such condition, and the
reasonable costs of the things done and the amounts expended in so doing shall
be a charge upon the person so in violation.
   (C)   Duty to collect charges. The City Finance Director and all other
appropriate city officers, agents, or employees shall promptly, efficiently,
and economically take all steps, actions, or remedies necessary for the
collection of the penalties as provided in these regulations.
   (D)   Right of entry for inspections. The officers, employees, and
inspectors of the Public Works Department of the city shall have the right to
enter upon the premises of any person at reasonable hours to inspect and to
determine compliance with this division.
   (E)   Submission of time schedule. When the city finds that a discharge of
wastewater has occurred or may occur in violation of this division or in
violation of a wastewater discharge permit, the city may require the owner to
submit for approval a detailed time schedule of specific actions which the
owner shall take to prevent or correct the violation.
   (F)   Falsifying information. Any person who knowingly makes any false
statements, representation, or certification in any application, record,
report, plan, or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to
these regulations or wastewater contribution permit or who falsifies, tampers
with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required
under these regulations, shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and
punished by a fine of not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment for not more than
six months, or by both.
   (G)   Public nuisance. Waste or wastewater discharge, threatened waste or
wastewater discharge, or any violation of these regulations is hereby declared
to be a public nuisance. Such nuisance may be abated, removed, or enjoined and
damages assessed therefor, in any manner provided by law.
   (H)   Civil/criminal penalties. Every industrial user shall be civilly and
criminally liable to the city in at least the amount of $1,000 per day for each
act in violation of these pretreatment standards and regulations.
   (I)   Misdemeanor. Any person violating any of these regulations shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable by
imprisonment in the county jail for a term not to exceed six months, or by a
fine of $1,000 or by both such imprisonment and fine. Every day such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (J)   Remedies cumulative. The remedies provided for in these regulations
shall be cumulative and not exclusive, and shall be in addition to any and all
other remedies available to the city.
   (K)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any user, permittee, applicant, or other person aggrieved by any
decision, action, finding, determination, order, or directive of the Director,
made or authorized pursuant to the provisions of this division, or relating to
any permit issued pursuant to said division, or interpreting or implementing
the same, may file a written request with the Director for reconsideration
thereof within ten days of such decision, action, finding, determination, or
order, setting forth in detail the facts supporting such user's or person's
request for reconsideration. The Director shall render a final decision within
ten days of receipt of such request for consideration.
      (2)   Any user, permittee, applicant, or other person aggrieved by the
final determination of the Director may appeal such determination to the City
Council within ten days after notification of the final determination of the
Director, and shall set forth in detail the facts and reasons supporting the
appeal. The appeal shall be heard by the City Council within 30 days from the
date of filing the notice of appeal. Upon conclusion of the hearing, the
Council may affirm, reverse, or modify the final determination of the Director
as the Council deems just and equitable, and in furtherance of the provisions,
purposes, and intent of these regulations. During the pendency of any such
appeal, the final determination of the Director shall remain in full force and
effect. The Council's determination on the appeal shall be final.
(Ord. 895 C.S., passed 3-21-12; Am. Ord. 1004 C.S., passed 11-15-23)
§ 5-4.07 INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits. All industrial users proposing to
connect to or to discharge into a public sewer shall obtain a wastewater
discharge permit from the city before connecting to or discharging into said
public sewer. All existing industrial users connected to or discharging into a
public sewer shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit within 90 days after
the effective date of these regulations.
   (B)   Permit application. Users seeking a wastewater discharge permit shall
complete and file with the city an application in the form prescribed by the
city, and accompanied by the applicable fees.
      (1)   The applicant may be required to submit, in units and terms
appropriate for evaluation, the following information.
         (a)   Name, address, and standard industrial classification number of
applicant.
         (b)   Volume of wastewater to be discharged.
         (c)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including, but not
limited to, those mentioned in sections of these regulations as determined by a
laboratory approved by the city.
         (d)   Time and duration of discharge.
         (e)   Average and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly, and seasonal variations, if any.
         (f)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and
details to show all sewers and appurtenances by size, location, and elevation.
         (g)   Description of activities, facilities, and plan processes on the
premises including all materials, processes, and types of materials which are,
or could be, discharged.
         (h)   Each product produced by type, amount, and rate of production.
         (i)   Number and type of employees, and hours of work.
         (j)   Any other information as may be deemed by the Director of Public
Works to be necessary to evaluate the permit application.
      (2)   The Director of Public Works will evaluate the data furnished by
the applicant and may require additional information. After evaluation and
approval of the application, the Director may issue a wastewater discharge
permit subject to the terms and conditions provided herein.
   (C)   Permit conditions. Permits must contain, but not be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   The average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (2)   Limits on rate and time of discharge or requirements for flow
regulations and equalization;
      (3)   Requirements for installation or inspection, flow metering, and
sampling facilities;
      (4)   Pretreatment requirements;
      (5)   Specifications for monitoring programs including identification of
pollutants to be monitored, sampling locations, frequency and method of
sampling, number, types, and standards for tests, and reporting schedule;
      (6)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
      (7)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records for a
minimum of three years relating to wastewater discharge as specified by the
city, and affording the city the right to inspect and copy such records;
      (8)   Mean and maximum mass emission rates, or other appropriate limits
when incompatible pollutants (as defined by § 5-4.05(C)) are proposed or
present in the user's wastewater discharge;
      (9)   Compliance schedule;
      (10)   Permit fee as established by Council resolution;
      (11)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Director of Public
Works to ensure compliance with these regulations; and
      (12)   Statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation
of standards, requirements, or compliance schedules.
   (D)   Duration of permit. Permit shall be issued for a specified time
period, not to exceed five years. The terms and conditions of the permit may be
subject to modification and change by the city during the life of the permit as
limitations or requirements are modified and changed. The user shall be
informed of any proposed changes in his or her permit at least 30 days prior to
the effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall
include a time schedule for compliance.
   (E)   Transfer of permit. Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a
specific user for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not
be reassigned or transferred or sold to a new user, different premises, or a
new or changed operation. A new wastewater discharge permit will be required
for a new user, a different location, or a new or changed operation.
   (F)   Notification of changed discharge. All IUs, permitted and
nonpermitted, shall promptly notify the POTW in advance of any substantial
change in the volume, character, or constituents of the pollutants in their
discharge, or any facility changes affecting the potential for a slug
discharge.
   (G)   Revocation of permit. Any user who violates the following conditions
of the permit, or who violates applicable state and federal regulations, is
subject to having his or her permit revoked.
      (1)   Failure of the user to factually report the wastewater constituents
and characteristics of his or her discharge;
      (2)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater constituents and characteristics; or
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring.
   (H)   Permit denial/condition. The city reserves the right as to any IUs to
deny or condition a permit due to new source or increased contribution of
pollutants or change in the nature of pollutants where these contributions do
not meet these pretreatment standards and requirements, or when these
contributions would cause the POTW to violate its waste discharge requirements.
   (I)   Monitoring facilities. The city may require the user to construct, at
its own expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and flow
measurement of the building sewer or internal drainage systems and may also
require sampling or metering equipment to be provided, installed, and operated
at the user's expense. The monitoring facility shall be situated on the user's
premises unless exemption from this requirement is granted by the city.
      (1)   The monitoring facility shall include accommodations to allow
access by city personnel, such as a cover secured with a city lock. There shall
be ample room in or near such monitoring facilities to allow accurate sampling,
flow measuring, and compositing of samples for analysis. The monitoring
facility, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in
a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
      (2)   The sampling and monitoring facilities shall be provided in
accordance with the city's requirements and all applicable construction
standards and specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days
following written notification by the Director, unless a time extension is
otherwise granted by the Director.
   (J)   Inspection and sampling. The city may inspect the facilities of any
user to ascertain whether the provisions of these regulations are being met and
all requirements are being complied with. The user shall allow the city or its
agents ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of the premises for
the purposes of inspection or sampling in the performance of any of their
duties. The city shall have access to inspect and copy records. The city shall
have the right to set up on the user's property such devices as are necessary
to conduct sampling or metering operations. All wastewater sampling and
analyses shall be conducted using the methods, procedures, and requirements set
forth in 40 C.F.R. pt. 136.
   (K)   Monitoring and analysis to demonstrate continued compliance. Except in
the case of non-significant categorical users, the reports required in 40
C.F.R. §§ 403.12(b), (d), (e), and (h) shall contain the results of sampling
and analysis of the discharge, including the flow and the nature and
concentration, or production and mass where requested by the city, of
pollutants contained therein which are limited by the applicable pretreatment
standards. This sampling and analysis may be performed by the city in lieu of
the industrial user. Where the POTW performs the required sampling and analysis
in lieu of the industrial user, the user will not be required to submit the
compliance certification required under 40 C.F.R. §§ 403.12(b)(6) and (d). In
addition, where the POTW itself collects all the information required for the
report, including flow data, the industrial user will not be required to submit
the report.
      (1)   The industrial user shall incorporate, record, and report any
economically practical best management practices that reduce the volume and/or
toxicity of wastes generated.
      (2)   If sampling performed by an industrial user indicates a violation,
the user shall notify the city within 24 hours of becoming aware of the
violation. The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the city within 30 days after becoming aware
of the violation. Where the city has performed the sampling and analysis in
lieu of the industrial user, the city must perform the repeat sampling and
analysis unless it notifies the user of the violation and requires the user to
perform the repeat analysis. Resampling is not required if:
         (a)   The city performs sampling at the industrial user at a frequency
of at least once per month; or
         (b)   The city performs sampling at the industrial user between the
time when the initial sampling was conducted and the time when the user or the
city receives the results of this sampling.
   (L)   Compliance progress reporting. As specified in 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(c),
nonpermitted users may be required to submit compliance schedules and technical
or discharge reports prior to installation of pretreatment facilities or
obtaining a permit.
   (M)   Categorical IU reporting requirements. In addition to reporting
requirements outlined in § 5-4.07(C), each categorical IU is required to submit
to the city a baseline monitoring report (BMR), a report on compliance with the
industry's categorical deadline, a compliance schedule progress report, or
periodic compliance report as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 403.12(b) - (h).
Reports must be signed and certified as specified in 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(l).
   (N)   Notice of noncompliance. Every IU is required to notify the city
within 24 hours and resample the discharge for any violation, as evident by the
IU sampling, of the pretreatment standards and requirements. The resampling
results must be submitted to the city within 30 days of the violation.
   (O)   Public notice of significant noncompliance. IUs found to be in
significant noncompliance with these pretreatment requirements during the
previous 12 months shall be subject to at least annual public notification in
the largest daily newspaper published in the municipality. The city will
publish details of significant noncompliance by any and all IUs in the local
newspaper or a newspaper of general circulation during January of each year.
All cost relating to said annual publication shall be borne by the subject IUs.
For the purposes of this provision, a significant industrial user or any
industrial user which violates paragraphs 40 C.F.R. §§ 403.8(f)(2)(viii)(A) -
(H) is in significant noncompliance.
   (P)   Pretreatment. Users shall make wastewater acceptable under the
limitations established herein before discharging to any public sewer. Any
facilities required to pretreat wastewater to meet these regulations shall be
provided and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans showing the
pretreatment facilities and operating and maintenance procedures shall be
submitted to the city for review, and must be acceptable to the city before
construction of the facility. The review of such plans and operation and
maintenance procedures will in no way relieve the user from the responsibility
of modifying the facility, as necessary, to produce an effluent acceptable to
the city under the provisions of these regulations. Any subsequent changes in
the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported in writing
to and be acceptable to the city.
   (Q)   Protection from accidental discharge.
      (1)   Each user shall provide procedures and facilities for protection of
the sewer system from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other
pollutants restricted by these regulations. Such facilities shall be provided
and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and
operating procedures to provide this protection shall be submitted to the city
for review and shall be acceptable to the city before construction of the
facility.
      (2)   The review of such plans and operation procedures will in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary
to provide the protection necessary to meet the requirements of this section.
   (R)   Slug discharge control.
      (1)   The POTW will evaluate the need to implement a plan to control slug
discharges within a year of a discharger being designated as an SIU. If it is
decided that a plan is needed, the plan shall contain, as a minimum, the
following items:
         (a)   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
         (b)   Description of stored chemicals;
         (c)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of any accidental
or slug discharge which cause pass through or interference, pollutants which
create a fire or explosion hazard, cause corrosive structural damage, have a pH
lower than 5.0, solid or viscous pollutants which will cause obstruction to the
POTW flow, pollutants (including oxygen demanding pollutants) released at a
flow rate and/or pollutant level which will cause interference with the POTW,
heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW or present
in such quantities that the temperature at the treatment plant exceeds 40°C,
oils (petroleum, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral oil) in
quantities that will cause interference or pass through, pollutants which
result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or fumes at a level that may
cause acute worker health and safety problems, and discharge of any trucked or
hauled pollutants except at discharge points designated by the POTW; and
         (d)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic
pollutants (including solvents), and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response. Slug control requirements must be referenced in SIU control
mechanisms.
      (2)   The POTW will re-evaluate each SIU at least once every two years to
determine the need for a slug discharge control plan.
   (S)   Notification of discharge.
      (1)   All users shall immediately notify the city upon accidental or slug
discharging wastes in violation of these regulations to enable countermeasures
to be taken by the city to minimize the damage to the public sewer, treatment
facility, treatment processes, and the receiving waters.
      (2)   This notification shall be followed, immediately, on the day of
occurrence by the submission to the city of a detailed written statement
describing the causes of the accidental discharge and the measures being taken
to prevent future occurrence. Such notification will not relieve users of
liability for any expense, loss, or damage to the public sewer, treatment
plant, or treatment process, or for any fines imposed on the city on account
thereof.
   (T)   Notification of hazardous waste discharge. All IUs must notify, in
writing, the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and
state hazardous waste authorities of any discharge into the POTW of a substance
which would be classified as hazardous waste by 40 C.F.R. pt. 261.
      (1)   The notification must include, at a minimum, the following:
         (a)   The name of the hazardous waste material;
         (b)   The EPA hazardous waste number; and
         (c)   The type of discharge. If the IU discharges more than 100
kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification shall
also contain the following information to the extent such information is known
and readily available to the IU:
            (i)   An identification of the hazardous constituents contained in
the wastes.
            (ii)   An estimation of the mass and concentration of such
constituents in the wastestream discharged during that calendar month.
            (iii)   An estimation of the mass of constituents in the
wastestream expected to be discharged during the following 12 months.
      (2)   All notification must take place within 180 days of the effective
date of this section.
   (U)   Notice to employees. To inform the employees of the user of the city's
requirement, users shall make available to their employees copies of these
regulations and together with such other wastewater information and notices
which may be furnished by the city from time to time directed toward more
effective water pollution control. A notice shall be furnished and permanently
posted on the user's bulletin board advising employees whom to call in case of
an accidental discharge in violation of these regulations.
   (V)   Confidential information. Unless the user requests otherwise, all
information and data from reports, questionnaires, permit applications, permits
and monitoring programs, and from inspections shall be available to the public.
      (1)   If the user is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city
that the release of the above information would divulge proprietary processes,
trade secrets, or information that would be detrimental to the user's
competitive position, such information, with the exception of effluent data,
may be considered confidential and withheld from the public.
      (2)   The user's effluent data wastewater constituents and
characteristics are considered not confidential and shall be made available to
the public without restriction.
   (W)   Special agreements. Special agreements and arrangements between the
city and any user may be established when, in the opinion of the city, unusual
or extraordinary circumstances compel special terms and conditions. However,
pretreatment standards in special agreements between the city and users shall
not exceed national pretreatment standards.
   (X)   Severability. If any provision, paragraph, word, section, or article
of these regulations is invalidated by any court of competent jurisdiction, the
remaining provisions, paragraphs, words, sections, and chapters shall not be
affected and shall continue in full force and effect.
(Ord. 895 C.S., passed 3-21-12)
§ 5-4.08 COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES FOR A SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE USER.
   (A)   Background study and review. The background of the company, including
flow, type, and adequacy of the pretreatment system and previous enforcement
information will be studied and reviewed by the Director of Public Works and
staff, then formally summarized.
   (B)   Issuance of a mandatory compliance meeting notice. Within ten days
from completion of the background review and evaluation, §
5-4.08(A), the Director of Public Works will notify the company by letter of a
mandatory compliance meeting to be held within 20 days from the issuance of the
letter.
   (C)   Detailed inspection. A detailed inspection of the industry will be
conducted by the Director of Public Works, the Wastewater Treatment Plant
Supervisor or an assigned engineer, and the staff member assigned to make
industrial waste inspections to investigate the cause of noncompliance. The
inspection will be performed prior to conducting the compliance meeting.
   (D)   Mandatory compliance meeting. A compliance meeting will be conducted
between city staff (Director of Public Works, the Wastewater Treatment Plant
Supervisor and/or assigned engineer, and the person assigned to make industrial
waste inspections) and the company's managerial staff. During the meeting,
findings of the detailed inspection (§
5-4.08(C)) and possible causes of noncompliance will be discussed. In addition,
requirements for compliance will be set forth for implementation by the
company.
   (E)   Issuance of mandatory compliance requirement letter. Following the
compliance meeting, the Director of Public Works will send a letter requiring a
compliance proposal from the company. The Director's proposal shall be due
within 30 days after mailing of the letter and may be required to include such
items as wastewater characterization study, drawings for spill containment,
manufacturing processes, treatment processes, additional pretreatment
equipment, etc.
   (F)   Submitted compliance proposal evaluation. The compliance proposal
submitted by the company will be evaluated by the Director of Public Works and
staff. If the company can demonstrate satisfactorily that it will achieve
constant compliance through a 60-day implementation period, issuance of an
enforcement compliance schedule agreement (ECSA) will not be necessary. This
will be ascertained through multiday and/or additional routine sampling. If the
multiday sampling indicates noncompliance with discharge requirements, further
corrective actions will be necessary to bring the company into compliance and
issuance of an ECSA will be required.
   (G)   Issuance of ECSA. The ECSA will be issued within 15 days after
determination is made that additional corrective actions are necessary to bring
the company into compliance. The previous evaluation conducted by city staff
will be used to determine the terms of the compliance schedule.
   (H)   Compliance with terms of an ECSA.
      (1)   If a company has completed the terms of its ECSA and multiday
sampling results indicate compliance with permit limitations, the company will
be placed on (or returned to) a routine sampling to assure continued discharge
compliance. If multiday sampling indicates noncompliance, a cease and desist
order will be immediately issued by the Director of Public Works, and a permit
revocation hearing will be scheduled within five days.
      (2)   The Director of Public Works will respond to the company in writing
within 15 days of the hearing giving the results and his or her decision. If
the decision is to revoke the permit, the Director will immediately order
disconnection from the sewer system in accordance with §
5-4.06(B). The Director may, at any time or at any point in the enforcement
proceedings, require implementation of any of the remedies provided for in this
municipal code including, but not limited to, disconnection from the sewer
system. The Director may also suspend the proceedings at any time during the
process if it is proven that the industry has achieved continual compliance.
   (I)   Enforcement of other violations.
      (1)   When an industry has not submitted self-monitoring reports by 15
days after the due date, the Director will issue a compliance letter within a
30-day deadline. If the company fails to submit the report or furnish proof
that they have submitted samples to their lab within 30 days from the mailing
of the letter, then the Director will schedule a permit revocation hearing
within five days.
      (2)   The Director shall immediately schedule permit revocation hearings
for any industrial user who willfully fails to report significant changes in
operations or wastewater constituents and characteristics, or who fails to
factually report the wastewater constituents and characteristics of his or her
discharge, or who knowingly falsifies information or tampers with equipment, or
who refuses reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose of
inspection or monitoring. The Director may also cause legal staff to file court
action to seek civil and/or criminal penalties.
(Ord. 895 C.S., passed 3-21-12)
§ 5-4.09 (REPEALED).
§ 5-4.10 (REPEALED).
§ 5-4.11 (REPEALED).
§ 5-4.12 (REPEALED).
§ 5-4.13 (REPEALED).
§ 5-4.14 SEWER SERVICE CHARGES; DELINQUENCIES; LIENS (REPEALED).
§ 5-4.15 SEWER CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE THE CITY.
   Any property or premises located partially or entirely outside the city
shall not be permitted to connect onto the sewer system of the city until after
due application is made therefor pursuant to such procedure as shall be
prescribed by resolution of the Council.
('61 Code, § 5-4.15) (Ord. 42 C.S., passed 3-6-63)
§ 5-4.16 SEWER SERVICE CHARGES OUTSIDE THE CITY.
   The monthly rates to be charged and collected for the use of the sewer
facilities of the city by premises located partially or entirely outside the
city shall be established by the Council by resolution.
('61 Code, § 5-4.16) (Ord. 42 C.S., passed 3-6-63)
§ 5-4.17 SEWER CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE THE CITY; APPLICATION.
   The procedure required for the application and processing of requests by
properties located partially or entirely outside the city for connections onto
the city sewer system shall be established by the Council by resolution.
('61 Code, § 5-4.17) (Ord. 42 C.S., passed 3-6-63)
§ 5-4.18 SEWER CONNECTION FEES OUTSIDE THE CITY.
   The fees to be charged properties located partially or entirely outside the
city for permission to connect onto the city sewer system, and the installation
costs thereof, shall be established by the Council by resolution.
('61 Code, § 5-4.18) (Ord. 42 C.S., passed 3-6-63)
§ 5-4.19 SEWER DEPARTMENT TO MAKE ALL SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to perform the work or connect onto the
city sewer system. The city, by and through its Sewer Department, shall make
all connections onto the city sewer system.
('61 Code, § 5-4.19) (Ord. 42 C.S., passed 3-6-63)
CHAPTER 5: WATER SYSTEM
Section
   
5-5.01   Water service charges, initial (Repealed)
   
5-5.02   Water service charges (Repealed)
   
5-5.03   Metered services
   
5-5.04   Opening and closing of valves
   
5-5.05   Charges for public agencies and church schools
   
5-5.06   Owner's liability; delinquencies; liens
   
5-5.07   Service to buildings three stories or more in height
   
5-5.08   Water service charges outside city
   
5-5.09   Air-conditioning systems
   
5-5.10   Water waste; leakage
   
5-5.11   Water waste; sprinkling devices
   
5-5.12   Water waste; lawn irrigation
   
5-5.13   Lawn irrigation restricted to certain days and times
   
5-5.14   Other outside use of water; swimming pools
   
5-5.15   Construction water
   
5-5.16   Violation of chapter
§ 5-5.01 WATER SERVICE CHARGES, INITIAL (REPEALED).
§ 5-5.02 WATER SERVICE CHARGES (REPEALED).
§ 5-5.03 METERED SERVICES.
   (A)   All connections for water services installed in the City of Madera,
including, but not limited to, residential, commercial, industrial, schools, or
public and government entities, shall be equipped with water meters.
   (B)   Any new construction that requires water service shall install a new
water meter and electronic transmitter according to the city’s specifications
for each building or structure.
   (C)   All meters as required by this chapter shall be installed in the
public right-of-way or public utility easement benefitting the city if right-
of-way is not available. Said meter shall thereafter become the property of the
city.
   (D)   The city shall not approve and/or authorize any permit, entitlement,
allow a new water service connection, or new utility account utilizing a
service connection that does not have a water meter as required by this
chapter. The city shall not approve and/or authorize any permit or entitlement,
where the existing meter does not meet current standards. The meter must be
replaced or improved to meet the current standards at the property owner’s
expense.
   (E)   The cost of installation of a water meter shall be paid by the
property owner, except that 1) if a meter was previously installed by the
property owner at property owner’s expense and later removed and replaced by
the city at the city’s own undertaking, 2) if a meter was installed by the city
as part of a one-time city-wide retrofit program to install meters at unmetered
residential properties. The city may recover the cost of providing the
purchase, installation, and operation of water meters from rates, fees, and
charges.
   (F)   No more than one meter per dwelling unit shall be installed on any
residentially zoned property, except where there are four or more residential
units a separate meter for landscaping and common facilities may be installed.
   (G)   It is unlawful to cause, allow, or permit tampering with any water
meter, valves, transmitters, or other meter appurtenances; or to obscure, bury,
block access to, or otherwise hide a valve, valve box or water service feature.
If, as a result of tampering, the meter or service is damaged, an additional
fee for all the cost for staff to remedy the damage or disruption shall be
charged and collected in addition to all other charges and penalties, payment
of such charges and penalties shall be required before water is restored.
(Ord. 909 C.S., passed 12-18-13; Am. Ord. 921U C.S., passed 5-20-15; Am. Ord.
922 C.S., passed 6-3-15; Am. Ord. 936 C.S., passed 8-17-16)
§ 5-5.04 OPENING AND CLOSING OF VALVES.
   Only the city may open or close any valve. It is unlawful to cause, allow,
permit, or tamper with any valve or other devices in the city’s water system.
(Ord. 936 C.S., passed 8-17-16)
§ 5-5.05 CHARGES FOR PUBLIC AGENCIES AND CHURCH SCHOOLS.
   The rate for all public agencies and church schools within the city shall be
established by minute order of the Council.
('61 Code, § 5-5.05) (Ord. 262 N.S, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 291 N.S., passed - -
)
§ 5-5.06 OWNER'S LIABILITY; DELINQUENCIES; LIENS.
   (A)   Whenever a residential, commercial, or multi-unit service connection
serves more than one water consumer or user, the property owner may be the
account holder for the service. All fees for the services shall be payable to
the city prior to the delinquency date set forth in §
8-7.08. Such charges shall be due, payable and collectible in the same manner,
at the same time, and to the same extent as sewer, refuse, drainage and street
sweeping services are paid and collected and, when due and payable, shall
constitute a debt owing and payable to the city. Nothing in this section
prohibits a residential tenant from having an account in their own name
consistent with applicable sections of the California Public Utilities Code.
   (B)   Before the commencement of any residential service to property
occupied by persons other than the property owner, wherein the water service
only serves one water customer on the premises the proposed account holder
shall execute and deliver to the Director of Finance a written guarantee, in a
form provided by the city, that the bill for services to such property or the
occupants thereof will be paid. Nothing in this subsection prohibits a
residential tenant from having an account in their own name pursuant to the
California Public Utilities Code sections 10000 et seq. when there is a means
of determining that the tenant's individual charge for such services.
   (C)   The charges referred to herein shall be delinquent as provided for in
§
8-7.10 of this chapter. In the event water service is provided to property not
occupied by the owner thereof, and the occupant is being billed and charged
therefor, and payment for such service has been guaranteed by the property
owner, the Director of Finance is authorized and directed to notify such owner
of any delinquencies hereunder upon their occurrence.
   (D)   Before the commencement of any commercial service to property occupied
by persons other than the property owner, wherein the water service only serves
one water customer on the premises, the property owner shall execute and
deliver to the Director of Finance a written guarantee, in a form provided by
the city, that the bill for services to such property or the occupants thereof
will be paid.
('61 Code, § 5-5.06) (Ord. 262 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 291 N.S., passed - -
; Am. Ord. 94 C.S., passed 7-5-66; Am. Ord. 662, passed 9-4-96; Am. Ord. 731
C.S., passed 5-16-01)
§ 5-5.07 SERVICE TO BUILDINGS THREE STORIES OR MORE IN HEIGHT.
   The city expressly disclaims responsibility or obligation to furnish water
under normal pressure to buildings or structures three stories or more in
height. It shall be the responsibility of the owner or tenant to provide
adequate pressure systems or booster pumps therefor.
('61 Code, § 5-5.07) (Ord. 262 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 291 N.S., passed - -
)
§ 5-5.08 WATER SERVICE CHARGES OUTSIDE CITY.
   Public agencies, industries, and individuals located outside the city shall
be charged a monthly water charge to be determined in each individual case
bythe Council.
(‘61 Code, § 5-5.08) (Ord. 262 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 936 C.S., passed 8-
17-16)
§ 5-5.09 AIR-CONDITIONING SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Each air-conditioning equipment or system by which the accumulated or
effluent heat from the air is wholly or partially removed by the use of water
supplied by any pipes connected to the city's water system shall be equipped
with such water-saving devices as evaporative condensers, cooling towers, spray
ponds, or other water saving devices or water conserving devices, such as drain
wells. All such equipment using water from the city's water system shall be
equipped and have installed thereon a water pump of sufficient capacity to
cause the reuse of all water by such air-conditioning equipment. The water used
in such systems shall not be permitted to flow into the city's sewer system.
   (B)   Individuals wasting water due to damaged or faulty mechanical
equipment may be given a five- day notice to make the necessary repairs.
Failure to remedy a leak within the allotted time will result in the issuance
of a water waste violation.
('61 Code, § 5-5.09) (Ord. 262 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 226 C.S., passed 8-
14-74; Am. Ord. 539 C.S., passed 1-17-90)
§ 5-5.10 WATER WASTE; LEAKAGE.
   Each consumer of water shall keep all connections, faucets, hydrants, pipes,
outlets, and plumbing fixtures tight and free from leaking, dripping, or
wasting water. Any property with water service from the city system that has an
unidentified discharge of water shall be repaired so as to discontinue the
uncontrolled discharge. Costs for identifying the location of the discharge and
making repairs or modifications shall be the sole financial responsibility of
the property owner.
(‘61 Code, § 5-5.10) (Ord. 262 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 936 C.S., passed 8-
17-16)
§ 5-5.11 WATER WASTE; SPRINKLING DEVICES.
   No person shall use water through any hose, pipe, or other discharge for the
purpose of watering gardens, trees, lawns, flowers, or plants or for other
irrigation or agricultural purposes without the use of a restricting nozzle or
sprinkling device or unless such use is manually controlled and attended.
(Ord. 262 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 539 C.S., passed 1-17-90)
§ 5-5.12 WATER WASTE; LAWN IRRIGATION.
   No person shall allow water to run or waste from his or her property onto a
city street to such an extent that water shall flow in the street gutter
excessively beyond the frontage of the property occupied by such person; nor to
flow excessively off of the occupied property into the street gutter; nor to
continuously fall upon a public right-of-way or adjoining property such as to
significantly contribute to the gutter flow; nor to excessively flow onto, or
continuously fall upon, adjoining properties or an alley.
('61 Code, § 5-5.12) (Ord. 262 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 539 C.S., passed 1-
17-90; Am. Ord. 563 C.S., passed 12-19-90)
§ 5-5.13 LAWN IRRIGATION RESTRICTED TO CERTAIN DAYS AND TIMES.
   (A)   Drought levels. When the City Council by resolution determines that
water supplies are limited and additional conservation measures are necessary
to reduce water consumption, the Council may enact one of six drought water
restriction levels A through F as set forth in this subsection, and
restrictions under each section shall be enforced for such period of time as
designated by the City Council or until lifted by them by separate resolution.
The City Council at any time may prohibit all organized carwashes not conducted
as part of a licensed car wash business, if it determines by resolution it is
warranted to contribute to other enacted water restrictions intended to reduce
water consumption.
      Level A
      When the City Council by resolution determines it is warranted that
additional water restrictions are necessary to reduce water consumption by
limited means, the following restrictions shall apply:
      Outdoor application of water for irrigation and recreation uses shall be
restricted to the hours of 12:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m.
      Level B
      When the City Council by resolution determines it is warranted that
additional water restrictions are necessary to reduce water consumption by
moderate means, the following restrictions shall apply:
      Outdoor application of water for irrigation and recreation uses shall be
restricted to the hours of 12:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. to 12:00
a.m., and restricted to usage on Sunday, Wednesday and Friday for parcels with
even numbered street addresses, and Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday for parcels
with odd numbered street addresses.
      Level C
      When the City Council by resolution determines it is warranted that
additional water restrictions are necessary to reduce water consumption by
moderate means, the following restrictions shall apply:
      Outdoor application of water for irrigation, recreation uses shall be
restricted to the hours of 12:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. to 12:00
a.m., and restricted to usage on Sunday and Wednesday for parcels with even
numbered street addresses and Saturday and Tuesday for parcels with odd
numbered street addresses.
      Level D
      When the City Council by resolution determines it is warranted that
additional water restrictions are necessary to reduce water consumption by
significant means, the following restrictions shall apply:
      Outdoor application of water for irrigation and recreation uses shall be
restricted to the hours of 12:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. to 12:00
a.m., and restricted to usage on Sunday for parcels with even numbered street
addresses and Saturday for parcels with odd numbered street addresses.
      Level E
      When the City Council by resolution determines it is warranted that
additional water restrictions are necessary to reduce water consumption by
aggressive means, the following restrictions shall apply:
      Outdoor application of water for irrigation of plants shall be limited
drip system designed to only irrigate trees and bushes to minimally maintain
their viability. The application of water shall be restricted to the hours of
12:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m., and restricted to usage
on Sunday for parcels with even numbered street addresses and Saturday for
parcels with odd numbered street addresses.
      Level F
      When the City Council by resolution determines it is warranted that
additional water restrictions are necessary to reduce water consumption by
extreme means, the following restrictions shall apply:
      All outdoor application of water for irrigation of plants other than
edible crops for personal consumption shall be eliminated.
   (B)   Exception. The city in enforcing the above provisions may use
reasonable discretion in its interpretation in order to affect the water
conservation purpose and reasonableness in application of the restrictions.
Exception to these provisions may be granted by the Public Works Department
when a written application for an exception is filed with the Public Works
Department and the Department makes written determinations that compliance with
these regulations in a particular circumstance causes a severe hardship that is
unique and not common to other water customers, and would be significantly
injurious to public health, safety, public economic welfare, or would by its
implementation precludes the reasonable ability to enjoy the functionality of
the premises. The burden of proof that enforcement of the provisions would
cause severe hardships upon the applicants, and demonstration that a situation
is unique and significantly injurious to the public interests is upon the
applicant. Issues of convenience for economic efficiencies shall not constitute
cause for exceptions hereunder. The Department in granting the exceptions may
make such conditions as it deems necessary to maximize water conservation.
Examples include but are not limited to; allowing a playfield to be watered on
days when it is not normally used, preserving significant wildlife habitat, and
accommodations for special public events, etc.
   (C)   Food for personal consumption. Watering of plants by drip irrigation
that is grown as food for personal consumption (not for medicinal use) shall
always be allowed to be watered on any day of the week except between the hours
of 10:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. The legislative intent of this subsection is to
allow for significant food production gardens for household that utilize them
as a major element of their personal food supply. It is not intended to alter
landscaping plantings to edible selections. For the purposes of this subsection
the referenced plants grown for person consumption must be in a concentrated
area intended exclusively for growing food rather than serving an ornamental
purpose. Such concentrated areas shall not be located within a front yard or
street side yard. Edible plants and fruit trees located in front yards, and
other ornamental landscape areas are subject to standard water restriction and
are given no relief under this subsection.
   (D)   Household gray water. Up to 100 gallons per household per parcel per
day of reused domestic water from showers, washing, etc. "Gray water" may be
reutilized for outdoor watering, subject to applicable health and safety
regulations.
   (E)   Importation of water. Except as permitted elsewhere in this section,
no water which is obtained from a source other than the city's municipal water
system may be used for outdoor watering.
   (F)   Imported recycled and gray water. Recycled or "gray" water imported
from outside of the city may be used for outside watering with no restrictions
other than applicable health and safety regulation.
   (G)   Penalties for violation of restrictions. Violation of the provisions
of this section shall be an infraction, and fines shall be imposed pursuant to
§
1-9.06(B) of the Madera Municipal Code.
(‘61 Code, § 5-5.13) (Ord. 262 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 395 C.S., passed 6-
14-82; Am. Ord. 408 C.S., passed 5-18-83; Am. Ord. 522 C.S., passed 5-31-89;
Am. Ord. 539 C.S., passed 1-17-90; Am. Ord. 563 C.S., passed 12-19-90; Am. Ord.
566 C.S., passed 3-4-91; Am. Ord. 568 C.S., passed 7-3-91; Am. Ord. 574 C.S.,
passed 2-5-92; Am. Ord. 914 C.S., passed 1-7-15; Am. Ord. 921U C.S., passed 5-
20-15; Am. Ord. 922 C.S., passed 6-3-15; Am. Ord. 923U C.S., passed 7-1-15; Am.
Ord. 925 C.S., passed 7-15-15; Am. Ord. 944 C.S., passed 8-2-17)
§ 5-5.14 OTHER OUTSIDE USE OF WATER; SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Outside use of water for purposes other than irrigation is allowable
during any hour of the day and within the following guidelines: washing of
house windows and vehicles is permissible if a water flow control device is
attached to the end of the hose and water does not waste excessively onto the
street or adjacent property; non-profit organizations may conduct car wash
fund-raisers under the same guidelines; washing down of exterior walls of
buildings is permissible only for cleaning purposes in preparation for
painting, stucco, or other maintenance; portable wading pools are allowed with
adult supervision and no waste of water; no continuous flow of water is
permissible for recreational activity; businesses which sell ready-to-eat
foods, drinks, or automotive fuels may use water for health and sanitary
cleanup purposes only when mopping is inadequate; washdown of driveways,
parking lots, walks, or paved areas at businesses or residences is prohibited
during water restriction months; washdown of street pavement and gutters is
prohibited year-around.
   (B)   If prior notice is given to the Public Works Department swimming pools
may occasionally be emptied or a substantial portion drained for maintenance
which cannot be accomplished when full of water. For the purposes of this
section a substantial portion shall be considered anything more than 250
gallons of water. Emptying or draining a significant portion of a pool more
than once between May 1 and September 30 will be a violation and subject to the
same surcharges in effect for other water waste. Pools must be equipped with
filtration systems in good working order.
(‘61 Code, § 5-5.14) (Ord. 262 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 522 C.S., passed 5-
31-89; Am. Ord. 539 C.S., passed 1-17-90; Am. Ord. 936 C.S., passed 8-17-16)
§ 5-5.15 CONSTRUCTION WATER.
   Metered and flat rate fees for construction water shall be established by
resolution. Water may be taken only from fire hydrants specifically designated
by the Department of Public Works. Construction water must be utilized in a
prudent manner and not allowed to be wasted. Removal of water from the city
system for construction or other purposes without authorization shall be
considered a violation of this section and is expressly declared to be a
misdemeanor. No water shall be exported for use on a project outside of the
city.
(‘61 Code, § 5-5.15) (Ord. 563, passed 12-19-90; Am. Ord. 936 C.S., passed 8-
17-16)
§ 5-5.16 VIOLATION OF CHAPTER.
   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter is guilty of a violation
as hereafter provided and subject to the penalties therefor as provided by law.
Every person who willfully violates any provision of this chapter, or who
verbally abuses, threatens, harasses, or in any manner interferes with city
water patrol officers or any city employees investigating or enforcing city
water regulations is guilty of a misdemeanor as set forth in §
1-2.01 of Chapter 2 of Title 1 of this code, any reference to infractions
referred to therein being expressly declared inapplicable.
(‘61 Code, § 5-5.16) (Ord. 539 C.S., passed 1-17-90; Am. Ord. 563 C.S., passed
12-19-90; Am. Ord. 731 C.S., passed 5-16-01; Am. Ord. 863 C.S., passed 10-21-
09; Am. Ord. 936 C.S., passed 8-17-16)
CHAPTER 6: WATER CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
   
5-6.01   Purpose
   
5-6.02   Definitions
   
5-6.03   Cross-connection protection requirements
   
5-6.04   Backflow-prevention assemblies
   
5-6.05   User supervisor
   
5-6.06   Administrative procedures
   
5-6.07   Water service termination
   
5-6.08   Requirements for certification as a back-flow prevention device tester
in the city
§ 5-6.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is:
      (1)   To protect the public water supply against actual or potential
contamination through cross- connections by isolating sources of contamination
that may occur within a water user's premises because of some undiscovered or
unauthorized cross-connection on the premises;
      (2)   To eliminate existing connections between the city water system and
other sources of water;
      (3)   To eliminate cross-connections between the city water system and
sources of contamination;
      (4)   To prevent the making of cross-connections in the future;
      (5)   To prevent connections of water between separate properties or
water accounts.
   (B)   These regulations are adopted pursuant to the State Administrative
Code, Title 17, Public Health entitled “Regulations Relating to Cross-
Connections.”
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation at any time to
make or maintain or cause to be made or maintained, temporarily or permanently,
for any period of time whatsoever, any cross-connection between plumbing pipes
or water fixtures being served with water by the city water division and any
other source of water supply or to maintain any sanitary fixture or other
appurtenances or fixtures which, by reason of their construction, may cause or
allow backflow of water or other substances into the water supply of the city
and/or the service of water pipes or fixtures of any consumer of the city.
   (D)   Unless specifically approved as a condition to a development entitled
by the city, it is unlawful to allow, permit, cause, or maintain a water
service from one property to be connected to a separate property or to a
separately metered water account. Any existing connections between properties
shall be the responsibility of the property owners to permanently eliminate
such connections.
(‘61 Code, § 5-6.01) (Ord. 541 C.S., passed 2-15-90; Am. Ord. 936 C.S., passed
8-17-16)
§ 5-6.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR-GAP SEPARATION. A physical break between a supply pipe and a receiving
vessel. The air- gap shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe
measured vertically above the top rim of the vessel, in no case less than one-
inch.
   APPROVED BACKFLOW-PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. An assembly which has passed
laboratory and field evaluation tests performed by the University of Southern
California Foundation for Cross- Connection Control and Hydraulic Research.
   APPROVED WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply whose potability is regulated by the
State Health Department.
   AUXILIARY SUPPLY. Any water supply on, or available to, the premises other
than the approved water supply.
   AWWA STANDARD. An official standard developed and approved by the American
Water Works Association (AWWA).
   BACKFLOW. A flow condition, caused by a differential in pressure, that
causes the flow of water or other liquids, gases, mixtures, or substances into
the distributing pipes of a potable supply of water from any source or sources
other than an approved water supply source. Back siphonage is one cause of
backflow. Back pressure is the other cause.
   CITY. The city.
   CONTAMINATION. A degradation of the quality of the potable water by any
foreign substance which creates a hazard to the public health, or which may
impair the usefulness or quality of the water.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any unprotected actual or potential connection between a
potable water system used to supply water for drinking purposes and any source
or system containing unapproved water or a substance that is not or cannot be
approved as safe, wholesome, and potable. Bypass arrangements, jumper
connections, removable sections, swivel or changeover assemblies, or other
assemblies through which backflow could occur shall be considered to be cross-
connections.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Director of Public Works of the city or his or
her designated representative in his or her absence.
   DOUBLE CHECK-VALVE ASSEMBLY. An approved assembly of two internally loaded,
independently acting check valves, including resilient seated shut-off valves
on each end of the assembly and test cocks for testing the watertightness of
each check valve.
   HEALTH AGENCY. The State Department of Health Services.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, company, association, partnership,
municipality, public utility, or other public body or institution.
   PREMISES. Any and all areas on a water user's property which are served or
have the potential to be served by the public water system.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. The city system through which is provided piped water
to the public for human consumption.
   RECLAIMED WATER. A wastewater which, as a result of treatment, is suitable
for uses other than potable use.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW-PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. An approved
assembly incorporating two internally loaded, independently operating check
valves and an automatically operating differential relief valve located between
the two checks, including resilient seated shut-off valves on each end of the
assembly, and equipped with necessary test cocks for testing the assembly.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The point of connection of a user's piping to the water
supplier's facilities.
   WATER SUPPLIER. The city, which owns and operates the approved water supply
system.
   WATER USER. Any person obtaining water from the approved water supply
system.
('61 Code, § 5-6.02) (Ord. 541 C.S., passed 2-15-90)
§ 5-6.03 CROSS-CONNECTION PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   Unprotected cross-connections with the public water supply are
prohibited.
      (2)   Whenever backflow protection has been found necessary, the water
users shall install an approved backflow-prevention assembly at the user's
expense for continued services, or before a new service will be granted.
      (3)   Wherever a backflow protection has been found necessary on a water
supply line entering a water user's premises, all water supply lines from the
city's mains entering such premises, buildings, or structures shall be
protected by an approved backflow-prevention assembly. The type of assembly to
be installed shall be in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Where protection is required.
      (1)   Each service connection from the city water system for supplying
water to the premises having an auxiliary water supply shall be protected
against backflow of water from the premises into the public water system.
      (2)   Each service connection from the city water system for supplying
water to any premises on which any substance is handled in such fashion as may
allow its entry into the water system shall be against backflow of the water
from the premises into the public system. This shall include the handling of
process waters and waters originating from the city water system which have
been subjected to deterioration in sanitary quality.
      (3)   Backflow-prevention assemblies shall be installed on the service
connection to any premises having:
         (a)   Internal cross-connections that cannot be permanently corrected
and controlled to the satisfaction of the State Health Department and the city;
or
         (b)   Intricate plumbing and piping arrangements or where entry to all
portions of the premises is not readily accessible for inspection purposes,
making it impracticable or impossible to ascertain whether or not cross-
connections exist.
   (C)   Type of protection required.
      (1)   The type of protection that shall be provided to prevent backflow
into the approved water supply shall be commensurate with the degree of hazard
that exists on the consumer's premises. The type of protective assembly that
may be required (listing in an increasing level of protection) includes: double
check-valve assembly (DC), reduced pressure principle backflow-prevention
assembly (RP), and an air-gap separation (AG). The water user may choose a
higher level of protection than required by the city. The minimum types of
backflow protection required to protect the approved water supply, at the
user's water connection to premises with varying degrees of hazard are given in
Table 1. Situations which are not covered in Table 1 shall be evaluated on a
case-by-case basis and the appropriate backflow protection shall be determined
by the city or State Health Department.
   Table 1
   BACKFLOW PROTECTION REQUIRED
   Degree of HazaMinimum Type of
                    Backflow Prevention
   Table 1
   BACKFLOW PROTECTION REQUIRED
   Degree of Hazard                                      Minimum Type of
                                                            Backflow Prevention
Sewage and hazardous substances
Premises where the public water system is used to           AG
supplement a reclaimed water supply
Premises where there are wastewater pumping and/or
treatment plants and there is no interconnection with the
potable water system. This does not include a single-family AG
residence that has a sewage lift pump. A RP may be approved
in lieu of an AG if approved by the State Health Department
and Director of Public Works.
Premises where reclaimed water is used and there is no
interconnection with the potable water system. A RP may be  AG
approved in lieu of an AG if approved by the State Health
Department and the Director of Public Works.
Premises where hazardous substances are handled in any
manner in which the substances may enter a potable water
system. This does not include a single-family residence     AG
that has a sewage lift pump. A RP may be provided in lieu
of an AG if approved by the State Health Department and the
Director of Public Works.
Premises where there are irrigation systems into which
fertilizers, herbicides, or pesticides are, or can be,      RP
injected.
Auxiliary water supplies
Premises where there is an auxiliary water supply which is
interconnected with the public water system. A RP may be    AG
provided in lieu of an AG if approved by the State Health
Department and the Director of Public Works.
Premises where there is an auxiliary water supply and there
are no interconnections with the public water system. A DC  RP
may be provided in lieu of a RP if approved by the State
Health Department and Director of Public Works.
   Table 1
   BACKFLOW PROTECTION REQUIRED
   Degree of HazaMinimum Type of
                    Backflow Prevention
   Table 1
   BACKFLOW PROTECTION REQUIRED
   Degree of Hazard                                      Minimum Type of
                                                            Backflow Prevention
Fire protection systems.
Premises where the fire system is directly supplied from
the public water system and there is an auxiliary water     DC
supply on or to the premises (not interconnected).
Premises where the fire system is supplied from the public
water system and interconnected with an auxiliary water
supply. A RP may be approved in lieu of an AG if approved   AG
by the State Health Department and the Director of Public
Works.
Premises where the fire system is supplied from the public
water system and where either elevated storage tanks or     DC
fire pumps which take suction from the private reservoirs
or tanks are used.
Dockside watering points and marine facilities
Pier hydrants for supplying water to vessels for any        RP
purpose.
Premises where there are marine facilities.                 RP
Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for
cross- connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency RP
or at sufficiently short notice to assure that cross-
connections do not exist.
Premises where there is a repeated history of cross-        RP
connections being established or re-established.
 
      (2)   Two or more services supplying water from different street mains to
the same building, structure, or premises through which an interstreet main
flow may occur, shall have at least a standard check valve on each water
service to be located adjacent to, and on the property side of, the restrictive
meters. Such check valve shall not be considered adequate if backflow
protection is deemed necessary to protect the city's mains from pollution or
contamination; in such cases the installation of approved backflow assemblies
at such service connections shall be required.
('61 Code, § 5-6.03) (Ord. 541 C.S., passed 2-15-90)
§ 5-6.04 BACKFLOW-PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   Approved backflow-prevention assemblies.
      (1)   Only backflow-prevention assemblies which have been approved by the
University of Southern California Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and
Hydraulic Research are acceptable for installation by a water user connected to
the city's potable water system.
      (2)   The city will provide, upon request, a list of approved backflow-
prevention assemblies.
   (B)   Backflow-prevention assembly installation.
      (1)   Backflow-prevention assemblies shall be installed in a manner
prescribed in § 7603, Title 22 of the State Administrative Code. Location of
the assemblies should be as close as practical to the user's connection. The
Director of Public Works shall have the final authority in determining the
required location of a backflow-prevention assembly.
         (a)   Air-gap separation (AG). The air-gap separation shall be located
on the user's side of, and as close to, the service connection as is practical.
All piping from the service connection to the receiving tank shall be above
grade and be entirely visible. No water use shall be provided from any point
between the service connection and the air-gap separation. The water inlet
piping shall terminate a distance of at least two pipe diameters of the supply
inlet, but in no case less than one-inch above the overflow rim of the
receiving tank.
         (b)   Reduced pressure principle backflow-prevention assembly (RP).
The approved reduced pressure principle backflow-prevention assembly shall be
installed on the user's side of, and as close to, the service connection as is
practical. The assembly shall be installed a minimum of 12 inches above grade
and not more than 36 inches above grade measured from the bottom of the
assembly and with a minimum of 12 inches side clearance. The assembly shall be
installed so that it is readily accessible for maintenance and testing. Water
supplied from any point between the service connection and the RP assembly
shall be protected in a manner approved by the Director of Public Works.
         (c)   Double check-valve assembly (DC). The approved double check-
valve assembly shall be located as close as practical to the user's connection
and shall be installed above grade, if possible, and in a manner where it is
readily accessible for testing and maintenance. If a double check-valve
assembly is put below grade it must be installed in a vault such that there is
a minimum of six inches between the bottom of the vault and the bottom of the
assembly, so that the top of the assembly is no more than a maximum of eight
inches below grade, so there is a minimum of 24 inches of clearance between the
side of the assembly with the test cocks and the side of the vault, and so
there is a minimum of 12 inches clearance between the other side of the
assembly and the side of the vault. Special consideration must be given to
double check-valve assemblies of the "Y" type. These assemblies must be
installed on their "side" with the tests cocks in a vertical position so that
either check valve may be removed for services without removing the assembly.
Vaults which do not have an integrated bottom must be placed on a three-inch
bottom layer of ¾-inch gravel. Vaults with integrated bottoms must have
adequate drain holes and be placed on a three-inch layer of ¾-inch gravel.
   (C)   Backflow-prevention assembly testing and maintenance.
      (1)   The owners of any premises on which, or on account of which,
backflow-prevention assemblies are installed, shall have their assemblies
tested by a person who is certified and licensed by the state to test backflow
assemblies. Backflow-prevention assemblies must be tested at least annually and
immediately after installation, relocation, or repair. The Director of Public
Works may require a more frequent testing schedule if it is determined to be
necessary. No assembly shall be placed back in service unless it has been
certified as functioning properly. A report in a form acceptable to the city
shall be filed with the Director of Public Works each time an assembly is
tested, relocated, or repaired. These assemblies shall be serviced, overhauled,
or replaced whenever they are found to be defective and all costs of testing,
repair, and maintenance shall be borne by the water user.
      (2)   The city will supply affected water users with a list of persons
acceptable to the city to test backflow-prevention assemblies. The city will
notify affected customers by mail when annual testing of an assembly is
required. Necessary forms shall be provided and filled out by the certified
tester each time an assembly is tested or repaired.
   (D)   Backflow-prevention assembly removal.
      (1)   Approval must be obtained from the Director of Public Works before
a backflow- prevention assembly is removed, relocated, or replaced.
         (a)   Removal. The use of an assembly may be discontinued and the
assembly removed from service upon presentation of sufficient evidence to the
Director of Public Works to verify that a hazard no longer exists or is not
likely to be created in the future. The assembly may only be removed upon
receipt of written permission from the Director of Public Works.
         (b)   Relocation. An assembly may be relocated following written
confirmation by the Director of Public Works that the relocation will continue
to provide the required protection and satisfy installation requirements. A
retest will be required following the relocation of the assembly.
         (c)   Repair. An assembly may be removed for repair, provided the
water use is either discontinued until repair is completed and the assembly is
returned to service, or the service connection is equipped with other approved
and tested backflow protection. A retest will be required following the repair
of the assembly.
         (d)   Replacement. A water assembly may be removed and replaced
provided the water use is discontinued until the replacement assembly is
installed, tested, and certified. All replacement assemblies must be approved
by the city and must be commensurate with the degree of hazard involved.
§ 5-6.05 USER SUPERVISOR.
   At each premises where it is necessary, in the opinion of the Director of
Public Works, a user supervisor shall be designated by, and at the expense of,
the water user. This user supervisor shall be responsible for the monitoring of
the backflow-prevention assemblies and for avoidance of cross- connections. In
the event of contamination or pollution of the drinking water system due to a
cross- connection on the premises, the Director of Public Works shall be
promptly notified by the user supervisor so that appropriate measures may be
taken to overcome the contamination. The water user shall inform the Director
of Public Works in writing of the user supervisor's identity on an annual
basis, as a minimum, and whenever a change occurs.
('61 Code, § 5-6.05) (Ord. 541 C.S., passed 2-15-90)
§ 5-6.06 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Water system survey.
      (1)   The Director of Public Works shall review all requests for new
services to determine if backflow protection is needed. Plans and
specifications must be submitted to the city upon request for review of
possible cross-connection hazards as a condition of service for new service
connections. If it is determined that a backflow-prevention assembly is
necessary to protect the public water system, the required assembly must be
installed before service will be granted.
      (2)   The city may require an on-premises inspection to evaluate cross-
connection hazards. The city will transmit a written notice requesting an
inspection appointment to each affected water user. Any water user who cannot
or will not allow an on-premises inspection of his or her piping system shall
be required to install the backflow-prevention assembly the Director of Public
Works considers necessary.
      (3)   The city may, at its discretion, require a reinspection for cross-
connection hazards of any premises to which it serves water. The city will
transmit a written notice requesting an inspection appointment to each affected
water user. Any water user who cannot or will not allow an on-premises
inspection of his or her piping system shall be required to install the
backflow-prevention assembly the Director of Public Works considers necessary.
   (B)   Customer notification; assembly installation.
      (1)   The city will notify the water user of the survey findings, listing
the corrective actions to be taken if any are required. A maximum period of 60
days will be given to complete all corrective actions required, including
installation of backflow-prevention assemblies. A shorter period of time for
corrective action may be required at the discretion of the Director of Public
Works.
      (2)   A second notice will be sent to each water user who does not take
the required corrective actions prescribed in the first notice within the
period allowed. The second notice will give the water user a two-week period to
take the required corrective action. If no action is taken within the two-week
period the city may terminate water service to the affected water user until
the required corrective actions are taken.
   (C)   Customer notification; testing and maintenance.
      (1)   The city will notify each affected water user when it is time for
the backflow-prevention assembly installed on the user's service connection to
be tested. This written notice shall give the water user 30 days to have the
assembly tested. The certified tester shall complete the necessary form and
submit it to the Director of Public Works and the State Health Department.
      (2)   A second notice shall be sent to each water user who does not have
his/her backflow- prevention assembly tested as prescribed in the first notice
within the 30-day period allowed. The second notice will give the water user a
two-week period to have his/her backflow-prevention assembly tested. If no
action is taken within the two-week period the city may terminate water service
to the affected water user until the subject assembly is tested.
('61 Code, § 5-6.06) (Ord. 541 C.S., passed 2-15-90)
§ 5-6.07 WATER SERVICE TERMINATION.
   (A)   General. When the city encounters water uses that represent a clear
and immediate hazard to the potable water supply that cannot be immediately
abated, the city shall institute the procedure for discontinuing the city water
services.
   (B)   Basis for termination. Conditions or water uses that create a basis
for water service termination shall include, but are not limited to, the
following terms:
      (1)   Refusal to install a required backflow-prevention assembly;
      (2)   Refusal to test a backflow-prevention assembly;
      (3)   Refusal to repair a faulty backflow-prevention assembly;
      (4)   Refusal to replace a faulty backflow-prevention assembly;
      (5)   Direct or indirect connection between the public water system and a
sewer line;
      (6)   Unprotected direct or indirect connection between the public water
system and a system or equipment containing contaminants;
      (7)   Unprotected direct or indirect connection between the public water
system and an auxiliary water system;
      (8)   A situation which presents an immediate health hazard to the public
water system.
   (C)   Water service termination procedures.
      (1)   For conditions listed in §
5-6.07(B) (1), (2), (3), or (4) above, the city will terminate service to a
customer's premises after two written notices have been sent specifying the
corrective action needed and the time period in which it must be done. If no
action is taken within the allowed time period water service may be terminated.
      (2)   For conditions listed in §
5-6.07(B) (5), (6), (7), or (8) above, the city will take the following steps:
         (a)   Make reasonable effort to advise water user of intent to
terminate water service;
         (b)   Terminate water supply and lock service valve. The water service
will remain inactive until correction of violations has been approved by the
Director of Public Works.
('61 Code, § 5-6.07) (Ord. 541 C.S., passed 2-15-90)
§ 5-6.08 REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTIFICATION AS A BACKFLOW-PREVENTION DEVICE TESTER
IN THE CITY.
   Each applicant for certification as a tester of backflow-prevention
assemblies in the city shall file a copy of his or her current State Backflow
Tester Certificate, together with a fee as may be established by the City
Council. Competency in all phases of backflow-prevention assembly testing and
repair may only be demonstrated by a current valid State Certificate for
Backflow Assembly Testing. The following are other minimum requirements:
   (A)   Applicants shall have had at least two years experience in plumbing or
pipe fitting or equivalent qualifications.
   (B)   Each applicant for certification in the city as a tester of backflow-
prevention assemblies shall furnish evidence to show that he or she has
available the necessary tools and equipment to properly test such assemblies.
The applicant shall be responsible for the competency and accuracy of all tests
and reports he or she prepared. Authorization as a tester in the city is valid
for a period of one year and may be revoked, suspended, or not renewed by the
city for improper testing, repairs, and/or reporting.
('61 Code, § 5-6.08) (Ord. 541 C.S., passed 2-15-90)
CHAPTER 7: SMOKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
5-7.01   Purpose and findings
   
5-7.02   Definitions
   
5-7.03   Prohibition of smoking in public places
   
5-7.04   Exceptions to prohibition of smoking in public places
   
5-7.05   Posting of signs
   
5-7.06   Enforcement
   
5-7.07   Violations
   
5-7.08   Nonretaliation
   
5-7.09   Governmental agency cooperation
   
5-7.10   Other applicable laws
§ 5-7.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Secondhand smoke has been repeatedly identified as a health hazard, as
evidenced by the following:
      (1)   The U.S. Surgeon General concluded that there is no risk-free level
of exposure to secondhand smoke.
      (2)   The California Air Resources Board categorized secondhand smoke as
a toxic air contaminant, along with most toxic automotive and industrial air
pollutants, for which there is no safe level of exposure.
      (3)   The California Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) included
secondhand smoke on the Proposition 65 list of chemicals known to the State of
California to cause cancer, birth defects, and other reproductive harm.
      (4)   The American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air
Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) has concluded that the only means of
effectively eliminating health risk associated with indoor exposure to
secondhand smoke, cannabis smoke, and aerosol from electronic smoking devices
is to ban smoking activity.
   (B)   Exposure to secondhand smoke anywhere has negative health impacts, and
exposure to secondhand smoke can occur at significant levels outdoors, as
evidenced by the following:
      (1)   Levels of secondhand smoke exposure outdoors can reach levels
attained indoors depending on direction and amount of wind, number and
proximity of smokers, and enclsoures like walls or roofs.
      (2)   Smoking cigarettes near building entryways can increase air
pollution levels by more than two times background levels, with maximum levels
reaching the hazardous range on the United States EPA’s Air Quality Index.
      (3)   To be completely free from exposure to secondhand smoke in outdoor
places, a person may have to move 20 to 29 feet away from the source of the
smoke, about the width of a two-lane road.
      (4)   In 2014, secondhand smoke was responsible for an estimated 33,950
heart disease-related and 7,330 lung cancer-related deaths in the United
States.
      (5)   Exposure to secondhand smoke increases the risk of coronary heart
disease by about 25% to 30% and increases the risk of stroke by 20% to 30%.
      (6)    Secondhand smoke kills more than 400 infants every year.
   (C)   Electronic smoking device aerosol may be considered a health hazard,
as evidenced by the following:
      (1)   Research has found electronic smoking device aerosol contains at
least 10 chemicals known to the State of California to cause cancer, birth
defects, or other reproductive harm, such as formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, lead,
nickel, and toluene.
      (2)   Electronic smoking device aerosol is not harmless water vapor as it
contains varying concentrations of particles and chemicals with some studies
finding particle sizes and nicotine concentrations similar to, or even
exceeding, conventional cigarette smoke.
      (3)   Evidence continues to build that exposure to electronic smoking
device aerosol, including secondhand exposure, has immediate impacts on the
human respiratory and cardiovascular systems, and thus likely poses a risk to
human health.
      (4)   Given the increasing prevalence of electronic smoking device use,
especially among youth and young adults, widespread nicotine exposure resulting
in addiction and other harmful consequences is a serious concern.
      (5)   A number of health authorities, including the U.S. Surgeon General,
ASHRAE, and State of California’s Tobacco Education and Research Oversight
Committee (TEROC) all support inclusion of electronic smoking devices in
regulations of smoking and other tobacco product use.
   (D)   Accordingly, the City Council declares that the purpose of this
chapter is to protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the residents
of, persons employed in, and persons who frequent the city who would benefit by
the regulation of smoking, and to recognize that the need to breathe smoke-free
air shall have priority over the desire to smoke.
(‘61 Code, § 5-7.01) (Ord. 590 C.S., passed 6-16-93; Am. Ord. 962 C.S., passed
5-15-19)
§ 5-7.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in
this section govern the construction of this chapter. If any of the definitions
in this section conflict with definitions in other chapters of the Municipal
Code, these definitions shall prevail for the purpose of interpreting and
enforcing this chapter. If a term is not defined in this section, or other
sections of the Municipal Code, the most common dictionary definition is
assumed to be correct.
   (B)   The following definitions are listed in alphabetical order.
   BAR. An area which is devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages for
consumption by patrons on the premises and in which the serving of food is only
incidental to the consumption of such beverages. When a bar is operated within
a building in conjunction with another use, such as a restaurant, only the area
utilized primarily for the consumption of alcoholic beverages shall constitute
the bar. The dining area of a restaurant utilized primarily for the serving and
consumption of food shall not constitute a bar, even though alcoholic beverages
may be served therein.
   BUSINESS. Any sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation,
or other business entity formed for profit-making purposes, including retail
establishments where goods or services are sold as well as professional
corporations and other entities where legal, medical, dental, engineering,
architectural, or other professional services are delivered.
   DINING AREA. Any enclosed area containing a counter or tables upon which
meals are served.
   ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE. Means an electronic device that can be used to
deliver an inhaled dose of nicotine or plant product intended for inhalation.
An ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE includes a device that is manufactured,
distributed, marketed, or sold as an electronic cigarette, an electronic cigar,
an electronic cigarillo, an electronic pipe, an electronic hookah, a vape pen,
or a vapor pen.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who is employed by any employer in the consideration
for direct or indirect monetary wages or profit.
   ENCLOSED. A building or structure shall be deemed enclosed unless the
interior of the building or structure or portion thereof is, temporarily or
permanently, directly exposed to the outside air by reason of either temporary
removal of a substantial portion of an exterior wall (for example, roll-up
doors on shops and garages) or by reason of nonexistence of a substantial
portion of at least one of the exterior walls of the building or structure (for
example, three-sided buildings). This definition shall be applicable to
buildings and structures only.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and ceiling which is enclosed on
all sides by solid walls or windows (exclusive of door or passage ways) which
extend from the floor to the ceiling, including all space therein screened by
partitions which do not extend to the ceiling or are not solid, "office
landscaping," or similar structures.
   MEMBERS OF THE GENERAL PUBLIC. Shoppers, customers, patrons, patients,
students, clients and other similar invitees of a commercial enterprise,
nonprofit entity, or public agency, and excluding employees thereof, sales
representatives, service repair persons, and persons delivering goods,
merchandise, or services to a commercial enterprise, nonprofit entity, or
county.
   NONPROFIT ENTITY. Any corporation, unincorporated association, or other
entity created for charitable, educational, political, social, or other similar
purposes, the net proceeds from the operations of which are committed to the
promotion of the objects or purposes of the organization and not to private
financial gain. A public agency is not a NONPROFIT ENTITY within the meaning of
this section.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. Any enclosed area under the control of a public or
private employer which employees normally frequent during the course of
employment, including, but not limited to:
      (a)   Work areas;
      (b)   Conference and classrooms;
      (c)   Employee cafeterias;
      (d)   Employee lounges and restrooms; and
      (e)   Hallways.
   PRIVATE FUNCTION. Any function to which the general public is not invited.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any enclosed area, not a private residence, to which the
public is invited or in which the public is permitted, including, but not
limited to:
      (a)   Banks;
      (b)   Child care facilities;
      (c)   Educational facilities;
      (d)   Health care facilities;
      (e)   Public transportation facilities;
      (f)   Recreation areas;
      (g)   Restaurants;
      (h)   Retail stores;
      (i)   Retail service establishments;
      (j) Retail food production, and marketing establishments;
      (k) Waiting rooms.
   RECREATIONAL AREA. Any areas that are public or privately owned, controlled
or used by the City of Madera and open to the general public for recreational
purposes, regardless of any fee or age requirement. The term RECREATIONAL AREA
includes but is not limited to parks, picnic areas, playgrounds, sports fields,
walking paths, gardens, bike paths, riding trails, swimming pools, and
skateboard parks. The term RECREATIONAL AREA does not include any streets and/
or sidewalks located within or upon any abutting right-of-way.
   RECREATIONAL FACILITIES. Sports pavilions, gymnasiums, health spas, boxing
areas, swimming pools, roller and ice rinks, bowling alleys, and other similar
places where members of the public assemble to engage in physical exercise,
participate in athletic competition, or witness sports events.
   RESTAURANT. Any coffee shop, cafeteria, sandwich stand, private and public
school cafeteria, and any other eating establishment which gives or offers for
sale food to the public, guests, or employees, as well as kitchens in which
food is prepared on the premises for serving elsewhere, including catering
facilities, except that the term RESTAURANT shall not include a cocktail lounge
or tavern if the cocktail lounge or tavern is a BAR as defined in this chapter.
   SERVICE LINE. Any indoor line at which one or more persons are waiting for,
or receiving service of, any kind whether or not such service involves the
exchange of money.
   SMOKING. Lighting, inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or
heated cigar, cigarette, or pipe, or any other lighted or heated tobacco or
plant product (e.g., cannabis) intended for inhalation, whether natural or
synthetic, in any manner or in any form. SMOKING includes the use of an
electronic smoking device that creates an aerosol or vapor, in any manner or in
any form, or the use of any oral smoking device for the purpose of
circumventing the prohibition of smoking.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS. 
      (a)   A product containing, made from, or derived from tobacco or
nicotine that is intended for human consumption, whether smoked, heated,
chewed, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any
other means, including, but not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, little cigars,
chewing tobacco, pipe tobacco, or snuff.
      (b)   An electronic device that delivers nicotine or other vaporized
liquid to the person inhaling from the device, including, but not limited to,
an electronic cigarette, cigar, pipe, or hookah.
      (c)   Any component, part, or accessory of a tobacco product, whether or
not sold separately.
   TOBACCO STORE. Establishments engaged primarily in the retail sale of
tobacco products, wherein the sale of other products is merely incidental. This
definition includes humidors, smoking rooms, head shops, vape lounges and
hookah bars.
   UNENCLOSED AREA. Any area that is not an ENCLOSED AREA.
   WORK AREA or WORK PLACE. Any area of a place of employment enclosed by floor
to ceiling walls in which two or more employees are assigned to perform work
for an employer.
('61 Code, § 5-7.02) (Ord. 590 C.S., passed 6-16-93; Am. Ord. 962 C.S., passed
5-15-19)
§ 5-7.03 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   Smoking is prohibited in all enclosed public places within the city,
including, but not necessarily limited to, the following places:
      (1)   Bars;
      (2)   Bowling alleys;
      (3)   Buses, taxicabs and other means of public transit operated or
licensed by the city. Smoking may be allowed in waiting areas of public transit
terminals in designated areas. In such facilities 75% of the facility will be
designated as smoke-free. The prohibitions contained in this section shall be
applicable to depots and other terminals utilized by members of the general
public for the purpose of being transported upon or departing from airlines,
trains, buses, and taxis;
      (4)   Day care facilities, including private residences during the time
when such residences are operated as licensed or unlicensed day care facilities
for children or the elderly;
      (5)   Doctors’ offices, dentists’ offices, waiting rooms, hallways,
wards, and semi-private rooms of health facilities, including, but not limited
to, hospitals, clinics, and physical therapy facilities. In bed-space areas of
health facilities used for two or more patients, smoking shall be prohibited
unless all patients within the room are smokers and request in writing upon the
health care facility’s admission forms to be placed in a room where smoking is
permitted;
      (6)   Elevators;
      (7)   Hospitals, rest and convalescent homes, medical clinics, physical
therapy facilities, and other places where medical, dental, psychiatric, or
counseling services are delivered to members of the general public. Operators
of facilities treating psychiatric or chemically impaired patients may permit
smoking by patients in designated areas provided the medical director of such
facility has determined in writing that the practice is beneficial for the
recovery or treatment of such patients and that the practice will not interfere
with the recovery and treatment of non-smoking patients, and provided that
adequate non-smoking areas are made available for non-smoking patients. This
section shall not be construed to prevent smoking in locations or otherwise
under conditions in which smoking is expressly authorized by, or under statutes
or administrative regulations applicable to, such licensed facilities;
      (8)   Polling places;
      (9)   Recreational facilities;
      (10)   Recreational areas;
      (11)   Restaurants;
      (12)   Restrooms;
      (13)   Retail stores;
      (14)   Retail food marketing establishments, including grocery stores and
supermarkets;
      (15)   Schools or educational institutions operated by a commercial
enterprise, public agency, or nonprofit entity for the purpose of providing
academic classroom instruction, trade, craft, computer, or other technical
training, or instruction in dancing, artistic, musical, or other cultural
skills;
      (16)   Service lines;
      (17)   Theaters, including motion picture theaters, meeting halls and
auditoriums where motion pictures or live theatrical musical or dramatic
productions are made to an audience consisting of members of the general public
assembled for the purpose of witnessing the performance or presentation,
provided, however, that this section shall not be construed to prevent smoking
by performers in connection with a stage production or by persons making a
presentation concerning addiction to tobacco and other drugs;
      (18)   All areas available to, and customarily used by, the general
public in all businesses and nonprofit entities patronized by the public,
including, but not limited to, business offices, banks, hotels, and motels;
      (19)   Any building not open to the sky which is used primarily as a
museum or for exhibiting any motion picture, stage drama, lecture, musical
recital, or other similar performance, except when smoking is part of any such
production;
      (20)   Every room, chamber, and place of meeting or public assembly,
including school buildings under the control of any board, council, commission,
committee, or agencies of the city or any political subdivision of the state
during such time as a public meeting is in progress, to the extent such place
is subject to the jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   Smoking is prohibited in all unenclosed public places within the city,
including, but not necessarily limited to, the following places:
      (1)   Outdoor dining areas;
      (2)   Recreational areas.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, any owner,
operator, manager, or other person who controls any establishment described in
this section may declare that entire establishment as a non-smoking
establishment.
(‘61 Code, § 5-7.03) (Ord. 590, C.S., passed 6-16-93; Am. Ord. 962 C.S., passed
5-15-19)
§ 5-7.04 EXCEPTIONS TO PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter to the contrary,
the following areas shall not be subject to the smoking restrictions of this
chapter:
      (1)   A private residence, including an attached or detached garage
except when the residence is utilized for office or other business purposes
and/or when such residence is operated as a licensed or unlicensed day care
facility for children or the elderly;
      (2)   Hotel and motel rooms rented to guests;
      (3)   Tobacco stores, whether operated as a separate business entity or
as a physically separated facility within a department store or other business
entity. Note: tobacco stores, like all businesses, are obligated to provide a
safe work environment protecting their employees from exposure to secondhand
smoke;
      (4)   Private clubs during events attended exclusively by members of the
organization and their invited guests and from which members of the general
public are excluded;
      (5)   City streets and sidewalks, except as otherwise prohibited by state
law.
   (B)   In addition to those areas identified in division (A) above, the
provisions of this chapter shall not be applicable to the following:
      (1)   Golf courses;
      (2)   Other city-owned property per the direction of the City Manager.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, any owner,
operator, manager, or other person who controls any establishment described in
this section may declare that entire establishment, or any portion thereof, as
a non-smoking establishment.
(‘61 Code, § 5-7.04) (Ord. 590, C.S., passed 6-16-93; Am. Ord. 962 C.S., passed
5-15-19)
§ 5-7.05 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (A)   “Smoking” or “No Smoking” signs, whichever are appropriate, with
letters of not less than one inch in height or the international “No Smoking”
symbol (consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette and
electronic smoking device enclosed in a red circle with a red bar across it)
shall be clearly, sufficiently, and conspicuously posted in every building or
other place where smoking is controlled by this chapter or by the owner,
operator, manager, or other person having control of such building or other
place.
   (B)   Every theater owner, manager, or operator shall conspicuously post
signs in the lobby stating that smoking is prohibited within the theater or
auditorium, and in the case of motion picture theaters, such information shall
be shown upon the screen for at least five seconds prior to the showing of each
feature motion picture.
('61 Code, § 5-7.05) (Ord. 590 C.S., passed 6-16-93; Am. Ord. 962 C.S., passed
5-15-19)
§ 5-7.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The regulations contained herein shall be enforced by the City’s Code
Enforcement Division.
   (B)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint hereunder may initiate
enforcement with the City’s Code Enforcement Division.
   (C)   Any owner, manager, operator, or employees of any establishment
controlled by this chapter shall have the right to inform persons violating
this chapter of the appropriate provisions thereof.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, a private
citizen may bring legal action to enforce this chapter.
(‘61 Code, § 5-7.06) (Ord. 590 C.S., passed 6-16-93; Am. Ord. 962 C.S., passed
5-15-19)
§ 5-7.07 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages, operates or
otherwise controls the use of any premises subject to the regulation under this
chapter to fail to comply with its provisions.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in an area restricted by
the provisions of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 5-7.07) (Ord. 590 C.S., passed 6-16-93; Am. Ord. 962 C.S., passed
5-15-19)
§ 5-7.08 NONRETALIATION.
   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire, or in any manner
retaliate against any employee or applicant for employment because such
employee or applicant exercises any rights afforded by this chapter.
('61 Code, § 5-7.08) (Ord. 590 C.S., passed 6-16-93; Am. Ord. 962 C.S., passed
5-15-19)
§ 5-7.09 GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY COOPERATION.
   The City Manager shall annually request other governmental and educational
agencies having facilities within the city to establish local operating
procedures in cooperation and compliance with this chapter. The City Manager
shall urge federal, state, city, and special school district agencies to
enforce their existing smoking control regulations and to comply voluntarily
with this chapter.
(‘61 Code, § 5-7.09) (Ord. 590 C.S., passed 6-16-93; Am. Ord. 962 C.S., passed
5-15-19)
§ 5-7.10 OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS.
   This chapter shall not be interpreted or construed to permit smoking where
it is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws.
('61 Code, § 5-7.10) (Ord. 590 C.S., passed 6-16-93)
CHAPTER 8: BAN ON SELF SERVICE TOBACCO DISPLAYS
Section
   
5-8.01   Purpose
   
5-8.02   Definitions
   
5-8.03   Self service displays prohibited
   
5-8.04   Exemptions
   
5-8.05   Misdemeanor for subsequent violations of this chapter
§ 5-8.01 PURPOSE.
   The City Council hereby finds and declares that a ban on the use of self
service displays of tobacco products is necessary to protect the health, safety
and welfare of youth by reducing and/or restricting the availability of these
products to those persons under the age of 18 years. Self service tobacco
displays contribute to youth use of tobacco by promoting shoplifting and
illegal sales. The restrictions of availability of tobacco products to minors
is a goal of the city.
(Ord. 711 C.S., passed 11-3-99)
§ 5-8.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MINOR. Any person under 18 years of age.
   SELF SERVICE DISPLAY. Any display of tobacco product merchandise that does
not require assistance of the seller for the buyer to acquire or possess that
product.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including but not
limited to tobacco, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, smokeless tobacco, snuff,
Indian cigarettes called "bidis" or any other form of tobacco, which may be
utilized for smoking, chewing, inhaling, snuffing or other manner of ingestion
or absorption in the human body.
   TOBACCO SHOPS. Any business establishment in which 50 percent or more of any
one or more of the following is devoted to or attributable to the sale of pipe
tobacco or cigars: wall space or any other display area such as tables, racks
or display structures; or gross revenues.
(Ord. 711 C.S., passed 11-3-99)
§ 5-8.03 SELF SERVICE DISPLAYS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell, transfer, permit to be sold or offer
for sale, or display for sale, any tobacco product by any means of self service
merchandising, including but not limited to self service display, rack,
countertop or shelf or any other means other than vendor assisted sales. All
tobacco products shall be offered for sale or transfer exclusively by means of
vendor assistance, and all tobacco products shall be either in a locked case or
in an area not accessible to the public prior to sale and which is accessible
only to the employees of the business.
(Ord. 711 C.S., passed 11-3-99)
§ 5-8.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   This prohibition shall not apply to tobacco shops, tobacco product vending
machines located at least 15 feet inside any entrance to an on-sale public
premises, licensed in accordance with Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 23039, the State
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control or otherwise located in facilities
where a tobacco retailer ensures that no person younger than 18 years of age is
present, or permitted to enter the premises at any time.
(Ord. 711 C.S., passed 11-3-99)
§ 5-8.05 MISDEMEANOR FOR SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS OF THIS CHAPTER.
   The first violation of any provision of this chapter is an infraction and is
punishable by a fine not exceeding $100. A second violation of this chapter by
any person within 12 months of a prior violation of this chapter is an
infraction punishable by a fine not to exceed $200. Any third or subsequent
violation of this chapter by any person within 12 months of two prior
convictions for violating any provision of this chapter and/or the forfeiting
of bail in connection with two prior violations of this chapter is a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 711 C.S., passed 11-3-99)
TITLE VI: BUSINESSES, PROFESSIONS, AND TRADES
Chapter
   
1.   BUSINESS LICENSES
   
2.   FILMING
   
3.   CARD ROOMS
   
4.   [RESERVED]
   
5.   CANNABIS BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 1: BUSINESS LICENSES
Section
   
6-1.01   Definitions
   
6-1.02   Purpose of chapter
   
6-1.03   Effect of chapter without actions and obligations
   
6-1.04   Substitute for other revenue laws
   
6-1.05   License required
   
6-1.06   Application
   
6-1.07   New businesses
   
6-1.08   Statements not conclusive
   
6-1.09   Failure to file statement or corrected statement
   
6-1.10   Joint license
   
6-1.11   Duplicate licenses
   
6-1.12   Licenses to be posted
   
6-1.13   Licenses non-transferable
   
6-1.14   Expired and revoked licenses
   
6-1.15   Expiration of licenses
   
6-1.16   Appeals
   
6-1.17   Revocation of licenses
   
6-1.17.1   Establishments dispensing alcoholic beverages on the premises
   
6-1.18   License due dates
   
6-1.19   Delinquencies
   
6-1.20   License tax debt to city
   
6-1.21   Exemptions
   
6-1.22   Gross receipts license tax
   
6-1.23   Businesses other than retailers or manufacturers
   
6-1.24   (Repealed)
   
6-1.25   (Repealed)
   
6-1.26   Amusement machines
   
6-1.27   Animal shows
   
6-1.28   Rental properties
   
6-1.29   (Repealed)
   
6-1.30   Arcades
   
6-1.31   Auctioneers
   
6-1.32   Bankruptcy or fire sales
   
6-1.33   (Repealed)
   
6-1.34   (Repealed)
   
6-1.35   (Repealed)
   
6-1.36   (Repealed)
   
6-1.37   Billiard and pool tables
   
6-1.38   (Repealed)
   
6-1.39   Bowling lanes
   
6-1.40   Card rooms
   
6-1.41   (Repealed)
   
6-1.42   (Repealed)
   
6-1.43   (Repealed)
   
6-1.44   (Repealed)
   
6-1.45   Dances
   
6-1.46   (Repealed)
   
6-1.47   Demonstration parties
   
6-1.48   Finance companies
   
6-1.49   Fortune-tellers
   
6-1.50   (Repealed)
   
6-1.51   Hospitals
   
6-1.52   Hotels
   
6-1.53   Itinerant peddlers, solicitors, and photographers
   
6-1.54   Job printing
   
6-1.55   Laundries
   
6-1.56   Locksmiths and sharpeners
   
6-1.57   Merchandise stamps
   
6-1.58   (Repealed)
   
6-1.59   (Repealed)
   
6-1.60   Motels and auto courts
   
6-1.61   Museums
   
6-1.62   Music machines
   
6-1.63   Newspapers
   
6-1.64   (Repealed)
   
6-1.65   (Repealed)
   
6-1.66   Pawnbrokers
   
6-1.67   Physical therapy
   
6-1.68   Pinball machines
   
6-1.69   Promoters
   
6-1.70   (Repealed)
   
6-1.71   (Repealed)
   
6-1.72   Rides
   
6-1.73   (Repealed)
   
6-1.74   (Repealed)
   
6-1.75   (Repealed)
   
6-1.76   Shows
   
6-1.77   (Repealed)
   
6-1.78   (Repealed)
   
6-1.79   (Repealed)
   
6-1.80   (Repealed)
   
6-1.81   (Repealed)
   
6-1.82   (Repealed)
   
6-1.83   (Repealed)
   
6-1.84   (Repealed)
   
6-1.85   (Repealed)
   
6-1.86   Walking signs
   
6-1.87   (Repealed)
   
6-1.88   (Repealed)
   
6-1.89   Wrestling and boxing matches
   
6-1.90   Enforcement
   
6-1.91   Refunds
   
6-1.92   Divulging information forbidden
   
6-1.93   Violations; penalties
   
6-1.94   Criminal and civil actions authorized for failure to pay license tax
   
6-1.95   Cannabis
§ 6-1.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANNUALLY. A twelve month period which begins on July 1 of each year, and
ends on June 30 of that same year.
   BUSINESS. Professions, trades, occupations, and all and every kind of
calling carried on for profit or livelihood.
   COLLECTOR. The License Tax Collector of the city or such other officer of
the city as may be charged with the collection of the fees and the issuance of
the licenses.
   ESTABLISHED or FIXED PLACE OF BUSINESS. Permanent stores, offices, or places
within the city where business is legally and regularly transacted from month
to month in such manner as business of that nature is generally or customarily
carried on and conducted and when the circumstances show an intention to become
an established, fixed, and continuous part of the regular and legitimate
business life of the city. In all other cases such facts must be shown by the
exhibition of a bona fide lease or rental agreement to the premises where such
business is to be conducted, such lease or rental agreement to be for a minimum
period of not less than six months thence next ensuing.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The total amount of the sale price of all sales and the
total amount charged or received for the performance of any act, service, or
employment of whatever nature it may be for which a charge is made or credit
allowed (whether or not such service, act, or employment is done as a part of,
or in connection with, the sale of materials, goods, wares, or merchandise for
which a charge is made or credit allowed) and shall include all commissions,
fees, and trading profits earned, made, or charged as agent, principal, dealer,
trader, or counsellor. Excluded from GROSS RECEIPTS shall be:
      (1)   Cash discounts allowed and taken on sales;
      (2)   Any tax required by law to be included in, or added to, the
purchase price and collected from the consumer or purchaser;
      (3)   Such part of the sale price of the property returned by purchasers
upon rescission of the contract of sale as is refunded either in cash or by
credit; and
      (4)   The value of the property accepted as part of the purchase price
and which property will later be sold.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT or ITINERANT VENDOR. All persons, both principal and
agent, who engage in a temporary or transient business in the city, selling or
offering to sell goods, wares, merchandise, or any other thing of value, with
the intention of conducting such business for a period of less than six months,
and who, for the purposes of such business, hires, uses, or occupies any room,
doorway, vacant lot, building or other place for the exhibition for sale, or
sale, of goods, wares, merchandise or other thing of value. If any such place,
occupied or used for such business, is rented or leased for a period of less
than six months, such fact shall be presumptive evidence that the business
carried on therein is a transient business, and any person so engaged shall not
be relieved from the provisions of this chapter or from payment of the license
taxes herein provided for such business by reason of any temporary association
with any local dealer, trader, merchant, or auctioneer. ITINERANT MERCHANT or
ITINERANT VENDOR shall not include commercial travelers or selling agents
selling their goods exclusively to merchants, dealers, or traders, whether
selling for present or future delivery by sample or otherwise, nor to peddlers,
as the same are defined in this chapter, nor to persons selling fruits,
vegetables, eggs, butter, or other farm or ranch products of their own farm or
dairy, exclusively.
   JOBBING BUSINESS. Every business conducted solely for the purpose of selling
or offering for sale goods, wares, or merchandise in job lots to wholesale
merchants for resale at wholesale to the trade by the wholesale merchants.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in making materials, raw or partly
finished, into wares or articles suitable for use.
   NEWLY ESTABLISHED BUSINESS. A business in existence and operation for less
than three months.
   PEDDLER. Any person who goes from house to house, place to place, or in or
along the streets within the city selling or offering to sell, barter, or
exchange, and making or offering to make immediate delivery of any goods,
wares, merchandise, or any thing of value in possession of the peddler (except
religious publications, religious newspapers, or other religious periodicals)
to persons other than manufacturers, wholesalers, jobbers, or retailers of such
commodities; provided that a producer who furnishes directly and delivers any
poultry, eggs, butter, fruit, vegetables, or meat being exclusively the produce
of his or her own garden, farm, ranch, or dairy to a person in the city shall
not be deemed a peddler within the meaning of this chapter.
   QUARTER.  A period of three calendar months. The quarters referred to in
this chapter shall  begin on July 1, October 1, January 1, and April 1 of each
year. The quarter shall include fractions thereof.
   RETAIL BUSINESS. Every business conducted for the purpose of selling or
offering for sale any goods, wares, or merchandise, other than as a part of a
WHOLESALE BUSINESS or JOBBING BUSINESS as defined in this section.
   SOLICITOR or CANVASSER. Any person who goes from house to house or from
place to place in the city, selling or taking orders for, or offering to sell
or take orders for, any goods, wares, merchandise or articles for future
delivery, or selling or taking orders for any service to be furnished or
performed in the future at any place in the city other than a fixed place of
business, or for making, manufacturing, treating, or repairing any article or
thing whatsoever for future delivery.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is, or
may be, transported or drawn upon a public street or highway, except devices
moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   WHOLESALE BUSINESS. Every business conducted solely for the purpose of
selling or offering for sale goods, wares, or merchandise in wholesale lots to
retailers for resale to the trade by the retailers.
('61 Code, § 6-1.01) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 709 C.S., passed 9-
15-99)
§ 6-1.02 PURPOSE OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter is enacted to raise revenue for municipal purposes and for the
regulation of certain businesses mentioned herein.
('61 Code, § 6-1.02) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
§ 6-1.03 EFFECT OF CHAPTER WITHOUT ACTIONS AND OBLIGATIONS.
   Neither the adoption of this chapter nor its superseding of any portion of
any other ordinance of the city shall in any manner be construed to affect the
prosecution for violation of any other ordinance committed prior to July 1,
1954, nor be construed as a waiver of any license or any penal provision
applicable to any such violation, nor be construed to affect the validity of
any bond or cash deposit required by any ordinance to be posted, filed, or
deposited. All rights and obligations hereto appertaining shall continue in
full force and effect.
('61 Code, § 6-1.03) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
§ 6-1.04 SUBSTITUTE FOR OTHER REVENUE LAWS.
   Any person required to pay a license tax for transacting and carrying on any
business under this chapter shall be relieved from the payment of any license
tax for the privilege of doing such business which tax has been required under
this code or any other laws of the city, but shall remain subject to the
regulatory provisions, if any, of such other laws. The provisions of this
section shall not apply to inspection fees, permit fees, or the regulatory
license fees provided for in this chapter. The provisions of this section shall
not be applicable to any tax levied pursuant to the "Parking and Business
Improvement Area Law of 1965" which is imposed by special ordinance of the
Council.
('61 Code, § 6-1.04) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 124 C.S., passed 6-
26-68)
§ 6-1.05 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, license taxes in the amounts
prescribed in this chapter are imposed upon all business transacted or carried
on in the city. It shall be unlawful for any person to commence, transact,
engage in, or carry on any business in the city without first having procured a
license from the city so to do, or without complying with any and all
applicable regulations of this chapter and other related or relevant laws of
the city. Each day any such business is carried on without a license and/or
without such compliance shall constitute a separate violation of the provisions
of this chapter for each and every day such business is so carried on. Such
license, when issued, shall authorize the person obtaining the same to transact
the business described therein at the particular locality within the city
designated in such license during the term stated therein.
('61 Code, § 6-1.05) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
§ 6-1.06 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every person required to have a license under the provisions of this
chapter shall make application for the same to the License Tax Collector. The
applicant shall furnish all information required to enable the License Tax
Collector to properly classify the business of the applicant and determine the
proper license fees to be paid by such applicant. Upon the payment of the
prescribed tax, the License Tax Collector shall issue to such person a license
which shall state on the face thereof the following:
      (1)   The name of the person to whom the license is issued and the date
of issue;
      (2)   The kind or kinds of business licensed thereby;
      (3)   The place where such business is to be transacted and carried on;
      (4)   That the license is permanent or, if only temporary or limited, the
expiration date thereof; and
      (5)   Such other information as the License Tax Collector shall require
or as may be necessary for the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   A license once issued shall remain valid so long as the required
license tax payments are made within the time and manner required by the
provisions of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 6-1.06) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 302 N.S., passed - -
)
§ 6-1.07 NEW BUSINESSES.
   Persons first starting a business shall pay the prescribed tax for such
business based on the estimated gross monthly receipts to be calculated upon
the whole or partial quarters remaining in the fiscal year in which the
application for a business license is made plus such sum as is designated by
the City Council for expense of issuance of a license.
('61 Code, § 6-1.07) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 302 N.S., passed - -
; Am. Ord. 94 C.S., passed 7-5-66; Am. Ord. 399 C.S., passed 7-6-82; Am. Ord.
709 C.S., passed 9-15-99)
§ 6-1.08 STATEMENTS NOT CONCLUSIVE.
   No statement shall be conclusive upon the city or upon any officer thereof
as to the matters set forth therein, nor shall the claim of the same preclude
the city from collecting by appropriate action such sum as is actually due and
payable pursuant to this chapter. No such statement shall prejudice the right
of the city to fix the amount of the license tax at a higher amount should
there be reason to believe that such business should have a higher rating than
that shown by such statement, nor to recover any amount that may be ascertained
to be due from such person in addition to the amount shown by such statement if
it should be found to be incorrect. The License Tax Collector shall, and is
authorized to, fix the amount of such license at a higher rate when he or she
has reason to believe, or evidence that, such statement is incorrect. Such
statement and each of the several items therein contained shall be subject to
audit and verification by the License Tax Collector, his or her deputies, or
authorized employees of the city who are authorized to examine, audit, and
inspect such books and records of any licensee or applicant for a license as
may be necessary in their judgment to verify or ascertain the amount of license
fee due. All licensees, applicants for licenses, and persons engaged in
business in the city are required to permit an examination of such books and
records for the purposes aforesaid. The information furnished or secured
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be confidential. Any
unwarranted disclosure or use of such information by any officer or employee of
the city shall constitute a misdemeanor, and such officer or employee shall be
subject to the penalty provisions of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 6-1.08) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
§ 6-1.09 FAILURE TO FILE STATEMENT OR CORRECTED STATEMENT.
   If any person fails to file any required statement within the time
prescribed, or if after demand therefor made by the License Tax Collector such
person fails to file a corrected statement, the License Tax Collector may
determine the amount of license tax due from such person by means of such
information as he or she may be able to obtain. In case such a determination is
made, the License Tax Collector shall give a notice of the amount so assessed
by serving it personally or by depositing it in the US Post Office at the city,
postage prepaid, addressed to the person so assessed at his or her last known
address. The License Tax Collector must cause the matter to be set for hearing
by the Council, and he or she shall give at least ten-day notice to such person
of the time and place of hearing in the manner prescribed above for the service
of notice of assessment. The Council shall consider all evidence produced, and
written notice of its findings thereon, which findings shall be final, shall be
served upon the applicant in the manner prescribed above for service of notice
of assessment.
('61 Code, § 6-1.09) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
§ 6-1.10 JOINT LICENSE.
   Whenever any person is engaged in two or more businesses at the same
location, such person shall be issued one license which shall specify on its
face all such businesses. The license tax to be paid shall be computed as if
one business were being conducted at such location, except that businesses
listed in this chapter as having a flat fixed rate per quarter shall in every
case be regarded as a separate business.
('61 Code, § 6-1.10) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
§ 6-1.11 DUPLICATE LICENSES.
   (A)   In the event a business license issued under the provisions of this
chapter has been mutilated, destroyed, or lost, the licensee shall immediately
apply to the License Tax Collector for a duplicate license and shall pay the
fee for reissuing the license as set by resolution of the Council.
   (B)   Any business license which has been suspended, revoked, or repossessed
shall not be reissued until all required license fees, penalties, and interest
have been paid, plus the sum of $1.
('61 Code, § 6-1.11) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 302 N.S., passed - -
; Am. Ord. 709 C.S., passed 9-15-99)
§ 6-1.12 LICENSES TO BE POSTED.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, every person
receiving a license under the provisions of this chapter and carrying on a
business at a fixed place of business shall keep such license posted and
exhibited in some conspicuous place in his or her business while such license
is in force. All persons having such license and not having a fixed place of
business shall carry such license upon his or her person at all times while
carrying on the business for which it was granted. Every person having a
license under the provisions of this chapter shall produce and exhibit the same
whenever requested so to do by the License Tax Collector or any of his or her
deputies or assistants. Every person or peddler who shall fail or refuse to
post, exhibit on demand, or display, as the case may be, the license required
by this chapter shall, in addition to the penalties imposed by this chapter,
have his or her license revoked as provided in §
6-1.17 of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 6-1.12) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
§ 6-1.13 LICENSES NON-TRANSFERABLE.
   No license issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be in any
manner assignable or transferable or authorize any person other than therein
mentioned or named to transact or carry on such business, or authorize any
other business than is therein mentioned of named to be continued or transacted
thereunder, or at any place other than therein mentioned or named; provided,
however, that where a license is issued authorizing a person to transact and
carry on a business at a particular place, such licensee may, upon application
therefor and paying a fee as set by resolution of the Council, have the license
amended to authorize the transacting and carrying on of such business under the
license at some other location to which the business is, or is to be, moved.
When a licensee who conducts a business from a fixed place of business in the
city makes a bona fide sale of the business, the license is not transferable
and shall expire without refund to the licensee. Notwithstanding the fact that
the license is nontransferable, the purchaser of the business applying for a
new license shall receive a credit in the prorated amount of business license
tax paid by the seller for the unexpired term of the sellers license, which
credit shall be applied only to the payment of the new applicants business
license tax. The person establishing or taking over the business shall come
within the new business provisions as set forth in §
6-1.07 of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 6-1.13) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 709 C.S., passed 9-
15-99)
§ 6-1.14 EXPIRED AND REVOKED LICENSES.
   (A)   In the event any tax payment due under the provisions of this chapter
shall become delinquent, the License Tax Collector is authorized to repossess,
upon written demand therefor, the business license for which such tax payment
is due. Any business license so repossessed shall not be returned to the
licensee until such licensee has fully paid all delinquent business license
taxes, plus applicable penalties and interest incurred and accrued by reason of
such delinquencies.
   (B)   In the event a business license is repossessed for delinquent taxes,
it shall be unlawful to conduct business within the city without such license.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to post or exhibit, or permit to
be posted or exhibited, any license which has expired or which may have been
revoked, or to post or exhibit any such license during any period that such
license is suspended as provided in §
6-1.17 of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 6-1.14) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 302 N.S., passed - -
)
§ 6-1.15 EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Every license issued shall become null and void at the expiration of the
term for which it is issued.
('61 Code, § 6-1.15) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
§ 6-1.16 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved or dissatisfied by any decision of an administrative
officer with respect to the issuance or refusal to issue such license as
required by this chapter may appear before the Council at the next regular
meeting thereof with reasons, if any, why the license fee should be in
accordance with the statement of the aggrieved person. The finding of the
Council thereon shall be conclusive, and the Council shall direct the License
Tax Collector to issue the license in accordance with such finding.
('61 Code, 6-1.16) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
§ 6-1.17 REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   All licenses granted under the provisions of this chapter are subject
to revocation by the City Council at any time for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   If the conditions of the license or any of the terms of this
chapter have been violated;
      (2)   If the license was obtained by misrepresentation;
      (3)   If the business for which the license was granted is conducted in
such a manner as to be a menace to the safety of the community.
   (B)   Before revoking any license, the Council may suspend the same, and the
privileges granted therein, for one week, or until the next regular meeting of
the Council, and notice of a hearing upon such revocation shall be given to the
licensee by the License Tax Collector. At the time specified in the notice, the
holder of the suspended license may appear before the Council and show cause,
if any, why the license should not be revoked. Upon his or her failure to
appear, or if after such hearing the Council funds there is good and sufficient
cause for revoking the license, the license shall be revoked, and the finding
of the Council thereon shall be conclusive. It shall be unlawful for any person
to continue in any business for which the license has been issued during such
time that the license is suspended or after it has been revoked. On revocation
of any license, no part of the license tax shall be returned but shall be
forfeited to the city. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to authorize the
continuation of any business for which a license tax has not been paid, the
terms and provisions of this section relating only to revocation of licenses
for cause other than nonpayment of required fees.
('61 Code, § 6-1.17) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 579 C.S., passed 12-
18-91)
§ 6-1.17.1 ESTABLISHMENTS DISPENSING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON THE PREMISES.
   Licensees of any establishment who sell or furnish alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises shall operate the establishment in such a manner as
to insure the safety of the customers and employees, and shall be governed by
the following:
   (A)   After three disturbance calls to any one establishment per single
business day, the establishment shall close for the remainder of that business
day. The third call will be prima facie evidence that the establishment cannot
or will not exercise reasonable control to insure the safety to the customers
and employees of the establishment.
   (B)   Failure to report disturbances which result in injury, as defined in
Cal. Penal Code § 245, or death to any person will result in a revocation of
the establishment's city business license, and a license may not be re-issued
to the licensee for a period of five years.
   (C)   Failure to report disturbances which result in an injury of any kind
to any customer or employee of the establishment will be grounds for suspension
of the business license for up to 30 days per incident, in the discretion of
the Chief of Police who is authorized to impose such suspension.
   (D)   A closure of three times within 30 days will be prima facie evidence
that the establishment cannot or will not exercise reasonable control to insure
the safety of the customers and employees of the establishment, and a petition
will be filed with the Alcoholic Beverage Control to revoke the liquor license
of the establishment as a public nuisance.
   (E)   Failure to close when ordered to do so will result in the immediate
revocation of the city business license, and any violation of this chapter
shall be punishable by an administrative fine of $500 per day for each day of
operation without the business license.
   (F)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine
of not more than $500 or by imprisonment in the County Jail for not more than
six months or by both such fine and imprisonment
('61 Code, §
6-1.17.1) (Ord. 381 C.S., passed 9-7-81)
§ 6-1.18 LICENSE DUE DATES.
   (A)   All license fees due under the provisions of this chapter shall be
paid in advance to the city in lawful money of the US at the office of the
License Tax Collector. Tax payments shall not be prorated. Due dates shall be
as follows:
   (B)   Annual tax payments. Delinquent at 5:00 p.m. on the thirtieth calendar
day after the tax is due.
(Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 302 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 709 C.S.,
passed 9-15-99)
§ 6-1.19 DELINQUENCIES.
   (A)   (1)   License tax payments shall be delinquent as follows:
      (2)   Annual tax payments. Delinquent at 5:00 pm. on the 30th calendar
day after the tax is due.
   (B)   In the event a license tax payment becomes delinquent, a penalty of
10% of the amount of the tax shall be added thereto. The penalty shall be
collected and payment thereof shall be enforced in the same manner as other
license taxes are collected and payment thereof is enforced; provided, however,
that the word "paid" shall, for the purposes of this section, be held to mean
and include actual receipt of payment in the office of the License Tax
Collector. Daily license tax payments shall be subject to a 10% penalty if not
made prior to the beginning of any act or business activity required to be
licensed under the provisions of this chapter. The provisions of this chapter
for delinquencies and penalties shall not be construed in any way as affecting
the liability of the person in default for prosecution on account of failure to
pay his or her license fee as is prescribed.
('61 Code, § 6-1.19) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 233 N.S., passed - -
; Am. Ord. 302 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 709 C.S., passed 9-15-99)
§ 6-1.20 LICENSE TAX DEBT TO CITY.
   The amount of any license tax imposed by the provisions of this chapter, and
any and all penalties and interest for the non-payment thereof, shall be deemed
a debt due to the city from and against any person doing any business within
the city for which a license is required by this chapter. Such persons shall be
liable to a civil action in the name of the city as plaintiff in any court of
competent jurisdiction for the amount of the license tax imposed by this
chapter for such business, together with all penalties then due thereon as in
this chapter provided, and for the costs of suit.
('61 Code, § 6-1.20) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
§ 6-1.21 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Constitution or statutes of the country or of the state. Nothing in
this chapter will be deemed or construed to apply to any person transacting or
carrying on any business exempt from the payment of municipal corporation taxes
by virtue of the Constitution or applicable statutes of the country or of the
state.
   (B)   Charitable organizations. The provisions of this chapter shall not be
deemed or construed to require the payment of a license tax to conduct, manage,
or carry on any business, occupation, or activity from any institution or
organization which is conducted, managed, or carried on wholly for the benefit
of charitable purposes or from which a profit is not derived, either directly
or indirectly, by any person. No license tax shall be required for the conduct
of any entertainment, concert, exhibition, or lecture on scientific,
historical, literary, religious, or moral subjects within the city whenever the
receipts of any such entertainment, concert, exhibition, or lecture are to be
appropriated to any church or school or to any religious or benevolent purpose.
No license tax shall be required for the conduct of any entertainment, dance,
concert, exhibition, or lecture by any religious, charitable, fraternal,
educational, military, state, county, or municipal organization or association
whenever the receipts of any such entertainment, dance, concert, exhibition, or
lecture are to be appropriated exclusively for the purposes for which such
organization or association was formed and from which profit is not derived,
either directly or indirectly, by any person. Nothing in this subsection shall
be deemed to exempt any such organization or association from complying with
the provisions of this code or any law of the city requiring a permit from the
Council or any commission or officer of the city to conduct, manage, or carry
on any profession, trade, calling, or occupation. No exemption shall be granted
under this chapter to any professional circus or carnival.
   (C)   Public sales. The provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed or
construed to require the payment of a license tax to conduct, manage, or carry
on any public auction for the sale of any goods belonging to the country, the
state, or the county or for the sale of property by virtue of any process
issued by any court, or for the sale of property by virtue of any deed of
trust, or for the bona fide sale of household goods at the domicile of the
owner thereof, or for the sale at auction or otherwise of merchandise or
salvage from any wreck, fire, or other calamity occurring in the city for the
purpose of adjusting the loss sustained by reason of such fire, wreck, or other
calamity, or for the sale at auction or otherwise of any stock of goods by any
assignee for the benefit of creditors, or receivers in bankruptcy or their
assignees for the purpose of liquidating and adjusting the debts and
liabilities of any person having a permanent place of business in the city.
   (D)   Veterans. Every honorably discharged veteran who meets the
requirements of Cal. Bus & Prof. Code § 16001 shall be permitted to distribute
circulars and to vend, hawk, or peddle any goods, wares, merchandise, fruits,
or vegetables (not otherwise prohibited by law) in the city without paying a
license tax or fee therefor. Such veteran shall present his or her certificate
of discharge to the License Tax Collector and show proof of his or her identity
as the person named therein and proof of his or her physical disability. The
License Tax Collector shall, and he or she is authorized to, issue to the
honorably discharged veteran a license, free of charge.
   (E)   Blind persons. Blind persons licensed by the Bureau of Vocational
Rehabilitation in the State Department of Education may be permitted to operate
vending stands for the sale of newspapers, periodicals, candy, chewing gum,
tobacco products, picture postcards, and such other articles as may be approved
by the Bureau (and not otherwise prohibited by law) in the city without paying
a license fee therefor. As used in this section, the term BLIND PERSON means a
person having not more than 10% visual acuity in the better eye with
correction. Such blindness shall be certified by a licensed physician and
surgeon who specializes in diseases of the eye. The License Tax Collector shall
issue a permit to such person upon proof of his or her qualifications.
   (F)   Interstate commerce. Every peddler, solicitor, or other person
claiming to be entitled to exemption from the payment of any license provided
for in this chapter upon the ground that such license casts a burden upon his
or her right to engage in commerce with foreign nations or among several
states, or conflicts with the regulations of the US Congress respecting
interstate commerce, shall file a verified statement with the License Tax
Collector disclosing the interstate or other character of his or her business
entitled to such exemption. Such statement shall set forth the name and
location of the company or firm for which the orders are to be solicited or
secured, the name of the nearest local or state manager, if any, and his or her
address, the kind of goods, wares, or merchandise to be delivered, the place
from which the same is to be shipped or forwarded, the method of solicitation
or taking orders, the location of any warehouse, factory, or plant within the
state, the method of delivering the names and locations of the residences of
the applicants. and any other (acts necessary to establish such claim of
exemption. A copy of the order blank, contract form, or other papers used by
such person in taking orders shall be attached to the affidavit for the
information of the License Tax Collector. If it appears that the applicant is
entitled to such exemption, the License Tax Collector shall forthwith issue a
free license.
   (G)   Claims for exemption. Any person claiming an exemption pursuant to
this section shall file a verified statement with the License Tax Collector
stating the facts upon which exemption is claimed.
   (H)   Licenses. The License Tax Collector, upon a proper showing contained
in the verified statement, shall issue a license to such person claiming an
exemption under this section without payment to the city of the license tax
required by this chapter.
   (I)   Revocation. The License Tax Collector may revoke any license granted
pursuant to the provisions of this section upon information that the licensee
is not entitled to the exemption as provided in this section.
('61 Code, § 6-1.21) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
§ 6-1.22 GROSS RECEIPTS LICENSE TAX.
   (A)   Rate of tax.
      (1)    Every person who, at a permanent place of business within the
city, sells or offers for sale any goods, wares, or merchandise, except as
otherwise provided for in this chapter, either as principal or agent, whether
on commission or otherwise, and whether for present or future delivery, or
whether such goods, wares, or merchandise is owned by, or consigned to, such
person, and every person engaged in any other lawful business not otherwise
licensed under this chapter shall pay an annual license tax based upon average
monthly gross receipts in accordance with the following schedule in §
6-1.22(A)(3).
      (2)   Taxes imposed on average monthly gross receipts from $.01 to $3,000
apply only to residential rentals as specified in §
6-1.28; all others shall pay the minimum set forth in subsection §
6-1.22(F).
      (3)   Average monthly gross receipts schedule.
Average Monthly Gross Receipts License Tax
in Preceding Year              per Year
Average Monthly Gross Receipts License Tax
in Preceding Year              per Year
$ .01 to 500                   $ 20
500.01 to 1,000                28
1,000.01 to 1,500              36
1,500.01 to 2,000              40
2,000.01 to 3,000              48
3,000.01 to 4,000              56
4,000.01 to 5,000              76
5,000.01 to 6,000              92
6,000.01 to 8,000              108
8,000.01 to 10,000             120
10,000.01 to 12,000            136
12,000.01 to 14,000            152
14,000.01 to 16,000            168
16,000.01 to 18,000            180
18,000.01 to 20,000            196
20,000.01 to 25,000            212
25,000.01 to 30,000            224
30,000.01 to 35,000            240
35,000.01 to 40,000            256
40,000.01 to 45,000            268
45,000.01 to 50,000            284
50,000.01 to 55,000            300
55,000.01 to 60,000            316
60,000.01 to 70,000            332
70,000.01 to 80,000            348
 
Average Monthly Gross Receipts License Tax
in Preceding Year              per Year
Average Monthly Gross Receipts License Tax
in Preceding Year              per Year
80,000.01 to 90,000            360
90,000.01 to 100,000           376
100,000.01 to 110,000          392
110,000.01 to 120,000          456
120,000.01 to 130,000          464
130,000.01 to 140,000          480
140,000.01 to 150,000          496
150,000.01 to 160,000          512
160,000.01 to 170,000          528
170,000.01 to 180,000          560
180,000.01 to 190,000          576
190,000.01 to 200,000          592
200,000.01 to 210,000          608
210,000.01 to 220,000          624
220,000.01 to 230,000          640
230,000.01 to 240,000          656
240,000.01 to 260,000          672
260,000.01 to 270,000          688
270,000.01 to 280,000          704
280,000.01 to 290,000          720
290,000.01 to 300,000          736
300,000.01 to 400,000          896
400,000.01 to 500,000          1056
 
   (B)   Retail. For every person conducting a business exclusively at retail,
the license tax shall be accordance with the rates set forth in subsection §
6-1.22(A)(3) of this section.
   (C)   Wholesale and manufacturing. Every person with a fixed place of
business within the city and conducting a business exclusively for wholesale,
manufacturing, or food processing, including the production of dairy products,
frozen fruits, or vegetables, shall pay an annual license tax equal to one-half
of the license tax set forth in subsection §
6-1.22(A)(3) of this section.
   (D)   Wholesale and retail. Every person conducting both a wholesale and a
retail business from the same premises shall file with the License Tax
Collector a segregated statement of his or her sales for the preceding year,
segregating the wholesale sales and the retail sales, and the sales or receipts
from each such class of business shall be reported separately. The license tax
for such combined wholesale and retail sales shall be computed annually as
follows: the amount in the preceding year of the average monthly retail gross
receipts shall be added to one-half the amount of the average monthly wholesale
gross receipts in the preceding year. The amount of the annual license tax due
shall then be determined by using the total sum, as so computed, with reference
to, and calculated under, the schedule set forth in subsection §
6-1.22(A)(3) of this section.
   (E)   Outside firms making wholesale deliveries inside the city. Every
person, other than one having a fixed place of business in the city, engaged in
the business of using the public streets of the city for the operation of motor
vehicles in wholesale deliveries of cakes, pies, cookies, bakery products, meat
products, groceries, grocery products, petroleum products, gasoline, automobile
parts, automobile accessories, or other goods or merchandise, and sold by such
persons at wholesale, shall pay a license tax of $120 annually. Any person so
engaged shall not be relieved from the provisions of this section by
associating temporarily with any dealer or merchant or by reason of conducting
such business in connection with, or in the name of, any local dealer or
merchant. The provisions of this section shall have no application to motor
vehicle carriers subject to the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities Commission
of the state when the sale, delivery, or distribution of merchandise by such
motor vehicle carriers within the city is occasional and incidental to business
conducted elsewhere.
   (F)   Minimum and maximum license tax. Except for residential rentals, the
minimum license tax to be paid by any licensee under this section shall be $40
per year. The maximum license tax to be paid by any licensee under this section
shall be $1056 per year.
   (G)   Employees excluded. This section shall not be construed as requiring a
license from any person engaging in any business solely as an employee of
another person, which employer is licensed under this chapter, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (H)   Partnerships. Members of a partnership maintaining one office in the
city engaged in any occupation shall pay only one license, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter.
   (I)   Franchises. No license tax under this section shall be paid by any
person who pays a franchise tax to the city based upon the gross receipts from
the sale of gas or electricity, unless such person sells other merchandise
within the city. In such case, such person shall pay a gross receipts tax under
the provisions of this section, based upon the gross receipts from the sale of
such other merchandise.
('61 Code, § 6-1.22) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 81 C.S., passed 8-5-
65; Am. Urgency Ord. 302 C.S., passed 6-23-78; Am. Ord, 303 C.S., passed 6-30-
78; Am. Ord, 410 C.S., passed 6-20-83; Am. Ord. 597 C.S., passed 5-17-93; Am.
Ord. 709 C.S.; passed 9-15-99)
§ 6-1.23 BUSINESSES OTHER THAN RETAILERS OR MANUFACTURERS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every person engaged in
managing, conducting, operating, or practicing any business or profession other
than the sales of goods, wares, or merchandise of manufacturing or processing
at wholesale shall pay a license tax of $200 per year, or an annual license tax
based upon average monthly gross receipts in accordance with the schedule set
forth in subsection §
6-1.22(A)(3) of this chapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed or deemed to apply to any
person engaged in any profession or occupation solely as the employee of any
other person conducting, carrying on, or managing such business, occupation, or
profession in the city, but if such employee shares in the profits of the
business, he or she shall be liable for such tax. A separate tax shall be paid
by each member of every firm, association, or partnership. Any person
conducting two or more such businesses, occupations, or professions at the same
place of business shall be required to take out one license where conducted at
the same place of business, but the license shall specify the businesses,
occupations, or professions for which the license is issued.
(Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Urgency Ord. 302 C.S., passed 6-23-78; Am.
Ord. 303 C.S., passed 6-30-78; Am. Ord. 709 C.S., passed 9-15-99)
§ 6-1.24 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.25 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.26 AMUSEMENT MACHINES.
   Every person exhibiting or charging a compensation for the use of any
microscope, telescope, lung or muscle tester, photographic diversion, ball,
knife, or ring thrower, galvanic batter, talking machine, projectoscope, or
machine of like character shall pay a license tax of $10 per day for each
machine. This section shall not apply to music devices or pinball machines.
(See §§ 6-1.62 and 6-1.68 of this chapter, respectively.)
('61 Code, § 6-1.26) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
§ 6-1.27 ANIMAL SHOWS.
   Every person carrying on a show where the exhibition or performance consists
wholly of trained animals shall pay a license tax of $10 for each day.
(Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
 § 6-1.28 RENTAL PROPERTIES.
   Every person conducting or maintaining real property in the city for rental
as a dwelling unit, whether as a single-family, two-family, or multi-family
residential unit, except the Housing Authority of the city and owners of motels
and hotels, which are taxed pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 3 of Title 8
of this code, shall pay an annual license tax based upon the average monthly
gross receipts for such rental units in accordance with the schedule set forth
in §
6-1.22 of this chapter. Applications for issuance of a business license for
residential income properties shall be submitted to the Director of Finance
together with a fee as set by Council Resolution no later than June 17, 1994 or
within one calendar year of commencement of the use of the property as rental
income property, either as a new use or as a change of use. This application
fee shall not apply to any property for which a business license has been
applied for and previously obtained. Any owner who fails to make application
for such a license within the time frame specified herein shall be charged a
penalty of an additional $25 for the application fee plus ½ the amount of tax
to be imposed for the year. Such penalty may be waived at the discretion of the
Director of Community Development or his or her designated representative upon
a finding that such applicant did not have notice of such requirement.
('61 Code, § 6-1.28) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Urgency Ord. 302 C.S.,
passed 6-23-78; Am. Ord. 303 C.S., passed 6-30-78; Am. Ord. 597 C.S., passed 5-
17-93; Am. Ord. 617 C.S., passed 3-16-94; Am. Ord. 709 C.S., passed 9-15-99)
§ 6-1.29 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.30 ARCADES.
   Every person conducting, carrying on, or managing an arcade shall pay a
license tax of $200 per year which shall cover all amusement machines, except
pinball machines and music devices which are licensed by §§
6-1.68 and
6-1.62 of this chapter, respectively. For the purposes of this section, an
arcade is defined to be one general enclosure in which is conducted the
business of operating or exhibiting amusement machines.
('61 Code, § 6-1.30) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 709 C.S., passed 9-
15-99)
§ 6-1.31 AUCTIONEERS.
   (A)   Licenses required. Every person conducting, carrying on, or managing
the business of an auctioneer shall pay a license tax of $40 per year;
provided, however, if the person by, or for, whom the auctioneering is done is
an itinerant merchant or vendor of goods, wares, or merchandise, the license
tax shall be $50 per day. This section shall not apply to any person selling
his or her own goods, wares, or merchandise at his or her permanent place of
business in the city when such person, or a bona fide member of such firm or
corporation, shall act in the capacity of auctioneer. For the purposes of this
section, an itinerant merchant or vendor of goods is defined to be a person,
whether as principal or agent, who engages in a temporary or transient business
in the city selling goods, wares, and merchandise and who, for such purpose,
leases or occupies a room, store, building, structure, or place in the city for
the exhibition or sale of such goods, wares, or merchandise. Such person shall
not escape the payment of the higher license by temporarily associating with
any local merchant, dealer, or tradesman or by conducting such temporary or
transient business in connection with, or as a part of, or in the name of any
local dealer, merchant, or auctioneer.
   (B)   Fire, wreck, and bankrupt sales. For every person conducting, carrying
on, or managing a fire sale, wreck sale, or bankrupt sale, the license tax
shall be the sum of $50 per day. For the purposes of this section, a fire sale
or wreck sale is defined to be and include the sale of goods, wares, or
merchandise salvaged from a fire, wreck, or other calamity. A bankrupt sale is
defined to be and include the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise which have
been previously purchased from a trustee or receiver in bankruptcy, or a
trustee or receiver in insolvency, or trustee for the benefit of creditors. No
license shall be required under the provisions of this section for the sale of
goods, wares, or merchandise salvaged from any fire, wreck or other calamity in
the city, or for any bona fide sale of goods, wares, and/or merchandise in any
bankruptcy, receivers', trustees' or assignees' sale within the city.
   (C)   Permit application; bond.
      (1)   Before an auction sale can be held in the city a permit must be
obtained from the License Tax Collector, and a surety bond in the amount of
$1,000 shall be filed with the city guaranteeing proper conduct of the sale. In
the event the auctioneer conducting the sale is not a regularly and permanently
located and licensed auctioneer in the city, a license in the sum of $10 per
day must also be secured from the city. The person desiring the license must
file with the city a sworn statement as follows:
         (a)   Either that the merchandise to be sold is a part or all of the
stock of a merchant who has regularly done business in the city for a period of
not less than one year prior to the date of the application for a license, and
that no stock has been added in anticipation of such sale within 60 days; or
         (b)   The source from which the merchandise was produced.
      (2)   No permit or license shall be issued until the applicant shall file
with the city a duplicate itemized inventory of all of the goods to be sold. At
all times during the conduct of the sale a city inspector shall be present
whose duty it shall be to check all sales against the itemized inventory. No
goods shall be sold which are not included in the itemized inventory.
   (D)   Permit fee. The cost of a permit to conduct an auction sale shall be
$5. The permittee shall also pay to the city a daily fee of $5 to pay for the
presence of the City Inspector.
   (E)   Sales of jewelry. In the sale of merchandise classified as jewelry, a
tag or label shall be attached to each article giving clearly a true statement
of the kind and quality of the metal of which such article is made or plated.
The true name, weight, quality, and color of any precious or semi-precious
stone must be furnished in writing at the time of the sale to the purchaser of
the stone.
   (F)   Term of sale. No auction sale shall continue longer than 30 days
within a period of 12 months.
   (G)   Cause for permit revocation. Misrepresentations, substitutions, the
use of cappers or puffers, or the sale of goods not listed on the itemized
inventory shall be strictly prohibited and shall be sufficient cause for the
cancellation of the permit or license to conduct the sale.
   (H)   Exemptions. No permit or license shall be required to conduct an
auction sale when such sale is held under the order of any court or judge or
under the authority of any mortgage or deed of trust.
('61 Code, § 6-1.31) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 709, passed 9-15-99)
§ 6-1.32 BANKRUPTCY OR FIRE SALES.
   Every person who sells any bankruptcy, assigned, or damaged goods, wares, or
merchandise shall pay a license tax of $100 per day. The provisions of this
section shall not apply to any stock of goods owned by any person actually
conducting a permanent business in the city whose stock has been assigned in
bankruptcy.
('61 Code, § 6-1.32) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
§ 6-1.33 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.34 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.35 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.36 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.37 BILLIARD AND POOL TABLES.
   Every person conducting, managing, or having control or charge of billiard
tables or pool tables shall pay a license tax of $12 per year for each such
table.
('61 Code, § 6-1.37) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Urgency Ord. 302 C.S.,
passed 6-23-78; Am. Ord. 303 C.S., passed 6-30-78; Am. Ord. 709 C.S., passed 9-
15-99)
§ 6-1.38 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.39 BOWLING LANES.
   Every person conducting or managing a bowling alley shall pay a license tax
of $10 per year for each bowling lane, whether used or not.
('61 Code, § 6-1.39) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - -; Am. Ord. 709 C.S., passed 9-
15-99)
§ 6-1.40 CARD ROOMS.
   (A)   Every person who maintains a place where card tables are furnished to
the public for the playing of cards thereon shall pay a license fee of $20 per
year for each table available for non-gambling games and $600 per year for each
table available for gambling games. It shall be unlawful for any person to
conduct, maintain, or have control or charge of any premises where card tables
are furnished to the public for playing of card games thereon unless and until
the License Tax Collector or his or her authorized agent has permanently
affixed to each such table a metal plate indicating the number of the table and
whether the table may be used for gambling or non-gambling games of cards. No
card table may be permitted within any such premises, whether used or not,
unless such table has a metal plate required by the provisions of this section.
Tables having a non-gambling plate affixed to them shall not be used at any
time for any gambling of cards.
   (B)   Each application for a license pursuant to the provisions of this
section shall be filed on forms and in the manner required by the Director of
Finance, setting forth the full name and address of the applicant and all
employees, and, if specifically required, the age, physical description, and
social security number of the applicant and/or any or all of his or her
employees. No license shall be issued until the city has approved the necessary
permits and approvals as required by chapter 3 of Title 6 of this code.
Applicants for a license and their employees shall provide to the Police
Department a copy of the application form which was submitted to the state for
approval of a gaming license. An issuance of any license by the city is
contingent upon approved registration with the State Department of Justice as
required by state law.
   (C)   From and after January 21, 1996, no license for any new or additional
card rooms over and above the number in existence as of January 21, 1996, shall
be issued by the Director of Finance nor shall the Police Department issue any
permits therefor. It is the intent of this provision of this section to limit
the number of card rooms allowed within the city to the number of card rooms in
existence as of January 21, 1996; however, nothing in this section shall be
construed to preclude the continued operation of existing card rooms, changes
in ownership if new owners qualify for licenses and permits under the terms of
this section, nor to the transfer of a card room operation to a new and
different location if the appropriate use permit and other necessary permits
are obtained authorizing the operation of card rooms at the new location.
   (D)   If any of the card rooms in existence as of January 21, 1996, cease
operations and the conduct of business for a period of not less than six
consecutive calendar months, the right to conduct any such operation upon the
premises where it was located shall thereupon cease and terminate.
('61 Code, § 6-1.40) (Ord. 228, N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 141 C.S., passed
12-3-69; Am. Ord. 457 C.S., passed 7-16-86; Am. Ord. 572 C.S., passed 9-18-91;
Am. Ord. 582 C.S., passed 6-3-92; Am. Ord. 587 C.S., passed 10-21-92; Am. Ord.
649 C.S., passed 12-20-95; Am. Ord. 684 C.S., passed 6-3-98; Am. Ord. 709 C.S.,
passed 9-15-99)
§ 6-1.41 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.42 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.43 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.44 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.45 DANCES.
   (A)   Every person carrying on a public dance to which the public is
admitted, either with or without charge, shall pay a license tax of $10 per
day. For the purposes of this section, a public dance shall mean and include a
dance performed by persons for the view and entertainment of an audience and
shall also mean and include a dance where the public may participate in the
dancing. No public dance shall be conducted or maintained between the hours of
2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m.
   (B)   A license shall be granted without the payment of any tax to any
person, sorority, fraternity, society, or group giving, maintaining, or
conducting a dance in any fixed place of business or hall where the public
generally is not permitted to obtain admission, but where those permitted to
gain admission are admitted by invitation, subscription list, or previous
arrangement between the parties and contribute to the expense of the dance by
the payment of a stated charge or by the division of the expense between the
persons admitted.
('61 Code, § 6-1.45) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
§ 6-1.46 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.47 DEMONSTRATION PARTIES.
   No sale of goods, wares, or merchandise by means of a party demonstration
shall be made without a license therefor issued to the person conducting such
sale. The license tax for party demonstration sales is fixed at the sum of $20
per year.
('61 Code, § 6-1.47) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 709 C.S., passed 9-
15-99)
§ 6-1.48 FINANCE COMPANIES.
   (A)   Every person engaging in the business of loaning money, either for
himself or for any other person, upon personal security, evidences of debt,
assignments of salary, salary warranties, salary demands, automobiles, or any
other personal property, or purchasing for himself or any other person
automobile contracts, commercial papers, evidences of debt, assignments of
salary, salary warranties, salary demands, time checks, or other evidences of
salary due, or to become due, shall pay a license tax as follows:
      (1)   Those persons licensed or required to be licensed by the state
under the provisions of
either or both of those certain acts known as the State Small Loan Act or the
Personal Property Brokers' Act shall pay a license tax of $200 per year.
      (2)   All other persons making personal loans or purchasing commercial
papers shall pay a license tax of $40 per year.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to apply to any person making
real estate loans or to other persons exempt from the payment of a municipal
license tax under state or federal laws.
('61 Code, § 6-1.48) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 709 C.S., passed 9-
15-99)
§ 6-1.49 FORTUNE-TELLERS.
   (A)   Every person who carries on, practices, or professes to practice in
the city the business or art of astrology, augury, cartomancy, clairvoyance,
clairaudience, crystal gazing, divination, fortune-telling, hypnotism, life
reading, magic, medium, necromancy, palmistry, phrenology, prophecy, seer,
spiritualistic medium, or other business or art of similar nature or character,
and demands or receives a fee for the exercise or exhibition of his or her
business or art therein, directly or indirectly, either as a gift, donation, or
otherwise, or gives an exhibition thereof at any place where admission is
charged, shall pay a license tax based upon average monthly gross receipts in
accordance with the schedule set forth in §
6-1.22 of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to a performance or entertainment when
given as a part of an established vaudeville show or theater along with other
entertainment. No license shall be required for conducting or participating in
any religious ceremony or service when a certificate of ordination is held as a
medium, healer, or clairvoyant from any bona fide church having branches in
other communities which church has a creed that is recognized by all such
churches; provided that the fees and profits thereof shall be regularly
accounted for and paid solely to, or for the benefit of, such church.
('61 Code, § 6-1.49) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 664 C.S., passed 10-
2-96)
§ 6-1.50 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.51 HOSPITALS.
   Every person conducting or managing a hospital, maternity home, sanitarium,
rest home, or convalescent home shall pay a license tax of $4 per year for each
bed therein.
('61 Code, § 6-1.51) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 709 C.S., passed 9-
15-99)
§ 6-1.52 HOTELS.
   (A)   Every person conducting, carrying on, or managing a hotel shall pay an
annual license tax as follows:
      (1)   Where the hotel consists of from one to 20 rooms, the sum of $40;
      (2)   Where the hotel consists of from 21 to 30 rooms, the sum of $60;
      (3)   Where the hotel consists of from 31 to 60 rooms, the sum of $80;
      (4)   Where the hotel consists of from 61 to 80 rooms, the sum of $100;
and
      (5)   Where the hotel consists of from 81 to 90 rooms, the sum of $120.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, the word ROOM shall be defined to
mean and include a room rented for sleeping purposes and shall not include
dining rooms, toilets, bathrooms, halls, lobbies, offices, coat rooms, or
balconies.
   (C)   The tax prescribed by this section shall cover rooms only. An
additional license tax shall be paid on gross receipts from dining or lunch
rooms, coffee shops, cocktail bars, cigar stands, and all other receipts, as
provided in §
6-1.22 of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 6-1.52) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 709 C.S., passed 9-
15-99)
§ 6-1.53 ITINERANT PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND PHOTOGRAPHERS.
   (A)   License required.
      (1)   Every person without a permanent place of business in the city who
engages in the business of hawking, peddling, or vending goods, wares,
merchandise, pictures, foodstuffs, services, or advertising from door to door,
house to house, or building to building, or from or upon the streets, alleys,
parks, or other public places of the city, or from any hotel, motel, rooming
house, or trailer house on foot, or from or in any vehicle of any nature
whatever, either by sample or by taking or soliciting orders for immediate
delivery or for delivery in the future, shall comply with the provisions of
this section. Every person without a permanent place of business in the city
who engages in the business of photography, portraiture, photochromography,
operating a photograph studio, taking pictures or any other branch of the
photographic art whatever, whether from door to door, house to house, or
building to building, or from or upon the streets, alleys, or other public
places of the city, or from any hotel, motel, rooming house, or trailer house
on foot, or from or in any type of vehicle whatever, shall comply with the
provisions of this section.
      (2)   Every person without a permanent place of business in the city
engages in the business of soliciting orders for photographs, peddling tickets,
certificates, or other documents intended to apply in whole or in part as
payment for photographs, frames, or other photographic merchandise or other
material, or in any other manner whatever engages in the business of, or
soliciting orders for, any branch of the photographic art in any respect,
including copying, retouching, enlarging, or coloring of photographs or
photographic negatives and prints shall comply with the provisions of this
section.
      (3)   No person shall be relieved from the provisions of this section by
reason of associating temporarily with any local dealer, trader, merchant, or
auctioneer having a fixed place of business in the city or by conducting a
temporary, transient, or itinerant business in connection with, or as a part of
or in the name of, any such local dealer, trader, merchant, or auctioneer
having a fixed place of business within the city.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   Every person desiring to conduct, carry on, manage, or engage in
any of the businesses set forth in subsection §
6-1.53(A) of this section shall apply for a license for such business to the
License Tax Collector of the city upon forms to be provided by the License Tax
Collector, which forms shall require the following information from the
applicant:
         (a)   The full name, permanent business address, local business
address, and residence address of the applicant if an individual, or its
authorized representative if other than an individual; the nature of the
applicant, that is, whether individual, partnership, firm, corporation, or
otherwise; the full names, ages, addresses, and occupations of each person who
shall actually vend, sell, solicit, or otherwise engage in any act whatever
within the city herein required to be licensed on behalf of, or for, the
applicant, whether as principal, agent, servant, employee, associate, partner,
representative, or otherwise; and
         (b)   A specific description of the article or service proposed to be
sold, vended, or performed, whether for immediate or future delivery or
performance, and the proposed method of delivery and performance, including
information as to whether such sales will be made by quantity, weight, quality,
package, or otherwise, and whether delivery or performance will be made
personally or by mail, or in what other manner.
      (2)   In the event any form, contract, order blank, warranty, agreement,
or other written or printed document is to be signed by the purchaser or person
receiving property or service or is involved in any manner otherwise in the
business of the applicant, the application form must be accompanied by a copy
of such form, contract, order blank, warranty, agreement, or other written or
printed document.
      (3)   Each application must be accompanied by two prints of a recent
photograph of each individual person who will actually engage in vending,
selling, soliciting, peddling, or doing any other act required under the
provisions of this section to be licensed, whether as principal, agent,
servant, employee, associate, partner, representative, or otherwise, which
photographs shall not exceed one square-inch in size and shall be full front
views of the face and head only of such persons.
      (4)   In each case where it appears that the applicant will or may
demand, accept, or receive payments or deposits of money or property in advance
of final delivery or performance of services, the application shall be
accompanied by a cash deposit of $1,000, or by a bond to the city in the penal
sum of $1,000, issued by a surety company authorized to do business within the
state. Such bond shall be conditioned for making final delivery of goods,
wares, or merchandise ordered or for final performance of services to be
performed in accordance with the order, agreement, or contract entered into,
and failing therein, the advance payment or deposit on such order shall be
refunded or returned. Any person aggrieved by the action of any such applicant
shall have a right of action on the deposit or bond for the recovery of money
or damages, or both. The cash deposit or bond, as the case may be, shall remain
in full force and effect and be retained by the city for a period of 90 days
after the expiration of any such license or the termination of any action upon
the bond or deposit, of which the License Tax Collector shall have been
notified, unless sooner released by the License Tax Collector.
      (5)   Each application shall be accompanied by the following license fee
unless exemption therefrom is approved by the License Tax Collector in the
manner hereinafter provided: the sum of $600 for payment for the calendar-year
, or portion thereof, in advance, unless such applicant desires to obtain a
license for less than a calendar-year in which case the minimum charge shall be
$50 for any month period or any portion thereof, payable in advance.
      (6)   At the time of making such application, each individual person,
whether as principal or agent, servant, or employee, who shall actually engage
in selling, soliciting, vending, or doing any other act covered under the
provisions of this section, shall present himself or herself at the office of
the Police Chief for the purpose of being fingerprinted and supplying routine
information required on the fingerprint forms provided at no expense by the
city, including the physical characteristics of each such person, identifying
marks or scars, age, name, address, and signature. Such fingerprint records are
to be taken in triplicate, and each such individual is advised that the city
reserves the right to retain one of such fingerprint records in its files for
permanent safekeeping, and to send one such fingerprint record to the Federal
Bureau of Investigation of the Department of Justice, and to the Criminal
Investigation Department of the State Department of Justice for the purpose of
filing. No fingerprint records will be returned in the event the license
applied for is not issued or is subsequently suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Exemptions. The following individual applicants shall be exempted from
the payment of the license fees required by this section but must fully comply
otherwise with the requirements hereof as to applications, fingerprinting,
bonds, and pictures:
      (1)   Every honorably discharged veteran who meets the requirements of
Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 16001. Such exemption shall apply only to an
individual applicant engaged in peddling, vending, or soliciting for, and by,
himself or herself alone, and shall not apply to any individual applicant
otherwise entitled to such exemption who employs agents, servants, or employees
in such activities, nor to any other type of applicant of which a person
otherwise entitled to such an exemption is an officer, member, agent, or
employee. All claims for such exemption shall be referred to the County Service
Officer for investigation and recommendation.
      (2)   Every individual person selling and vending farm fruits and
vegetables grown and produced by his or her own labor on real property
belonging to, or possessed by, the individual. All claims for such exemption
shall be referred to the County Agricultural Commissioner for investigation and
recommendation.
      (3)   Every applicant claiming to be entitled to exemption from the
payment of any license provided for in this section upon the ground that such
license casts a burden upon his or her right to engage in commerce with foreign
nations or among the several states, or conflicts with the regulations of the
Congress respecting interstate commerce, shall file a verified statement with
the License Tax Collector disclosing the interstate or other character of his
or her business entitled to such exemption. Such statement shall state the name
and address, the company or firm for which the orders are to be solicited or
secured, the name of the nearest local or state manager, if any, and his or her
address, the kind of goods, wares, or merchandise to be delivered, the place
from which the same is to be shipped or delivered, the method of solicitation
or taking orders, the location of any warehouse, factory, or plant in the
state, the method of delivery, the name and address of the applicant, and any
other facts necessary to establish such claim exemption. All claims for such
exemption shall be referred to the City Attorney for investigation and
recommendation.
      (4)   This section shall not apply to persons under the age of 14 years
soliciting the sale or subscription of magazines or newspapers; nor shall it
apply to peddlers, solicitors, or agents of trade supply houses calling upon
specific trades.
   (D)   Issuance of license and identification cards. Upon the receipt of the
application accompanied by the required documents and appropriate fees, the
License Tax Collector shall issue a business license to the applicant and
individual identification cards to all persons who shall actually solicit for,
and on behalf of, the applicant, whether as principal or otherwise. Such
identification card shall have affixed to it one of the pictures filed by the
applicant and shall contain a reference to the issuance of the license, a
description of the individual to whom issued, date of expiration, and the
signature of the individual to whom issued. In the event the applicant claims
an exemption from the payment of license fees under the provisions of
subsection §
6-1.53(C) of this section, the License Tax Collector shall issue the license
only after he or she has reviewed the report and recommendations of the County
Service Officer, the Agricultural Commissioner of the County, or the City
Attorney, as the case may be, and is satisfied that the applicant is entitled
to such exemption.
   (E)   Use of license and identification cards. Each applicant, or if other
than an individual, its representative, must at all times retain in his or her
possession the business license issued by the License Tax Collector, and each
person issued an identification card pursuant to this section must retain the
same in his or her personal possession at all times while engaged in the
business so licensed within the city and must produce and show the same upon
the demand of any person solicited or of any Police Officer or official of the
city. No licensee or person issued an identification card shall alter, remove,
or obliterate any entry made upon such license or card or deface such license
or card in any way. Each license and card shall be personal and not assignable
or transferable, and no license or card may be used by any person other than
the licensee or the person for whom issued.
   (F)   Conditions and regulations. The following conditions and regulations
shall also apply to the exercise of the privileges granted by licenses issued
under the provisions of this chapter in addition to those set forth in other
sections of this chapter or by other laws of the city:
      (1)   Every licensee or holder of an identification card, upon the
request of any police officer or other officer of the city, shall sign his or
her name for comparison with the signature upon the license or card or the
signature upon the license application.
      (2)   Any person acting under authority of any license issued who
solicits orders for future delivery shall write each order at least in
duplicate, plainly stating the quantity of each article or commodity ordered,
the price to be paid therefor, the total amount ordered, and the amount to be
paid on, or after, delivery. One copy of such order shall be given to the
customer.
   (G)   Suspension and revocation. In the event the License Tax Collector has
reasonable cause to believe, and does believe, that any licensee or other
person employed by, or representing, such licensee is violating any of the
provisions of this chapter, or any other law relating to the business of the
licensee, the License Tax Collector shall have power to, and shall be
authorized to, suspend such license and all identification cards so issued. If
no written appeal is filed with the City Clerk protesting such suspension
within two days of the date of such suspension, such suspension shall be deemed
permanent and all such licenses or identification cards issued thereunder shall
be deemed revoked.
   (H)   Appeals. In the event any applicant desires to appeal from any order,
denial of exemption, order of suspension, or other ruling made under the
provisions of this section, such applicant, or any other person aggrieved
thereby, shall file written notice of such appeal with the City Clerk, and such
matter shall be heard upon the next regular meeting of the Council, at which
time the Council shall hear and receive evidence, written and oral, upon all
matters involved. The decision of the Council shall be final upon all parties
concerned.
   (I)   Denial of access. It shall be unlawful for any peddler, or person
pretending to be a peddler, for the purpose of selling or pretending to sell or
peddle any goods, wares, merchandise, or any article, material, or substance,
or any solicitor, or any person pretending to be a solicitor, for the purpose
of soliciting orders for any goods, wares, or merchandise or any article,
material, or substance of whatsoever kind, to ring the bell or knock at the
door of any residence or dwelling whereon a sign bearing the words "no
peddlers," or words of similar import, is painted or affixed so as to be
exposed to public view, or to peddle or pretend to peddle, or to solicit or
pretend to solicit, orders for any goods, wares, or merchandise or any article,
material, or substance in any building whereon or wherein a sign bearing the
words, "no peddlers," or words of similar import, is painted or affixed so as
to be exposed to public view.
('61 Code, § 6-1.53) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 423 C.S., passed 4-
2-84; Am. Ord. 657 C.S., passed 6-19-96; Am. Ord. 709 C.S., passed 9-15-99)
§ 6-1.54 JOB PRINTING.
   Every person engaged in the business of job printing and located at a
permanent place of business within the city shall pay an annual license tax
based on gross receipts as set forth in §
6-1.22 of this chapter. Every person located outside the city and soliciting
job printing within the city shall pay a license tax of $40 per year.
('61 Code, § 6-1.54) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 709, passed 9-15-99)
§ 6-1.55 LAUNDRIES.
   Every person conducting or carrying on the business of a steam laundry or
towel and/or linen supply where the plant for the actual work of laundering is
maintained outside the city shall pay a license tax of $30 per year. Every
person conducting, carrying on, or managing the business of a laundry, help-
yourself laundry, or laundromat where the actual place of laundering is located
within the city shall pay a license tax based on the gross receipts of such
laundry business as set forth in §
6-1.22 of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 6-1.55) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - -; Am. Ord. 709 C.S., passed 9-
15-99)
§ 6-1.56 LOCKSMITHS AND SHARPENERS.
   Every person engaged only in the business of a locksmith or sharpener shall
pay a license tax of $10 per year; provided, however, such person may elect to
include the gross receipts from such business with the gross receipts of such
other business as may be licensed under the provisions of §
6-1.22 of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 6-1.56) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 709 C.S., passed 9-
15-99)
§ 6-1.57 MERCHANDISE STAMPS.
   Every person engaged in the business or occupation of selling or redeeming
stamps, coupons, tickets, cards, or other devices issued to purchasers of
goods, wares, or merchandise, which stamps, coupons, tickets, cards, or other
devices shall entitle such purchaser receiving the same to procure from the
person issuing the same, or any other person, goods, wares, or merchandise free
of charge upon the presentation of one or a number of such stamps, coupons,
tickets, cards, or other devices shall pay a license tax based upon the gross
receipts of such business or occupation as set forth in §
6-1.22 of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 6-1.57) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
§ 6-1.58 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.59 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.60 MOTELS AND AUTO COURTS.
   (A)   Every person conducting or managing a motel or auto court shall pay an
annual license tax as follows:
      (1)   Where the motel or auto court contains five to ten units, the sum
of $20;
      (2)   Where the motel or auto court contains 11 to 19 units, the sum of
$40; and
      (3)   Where the motel or auto court contains 20 units and over, the sum
of $60.
   (B)   The tax set forth in this section shall cover rooms only. An
additional license tax shall be paid on receipts from dining or lunch rooms,
coffee shops, cocktail bars, cigar stands, and all other receipts as set forth
in §
6-1.22 of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 6-1.60) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 709 C.S., passed 9-
15-99)
§ 6-1.61 MUSEUMS.
   Every person conducting, carrying on, or managing a transient museum upon
the public streets of the city or elsewhere shall pay a license tax of $10 per
day. For the purposes of this section, MUSEUM shall mean and include the
showing or display of articles of historical interest or of interest because of
age or past usage.
('61 Code, § 6-1.61) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
§ 6-1.62 MUSIC MACHINES.
   Every person maintaining or permitting to be maintained upon in his or her
premises, tables, machines, or devices for playing or rendering music upon the
deposit of a coin shall pay a license tax of $10 per year for each such machine
or device.
('61 Code, § 6-1.62) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
§ 6-1.63 NEWSPAPERS.
   Every person engaged in the business of publishing newspapers, magazines, or
periodicals less often than daily shall pay a license tax of $120 per year,
and, in addition thereto, such person shall pay a license tax for all job
printing and the sale of any merchandise other than printed newspapers based
upon the gross receipts as set forth in §
6-1.22 of this chapter. Every person engaged in the business of publishing a
daily newspaper, magazine, or periodical in the city shall pay a license tax of
$200 per year, and, in addition thereto, such person shall pay a license tax
for all job printing and the sale of any merchandise other than newspapers
based upon the gross receipts as set forth in §
6-1.22 of this chapter. For the purposes of this section, a newspaper,
magazine, or periodical is defined to be such as has a regular paid
subscription list (excepting papers printed or issued by schools or colleges),
and a daily newspaper is defined to be a paper issued five times or more per
week.
('61 Code, § 6-1.63) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Urgency Ord. 302 C.S.,
passed 6-23-78; Am. Ord. 303 C.S., passed 6-30-78; Am. Ord. 709 C.S., passed 9-
15-99)
§ 6-1.64 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.65 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.66 PAWNBROKERS.
   Every person engaged in the business of a pawnbroker shall pay a license tax
of $200 per year. For the purposes of this section, PAWNBROKER shall mean and
include every person managing, conducting, or carrying on the business of
loaning money, either for himself or for any other person, and receiving goods,
wares, or merchandise as a pledge or pawn in security for the payment of such
loan, or who purchases articles of personal property and resells, or agrees to
resell, such personal property to vendors or their assigns at prices agreed
upon at, or before, the time of such purchase; provided, however, this section
shall not apply to persons exempt from the payment of municipal license taxes
under state or federal laws.
('61 Code, § 6-1.66) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 709 C.S., passed 9-
15-99)
§ 6-1.67 PHYSICAL THERAPY.
   (A)   Every person who operates any place where physical therapy is
practiced, or which is devoted to, or which advertises or offers, any of the
services or treatments included in the term PHYSICAL THERAPY shall pay a
license fee of $200 per year, or an annual license tax based upon average
monthly gross receipts in accordance with the schedule set forth in subsection
§
6-1.22(A) of this chapter; every person who engages in rendering for
compensation, received or expected, any of the services or treatments included
under the terms PHYSICAL THERAPY as herein defined, or who is employed to
render such services or treatment in any place where PHYSICAL THERAPY is
practiced or in any place which is devoted to or which advertises or offers any
of the services or treatment included in the term PHYSICAL THERAPY shall also
pay a license fee of $40 minimum per year. PHYSICAL THERAPY for the purposes of
this section shall mean the treatment or care of the body and the maintenance
of health by physical agents other than drugs, medicine, or surgery; including,
but not by way of limitation, fomentations, therapeutic massage, electric or
magnetic treatment, steam baths, sun baths, mineral baths, electric tub baths,
shower baths, sponge baths, Russian, Swedish, or Turkish baths, salt glows,
alcohol rubs, movement, manipulation, corrective exercise, and other related
services.
   (B)   Applications for such license shall be under oath and shall contain
the name of the applicant and a statement regarding any and all true and
fictitious names used by the applicant within five years prior to the date of
filing of the application, the applicant's residence address and telephone
number, the applicant's age, date and place of birth, the place or places where
applicant will engage in his or her business calling or employment, the nature
and place of applicant's business employment within the five years immediately
preceding the date of the application, a photograph of the applicant taken
within 60 days immediately prior to the date of filing of the application which
shall be at least 2 × 2 inches showing the head and shoulders of applicant in a
clear and distinguishing manner, the names of at least two reliable property
owners of the county who will certify to the applicant's good character or in
lieu thereof such other available evidence as will enable an investigator to
properly evaluate the applicant's character and/or business responsibility, a
statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a crime involving
moral turpitude or a felony, or if such crime has been committed a complete
statement of the nature of such crime and the place and date of conviction, and
two copies of a valid unexpired and unrevoked license issued to the applicant
by the Board of Medical Quality Assurance of the state pursuant to Cal. Bus. &
Prof. Code Chapter 5.7, Division 2. Each application for such license shall be
accompanied by an application fee as established by Resolution of the City
Council.
   (C)   Every application for a license shall be referred to the Chief of
Police for approval, which may after investigation of the application and a
proposed business or activity, be granted or refused by the Chief of Police.
The permit shall be refused if it shall be determined that the granting of the
permit or the conduct or activity will be contrary to the public peace, health,
safety, morals, or welfare of the city or its inhabitants. If the permit is
granted, the Chief of Police may impose such terms, conditions, and
restrictions upon the operation and conduct of such business not in conflict
with any paramount law, as may be deemed expedient to protect the public peace,
health, safety, and morals, or welfare of the city or its inhabitants.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any business over
which the state has assumed exclusive jurisdiction as a matter of statewide
concern and which gives the services or treatments included in the term
PHYSICAL THERAPY as herein defined as incidence to such business, calling, or
profession, nor shall such terms apply to regularly established hospitals,
athletic associations, athletic teams, or religious and charitable
institutions.
   (E)   The City Council expressly declares that violation of this section
shall be, and is, a misdemeanor punishable as otherwise provided in this code.
('61 Code, § 6-1.67) (Ord. 465 C.S., passed 12-17-86; Am. Ord. 709 C.S., passed
9-15-99)
§ 6-1.68 PINBALL MACHINES.
   (A)   PINBALL MACHINE. Any device in which marbles, balls, pellets, or other
moving objects are propelled, released, or rolled, either by hand or with the
aid of a mechanical plunger or other affixed mechanical device, in such a
manner as to result in a score, tally, points, or other indication of relative
success in the operation and playing of such pinball machine, whether the same
is indicated by, or may be computed by, means of numbers, letters, lights,
colors, or in any manner whatsoever and where all of such balls count in the
total score of such machine. Every person maintaining or  operating a pinball
machine on premises owned or leased by him shall pay a license tax on each such
machine as follows:
      (1)   For each pinball machine on which the total possible score for any
single game cannot be changed during the game, the sum of $40 per year; and
      (2)   For each pinball machine on which the total possible score, tally,
or points for a single game may be increased by paying into such machine during
such game additional coins, the sum of $80 per year.
   (B)   No license shall be granted for a pinball machine or game which is
unlawful under state or local laws, or for a lawful machine or game which is
played in an unlawful manner, or for any pinball machine in which the element
of chance predominates. No license shall be issued for the operation of any
machine which automatically discharges or pays, or is capable of discharging or
paying, counters, slugs, money, checks, coupons, or tickets, whether in a
sealed compartment or not.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, controlling, or having
charge of any pinball machine to cause, permit, or allow such pinball machine
to be located, kept, operated, or maintained to be operated within 500 feet of
the nearest street entrance to, or exit from, any public playground or public
or private school of elementary or high school grades, such 500 feet to be
measured from the entrance or exit in the most direct line to the public
playground or public or private school of elementary or high school grades.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, controlling, or having
charge of a pinball machine, or any person in charge of the premises where a
pinball machine is installed and being operated, to pay off in money or
anything of value any winning that may be determined by any score or otherwise
by the operation of any such game or device.
('61 Code, § 6-1.68) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 709 C.S., passed 9-
15-99)
§ 6-1.69 PROMOTERS.
   Every person who, for any compensation whatsoever, shall carry on, or
manage, the business of selling tickets for or promoting any charitable,
political, philanthropic, social service, benevolent, patriotic, or purported
political or purported philanthropic club, corporation, association, or
partnership within the city for which a paid admission is charged or collected
shall pay a license tax of $400 per year.
('61 Code, § 6-1.69) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 709 C.S., passed 9-
15-99)
§ 6-1.70 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.71 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.72 RIDES.
   Every person managing, conducting, or carrying on a ferris wheel, scenic
railway, merry-go-round, pony rides, or other riding or amusement devices of a
similar character especially designated and operated solely for the amusement
of children, and where a charge is collected for carrying any person therein or
thereon, shall pay a license tax of $5 for each such riding or amusement device
each day.
('61 Code, § 6-1.72) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
§ 6-1.73 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.74 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.75 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.76 SHOWS.
   (A)   Every person engaged in the business of conducting any transient
theatrical or vaudeville performance, motion picture show, indoor circus,
concert, opera, contest, marathon, stunt, or any other transient attraction or
transient entertainment not otherwise provided for in this chapter, either as
principal or agent, in the open air, in a tent or clubroom, or elsewhere than
in a regularly established and licensed theater, whether or not an admission
fee is charged, wherein such attraction or entertainment is conducted or
exhibited as an independent business or entertainment and not as a part of any
other business, shall pay a license tax of $50 per day.
   (B)   Any license required by this section shall be subject to the
provisions of §
6-1.21 of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 6-1.76) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
§ 6-1.77 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.78 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.79 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.80 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.81 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.82 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.83 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.84 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.85 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.86 WALKING SIGNS.
   Every person who engages in the business of carrying in his or her hands or
on his or her person on the streets, alleys, or public places in the city any
banner, placard, or poster advertising or calling attention to any business
carried on in the city shall pay a license tax of $5 per day.
('61 Code, § 6-1.86) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
§ 6-1.87 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.88 (REPEALED).
§ 6-1.89 WRESTLING AND BOXING MATCHES.
   Every person conducting, carrying on, or managing a sparring exhibition or
wrestling match shall pay a license tax of $10 for each such match; provided,
however, all applications for licenses for such matches shall be referred to
the Council. The Council shall have the power to reject or refuse such
applications.
('61 Code, § 6-1.89) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
§ 6-1.90 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the License Tax Collector, and he or she is so
appointed and directed, to enforce each and all of the provisions of this
chapter, and the Police Chief shall render such assistance in such enforcement
as may from time to time be required by the License Tax Collector and the
Council.
   (B)   The Collector, in the exercise of the duties imposed upon him or her
by the provisions of this chapter, and acting through his or her deputies or
duly authorized assistants, shall examine, or cause to be examined, all places
of business and all persons in the city liable to pay a license tax to
ascertain whether the provisions of this chapter have been complied with. The
License Tax Collector and each and all of his or her assistants and any police
officer shall have and exercise the power and authority to enter, free of
charge, at any reasonable time, any place of business required by this chapter
to be licensed and to demand the exhibition of such license for the current
term by any person engaged or employed in the transaction of such business. Any
person having such license certificate theretofore issued in his or her
possession or under his or her control who wilfully fails to exhibit such
license certificate on demand shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. It shall also
be the duty of the License Tax Collector to determine any violation of this
chapter due to failure to comply with its provisions at all, or due to evasions
in full compliance therewith, and to promptly report such violations to the
Council.
('61 Code, § 6-1.90) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
§ 6-1.91 REFUNDS.
   (A)   The license taxes, penalties, and costs collected and received by the
city may be refunded as provided in this section, and not otherwise, if a
signed and verified claim therefor is filed with the License Tax Collector
within six months after the date of payment. Such refund may be allowed where
the amount paid was in excess of the amount required by this chapter, where the
amount paid was not required by law, where the applicant for any license or
permit has not, at any time after the commencement of the period or term during
which the requested license or permit would have been effective, commenced or
engaged in the business or occupation or performed any act for which the
license or permit was required, or where the money paid was not required by law
or erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city through a
mistake, inadvertence, or error of fact, and whether paid or charged under
cover of any provision of this chapter or otherwise. Upon receiving such signed
and verified claim, the License Tax Collector shall notify the Council at its
next regular meeting. The Council shall grant its prior approval before any
refund may be made. Before any refund may be made, the license or permit shall
be returned to the License Tax Collector, if available.
   (B)   If any section of this chapter is repealed or amended, the Council, at
is discretion, may refund a proportionate amount of the license tax paid.
('61 Code, § 6-1.91) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
§ 6-1.92 DIVULGING INFORMATION FORBIDDEN.
   It shall be unlawful for any officer or employee of the city having an
administrative duty under this chapter to make known in any matter whatever the
business affairs, operations, or information obtained by an investigation of
the records of any person licensed under this chapter, or the amount or source
of income, profits, losses, expenditures, or any particulars thereof set forth
or disclosed in any statement, or to permit any statement, or copy thereof, or
any book containing any abstract or particulars thereof to be seen or examined
by any person. The Council, however, by resolution, may authorize the
examination of such statements by federal or state officers or employees if a
reciprocal arrangement exists. Successors, receivers, trustees, executors,
administrators, assignees, and guarantors, if directly interested, may be given
information as to the items included in the amount of any license tax. Any
unwarranted disclosure or use of such information by any officer or employee of
the city shall constitute a misdemeanor, and such officer or employee shall be
subject to the penalty provisions of this code.
('61 Code, § 6-1.92) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
§ 6-1.93 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   Any person, whether as owner, servant, agent, or employee, violating any
provision of this chapter, or wilfully failing or neglecting to comply with any
of the terms, requirements, or provisions of this chapter, or directly or
indirectly aiding or assisting in the violation of any term, requirement, or
provisions of this chapter, or knowingly or intentionally misrepresenting to
any officer or employee of the city any material fact in procuring the license
or permit provided for in this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
('61 Code, § 6-1.93) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
§ 6-1.94 CRIMINAL AND CIVIL ACTIONS AUTHORIZED FOR FAILURE TO PAY LICENSE TAX.
   The conviction and imprisonment of any person for engaging in any business
without first obtaining a license to conduct such business shall not relieve
such person from paying the license tax to conduct such business, nor shall the
payment of any license tax prevent a criminal prosecution for the violation of
any provision of this chapter. No remedy used by the city shall bar the use of
any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 6-1.94) (Ord. 228 N.S., passed - - )
§ 6-1.95 CANNABIS.
   Any person or organization wishing to conduct commercial cultivation,
processing, manufacturing, testing, distribution, or the sale of cannabis or
cannabis products in the city shall obtain and maintain a Cannabis Business
License pursuant to
Chapter 5 of Title VI of this code.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
CHAPTER 2: FILMING
Section
   
6-2.01   Purpose
   
6-2.02   Definitions
   
6-2.03   Permits required
   
6-2.04   Exemptions
   
6-2.05   Application; fee
   
6-2.06   Application review
   
6-2.07   General requirements and conditions
   
6-2.08   Permit nontransferable
§ 6-2.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to encourage the motion picture, television,
and video advertising industries to conduct their activities in the city by
providing a convenient means by which persons within such industries may obtain
necessary permits and approvals to conduct their activities, while at the same
time providing sufficient regulation to protect the health, safety, and welfare
of the residents and visitors of the county.
('61 Code, § 6-2.01) (Ord. 556 C.S., passed 9-19-90)
§ 6-2.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL MOTION PICTURE, TELEVISION, and STILL PHOTOGRAPHY.  Any and all
activity attendant to the staging or filming of commercial motion pictures,
television shows or programs, and commercial advertisements.
   CHARITABLE FILMS. Commercial advertisements, motion pictures, television,
videotapes, or still photography produced by a non-profit organization which
qualifies under § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code as a charitable
organization. No person, directly or indirectly, shall receive a profit from
the marketing and production of the film or from showing the films, tapes, or
photos produced by such an organization.
   PERSON. Any natural person or persons, partnership, trust, corporation,
association, society, club, or other entity.
('61 Code, § 6-2.02) (Ord. 556 C.S., passed 9-19-90)
§ 6-2.03 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   Except as may otherwise be provided in this chapter, no person shall use any
public or private property, facility, or residence for the purpose of taking or
filming commercial motion pictures, television pictures, commercial
advertisements, or commercial still photography without first applying for, and
obtaining, a permit pursuant to this chapter. Permits obtained pursuant to this
chapter shall be in lieu of any other business license or permit required by
this title.
('61 Code, § 6-2.03) (Ord. 556 C.S., passed 9-19-90)
§ 6-2.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following persons are exempt from the permit requirements of this
chapter:
   (A)   Reporters, photographers, camera persons in the employ of a newspaper,
news service, or similar entity, engaged in filming, photographing, or on-the-
spot broadcasting of news events concerning those persons, scenes, or
occurrences which are in the news and of general public interest.
   (B)   Persons engaged in the filming or videotaping of motion pictures
solely for private family use.
   (C)   Persons taking or creating charitable films.
('61 Code, § 6-2.04) (Ord. 556 C.S., passed 9-19-90)
§ 6-2.05 APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   To obtain a film permit, written application shall be made with the
City Manager on forms provided therefor and accompanied by the appropriate film
permit fee. Every application for a film permit shall be verified by oath of
the applicant.
   (B)   The following information shall be included in the application:
      (1)   The name of the owner and the address and telephone number of the
place at which the activity is to be conducted;
      (2)   The inclusive hours and dates such activity will occur;
      (3)   A general statement of the character or nature of the proposed
filming activity;
      (4)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person or persons in
charge of such filming activity;
      (5)   The exact number of personnel to be involved in the activity;
      (6)   A statement as to use of any animals or pyrotechnics; and
      (7)   The exact amount and type of vehicles or equipment to be involved
in the filming.
   (C)   A filming permit application fee of $100.
('61 Code, § 6-2.05) (Ord. 556 C.S., passed 9-19-90)
§ 6-2.06 APPLICATION REVIEW.
   The City Manager or his or her designee shall approve and issue, with or
without conditions, a filming permit upon a satisfactory demonstration by the
applicant that traffic, crowd control, and other factors affecting the public
health, safety, and general welfare will be adequately mitigated. The City
Manager or his or her designee shall consult with the Police, Fire,
Engineering, Planning, and other city departments as may be appropriate,
regarding special conditions of approval which may be necessary in order to
protect the public health, safety, and welfare with respect to the requested
permit. Special conditions of approval may be attached to the permit in order
to assure the health and safety of all persons, avoidance of undue disruption
of all persons within the affected area, the safety of property, and the
avoidance of traffic congestion at particular locations.
('61 Code, § 6-2.06) (Ord. 556 C.S., passed 9-19-90)
§ 6-2.07 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Applicants shall submit permit applications at least two working days
prior to the dates on which such persons desire to conduct an activity for
which a permit is required by this chapter. If it appears that such activity
may interfere with traffic or involve potential public safety hazards, the City
Manager or his or her designee may require that the permit be submitted at
least four working days in advance.
   (B)   The permittee shall be required to conduct operations in an orderly
fashion with continuous attention to the storage of equipment not in use and
the cleanup of trash and debris. The area used shall be cleaned of trash and
debris upon completion of filming at the scene and restored to the original
condition before the permittee leaves the site.
   (C)   An applicant must obtain the property owner's permission, consent,
and/or lease for use of property not owned or controlled by city prior to the
issuance of the filming permit under this chapter. The City Manager or his or
her designee shall require proof of such permission prior to the issuance of a
permit.
   (D)   If the applicant must park equipment, trucks, and/or cars in areas
where such parking is not safely permitted, then temporary "no parking" signs
must be posted by the Department of Public Works. The permittee must consult
with the Department of Public Works in advance of the filming date to
coordinate the placement of such signs.
   (E)   For filming that affects traffic flow, the permittee shall use local
law enforcement personnel to provide such traffic control and comply with all
traffic control requirements deemed necessary by the Police Department.
   (F)   As a condition of approval of the permit, the permittee shall agree to
reimburse the city for the costs of personnel and/or equipment utilized for the
purpose of assisting the production. The City Manager, as a condition to the
issuance of the permit, shall require a cash deposit for such costs.
   (G)   Before a permit is issued under this chapter, a certificate of
insurance must be on file with the City Manager in an amount not less than
$1,000,000 and naming the city as a co-insured providing protection against
claims for personal injuries, wrongful death, and property damage. The
certificate or policies of insurance shall provide they are not subject to
cancellation or modification until after 30 days prior written notice has been
given to the city. A copy of the policy of insurance must remain on file with
the city at all times relevant to the permit.
   (H)   As a condition of the issuance of the permit, the applicant shall
execute a hold harmless agreement prior to the issuance of the permit under
this chapter.
   (I)   To insure clean up and restoration of the filming site, the City
Manager may require an applicant to post a refundable faithful performance bond
or cash deposit, in an amount determined by the City Manager, at the time the
permit is issued. Upon completion of filming and inspection of the site by city
personnel, the bond or deposit shall be returned to the applicant if the clean
up and restoration is complete and satisfactory.
('61 Code, § 6-2.07) (Ord. 556 C.S., passed 9-19-90)
§ 6-2.08 PERMIT NONTRANSFERABLE.
   No permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be
assignable or transferable nor shall any permit authorize any person other than
those named therein to conduct any activities pursuant to the permit.
('61 Code, § 6-2.08) (Ord. 556 C.S., passed 9-19-90)
CHAPTER 3: CARD ROOMS
Section
   
6-3.01   Purpose
   
6-3.02   Definitions
   
6-3.03   Conformance with state law
   
6-3.04   Existing card room business licenses continued
   
6-3.05   Confidential disclosure unlawful
   
6-3.06   Card room operations license application
   
6-3.07   Employee work permits
   
6-3.08   Hours of operation
   
6-3.09   Card room locations
   
6-3.10   Authorized number of card tables
   
6-3.11   Transfer of interest of interest-holder in card room­permission
required
   
6-3.12   Background updates annually
   
6-3.13   Revocation, suspension and other penalties
   
6-3.14   Notice of decision to revoke or suspend
   
6-3.15   Appeal of notice of decision
   
6-3.16   Annual license/permit fees
   
6-3.17   Gross revenue license fees
   
6-3.18   Records, reports and supplemental information
   
6-3.19   Access to records and facilities
   
6-3.20   Rules and regulations
   
6-3.21   Nature of fees and charges
   
6-3.22   Amendments
   
6-3.23   Liability for cardroom safety
   
6-3.24   Violation a misdemeanor
§ 6-3.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to allow the continued operation of card
rooms in the city and to comply with the new provisions of the state gaming
laws and regulate card rooms in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare of the patrons of such facilities and the citizens and consumers in the
city.
(Ord. 684 C.S., passed 6-3-98)
§ 6-3.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Every person, as defined under this code, filing an application
with the city seeking a card room permit or any other permit required under
this chapter.
   BENEFICIAL INTEREST. Any interest in a card room held by the beneficiaries
of a trust which, as part of the corpus thereof, holds a financial interest in
such card room.
   CARD ROOM. Any building or structure, or portion thereof, for which a card
room operating license is obtained and in which legal gambling or gaming is
conducted. The term shall include any restaurant, bar, assembly room, meeting
room or office which is a part of or appurtenant to the room or rooms in which
legal gambling or gaming is conducted. The term shall also include the business
of operating the card room and those business enterprises which are a part
thereof.
   CARD ROOM OPERATIONS LICENSE. A license issued pursuant to this chapter
allowing the operation of a card room.
   CARD TABLE. Any table or any other surface upon which any game is played.
   COMMENCE. To "commence", "initiate", "start", "open" and/or "establish".
   CONDUCT. To "conduct", "transact", "maintain", "prosecute", "practice",
"manage", "operate", "permit", "allow", "suffer" and/or "carry on".
   CONVICTION OR CONVICTED. A plea of guilty, a final verdict of guilty or a
conviction following a plea of no lo contendere.
   COUNCIL. The Council of the City of Madera.
   DAY. "Calendar day" unless otherwise expressly stated.
   EMPLOYEE. Every person, who acts either as agent or employee of the
permittee or under the direction of the permittee of any card room. A
management corporation is an employee for purposes of this chapter.
   FILING AND PROCESSING FEES. The imposition, pursuant to this chapter and/or
any resolution of the Council, of fees and/or deposits to be used for the
purpose of reimbursing the city for its costs of administering the provisions
of this chapter.
   FINANCIAL INTEREST. Any direct or indirect financial interest in the
management, operation, ownership, profits or revenue (gross or net) of a card
room. A direct financial interest means a monetary investment in a card room.
An indirect financial interest means owning 1% or more of any entity, i.e., any
business, corporation, joint venture, partnership or trust that in turn has a
direct financial interest in a card room.
   GAME. Legal gambling or gaming as defined below.
   GROSS REVENUE. Includes seat rental fees, membership fees, table revenues,
rental fees and charges, and any and all other gaming revenues derived from
activities conducted on or within the card room premises.
   INTEREST-HOLDER. Any person having a financial interest or beneficial
interest in the licensee as well as all stockholders of any entity having a
financial interest or beneficial interest in the licensee.
   KEY MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEE. Includes any person, whether or not such person is
a named officer director of the licensee, with the power to (i) direct
operations and (ii) direct supervisory and several employees of a card room;
any person with the actual or apparent authority to direct the counting of
revenue generated by the card room, and any person employed or engaged by the
licensee to manage the card room.
   LEASE. Any formal or informal, written or oral contract or understanding or
arrangement whereby any person operating a card room obtains the use or
possession of any property, real or personal, to be used, occupied, or
possessed in connection with the conduct of games at any card room. The term
"lease" includes without limitation, payments to an affiliated person under a
real property lease, a personal property lease, an unsecured note, a deed of
trust, a mortgage, or trust indenture.
   LEGAL GAMBLING OR GAMING. Any card game played for currency, check, or any
other thing of value which is not prohibited and made unlawful by Chapter 9
(commencing with Section 319) or Chapter 10 (commencing with Section 330) of
title 9 of Part 1 of the Penal Code or by this chapter.
   LESSOR. Any person who leases any property, real or personal, to a person
operating a card room for use in connection with the conduct of games or
related activities.
   LICENSEE. The person or entity to whom a card room operations license is
issued.
   MANAGER. Any agent or employee of a licensee whose duties include but may
not be limited to the following: The making or changing of a policy, hiring or
firing employees, and/or generally exercising independent judgment in the
operation of the card room. A manager need not have a financial interest in the
licensee.
   PERMIT FEES. All fees levied upon each licensee and permittee pursuant to
this chapter.
   PLAYING CARDS OR CARD GAMES. The participation in legal gambling or gaming
at a card room.
   PREMISES. Land together with all buildings, improvements, and personal
property located thereon and related to card room use.
   SECURITY DEPOSIT. Any security or deposit required by this chapter to ensure
the prompt and full payment of any permit fees imposed by the city pursuant to
this chapter.
   WORK PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to this chapter authorizing a person
to be an employee of a card room.
(Ord. 684 C.S., passed 6-3-98)
§ 6-3.03 CONFORMANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   (A)   Every card room operated within the city shall be regulated by the
city concurrently with the state as permitted in the Gambling Control Act as
codified in section 19800 et seq. of the Business and Professions Code
effective January 1, 1998 as amended from time to time.
   (B)   In conformance with state law, the playing of percentage games is not
permissible. Any fees paid by patrons of card rooms shall not be tied to the
amount of a player's bet, the size of the pot, winnings that may be collected
or money that changes hands among players at the table.
(Ord. 684 C.S., passed 6-3-98)
§ 6-3.04 EXISTING CARD ROOM BUSINESS LICENSES CONTINUED.
   (A)   Each card room business license in effect on January 1, 1998 shall be
continued in force provided that the licensee does not become subject to
revocation under this chapter or §
6-1.17 and the number of tables, the games played, the location and the
licensee, are not amended in any way.
   (B)   This chapter does not create any vested or other property right of any
kind in the licensee, interest-holder, key management employee, or other
person. The city reserves the right to, at any time, amend, modify or repeal
the provisions of this chapter and to otherwise regulate or prohibit any
privileged exercised hereunder. This reservation includes but is not limited to
the right of the city to amend, from time to time, a permit or license issued
pursuant to the terms of this chapter by resolution of the Council.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, should the
location of any of the previously approved card rooms listed in §
6-3.10 be acquired through eminent domain, then such card room licensee shall
have the right to relocate such card room consistent with the provisions of
this chapter. Such relocation shall not allow the expansion of the number of
card tables.
(Ord. 684 C.S., passed 6-3-98)
§ 6-3.05 CONFIDENTIAL DISCLOSURE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any individual to disclose to any unauthorized
person any data or information required under the provision of this chapter or
other laws to be kept and maintained confidential.
(Ord. 684 C.S., passed 6-3-98)
§ 6-3.06 CARD ROOM OPERATIONS LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Other Permits/Licenses Required. All interest-holders, key management
employees, managers and employees shall apply for and be issued permits after
an individual personal background investigation prior to operating or working
in a card room.
   (B)   All individuals and entities must first obtain a business license,
card room operating license and have a use permit for the address at which they
intend to operate a card room prior to commencing operations and card room
gaming activities within the city.
   (C)   Any person desiring or proposing to commence or conduct any business,
activity, enterprise or undertaking pertaining to or involving a card room,
shall file an application with the Finance Director using such forms as are
provided by the city. Each application shall contain and each applicant shall
execute a statement as follows. "The undersigned applicant(s) declare under
penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct."
   (D)   The card room operations license, if granted, will be issued only in
the name of an individual, a sole proprietorship, a partnership, or a
corporation (such entity to be referred to as card room operations license
applicant), and, the card room operations license shall require that,
concurrent with the granting of the card room operations license, each
interest-holder and key management employee of the card room operations license
applicant shall make application for permits allowing such individuals or
entities to be involved in the activities, profits and direction of the card
room operation. Interest-holder permits shall be issued only in the name of an
individual. City officials, city employees and relatives of Council Members,
Department Directors and Management and Confidential employees shall not be
eligible to apply for card room operations licenses, interest-holder permits or
any form of employee permit or registration card. For purposes of this section,
RELATIVES means any person who is related within the third degree to those city
officials and employees listed above by blood or marriage, and includes a
spouse, child, step-child, parent, grandparent, grandchild, mother, sister,
half-brother, half-sister, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, parent-in-law, brother-
in-law and sister-in-law or another individual living in the same household.
   (E)   In addition to other information as may be required by said
application forms for a card room operations license, the applicant shall
complete and provide the following information in as great detail as is
available or as the Finance Director or his or her designee may require:
      (1)   The date of the application;
      (2)   The true name of the applicant;
      (3)   The status of the applicant as being an individual, a sole
proprietorship, a partnership or a corporation;
      (4)   If the applicant is an individual, the residence and business
address and personal history record of such applicant;
      (5)   If the applicant is other than an individual, the name, residence
and business address of each of the partners, stockholders who qualify as
interest-holders and the name, residence and business address of each of the
officers and directors of the entity. For purposes of this chapter such
officers and directors shall be deemed "Managers" as defined above and shall be
subject to all terms and conditions that managers are subject to;
      (6)   An application for an interest-holder's permit, including a
personal history record, for every interest-holder who has, or is proposed to
have, a financial interest, direct or remote, in the proposed card room
operation;
      (7)   An application for a business license, including all information
requested on said application form and any additional information deemed
necessary by the Finance Director or his or her designee;
      (8)   An application for a key management employee's permit, including a
personal history record, for each individual who is or is proposed to be a key
manager of the proposed card room operation;
      (9)   An application for a manager's permit, including a personal history
record, for each individual who is or is proposed to be a manager of the
proposed card room;
      (11)   A description of the premises to be used in relation to card room
activity including but not limited to card playing area, restaurants and
parking;
      (12)   The number of card tables to be placed, employed or used;
      (13)   A description of any other business conducted or proposed to be
conducted on the premises;
      (14)   A financial plan and source of funding for the development,
including projected development cost;
      (15)   A statement of the applicant's experience in the operation and
management of card rooms and/or other lawful gambling and/or other related
activities;
      (16)   A three-year cash flow projection, which shall be a confidential
document and not open to public inspection or disclosure. Said projection shall
be prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles;
      (17)   A statement that such premises will conform to all the laws of the
state and the city for occupancies of the nature proposed;
      (18)   A complete description and layout of all security measures
proposed in as great a detail as available, which shall be a confidential
document and not open to public inspection or disclosure;
      (19)   A complete description of the internal accounting controls
intended to be implemented at the location for which application is being made.
Said description shall identify internal controls designed to verify gross
receipts, daily deposits and protect against defalcation by employees,
management and interest-holders.
   (F)   If the Finance Director or his or her designee determines that a
landlord whose lease rental payments are based upon a percentage of the
revenues or profits of the card room or financier thereof, by reason of the
extent of his or her holdings or his or her inherent financial control cannot,
in fact, be separated from the card room, and, that as a practical matter a
single entity exists regardless of the apparent form of the organization, he or
she may require that all such individuals be designated interest-holders and
subject to all investigatory, financial and background reporting procedures
established by this chapter for card room interest-holders. Any such
determination shall not, however, be deemed to make any such lessor an owner or
operator of the card room for purposes of this chapter.
   (G)   Each applicant for a card room operations license, an interest-
holder's permit, a manager's permit, or a key management employee's permit
shall include the following:
      (1)   A statement that the applicant understands that the applicant shall
be considered only after a full background investigation and report has been
made by such members of city staff as are designated by the Finance Director;
      (2)   A statement that the applicant understands and agrees that any
business or activity issued under such application shall be operated in full
conformity with all the laws of the state and the laws and regulations of the
city applicable thereto, and that any violation of any such laws or regulations
in such place of business, or in connection therewith, may render any permit or
permit therefor subject to immediate suspension or revocation;
      (3)   A statement that the applicant has read the provisions of this
chapter and particularly the provisions of this section and understands the
same and agrees to abide by all rules and regulations contained in this
chapter;
      (4)   A complete statement of financial position for each applicant. The
financial statements required by this division (G) shall be prepared in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and shall be
confidential documents not open to public inspection. Documents shall be
available only to those officials and employees having direct jurisdiction
involving the provisions of this chapter and to any court of competent
jurisdiction where any matter thereto may be actually pending.
      (5)   Concurrently with the filing of their applications, the card room
operations license applicant along with their interest-holder and key
management employee permit applicants shall be fingerprinted by the Madera
Police Department. Applicants shall authorize the city to obtain any available
criminal offender record information relating to applicant and shall further
authorize the updating of that information on an annual basis if a permit is
granted. Each applicant shall provide two full-face, 2-inch by 2-inch
photographs of the applicant for use in preparing the investigation documents.
   (H)   Interest-holder and Key Management Employee Permit Application. If an
applicant for a card room operating license is a publicly-traded corporation,
each person having a beneficial interest of at least 5% in the applicant
corporation shall be identified and may be required to meet all the
requirements for applicants and permittees.
   (I)   Each license and/or permit applicant shall be responsible for
providing complete and accurate information and for signing the permit or
license application. However, it shall be the responsibility of the card room
business license applicant (or licensee for subsequent applications) to submit
the completed applications and pay any additional fees.
   (J)   The applications for all interest-holders and key management employees
shall be submitted as part of the application for the card room operations
license. Failure to submit complete applications for each proposed interest-
holder and key management employee may be grounds for denial or revocation of a
card room operations license.
   (K)   Application Fees. The applicant(s) for a card room operations license
shall pay the following fees at the time that the application is made with the
Finance Director:
      (1)   A card room operations license application fee in the amount
specified in the Master Fee Schedule as amended from time to time. Said
application fee shall be retained by the city for the payment of costs of
investigation.
      (2)   An interest-holders and key management employees permit application
fee in the amount specified in the Master Fee Schedule as amended by the
Council from time to time. Said application fee shall be retained by the city
for the payment of costs of investigation.
      (3)   An employee work permit application fee in the amount specified in
the Master Fee Schedule as amended by the Council from time to time. Said
application fee shall be retained by the city for the payment of costs of
investigation.
      (4)   A business license application fee in the amount specified in the
Master Fee Schedule as amended from time to time. Said application fee shall be
retained by the city for the payment of costs of investigation.
      (5)   Any use permit as required by Title 10 of this Code.
   (L)   Application Review and Approval Procedures.
      (1)   Whenever a card room operations license application pursuant to
this chapter has been filed, the Police Chief or his or her designee shall
cause an investigation to be made covering all matters relevant to the proposed
activity of the applicant, individual interest-holders, key management
employees and managers. Such matters may include but are not limited to the
following:
         (a)   Identity character and background of the permit applicant, all
individual interest-holders, and all key management employees and managers;
         (b)   Type and degree of security personnel and facilities to be
provided;
         (c)   The financial stability of the interest-holders involved in the
application and the financial ability of the applicant to comply with the
conditions and requirements of the city and other governmental and legal
requirements and conditions in the event the application is approved.
      (2)   Following the investigation, the completed report of the
investigation together with the Police Chief's findings and recommendations
shall be forwarded to the Council. The Council shall not consider any
application for a card room operations license or individual permit
applications related to the card room operation license applied for until the
Police Chief's findings and recommendations have been completed and forwarded
for review.
      (3)   At such time as the Police Chief forwards findings and
recommendations to Council, the City Clerk shall give at least ten days'
written notice of the time and place of the Council's hearing on the card room
operations license to the applicant to every person whose name and address
appears on the last equalized County Assessment roll as the owner of any
property within 1,000 feet of the exterior boundaries of the premises of the
proposed card room, and to every person filing with the City Clerk a written
request for notice of any hearings relating to proposed card rooms.
   (M)   City Council Hearing and Determination.
      (1)   Upon the submission by the Police Chief of the report on the
investigation and recommendations and findings related thereto, the Council
shall have jurisdiction to consider such an application.
      (2)   During the public hearing on the application for a card room
operations license, the Council shall consider the application, the Police
Chief's report of findings and recommendations, including any report on the
investigation along with written and public testimony. Within a reasonable time
after the close of the hearing the Council shall make a determination on the
application.
      (3)   The Council, by resolution, has the authority to either grant,
conditionally grant or deny the card room operation license application. If the
Council finds that the application shall be denied, the order will be
accompanied by written reasons upon which the order is based. All such orders
will be made public.
      (4)   It shall be possible for the Council to approve tentatively the
application of a license applicant, but disapprove the application for a permit
of one or more of the interest-holders or key management employees or managers.
In such cases the Council can grant the license applied for subject to the
condition that any interest-holder, key management employee or manager
disapproved of, be removed as an individual having an interest or control in
the card room. Compliance with the removal requirement shall be monitored,
reviewed and approved by the Finance Director and the Police Chief prior to
final issuance of the card room operations license.
   (N)   Grounds for Denial. The Council may, in its discretion, deny or
condition a license, a license application, a permit or a permit application
for any of the following reasons, without being limited thereto, or for any
reason consistent with the general policy for this chapter:
      (1)   Conviction of any crime punishable as a felony or of any crime of
violence, any crime involving fraud, gambling, bookmaking, thievery, bunco,
moral turpitude, or any crime involving evasion of taxes, or any other crime of
moral turpitude indicating a lack of business integrity or business honesty
whether committed in the State of California or elsewhere, whether denominated
as a felony or as a misdemeanor and notwithstanding the passage of time since
the conviction.
      (2)   Failure of the applicant to have a valid registration from the
Attorney General of the State of California issued pursuant to the Gaming
Control Act.
      (3)   Failure of the proposed business or activity to be operated in
compliance with federal, state or city laws or regulations.
      (4)   Identification by any law enforcement agency legislative body or
crime commission as a member of, or an associate of organized criminal
elements.
      (5)   Knowingly making any false statement in the application, or as to
any other information presented as part of the application process.
      (6)   Failure to satisfy the Council as to the source of funds to be
invested in the proposed card room.
      (7)   Prior unsuitable operation as a card or gaming permittee in another
jurisdiction without regard to whether disciplinary action was taken at that
time or whether the acts were sufficient to justify revocation of a permit.
      (8)   Applicant does not have the financial capability or business
experience to operate a card room in a manner which would adequately protect
the patrons of the card room and the citizens of the City of Madera.
      (9)   Applicant is presently under indictment or the subject of a
criminal complaint for any of the crimes described in division (N)(1) of this
section.
      (10)   Making or causing to be made any statement in an application or
document provided to the city or orally to a city officer, employee, or agent
in connection with an application, which statement was at the time and in light
of the circumstances under which it was made, knowingly false or misleading.
      (11)   Lack of evidence that there is adequate financing available to pay
potential and/or current obligations and, in addition, to provide adequate
working capital to finance the opening of the proposed card room.
      (12)   Failure of any person named in the application when summoned by
the Council to appear and testify before it or its agents at such time and
place as it may designate.
      (13)   Inadequate security measures are identified in the operations
license application and/or use permit application.
(Ord. 684 C.S., passed 6-3-98)
§ 6-3.07 EMPLOYEE WORK PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to employ any person to work in
a card room without such person having been first registered with the Police
Chief and issued a permit.
   (B)   Each card room employee shall present himself or herself at the Police
Department during normal business hours, prior to commencement of any such
employment, and be permitted. Each employee shall:
      (1)   Complete an application;
      (2)   Be fingerprinted;
      (3)   Present two full-face, 2-inch by 2-inch photographs of the
employee;
      (4)   Provide any other information that the Police Chief or his designee
may require; and
      (5)   Certify the contents of the application under penalty of perjury.
   (C)   The Police Chief is hereby authorized to obtain criminal history
information for each employee seeking registration.
   (D)   A fee set forth in the Master Fee Schedule established by resolution
of the Council and as amended from time to time, shall be paid together with
the registration or renewal application.
   (E)   Within 90 days after receipt of the application containing the above
information and the required fees, the Police Chief or his or her designee
shall mail a written decision to the applicant either granting or denying
registration and explaining the reason for denial.
   (F)   If the background investigation is not completed within the 30 day
period, the Police Chief or his or her designee may grant a temporary permit
pending a final decision based upon the outcome of the background
investigation. The temporary permit shall include issuance of a temporary badge
or identification card to the employee that shall be valid for a period not to
exceed 60 days.
   (G)   The Police Chief or his or her designee shall provide each permitted
employee with a permanent identification card to be known as a "Work Permit"
which shall be displayed in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (H)   Each permitted employee shall renew his or her permit with the Police
Chief at least 90 days prior to the anniversary date of his or her initial
registration and every anniversary thereafter. New identification cards will be
issued as the city deems appropriate.
   (I)   The card room licensee shall inform the Police Chief of any change in
employment status of a permitted employee within 24 hours of the effective date
of the change in employment. A change in employment shall include termination
of employment, leave of absence in excess of 60 days or any promotion or other
change in positions job title or duties.
   (J)   Grounds for Denial, Revocation or Suspension of Work Permit. The
Police Chief may revoke or suspend the registration of or deny registration to
a card room employee or potential employee on any of the following grounds:
      (1)   The employee has been convicted of a crime involving lotteries,
gambling, bookmaking, larceny, perjury, bribery, extortion, frauds theft, or
embezzlement, or a crime involving moral turpitude, or has been convicted of
being under the influence of, possession of, the sale or possession for sale of
a controlled substance, prostitution, pimping, or pandering, or has been
convicted of any crime substantially related to a service or entertainment
business;
      (2)   The employee has committed any act involving dishonesty, fraud or
deceit with the intent to substantially benefit the employee or benefit
another, or substantially injure another;
      (3)   The employee has been refused, or has had revoked, any gambling,
gaming or entertainment permit or permit by an agency or government within five
years of the date of the registration application;
      (4)   The employee has violated any provisions of this chapter;
      (5)   The employee has violated any law or ordinance relating to the
operation of a card room.
      (6)   The State Department of Gaming Control has entered an objection to
the issuance of the work permit.
   (K)   Denial, Suspension and Revocation of Work Permit. If it appears at any
time that good cause may exist for the Police Chief to deny registration of an
employee, or to suspend or revoke an existing registration, the Police Chief
shall provide the employee and the permittee with the opportunity for a hearing
before the Police Chief to show cause why registration should not be denied,
suspended or revoked.
      (1)   In the case of denial, suspension or revocation, the employee shall
be given ten days from the date of mailing of the notice of denial, suspension
or revocation to request a show cause hearing before the Police Chief. The
employee shall be deemed to have waived the right to a show cause hearing if
the Police Chief does not receive the employee's written request for a hearing
within ten days of the date of mailing of the notice.
      (2)   The Police Chief shall schedule the hearing within 15 days after
receipt of the request for a show cause hearing. The Police Chief shall mail
notice of the time, place and date of the hearing to the applicant or employee
and the employer within five days after receipt of the request for hearing.
      (3)   Technical rules of evidence shall not apply to the show cause
hearing.
      (4)   If the Police Chief, on the basis of substantial evidence presented
at the show cause hearing, finds good cause therefor, the Police Chief may deny
registration to the employee or suspend or revoke the registration.
      (5)   In those extraordinary circumstances, wherein the Police Chief
determines that immediate suspension or revocation is necessary as a result of
accusations involving conduct resulting in great or irreparable harm or injury
to the patrons thereof and/or the city or accusations involving conduct in need
of immediate restraint to prevent great or irreparable harm or injury to the
city, the Police Chief may issue a Notice of Revocation or a Notice of
Suspension which shall be deemed effective immediately upon issuance.
      (6)   The employee shall have ten days from the date of such issuance of
a Notice of Revocation or Notice of Suspension to request a hearing. The Police
Chief shall schedule such a hearing within five days after receipt of the
request for hearing under this division (K)(6). Technical rules of evidence
shall not apply for such hearing. If the Police Chief, on the basis of
substantial evidence presented at such hearing, finds good cause therefor, the
Police Chief may uphold the Order of Suspension or the Order of Termination.
(Ord. 684 C.S., passed 6-3-98)
§ 6-3.08 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Card rooms shall be allowed to operate 24 hours per day seven days per week.
Signs shall be conspicuously posted indicating the hours of operation in each
premises.
(Ord. 684 C.S., passed 6-3-98)
§ 6-3.09 CARD ROOM LOCATIONS.
   Card rooms licensed under this chapter shall be allowed to operate only at
locations that have been previously approved and a use permit issued therefore
in accordance with Section
10-3.405 (J) of the Municipal Code.
(Ord. 684 C.S., passed 6-3-98)
§ 6-3.10 AUTHORIZED NUMBER OF CARD TABLES.
   The number of card tables authorized to be operated within the city shall be
equal to:
   (A)   Twenty four, which consists of the number of card tables either in
operation or which had been approved for operation by the city. Two of the card
tables are authorized at the establishment currently known as La Primavera and
22 of the card tables are authorized at the Club 99 Casino, both in the City of
Madera.
(Ord. 684 C.S., passed 6-3-98)
§ 6-3.11 TRANSFER OF INTEREST OF INTEREST-HOLDER IN CARD ROOM­ PERMISSION
REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any interest-holder, having any interest
whatever, or at all, in the ownership of a card room, whether legal or
equitable, or as trustor or trustee, or of whatever kind or character, to
transfer or sell any interests in a card room to any person who is or by reason
of such transaction would become an interest-holder, without the prior consent
and permission of the Council.
   (B)   No licensee or interest-holder shall knowingly permit any individual,
partnerships or other entity to make any investment whatever in, or in any
manner whatever, participate in the profits of any licensed card room or any
portion thereof, except in accordance with these requirements; provided,
however, that the purchase or other acquisition of stock in a publicly-traded
corporation shall not be deemed to be such an investment or participation
unless by an interest-holder. Except as otherwise provided in division (D) of
this section, a permittee which is a publicly-traded corporation shall not have
responsibility with respect to any transfers, sales or assignments of shares of
its common stock or other securities.
   (C)   No licensee or interest-holder shall knowingly permit any investment
in any licensed card room operation or any portion thereof nor participation in
the profits thereof by any person acting as agent, trustee, or in any other
representative capacity whatsoever for or on behalf of another person without
first having fully disclosed all facts pertaining to such representation to the
Council. Except as otherwise provided in division (D) of this section, a
licensee which is a publicly-traded corporation shall not have responsibility
with respect to any transfers, sales or assignments of shares of its common
stock or other securities. No person acting in any such representative capacity
shall hold or acquire any such interest or participate without first having
fully disclosed all facts pertaining to such representation to the Council and
obtained written permission of the Council to so act.
   (D)   No transfer, sale or hypothecation of an interest, or new investment
in an existing licensed card room shall be permitted until the Council has
received, reviewed, and approved an application for transfer of an interest,
and until each new interest-holder has been granted an interest-holder's permit
authorizing the holding of such interest; provided, however, that no such
approval shall be required for sales of stock of a publicly-traded corporation
other than to an interest-holder. No money or other thing of value constituting
any part of the consideration for the transfer or acquisition of any interest
in a licensed card room operation shall be paid over, received or used prior to
complete compliance with all prerequisites set forth in state law and this
chapter; notwithstanding the foregoing, such funds may be placed in escrow
pending completion of the transaction. Any loan, pledge or other transaction in
an attempt to evade the requirements of this regulation may be deemed a
violation and, as such, would constitute grounds for disapproval of the
interest transfer.
   (E)   Any party desiring to buy, sell, accept, transfer, assign or otherwise
hypothecate any interest of an interest-holder (other than stock of a publicly-
traded corporation to a person other than interest-holder) in a licensed card
room shall file with the Finance Director, on forms approved by the City
Attorney, and furnished by the Finance Director, a written application for
permission to allow transfer of such interest. Each such application shall
contain and clearly and truthfully set forth, under oath and/or affirmation, in
addition to such other information as the Finance Director may require, the
following:
      (1)   The date of the application;
      (2)   The true name of the applicant and personal history;
      (3)   The status of the applicant as being an individual, partnership,
corporation or other entity;
      (4)   The residence and business address of the applicant;
      (5)   If the applicant is other than an individual, the name, residence
and business address of each co-partner, co-partnership, shareholder or other
interest-holders;
      (6)   The name of the licensed card room and the names of the existing
interest-holders from which a transfer of interest is sought;
      (7)   The number of interests and/or nature of interest sought to be
sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise hypothecated;
      (8)   The source of funds to be used by the applicant in acquiring such
interest;
      (9)   A statement that the applicant(s) understands that the application
will be considered by the Council only after a full investigation and report
have been made and the report of investigation forwarded to the Council;
      (10)   A balance sheet and income statement representing the financial
condition of the applicant prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles and submitted under penalty of perjury (but which need
not be audited but must be dated no later than the end of the most recent
fiscal year of applicant);
      (11)   The statements required by this division (E) shall be
confidential, and the documents containing such information shall be deemed to
be confidential documents, and shall not be open to public inspection, but
shall be available only to those city officials having direct jurisdiction
where any matter relating thereto may be actually pending, except that the
names and cities and states of residence and business of such interest-holders
shall be open to public inspection.
   (F)   Whenever an application pursuant to the provisions of this section has
been filed with the Finance Director, the Finance Director shall immediately
refer such application, or a true copy thereof, to the Police Chief, who shall
promptly and diligently cause an investigation to be made as follows:
      (1)   A full and complete investigation of the applicant and each
interest-holder whose names and addresses are shown upon the application;
      (2)   Concurrently with the filing of an application, each applicant
shall be fingerprinted by the Madera Police Department and shall authorize the
city to obtain any available criminal offender record information relating to
applicant and shall further authorize the updating of that information at any
time reasonably necessary, if the application is approved.
      (3)   It shall be the responsibility and duty of the City Administrator
to supervise and direct the Police Chief to establish the necessary procedures
to administer the provisions of this division (F); and
      (4)   The information received by the Police Chief pursuant to the
provisions herein shall be treated as confidential.
   (G)   For the purposes of clarification, the application and assignment fees
set forth in this section are for regulation, revenue purposes and
reimbursement to the city for the costs of investigating and processing the
applications, as provided for in this chapter, pursuant to the authority set
forth in Article XI Section 5 of the Constitution of the State. Each such
application for transfer of interest of an interest-holder to an applicant
permittee shall be accompanied by a fee, payable to the city as follows:
      (1)   An application fee in the amount specified in the Master Fee
Schedule designated in the Master Fee Resolution as amended by the Council from
time to time, for each interest-holder permit applicant, which fee shall be
retained by the city for the payment of the costs of the investigation of the
applicant. This fee shall be the property of, and be retained by, the city,
whether the permit and permission to transfer interest in the permit is granted
or denied.
      (2)   An assignment fee in the amount of 5% of the gross sales price of
the interest assigned, sold or transferred. In the event that multiple
interests are assigned, sold or transferred, the allocation of the gross sales
price for the purposes of this section, shall be agreed upon by the city and
the permittee prior to completion of the transaction. A statement of gross
income from the assignments sale, or transfer shall be audited by a Certified
Public Accountant, and presented to the city along with the assignment fee.
   (H)   Granting or Denial of Applications. Whenever an application for a
permit as required under the provisions of this section is presented to the
Council and provided that the fees required by this section in connection
therewith have been paid to the city the Council may consider such application
on the basis of the following without being limited thereto:
      (1)   The financial stability of the applicant;
      (2)   Conviction of criminal offenses as denoted in §
6-3.06(N)(1);
      (3)   Investigational report by Chief of Police; and
      (4)   Any other information deemed by the Council to be matters of
necessary inquiry.
   (I)   The Council may in its discretion, either grant conditionally grant or
deny the interest-holders permit applied for under this §
6-3.11.
(Ord. 684 C.S., passed 6-3-98)
§ 6-3.12 BACKGROUND UPDATES ANNUALLY.
   All interest-holders, key management employees, and employees of card rooms
shall have their background and criminal history investigations updated
annually or as the city may require upon showing of reasonable justification.
(Ord. 684 C.S., passed 6-3-98)
§ 6-3.13 REVOCATION, SUSPENSION AND OTHER PENALTIES.
   All licenses and permits issued under the provisions of this chapter shall
be subject to revocation, suspension, or other appropriate penalties upon the
occurrence of any of the following conditions:
   (A)   The licensee or permittee has violated any provision of this chapter
or failed to pay timely any fees due under this chapter; or
   (B)   The licensee or permittee has violated any term or condition upon
which such permit was issued; or
   (C)   The licensee, permittee, interest-holder, key management employee, or
an employee has violated any statute or ordinance which violation relates to
the establishment, maintenance or operation of the card room authorized by such
permit; or
   (D)   The licensee or permittee has transferred any stock without approval
of the city; or
   (E)   A licensee or permittee fails to make and file any statements as
required by this chapter or the permit within the time required, or pay timely
any sums due under the provisions of this chapter, or refuses to do either or
both upon reasonable request; or
   (F)   The licensee or permittee has knowingly made false statements on any
filing, registration or statement required under this chapter; or
   (G)   The operation of the card room violates the city's zoning, fire,
building or other ordinances or regulations, or other applicable local, state,
or federal laws or regulations; or
   The operation of the card room substantially aggravates the crime problems
in the area, makes law enforcement unduly difficult, or is otherwise
detrimental to crime prevention or to the public peace. health or safety in the
area.
   (H)   In making the determination of whether to revoke or suspend a license
or to apply other appropriate penalties, the city may consider, but is not
limited to the following factors:
      (1)   Any criminal convictions of the licensee, interest-holders, key
management employees, or employees, involving lotteries, gambling, bookmaking,
larceny, perjury, bribery, extortion, fraud, theft, embezzlement, or crimes
involving moral turpitude, or convictions of the sale, possession for sale, or
possession of a controlled substance, prostitution, pimping, or pandering, or
convictions of any crime substantially related to a service or entertainment
business;
      (2)   The commission of any act by the card room licensee, interest-
holders, key management employees, managers or employees involving dishonesty,
fraud or deceit with the intent to substantially benefit himself or herself or
another, or substantially injure another;
      (3)   Whether the card room licensee, interest-holders, managers, key
management employees, or employees have previously operated in this or another
state under a gambling, gaming or similar license or permit that has been
revoked or suspended, the reasons therefor, and the actions of such person
thereafter;
      (4)   Whether the card room licensee, interest-holders, managers, key
management employees, or employees in this or another state has been denied a
gambling, gaming or similar permit or permit the reasons therefor, and the
actions of the persons and owners thereafter;
      (5)   The business and credit history of the card room licensee and
owners;
      (6)   The nature of the conduct involved in the violations upheld;
      (7)   The duration of the conduct giving rise to the violations;
      (8)   The number of instances of violations involved. and whether or not
the violations are part of a pattern of violations;
      (9)   Whether the violations were deliberate or inadvertent;
      (10)   The degree, financial or physical, of injury to any victim, or
which was proximately caused by the violation;
      (11)   The motivation of the person(s) who committed the violations;
      (12)   Restitution provided to any victim; and
      (13)   Restitution provided to the city for the costs of enforcement or
prosecution of any violations or injuries.
   (I)   Where appropriate, in addition to or in lieu of a suspension or
revocation penalty, the city may impose other appropriate penalties, including
but not limited to monetary penalties, restitution to victims, including the
city, and modifications and limitations on the terms and conditions of the
permit or license.
(Ord. 684 C.S., passed 6-3-98)
§ 6-3.14 NOTICE OF DECISION TO REVOKE OR SUSPEND.
   (A)   Upon determination of the existence of any of the conditions stated in
§§
6-3.13 et seq. or which warrant action, the Police Chief shall issue a "Notice
of Decision to Revoke or Suspend Card Room Operations License to the Licensee."
   (B)   The Notice of Decision to Revoke or Suspend shall state all grounds
and reasons upon which the suspension or revocation, is based.
   (C)   The Notice of Decision shall be mailed to the licensee at the address
stated on the permit.
   (D)   The Decision shall be effective 15 calendar days after mailing of the
Notice of Decision unless the licensee files a written Notice of Appeal with
the Police Chief before the close of business on the fourteenth day.
   (E)   In those extraordinary circumstances, wherein the Police Chief
determines immediate suspension or revocation is necessary as a result of
accusations involving conduct resulting in great or irreparable harm or injury
to the city or accusations involving conduct in need of immediate restraint to
prevent great or irreparable harm or injury to the patrons thereof and/or the
city, the Police Chief may proceed to issue a Notice of Revocation or a Notice
of Suspension in accordance with this section and without compliance with the
procedures set forth in division (D) of this section. A notice issued under
this division (E) shall be deemed effective immediately upon issuance.
(Ord. 684 C.S., passed 6-3-98)
§ 6-3.15 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF DECISION.
   (A)   The licensee may appeal the decision to revoke or suspend by filing a
written Notice of Appeal with the City Administrator not later than 14 calendar
days after service of the Notice of Decision to Revoke or Suspend Card Room
Permit.
   (B)   The Notice of Appeal shall set forth all of the specific grounds of
appeal and shall admit or deny each determination in the Notice of Decision.
   (C)   If the permittee fails to file a Notice of Appeal to the City
Administrator within 14 calendar days or withdraws said Notice subsequent to
filing it, the suspension or revocation shall become final and take effect
immediately.
   (D)   Any allegation in the Notice of Decision which is not specifically
denied in the permittee's Notice of Appeal shall be deemed admitted.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the Notice of Appeal is considered filed
upon receipt by the City Administrator.
   (F)   Appointment Of Administrative Hearing Officer. Hearings to appeal a
Notice of Decision shall be conducted by an Administrative Hearing Officer
selected by the City Administrator.
      (1)   The Administrative Hearing Officer shall be:
         (a)   A State of California administrative law judge;
         (b)   A retired judge of the state of California; or
         (c)   A hearing officer employed as such by the city.
   (G)   Time Of Appeal Hearing. Where a Notice of Appeal has been filed, an
Appeal Hearing shall be conducted as soon as reasonably possible.
   (H)   Notice Of Appeal Hearing. The City Administrator shall provide the
permittee with written notice of the time, date and place of the Appeal Hearing
and the name of the Administrative Hearing Officer not less than ten working
days prior to the date of the hearing.
   (I)   Conduct Of The Hearing. The Appeal Hearing shall be conducted by an
Administrative Hearing Officer appointed pursuant to division (F) of this
section. The Appeal Hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the following
procedure:
      (1)   Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath or affirmation.
      (2)   Both the city and the licensee shall have the right to call and
examine witnesses; to introduce exhibits; and to rebut the evidence against any
witness.
      (3)   Technical rules relating to evidence and witnesses shall not apply.
Reliable hearsay evidence and any and all other evidence which the
Administrative Hearing Officer deems relevant and not unduly repetitious may be
admitted and considered.
      (4)   The Appeal Hearing shall be de novo. The Hearing Officer shall base
his or her decision on the factors set forth in §
6-3.13.
      (5)   In cases where the decision of the Police Chief to revoke or
suspend is based upon a criminal conviction, the fact of whether or not there
was a conviction shall not be an issue for decision by the Administrative
Hearing Officer. The facts underlying a criminal conviction shall be deemed to
have been proven and shall not be subject to dispute at the Appeal Hearing.
   (J)   Subpoena Authority. The Administrative Hearing Officer shall have the
power to issue subpoenas and require the attendance of witnesses, and the
production of books, papers, and any other evidence relevant to the Appeal
Hearing.
   (K)   Record Of Administrative Hearing. A record of the Appeal Hearing
consisting of a tape recording of all oral evidence, arguments and rulings,
along with all exhibits offered and/or admitted into evidence and the written
decision of the Administrative Hearing officer shall be made by the
Administrative Hearing officer and shall be maintained by him or her until all
administrative and judicial appeals on a Notice of Decision have been
concluded.
   (L)   Representation For Licensee And City. The licensee is entitled to be
represented at the Appeal Hearing by legal counsel or by any other person of
the licensee's choosing. The city is entitled to be represented at the Appeal
Hearing by the City Attorney or other legal counsel.
   (M)   Failure To Appear. Failure of the licensee or the licensee's
representative to appear at the Appeal Hearing shall be deemed a withdrawal of
the licensee's Notice of Appeal and the Decision of the Police Chief shall
become final and take effect immediately. Within ten calendar days after the
effective date of such Decision, such licensee may file with the Administrative
Hearing Officer a written request for relief from its failure to appear. After
review of such request and of any rebuttal offered by city, the Administrative
Hearing Officer may reinstate the appeal and set a new date for the Appeal
Hearing on finding there is good cause for the failure to appear.
   (N)   Appeal Hearing Determination. The Administrative Hearing Officer shall
within 30 working days of the close of the hearing, submit to the City
Administrators the City Attorney and the licensee a written statement of
decision, together with written findings of fact upon which such decision is
based.
   (O)   Decision Final. The decision of the Administrative Hearing Officer
shall be final.
   (P)   The decision of the Administrative Hearing Officer shall be deemed an
adjudicatory decision and the provisions of Section 1094.6 of the California
Code of Civil Procedure shall be applicable.
   (Q)   A challenge to an Administrative Hearing Officer's decision may be
sought by either the city or the licensee pursuant to California Code of Civil
Procedure Section 1094.6.
   (R)   Cost Of Appeal Hearing. The cost of the Appeal Hearing, including but
not limited to the charge for the cost of the services of an Administrative
Hearing Officer, the cost of creating the record of the Appeal Hearing, and the
cost of subpoena service on all witnesses called by the licensee, shall be
borne by the licensee.
      (1)   A deposit of estimated costs, as determined by the City
Administrator, shall be required from the licensee prior to the Appeal Hearing.
Failure to provide the deposit shall be deemed a waiver of the appeal.
      (2)   The licensee shall be presented with a bill itemizing the costs to
be paid after the Administrative Hearing Officer issues his or her decision.
Any part of the deposit not expended shall be returned to the licensee within
30 days of the decision. Any amounts due in excess of the amount deposited
shall be paid by the licensee within 30 days. The fee for the Appeal Hearing
shall be considered to be a civil debt of the licensee which is due and payable
at the time of presentation of the bill to the licensee after the hearing.
   (S)   New Application Upon Revocation. In the event of revocation, such
licensee shall not be entitled to apply for a new permit.
(Ord. 684 C.S., passed 6-3-98)
§ 6-3.16 ANNUAL LICENSE/PERMIT FEES.
   The Council hereby determines that an annual fee is payable with respect to
all licenses and permits issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter,
which fee shall be payable annually on the anniversary date of the card room
operations license. Annual license and permit fees in the amounts specified in
the Master Fee Schedule designated in the Master Fee Resolution, as amended by
the Council from time to time, shall be payable in advance of the beginning of
each fiscal operating year of the card room in which card room operations are
to be conducted. All annual license and permit fees shall become the absolute
property of the city and shall not be refunded due to the cessation of, or
failure to begin such businesses, whether voluntary or involuntary.
(Ord. 684 C.S., passed 6-3-98)
§ 6-3.17 GROSS REVENUE LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   In addition to the license/permit fees previously prescribed each
licensee licensed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall pay to the
city a monthly fee equal to a percentage of the gross revenue of the permittee
received from the card room operation. The percentage shall be established by
resolution of the City Council. Such payment shall be made to the city not
later than 15 days after the end of each month during which such gross revenues
on which it was computed were received by the licensee.
   (B)   Each licensee shall file with the Finance Director before the 15th day
following the end of each month a statement, under oath, showing the true and
correct amount of gross revenue derived from the card game business licensed by
the license issued to or held by such permittee for the preceding month. Such
statement shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles and shall be accompanied by the payment of the correct amount of
license fees due and owing in accordance with the provisions of division (A) of
this section, and such sums correctly reflecting the monthly fees payable for
the preceding month shall be accepted by the city, subject, however to the
right of the city to audit the matters reported in the statement to determine
the accuracy of the figures contained therein and whether or not the correct
amount payable to the city has been paid.
   (C)   In addition, a signed declaration certification shall be attached to
the statement, or included therein which declaration shall be substantially in
the following form:
      (1)   "I hereby declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is
true and correct."
   Licensee, managing partner, or owners,
   (Strike out the titles which are not applicable.)
   (D)   On or before October 31 of each year the licensee shall provide the
city with a balance sheet and a statement of revenue for the period from July 1
of the previous year through June 30 of the then current year. This statement
shall be audited by a Certified Public Accountant who will provide an opinion
as to the accuracy and correctness of the statements provided.
      (1)   In the event that the amount of gross revenue reported in the
licensee's annual statement is more than the total gross revenue reported in
the monthly statements previously received by the city the gross revenue fee
shall be applied to the difference and shall accompany the annual statement. In
addition to the gross revenue permit fee, if the difference exceeds 1% of the
annual gross revenues, a penalty of 25% of the additional fee due shall also be
due and payable upon submission of the annual statement of gross revenues.
      (2)   The books, records, and accounts of any card room may be audited by
the city. Such an audit shall be performed by a person designated by the
Finance Director. Any information obtained pursuant to the provisions of this
section or any statement filed by the licensee shall be deemed confidential and
shall not be subject to public inspection. Such shall be available only to
those city officials having jurisdiction over the provisions of this chapter
and to any court of competent jurisdiction where any matter relating thereto
may be actively pending.
      (3)   Any failure or refusal by any such licensee or permittee to make
and file any statement as required within the time required, or to pay such
sums by way of application fees, license or permit fees when the fees are due
and payable in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, or to permit an
inspection of such books, records, and accounts of licensee shall be and
constitute full and sufficient grounds for the suspension and revocation of the
permit or license of any such licensee.
(Ord. 684 C.S., passed 6-3-98)
§ 6-3.18 RECORDS, REPORTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Each licensee shall make and maintain complete, accurate and legible
records of all transactions pertaining to revenue. Such records shall include
but not be limited to a general ledger maintained in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, together with appropriate supporting records
such as cash receipts and disbursement logs and journals, payroll journals,
canceled checks, and original paid invoices. General ledgers and all other
records shall be maintained in a fashion suitable for producing financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These
ledgers and records shall be maintained for at least five years after the end
of the card room's fiscal operating year to which they apply and shall be made
available for examination and copying by the city or its designee upon request.
   (B)   In the event information requested of a licensee can be furnished only
by someone other than the licensee (such as a landlord, supplier or an
accountant), the licensee shall make every bona fide effort to obtain such
information as requested and furnish the same or have it furnished directly by
the person who has made the information available.
   (C)   In addition to such other information and data required by this
chapter, each licensee shall maintain the following if a partnership or
corporation:
      (1)   A schedule showing the dates of capital contributions, loans or
advances, the names and addresses of the contributors and percentage of
ownership interest held of record by each.
      (2)   A record of the withdrawals or distributions of funds or assets, to
partners or stockholders.
      (3)   A record of salaries paid to each partner, stockholder and key
management employees.
      (4)   A copy of the partnership or corporate agreement, certificate of
limited partnership and accurate corporate stock transfer book, if applicable.
      (5)   Copies of any and all public filings required by the Securities
Exchange Commission.
      (6)   In addition to such other information and data required by this
chapter, each card room licensee shall maintain the following if a sole
proprietorship:
         (a)   A schedule showing the name and address of the proprietor and
the amount and date of his or her original investment.
         (b)   A record of subsequent additions thereto and withdrawals
therefrom.
   (D)   The records required to be kept by this chapter shall be in ink or
other permanent form of recordation.
(Ord. 684 C.S., passed 6-3-98)
§ 6-3.19 ACCESS TO RECORDS AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the audit requirements specified in this chapter, the
licensee shall allow the City Administrator or his designee unrestricted access
to all books, records, and facilities pertaining to the card room, including
but not limited to cash counting rooms. Any information obtained pursuant to
this section or any statement filed by the card room licensee or other
permittees shall be deemed confidential and shall not be subject to public
inspection except in connection with the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter. It shall be the duty of the City Administrator to preserve and keep
such statements so that the contents thereof shall not become known except to
the persons charged by law with the administration of the provisions of this
chapter or pursuant to the order of any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any failure or refusal of any licensee or permittee to make and file
any statement as required within the time required, or to permit inspection of
such books, records, accounts and reports, of such licensee or permittee in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall be and constitute full and
sufficient grounds for the revocation or suspension of the license or permit of
any such licensee or permittee.
(Ord. 684 C.S., passed 6-3-98)
§ 6-3.20 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Each and all of the games conducted or operated in the city pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter shall be conducted and operated in full
conformity with, and subject to, all the provisions of federal, state and local
laws.
   (B)   Fees may only be collected for the playing of permissible games either
through a time rental fee for occupancy at a card table or a predetermined
fixed fee assessed of all players at a card table and collected prior to the
playing of a hand.
   (C)   No card room licensee, owner or employee shall knowingly permit or
allow any person under the age of 21 years of age at any time to be in or upon
the card room premises; except that a person under the age of 21 years of age,
when accompanied by his/her parent or legal guardian who is 21 years of age or
older, may be permitted to be in the restaurant area of the card room premises
only when there for purposes of eating. In order for persons under the age of
twenty-one years of age to be allowed to be present in the restaurant area of
the card room the restaurant must be in a room or area separated from the
gaming area of the card room premises. Under no circumstances is a person under
the age of 21 years of age allowed to be in any other area of the card room
except as necessary to travel directly to and from the restaurant when
accompanied by a person who is 21 years of age or older.
   (D)   For purposes of this section a "room or area separated from the gaming
area of the card room premises" means a room or area completely separated from
the gaming area by walls which are at least five feet in height. The room or
area shall contain no card tables. There shall be no more than one doorway of
no more than seven feet in width for entry from or exit to the gaming area.
   (E)   No card room licensee, owner or employee shall permit the farming out,
assigning, leasing, renting, or subletting of any games or card tables on
premises lawfully licensed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   This section shall not preclude any profit sharing with employees or
preclude use of a management company.
   (G)   The playing of all games permitted under this chapter shall be
confined to the approved card playing area of each licensed card room as set
forth in the license and no playing of any games shall be permitted in any
other area or location.
   (H)   Permissible Games. A list of "permissible games" including any
specific rules thereto shall be adopted by Resolution of the Council.
      (1)   No game shall be played at any card room unless it is listed as a
permissible game.
      (2)   All permissible games shall be played in strict conformity to
California Penal Code Section 330, and all other state gaming laws.
      (3)   The licensee shall file with the Police Chief for the Police
Chief's approvals the rules on how each game and variation thereof is to be
played. The licensee shall allow the playing of permissible games only in
strict conformity with the rules approved by the Police Chief.
      (4)   All other games of chance are hereby prohibited.
   (I)   Game Rules. The rules describing how each game conducted on the
premises is to be played shall be posted on the premises of the card room in a
conspicuous place. Printed copies of the rules shall also be easily available
to the public.
      (1)   The rules which are posted and made available to the public shall
be identical to the rules provided to the Police Chief pursuant to the
requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The rules shall be made available in English, Spanish, Vietnamese,
Hmong, Lao, Cambodian, and any other language as requested by a patron.
      (3)   No card room licensee, owner or employee shall permit any person to
play in any game at any time while such person is obviously under the influence
of intoxicating beverage, narcotic or drug.
   (J)   Exclusion of Persons from Card Rooms.
      (1)   A card room licensee shall not allow entry and shall exclude or
eject from the premises any person who has been engaged in or been convicted of
bookmaking, loan sharking, the sale of controlled substances, illegal gambling
activities, prostitution, pimping, pandering or whose presence in or about such
card room would be inimical to the interests of legitimate gaming.
      (2)   No card room licensee, owner or employee shall permit any person to
enter a card room while such person appears to be obviously under the influence
of any intoxicating beverage, narcotic or drug.
      (3)   Any person refused entry, excluded, or ejected by a card room may
appeal to the City Administrator as to whether the conditions for exclusion or
ejection as set forth in division (J) of this section are applicable. The City
Administrator shall appoint a hearing officer who shall conduct a hearing at
which time both the person excluded and the licensee may present evidence. The
decision of the hearing officer shall be final. The card room licensee and
appellant shall reimburse the city for the cost of holding such hearing.
   (K)   Complimentary or reduced priced alcoholic drinks shall be prohibited
in the card room premises.
   (L)   A notice setting forth the procedure for making and/or filing
complaints by patrons of the card room shall be prominently posted on the
premises. Such complaint procedure shall at a minimum include provisions for
logging in the verbal and written complaints, the name, address, and telephone
number of complainant, and a mechanism for transmitting such log to the Police
Department on a daily basis.
   (M)   Limits on Bets and Wagers. No card room licensee, owner or employee
shall allow any persons playing in any game to make any single bet or wager in
excess of $2,000 or at any time during any game to permit an ante in excess of
$200 total sum anted by players participating in the game. Notwithstanding this
provision, the Council may, by resolution, set a lower wager limit than the
maximum listed herein on a game by game basis.
   (N)   Identification Card Display. It shall be unlawful for any card room
owner or employee to be physically present at any time upon said premises
without having prominently displayed his or her own personal identification
card issued by the Police Chief pursuant to this chapter identifying such
person with the card room.
      (1)   The identification card shall be prominently displayed on the
outermost garment at approximately chest height. Such identification card shall
at all times be in good and readable condition.
   (O)   Employment of Persons To Stimulate Play Prohibited. It shall be
unlawful for any card room licensee, owners interest-holder, manager, key
management employee, or employee to engage in or persuade any person to play
cards for the purpose of stimulating play where such person is to receive any
compensation or reward, whether financial or otherwise, present or promised; or
where such reward or revenue is to be diverted to the card room licensee or
owner except as allowed under division (O)(1) of this section.
      (1)   The licensee may utilize proposition players. A proposition player
must wear a badge at all times identifying the player as an employee of the
licensee. Other than compensation for the time spent in acting in such
activities as an employee of the licensee, no gifts, rewards or any other thing
of value shall be given to the proposition player by the card room licensee,
owner, interest-holder, manager, key management employee or employee.
   (P)   It is unlawful for any card room licensee, owner or employee to engage
in the lending of money, chips, tokens or anything of value, either real or
promised, to any person for the purpose of allowing that person to eat, drink
or engage in any game or gambling on the premises.
   (Q)   It is unlawful for the card room licensee, owner or employee to cash
any personal check which does not state the amount on the face of the check.
   (R)   Operation of House Deposit or Credit System Prohibited. It shall be
unlawful for any card room licensee, owner or employee to operate, maintain or
purport to maintain any house, player or employee deposit or credit system or
any system similar thereto, whereby a person may deposit, draw or maintain any
account or credit of money, checks or any other item or representation of
value, except as expressly authorized pursuant to divisions (R)(1) and (2) of
this section.
      (1)   The licensee shall be allowed to provide chips or other
representations of value paid for in advance by the patron in cash or by
personal check.
      (2)   The licensee shall be allowed to accept a patron's chips or other
winnings and provide the patron with a check drawn on the licensee's account
for the amount of the patron's chips or other winnings.
      (3)   The dollar equivalent of any such chips or other representations
shall be posted in the same manner as the game rules pursuant to this chapter.
In the alternative the dollar equivalent may be placed prominently upon the
face of each chip or other representation of value.
   (S)   All card room licensees shall make literature published by Gamblers
Anonymous easily available in a visible location in the card room. If
literature published by Gamblers Anonymous is available in English, Spanish,
Vietnamese, Hmong, Lao, Cambodian, and any other language requested by a
patron, the card room permittee shall be required to make such literature
easily available.
   (T)   Inspection of Premises. All card rooms shall be open for inspection
during normal business hours to the Police Chief, the Finance Director, the
city auditor or their duly authorized representatives, without a search
warrant.
      (1)   All card room records, including but not limited to papers, books
of account, ledgers, audits, reports, personnel records, information stored in
computers and on computer tape or disks, video tape, microfilm or microfiche,
shall be available for inspection and copying during normal business hours to
the Police Chief, the Finance Director or their duly authorized representatives
without search warrant.
   (U)   It shall be unlawful for any individual player or other unauthorized
person to enter any secure areas within the premises or for any operator, agent
or employee of any duly permitted card room to permit any player or
unauthorized person to enter any secure areas within the card room premises.
   (V)   It shall be unlawful for any patron or any other person not a
permittee to bring cards into a card room. It shall be unlawful for any person
other than a licensee, authorized employee or a patron then playing cards to
have playing cards in his or her possession while in a card room. It shall be
unlawful for any person in a card room other than on-duty employees with valid
registration cards to have playing cards in his or her possession outside of a
designated card playing area.
   (W)   It shall be the responsibility of the licensee, management and their
employees to fully cooperate with card game surveillance and protection
personnel in the detection, apprehension and identification of those
individuals involved in cheating, fraudulent practices, or other unlawful
practices. Management shall retain and deliver to the Police Department as
evidence in arrests or detention, all playing cards and implements suspected of
involvement in cheating. Management shall cooperate with card room surveillance
personnel whether provided by a governmental policing agency, a city-contracted
service, city-administered or licensee-assigned.
(Ord. 684 C.S., passed 6-3-98)
§ 6-3.21 NATURE OF FEES AND CHARGES.
   For the purposes of clarification, the fees set forth in this chapter are
for regulation, revenue purposes and reimbursement to the city for the costs of
investigating, regulating and processing the applications, as provided for in
this chapter, pursuant to the authority set forth in Article XI Section 5 of
the Constitution of the State.
(Ord. 684 C.S., passed 6-3-98)
§ 6-3.22 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The Council reserves the right to add to, amend or repeal any of the
rules and regulations set forth in this chapter, and to adopt additional rules
and regulations.
   (B)   The Council further reserves the right to adopt by resolution
additional emergency rules and regulations which shall become effective
immediately upon adoption. Violation of any such emergency rules and
regulations may constitute grounds for the suspension and revocation of the
permits and permits issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 684 C.S., passed 6-3-98)
§ 6-3.23 LIABILITY FOR CARDROOM SAFETY.
   It is the intent of the City Council that the licensee and interest-holders
in the licensed card room shall be liable for the security and safety of the
patrons of the licensed card room operation. To the extent that California law
permits recourse against the owner of an establishment for physical harm
incurred by an individual while on or about the premises, the licensee and
interest-holders shall be liable for said recourse.
(Ord. 684 C.S., passed 6-3-98)
§ 6-3.24 VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
   Any individual violating any of the provisions of this chapter or any of the
rules and regulations set forth, established or promulgated in this chapter
should be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 684 C.S., passed 6-3-98)
CHAPTER 4: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 5: CANNABIS BUSINESSES
Section
   
6-5.01   Title
   
6-5.02   Purpose and intent
   
6-5.03   Legal authority
   
6-5.04   Cannabis cultivation and cannabis activities prohibited unless
specifically authorized by this chapter
   
6-5.05   Compliance with state and local laws and regulations
   
6-5.06   Definitions
   
6-5.07   Cannabis business permit required to engage in cannabis business
   
6-5.08   Evidence of cannabis owners and/or employees background check required
   
6-5.09   Personnel prohibited from holding a license or from employment with a
cannabis business permittee
   
6-5.10   Maximum number and type of authorized cannabis businesses permitted
   
6-5.11   Community benefits
   
6-5.12   City's reservation of rights
   
6-5.13   Procedure guidelines and review criteria to evaluate cannabis business
applications
   
6-5.14   Application review process
   
6-5.15   Exercise of a cannabis business permit
   
6-5.16   Scope of approval
   
6-5.17   Reapplying for a cannabis business permit
   
6-5.18   Renewal of cannabis business permits
   
6-5.19   Revocation of permits
   
6-5.20   Effect of state license suspension
   
6-5.21   Effect of state revocation
   
6-5.22   Appeals
   
6-5.23   Written request for appeal
   
6-5.24   Grounds for appeal
   
6-5.25   Appeal hearing process
   
6-5.26   Administrative hearing and proceedings
   
6-5.27   Change in location; updated application form
   
6-5.28   Transfer of cannabis business permit
   
6-5.29   City business license
   
6-5.30   Building permits and inspection
   
6-5.31   Authorization from the Community Development Director
   
6-5.32   Right to occupy and to use property
   
6-5.33   Location and design of cannabis businesses
   
6-5.34   Limitations on city's liability
   
6-5.35   Records and recordkeeping
   
6-5.36   Security measures
   
6-5.37   Fees and charges
   
6-5.38   General operating requirements
   
6-5.39   Amendments to general operating requirements
   
6-5.40   Operating requirements for store front/retail facilities
   
6-5.41   Operating requirements for non-store front retailer
   
6-5.42   Retailer, non-store front retailer and microbusiness delivery vehicle
requirements
   
6-5.43   Operating requirements for distributors
   
6-5.44   Operating requirements for testing labs
   
6-5.45   Operating requirements for cannabis manufacturing: edibles and other
cannabis products; sale of edible and other cannabis products
   
6-5.46   Operating requirements for cultivators
   
6-5.47   Operating requirements for delivery services
   
6-5.48   Permissible delivery locations and customers
   
6-5.49   Promulgation of regulations, standards and other legal duties
   
6-5.50   Community relations
   
6-5.51   Fees deemed debt to the city
   
6-5.52   Permit holder responsible for violations
   
6-5.53   Inspection and enforcement
   
6-5.54   Violations declared a public nuisance
§ 6-5.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Cannabis Business Permit Ordinance of the
City of Madera.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to implement the provisions of
the Medicinal and Adult Use Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act ("MAUCRSA") to
accommodate the needs of medically-ill persons in need of cannabis for
medicinal purposes as recommended by their health care provider(s), and to
provide access to same. It is also the purpose and intent of this chapter to
provide access to adult-use cannabis for persons aged 21 and over as authorized
by the Control, Tax & Regulate the Adult Use Cannabis Act ("AUMA" or
"Proposition 64" approved by California voters in 2016), while imposing
sensible regulations on the use of land to protect the city's residents,
neighborhoods, and businesses from disproportionately negative impacts. It is
the purpose and intent of this chapter to regulate the commercial cultivation,
processing, manufacturing, testing, sale, delivery, and distribution of
cannabis and cannabis products in a responsible manner to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of the residents of the city and to enforce rules and
regulations consistent with state law.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.03 LEGAL AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted to the city by
Sections 5 and 7 of Article XI of the California Constitution and the
provisions of the Medicinal and Adult Use Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act
(hereinafter "MAUCRSA").
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.04 CANNABIS CULTIVATION AND CANNABIS ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED UNLESS
SPECIFICALLY AUTHORIZED BY THIS CHAPTER.
   Except as specifically authorized by this chapter, the commercial
cultivation, manufacture, processing, storing, laboratory testing, labeling,
sale, delivery, distribution, or transportation (other than as provided under
Cal. Business and Professions Code § 26090(e)), of cannabis or cannabis
products is expressly prohibited in the city.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.05 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND LOCAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   It is the responsibility of the owners and/or operators of any commercial
cannabis business within the city limits to ensure that they operate in a
manner compliant with this chapter, all applicable state and local laws, and
any regulations promulgated thereunder, including but not limited to the
MAUCRSA.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.06 DEFINITIONS.
   All definitions pertaining to cannabis regulation that appear in Cal.
Business and Professions Code § 26001, as codified by Senate Bill 94, the
MAUCRSA of 2017, are hereby incorporated by reference. Definitions appearing in
this chapter are either those that are not covered by state law, pre-date
Proposition 64 and the MAUCRSA, or are outside the scope of Cal. Business and
Professions Code § 26001.
   APPLICANT. A person or entity that submits an application for a cannabis
business permit under this chapter.
   BUREAU. The Bureau of Cannabis Control with the California Department of
Consumer Affairs, or its successor the Department of Cannabis Control which
becomes effective July 1, 2021.
   CANNABIS. Shall have the same meaning as that appearing in Cal. Business and
Professions Code § 26001(f).
   CANOPY. Shall have the same meaning as that appearing in Title 3, § 8000(f)
of the Cal. Code of Regulations.
   CAREGIVER or PRIMARY CAREGIVER. Has the same meaning as that term is defined
in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 11362.7.
   CITY. The City of Madera, California.
   CITY MANAGER. The City of Madera City Manager or his or her designee.
   COMMERCIAL CANNABIS BUSINESS. Any business or operation which engages in
medicinal or adult-use commercial cannabis activity.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMIT. A regulatory permit issued by the city pursuant to
this chapter to a commercial cannabis business and is required before any
commercial cannabis activity may be conducted in the city. The initial permit
and annual renewal of a commercial cannabis business is made expressly
contingent upon the business' ongoing compliance with all of the requirements
of this chapter and any regulations adopted by the city governing the
commercial cannabis activity at issue.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMITTEE or PERMITTEE. A person or entity that has
received a cannabis business permit from the city as authorized under this
chapter.
   DISPENSING. Any activity involving the retail sale of cannabis or cannabis
products from a retailer.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Shall have the same meaning as that appearing in § 26070 of the
Cal. Business and Professions Code.
   LIMITED-ACCESS AREA. An area in which cannabis is stored or held and is only
accessible to a permittee and authorized personnel.
   MANUFACTURED CANNABIS. Raw cannabis that has undergone a process whereby the
raw agricultural product has been transformed into a concentrate, extraction or
other manufactured product intended for internal consumption through inhalation
or oral ingestion or for topical application.
   MANUFACTURING SITE. A location that produces, prepares, propagates, or
compounds cannabis or cannabis products, directly or indirectly, by extraction
methods, independently by means of chemical synthesis, or by a combination of
extraction and chemical synthesis, and is owned and operated by a person issued
a valid cannabis business permit for manufacturing from the City of Madera and
a valid state license as required for manufacturing of cannabis products.
   MICROBUSINESS. Has the same meaning as that contained in § 26070(a)(3) of
the Cal. Business and Professions Code.
   NON-RETAILER BUSINESS. A wholesale business which includes cultivation,
manufacturing, distribution, and testing labs.
   NON-STOREFRONT RETAILER. A subset of RETAILER and is a licensed retail
business that is closed to the public and provides product to customers solely
by means of a delivery service which the retailer owns and controls.
   NON-VOLATILE SOLVENT. Any solvent used in the extraction process that is not
a volatile solvent as defined by state law. For purposes of this chapter, a
non-volatile solvent includes carbon dioxide (CO2) used for extraction and
ethanol used for extraction or post-extraction processing.
   OWNER. Any of the following:
      (1)   A person with an aggregate ownership interest of 10% or more in the
person applying for a license or a licensee, unless the interest is solely a
security, lien or encumbrance.
      (2)   The manager of a nonprofit or other entity.
      (3)   A member of the board of directors of a nonprofit.
      (4)   An individual who will be participating in the direction, control,
or management of the person applying for a license. Such an individual includes
any of the following:
         (a)   A general partner of a commercial cannabis business that is
organized as a partnership.
         (b)   A non-member manager or manager of a commercial cannabis
business that is organized as a limited liability company.
         (c)   An officer or director of a commercial cannabis business that is
organized as a corporation.
         (d)   An individual entitled to a share of at least 10% of the profits
of the commercial cannabis business.
      (5)   Any individual who assumes responsibility for the license.
      (6)   When an entity is an owner in a commercial cannabis business, all
entities and individuals with a financial interest in the entity shall be
disclosed to the city and may be considered owners of the commercial cannabis
business. For example, this includes all entities in a multi-layer business
structure, as well as the chief executive officer, members of the board of
directors, partners, trustees and all persons who have control of a trust and
managing members or non-member managers of the entity. Each entity disclosed as
having a financial interest must disclose the identities of persons holding
financial interests until only individuals remain.
   PACKAGE. Any container or receptacle used for holding cannabis or cannabis
products.
   PATIENT or QUALIFIED PATIENT. Shall have the same meaning as that contained
in Cal. Health and Safety Code §§ 11362.7 et seq., as it may be amended, and
which includes within its definition a person who is entitled to the
protections of Cal. Health and Safety Code § 11362.22.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation, limited liability company, estate, trust, business trust,
receiver, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit.
   PERSON WITH AN IDENTIFICATION CARD. Shall have the same meaning as that
contained in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 11362.7.
   PROCESSING. A cultivation site that conducts only trimming, drying, curing,
grading, packaging, or labeling of cannabis and non-manufactured cannabis
products.
   RETAILER or STOREFRONT RETAILER. Shall have the same meaning as that
contained in Cal. Business and Professions Code § 26070(a)(1).
   STATE LICENSE. A permit or license issued by the State of California, or one
of its departments or divisions, under the MAUCRSA and any subsequent related
State of California legislation, to engage in cannabis activity. A state
license alone will not authorize the holder to operate a cannabis business, as
state law also requires a permit or other authorization issued by a local
jurisdiction.
   TOPICAL CANNABIS. A product intended for external application and/or
absorption through the skin. A topical cannabis product is not considered a
drug as defined by Cal. Health and Safety Code § 109925.
   TRANSPORT. The transfer of cannabis products from the permitted business
location of one licensee to the permitted business location of another
licensee, for the purposes of conducting cannabis activity authorized by the
MAUCRSA which may be amended or repealed by any subsequent related State of
California legislation. Transport can only be performed by licensed
distributors and does not include deliveries of cannabis or cannabis products.
   VERTICAL INTEGRATION. A cannabis business that will hold a minimum of three
non-retail cannabis permit which includes manufacturing, distribution, and at
least one cultivation license which shall cultivate at least 20,000 square feet
of canopy in the city. A vertical integrated business may also be eligible to
operate a retail or non-storefront retail business upon evidence of actual
operation of at least three non-retail cannabis permit in the city.
   VOLATILE SOLVENT. A solvent as defined by Health and Safety Code § 11362.3
(b)(3) as of the effective date of this chapter and as subsequently amended.
   YOUTH CENTER. Any:
      (1)   Public or private facility that is primarily used to host
recreation or social activities for minors, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Private youth membership organizations or clubs;
         (b)   Social service teenage club facilities;
         (c)   Video arcades where ten or more video games or game machines or
devices are operated, and where minors are legally permitted to conduct
business; or
         (d)   Similar amusement park facilities; and
         (e)   Must be used for youth activities at least 60% of the time in a
calendar year.
      (2)   It shall also include a park, playground or recreational area
specifically designed to be used by children which has play equipment
installed, including public grounds designed for athletic activities such as
baseball, softball, soccer, or basketball or any similar facility located on
public or private school grounds, or on city, county, or state parks.
      (3)   This definition shall not include any private martial arts, yoga,
ballet, music, art studio or similar studio of this nature nor shall it include
any private gym, athletic training facility, pizza parlor, dentist office,
doctor's office primarily serving children or a location which is primarily
utilized as an administrative office or facility for youth programs or
organizations.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.07 CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMIT REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CANNABIS BUSINESS.
   No person may engage in any cannabis business within the city including
cultivation, manufacture, processing, laboratory testing, distributing,
dispensing, or sale of cannabis or a cannabis product unless the person meets
all of the following requirements:
   (A)   Possesses a valid cannabis business permit from the city;
   (B)   Possesses a valid State of California Seller's Permit;
   (C)   Possesses a valid city cannabis business license tax certificate; and
   (D)   Is currently in compliance with all applicable state and local laws
and regulations pertaining to the cannabis business and the cannabis
activities, including the duty to obtain any required state licenses.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.08 EVIDENCE OF CANNABIS OWNERS AND/OR EMPLOYEES BACKGROUND CHECK
REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who is an owner, employee or who otherwise works within a
cannabis business must be legally authorized to do so under applicable state
law.
   (B)   Cannabis business owners, operators, investors, managers, and
employees shall be required to submit to a criminal background check for
themselves and all persons in their employment.
   (C)   The city shall conduct criminal background checks which must at a
minimum identify the following:
      (1)   Whether the individual applying for employment has ever been
convicted of a violent felony as defined by Cal. Penal Code § 667.5 or
equivalent offenses in other states;
      (2)   Whether the owner or employee has ever been convicted of a crime
involving dishonesty, fraud or deceit, including but not limited to fraud,
forgery, theft, or embezzlement as those offenses are defined in Cal. Penal
Code §§ 186.11, 470, 484, and 504a, respectively; or equivalent offenses in
other states; or
      (3)   Whether the owner or employee has ever been convicted of the
illegal use, possession, transportation, distribution, or similar activities
related to controlled substances, as defined in the Federal Controlled
Substances Act, not including cannabis-related offenses for which the
conviction occurred after the passage of the Compassionate Use Act of 1996.
   (D)   Evidence of a conviction of any of the offenses enumerated in §
6-5.08(C) shall be grounds for denial of employment.
   (E)   Violation of this section shall be grounds for immediate suspension of
the business' operating cannabis business permit, pending a hearing before the
City Manager within 30 days for a final determination of the status of the
permit.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.09 PERSONNEL PROHIBITED FROM HOLDING A LICENSE OR FROM EMPLOYMENT WITH A
CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMITTEE.
   (A)   Any person, including but not limited to any individual, firm,
partnership, joint venture, association, corporation, limited liability
company, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate, or any other group
or combination acting as a unit, in which any of the following actions or
notices have been issued for non-compliance, shall not be eligible to obtain a
cannabis business permit from the city or from employment with a cannabis
business permittee in the City of Madera:
      (1)   The applicant has been denied a cannabis license due to a
disqualifying factor or has had a cannabis license suspended or revoked by any
city, county, city and county or any other state cannabis licensing authority;
      (2)   The applicant was notified by the state, county, or city that it
was conducting cannabis activity in violation of city ordinances, codes, and
requirements, and failed to cure the violation in a timely manner;
      (3)   Evidence that the applicant is delinquent in payment of federal,
state, or local taxes and/or fees, and has taken no steps to cure the
delinquency when notified by the appropriate agencies;
      (4)   As of June 16, 2021, applicant was conducting cannabis activity in
the City of Madera in violation of local and state law.
   (B)   No person shall be issued a cannabis business permit to operate if
that person enters into either a verbal or written agreement to lease,
sublease, or any other agreement for any terms of use of the premises granted
by a property owner, commercial broker or any third party, that is in violation
of §
6-5.07 above unless that property is leased at fair market value. Any such
lease, sublease or agreement shall not contain terms or conditions requiring
the cannabis businesses permit licensee to pay the property owner, commercial
broker, or any third party a percentage of gross receipts, royalties, equity,
or other unreasonable compensation as determined by the city. In addition, all
leases, subleases, or other agreements must be based on a monthly rate.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.10 MAXIMUM NUMBER AND TYPE OF AUTHORIZED CANNABIS BUSINESSES PERMITTED.
   This section is only intended to create a maximum number and types of
cannabis businesses that may be issued permits to operate in the city.
   (A)   The number of each type of cannabis business that shall be permitted
to operate in the city shall be established by resolution by the City Council.
   (B)   Each year following the City Council's initial award of permits, if
any, or at any time in the City Council's discretion, the City Council may
reassess the number of cannabis business permits which are authorized for
issuance and make any changes by resolution.
   (C)   The City Council at its sole discretion may determine that the number
and/or types of cannabis business permits should remain the same or be
modified.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.11 COMMUNITY BENEFITS.
   (A)   The application procedure process shall include a component on
community benefits.
   (B)   Any community benefits that a cannabis business agrees to provide
shall be incorporated into the terms and conditions under which the cannabis
business will operate with the city's approval, if and when a cannabis business
permit is issued. Such terms and conditions shall be in addition to the
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Community benefits may include but will not be limited to: in-kind
donations; sponsorship of community events; financial support or otherwise, for
special community events such as fairs, afterschool programs, youth centers,
Boys and Girls Clubs, local schools whether public or private; school athletic
programs; school clubs; community centers, homeless shelters, senior centers
and/or senior living facilities, parks and recreation programs.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.12 CITY’S RESERVATION OF RIGHTS.
   The city reserves the right to reject any or all applications for a cannabis
business permit. Prior to such permit issuance, the city may modify, postpone,
or cancel any request for applications, at any time without liability,
obligation, or commitment to any party, firm, or organization, to the extent
permitted under California law. Persons submitting applications assume the risk
that all or any part of the program, or any particular category of permit
potentially authorized under this chapter, may be cancelled at any time prior
to permit issuance. The city further reserves the right to request and obtain
additional information from any candidate submitting an application. In
addition to a failure to comply with other requirements in this chapter, an
application may be rejected for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   The application was received after the designated time and date of the
deadline.
   (B)   The application did not contain the required elements, exhibits, or
was not organized in the required format.
   (C)   The application was considered not fully responsive to the request for
a permit application.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.13 PROCEDURE GUIDELINES AND REVIEW CRITERIA TO EVALUATE CANNABIS BUSINESS
APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   By resolution the City Council shall adopt procedure guidelines (also
referenced as application process in this chapter) and review criteria for the
city's evaluation of cannabis business permit applications.
   (B)   The procedure guidelines shall provide the process for soliciting
applications including time frames, limitations, requirements, forms, and rules
for completing applications.
   (C)   The review criteria shall include detailed objective review criteria
to be evaluated on a point system or equivalent quantitative evaluation scale
tied to particular sets of criteria.
   (D)   The scoring on review criteria shall be used to determine which
candidates will be eligible to participate in the interview or other decision
process as determined by City Council resolution.
   (E)   The City Manager shall be authorized to prepare any necessary forms
and adopt any necessary rules to implement the procedures guidelines and review
criteria.
   (F)   At the time of filing, each applicant shall pay an application fee
established by resolution of the City Council to cover all costs incurred by
the city in the application process.
   (G)   For applicants with ten or more employees, the applicant shall attest
that the applicant has entered into a labor peace agreement and will abide by
the terms of the agreement, and the applicant shall provide notarized statement
thereof to the city. For applicants that have not yet entered into a labor
peace agreement, the applicant shall provide a notarized statement indicating
that within 30-days of receipt of cannabis permit from the city, the applicant
will enter into and abide by the labor peace agreement.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.14 APPLICATION REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   Applications will be reviewed per the procedure guidelines and review
criteria and will be either denied or approved.
   (B)   Once the proposed locations of approved applications have been
identified, the Community Development Director, or his or her designee shall
verify whether they are properly zoned for the type of license(s) in which the
applicant has applied. If permitted, a zoning verification letter shall be
issued.
   (C)   Only approved applications meeting guidelines set by City Council
resolution will be eligible to participate in the final selection process.
   (D)   Upon the completion of the review process, a public meeting shall be
set in which concerns of residents, businesses, and community organizations
alike may be brought before the city.
   (E)   The Community Development Director, or his or her designee shall
conduct the public meeting to solicit community feedback.
   (F)   Public notice shall be mailed at least ten days prior to the public
meeting to the following:
      (1)   All property owners of record within a minimum 300-foot radius of
the subject property as shown on the latest available assessment role or a
larger radius if deemed necessary by the Community Development Director, or his
or her designee in order to provide adequate public notification; and
      (2)   Any person or group who has filed a written request for notice
regarding the specific application.
      (3)   Failure to notify individual properties. The validity of the
proceedings shall not be affected by the failure of any property owner,
resident or neighborhood or community organization to receive a mailed notice.
   (G)   Applications shall be vetted by the City Manager and a team of his/her
choice consistent with review criteria established by City Council resolution.
      (1)   At the conclusion of the vetting process relating to: (i) Social
Equity Applications; and/or (ii) Standard Retail or Microbusiness Applications,
the City Manager shall prepare a report for consideration of applications by
the City Council.
      (2)   At the end of the vetting process relating to vertically
integrated, cultivation, distribution, manufacturing, testing labs
applications, applications meeting all requirements of the review criteria
shall receive a cannabis business permit subject to appeal to the City Council
by the applicant and contingent on meeting the requirements in §
6-5.14(I) of this Code.
   (H)   The City Council may either deny or approve the final candidates
relating to Social Equity and Standard Retail Microbusiness Applications and
shall select the top candidates in each category of the cannabis businesses
pursuant to review criteria established by City Council resolution. The City
Council’s decision as to the selection (denial or approval) of the prevailing
candidates shall be final and shall not be subject to further administrative or
City Council review or appeal.
   (I)   The city will issue a notice to the prevailing applicants that the
city will issue an official cannabis business permit(s) upon the prevailing
applicant(s) obtaining all required land use approvals. Once all required land
use approvals are secured, the city will issue an official cannabis business
permit.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21; Am. Ord. 979 C.S., passed 11-3-21)
§ 6-5.15 EXERCISE OF A CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMIT.
   (A)   Each cannabis business permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall
expire 12 months after the date of issuance. Cannabis business permits may be
renewed as provided in §
6-5.18.
   (B)   A cannabis business permit shall be exercised within 12 months of
issuance. Exercised shall be when any of the following occur:
      (1)   A certificate of occupancy has been issued;
      (2)   The permitted use(s) has commenced on the site; and
      (3)   A city building permit or grading permit is secured and
construction lawfully commenced.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.16 SCOPE OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   If a location has not been in regular and continuous operation in the
preceding four months, it shall be considered abandoned unless mitigating
circumstances occur which were beyond the control of the permittee and an
extension has be authorized by the City Manager.
   (B)   The approval of a new use under the city's zoning ordinance shall
terminate all rights and approvals of a cannabis business permit occupying the
same site or location.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.17 REAPPLYING FOR A CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMIT.
   If an application is denied a permit due to a disqualifying factor such as
failing a background check or not complying with any state, or local
jurisdictions regulatory requirements in which legal or administrative action
has been taken a new application may not be filed for one year from the date of
the denial. This section shall not apply to an approved applicant not awarded a
permit resulting from the city not selecting them for one of the permits in the
application process.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.18 RENEWAL OF CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMITS.
   (A)   An application for renewal of a cannabis business permit shall be
filed at least 60 calendar days prior to the expiration date of the current
permit.
   (B)   The renewal application shall contain all the information required for
new applications.
   (C)   The applicant shall pay a fee in an amount to be set by the City
Council to cover the costs of processing the renewal permit application,
together with any costs incurred by the city to administer the program created
under this chapter.
   (D)   An application for renewal of a cannabis business permit shall be
rejected if any of the following exists:
      (1)   The application is filed less than 60 days before its expiration or
a shorter time period which shall be at the discretion of the City Manager.
      (2)   The cannabis business permit is suspended or revoked at the time of
the application.
      (3)   The cannabis business has not been in regular and continuous
operation in the four months prior to the renewal application or the approved
extension of the deadline from the City Manager.
      (4)   The cannabis business has failed to conform to the requirements of
the cannabis business permit or this chapter or any regulations adopted
pursuant to this chapter.
      (5)   The permittee fails or is unable to renew its State of California
license.
      (6)   If the state has determined, based on substantial evidence, that
the permittee or applicant is in violation of the requirements of the state
rules and regulations and the state has determined that the violation is
grounds for termination or revocation of the cannabis business permit.
   (E)   The City Manager is authorized to make all decisions concerning the
issuance of a renewal permit. In making the decision, the City Manager is
authorized to impose additional conditions to a renewal permit, if it is
determined to be necessary to ensure compliance with state or local laws and
regulations or to preserve the public health, safety, or welfare. Appeals from
the decision of the City Manager shall be handled pursuant to this chapter.
   (F)   If a renewal application is denied, a person may file a new
application pursuant to this chapter not sooner than one year from the date of
the denial.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.19 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   Cannabis business permits may be revoked for any violation of any state or
local laws, and/or rules, and/or standards, policies, procedures, or
regulations in this chapter relating to cannabis.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.20 EFFECT OF STATE LICENSE SUSPENSION.
   Suspension of a license issued by the State of California, or by any of its
departments or divisions, shall immediately suspend the ability of a cannabis
business to operate within the city until the State of California or its
respective department or division reinstates or reissues the state license.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.21 EFFECT OF STATE REVOCATION.
   Revocation of a license issued by the State of California, or by any of its
departments or divisions, shall immediately suspend the ability of a cannabis
business to operate within the city until the State of California or its
respective department or division takes appropriate action. Should the state
revoke a license, the cannabis business owner may re-apply for a local permit
at such time as it can demonstrate that the grounds for revocation of the
license by the state no longer exist or that the underlying deficiency has
otherwise been cured.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.22 APPEALS.
   Appeals relating to denial of an initial application; denial of advancement
to the interview or other process established by the City Council; to revoke or
suspend a permit; to deny renewal of an application for a permit; or to add
conditions to a permit shall be conducted as prescribed in this chapter.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.23 WRITTEN REQUEST FOR APPEAL.
   (A)   Within ten calendar days after the date of a decision of the City
Manager to revoke, suspend or deny an initial or renewed permit application or
to add conditions to a permit, an applicant or permittee may appeal such action
by filing a written appeal with the City Clerk setting forth the reasons why
the decision was not proper.
   (B)   At the time of filing the appellant shall pay the designated appeal
fee, established by resolution of the City Council from time to time.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.24 GROUNDS FOR APPEAL.
   (A)   Denial of initial permit decision.  The City Manager or an appointed
hearing officer will hear appeals that address the following issues:
      (1)   Any deviation from the city's published application procedures that
adversely affected the applicant by altering the outcome of the city's decision
on the applicant's application. Examples of appealable deviations are:
      (2)   Failure on the part of the city to provide appropriate notification
regarding changes to the application process via website postings and/or email
to the applicant prior to the time the application was submitted;
      (3)   Failure on the part of the city to provide an applicant an equal
opportunity to modify an application where that opportunity was provided to
other applicants;
      (4)   The scoring of one or more portions of the applicant's application
was not justified based on the information presented in the application or due
to a material error or omission on the part in scoring the application.
      (5)   Any appeal based upon this section must be supported by evidence
that the applicant presented the relevant information with completeness and in
the appropriate section of the application. Information presented in the
application that is incomplete in nature or that is relevant to a question
posed by the city on the application form but appears in the incorrect section,
even if complete, may be grounds for the dismissal of the appeal.
   (B)   A hearing officer or body as determined by City Council resolution
shall hear appeals relating to denial of a renewed application, to revoke or
suspend a permit, or to add conditions to an existing permit.
   (C)   An applicant that is eligible to participate in the interview or other
final decision process but is not selected during the interview or other final
decision process shall not be eligible to appeal the outcome of the process.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.25 APPEAL HEARING PROCESS.
   (A)   Within ten calendar days after service of the notice of the decision
of the City Manager to deny advancement to the interview or other final
decision process, to revoke or suspend a permit, to deny a renewed application
for a permit; or to add conditions to a permit, the applicant or permittee may
appeal such action by filing a written appeal with the City Clerk setting forth
the reason why the decision was not proper. For an initial permit application
appeal, reasons shall be stated with specificity and shall address the issues
outlined in §
6-5.24(A). Date of service shall mean the date when a notice or written
decision was personally delivered to the applicant or permittee or the date
when the notice was caused to be delivered by certified, first class mail. In
cases in which the city can verify delivery of a notice to an applicant or in
which an applicant is documented as refusing delivery, lack of receipt of the
notice cannot form the basis for an appeal.
   (B)   The notice of appeal shall be in writing and signed by the person
making the appeal ("Appellant"), or their legal representative, and shall
contain the following:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of the appellant.
      (2)   Specify decisions, actions, or a particular part thereof, made that
are the subject of the appeal.
      (3)   Include a true and correct copy of the notice issued by the City
Manager for which the appellant is appealing.
      (4)   State with specificity the reasons and grounds for making the
appeal, including, but not limited to, a statement of facts upon which the
appeal is based in sufficient detail to enable the City Council, or any
appointed hearing officer, to understand the nature of the controversy, the
basis of the appeal, and the relief requested.
      (5)   All documents or other evidence pertinent to the appeal that the
appellant requests the hearing officer or body to consider at the hearing.
      (6)   An appeal fee as established by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   Failure of the City Clerk to receive a timely appeal constitutes a
waiver of the right to appeal the notice issued by the City Manager. In this
event, the City Manager's notice of revocation, non-renewal, or suspension
shall be final.
   (D)   In the event a written notice of appeal is timely filed, the non-
renewal, suspension, revocation shall not become effective until a final
decision has been rendered and issued by the City Council or appointed hearing
officer. Notices of appeal not served in a timely manner or served by non-
operational business shall not serve to allow such business to operate pending
appeal.
   (E)   If no appeal is timely filed in the event of a decision of non-
renewal, the cannabis businesses permit shall expire at the conclusion of the
term of the permit. If no appeal is timely filed in the event of a decision
supporting suspension or revocation, the suspension or revocation shall become
effective upon the expiration of the period for filing a written notice of
appeal.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.26 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING AND PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Review by appointed hearing officer or body; administrative hearing
and proceedings.
      (1)   Appellants who file a timely written notice of appeal will be
entitled to an administrative hearing before a hearing officer or body as set
forth in the City Council Procedures and Guidelines Resolution.
      (2)   Upon receipt by the City Clerk of a timely-filed notice of appeal
pertaining to suspensions, revocations, or non-renewals the City Clerk shall
forward such appeal to the hearing officer who shall schedule a hearing within
30 days. In the event such hearing cannot be heard within that time period or a
mutually agreed upon time with the appellant then the City Clerk shall schedule
the appeal to be heard by the City Council within 45 days or as reasonably
possible at the next scheduled City Council meeting proceeding the deadline
from receiving the appeal.
      (3)   The appellant(s) listed on the written notice of appeal shall be
notified in writing of the date, time, and location of the hearing at least ten
days before the date of the hearing ("notice of appeal hearing").
      (4)   A request by an appellant or by the city to continue a hearing must
be submitted to the City Clerk in writing no later than three business days
before the date scheduled for the hearing. The City Council, or appointed
hearing officer, may continue a hearing for good cause or on its own motion;
however, in no event may the hearing be continued for more than 30 calendar
days, unless there is a stipulation by all parties to do so.
   (B)   At the date, time and location set forth in the notice of appeal
hearing, the City Council or an appointed hearing officer shall hear and
consider the testimony of the appellant(s), city staff, and/or their witnesses,
as well as any documentary evidence properly submitted for consideration.
   (C)   The following rules shall apply at the appeal hearing:
      (1)   Appeal hearings are informal, and formal rules of evidence and
discovery do not apply. However, rules of privilege shall be applicable to the
extent they are permitted by law, and irrelevant, collateral, undue, and
repetitious testimony may be excluded.
      (2)   The city bears the burden of proof to establish the grounds for
non-renewal, suspension or revocation by a preponderance of evidence. Appellant
(s) bear the burden of proof regarding denial of an applicant's application.
      (3)   The issuance of the City Manager's notice constitutes prima facie
evidence of grounds for the denial, non-renewal, suspension or revocation.
      (4)   The hearing officer or body may accept and consider late evidence
not submitted initially with the notice of appeal upon a showing by the
appellant of good cause. The hearing officer or body shall determine whether a
particular fact or facts amount to good cause on a case-by-case basis.
      (5)   The appellant may bring a language interpreter to the hearing at
their sole expense.
      (6)   The city may, at its discretion, record the hearing by stenographer
or court reporter, audio recording, or video recording. If the appellant
requests from the city that a court reporter, stenographer, or videographer be
used, appellant shall bear the costs of same and shall deposit such fees prior
to commencement of the administrative hearing.
   (D)   If the appellant, or their legal representative, fails to appear at
the appeal hearing, the City Council, or the appointed hearing officer or body,
may cancel the appeal hearing and send a notice thereof to the appellant by
certified, first class mail to the address(es) stated on the notice of appeal.
A cancellation of a hearing due to non-appearance of the appellant shall
constitute the appellant's waiver of the right to appeal and a failure to
exhaust all administrative remedies. In such instances, the City Manager's
notice of decision is final and binding.    
   (E)   Final decision. Following the conclusion of the administrative hearing
officer or body shall issue a written decision within 20 days which: (i)
determines if the action appealed from is affirmed or overturned; and (ii)
specifies the reasons for the decision.
   (F)   The written decision of the hearing officer or body shall provide that
it is final and conclusive and is subject to the time limits set forth in Cal.
Code of Civil Procedure § 1094.6 for judicial review.
   (G)   A copy of the written decision shall be served by certified, first
class mail on the appellant. If the appellant is not the owner of the real
property in which the cannabis business is located, or proposed to be located,
a copy of the final decision may also be served on the property owner by first
class mail to the address shown on the last equalized assessment roll. Failure
of a person to receive a properly addressed final decision shall not invalidate
any action or proceeding by the city pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.27 CHANGE IN LOCATION; UPDATED APPLICATION FORM.
   (A)   Any time the cultivation, dispensing, testing, manufacturing, and
distribution location specified in the regulatory permit is changed, the
permittee shall submit an updated application form to the City Manager. The
process and the fees for the processing of the application form shall be the
same as the process and fees set forth in §§
6-5.18 and
6-5.28.
   (B)   Within 15 calendar days of any other change in the information
provided in the updated application form or any change in status of compliance
with the provisions of this chapter, including any change in the cannabis
business ownership or management members, the applicant shall file an updated
application form with the City Manager for review along with an application
amendment fee.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.28 TRANSFER OF CANNABIS BUSINESS PERMIT.
   (A)   The owner of a cannabis business permit shall not transfer ownership
or control of the permit to another person or entity unless and until the
transferee obtains an amendment to the permit from the City Manager stating
that the transferee is now the permittee. Such an amendment may be obtained
only if the transferee files an application with the City Manager in accordance
with all provisions of this chapter (as though the transferee were applying for
an original cannabis business permit). The proposed transferee's application
shall be accompanied by a transfer fee in an amount set by resolution of the
City Council (or if not set, shall be the same amount as the application fee).
   (B)   The City Manager shall conduct a hearing to determine whether the
transferee satisfies the eligibility requirements for a new permit. The
transferee's application will be treated as a new application and will be
evaluated according to the procedures used for the existing application and for
renewal of applications. This will require a complete evaluation of the
application and an interview of the applicant prior to the hearing, including a
determination of whether the transfer involves a substantial change in
ownership (any alteration in the permittee's business structure/ownership that
results in a change of 51% or more of the original ownership). Following the
hearing, the City Council must approve the transfer in order for it to be
authorized, as provided in division (D) of this section. If the transfer
involves a lesser percentage of the change in ownership than the threshold
cited above, then the hearing will be administrative in nature and City Council
approval will not be required for the transfer to be authorized.
   (C)   Cannabis business permits issued through the grant of a transfer by
the City Manager shall be valid for a period of one year beginning on the day
the City Manager approves the transfer of the permit. Before the transferee's
permit expires, the transferee shall apply for a renewal permit and pay the
appropriate fee in the manner required by this chapter.
   (D)   Changes in ownership of a permittee's business structure or a
substantial change in the ownership of a permittee business entity (changes
that result in a change of more than 51% of the original ownership), must be
approved by the City Council following completion of the transfer process
contained in division (A). Failure to comply with this provision is grounds for
permit revocation.
   (E)   A permittee may change the form of business entity without applying to
the City Manager for a transfer of permit, provided:
      (1)   The membership of the new business entity is substantially similar
to original permit holder business entity (at least 51% of the membership is
identical).
      (2)   Although a transfer is not required in this circumstance, the
permit holder is required to notify the City Manager in writing of the change
within ten days. Failure to comply with this provision is grounds for permit
revocation.
   (F)   A cannabis business permit shall not be transferred when the city has
notified the permittee in writing that the permit has been or may be suspended
or revoked.
   (G)   Any attempt to transfer a cannabis business permit either directly or
indirectly in violation of this section is hereby declared a violation of the
permit and this chapter. Such a purported transfer shall be deemed a ground for
revocation of the permit.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.29 CITY BUSINESS LICENSE.
   Prior to commencing operations, a cannabis business shall obtain a City of
Madera business license.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.30 BUILDING PERMITS AND INSPECTION.
   Prior to commencing operations, a cannabis business permitee shall be
subject to a mandatory building inspection and must obtain all required permits
and approvals which would otherwise be required for any business of the same
size and intensity operating in that zone. This includes but is not limited to
obtaining any required building permit(s), the Fire Department approvals,
Police Department approval, Code Enforcement, Planning, County Health
Department approvals and other applicable zoning and land use permit(s) and
approvals.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.31 AUTHORIZATION FROM THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR.
   Prior to commencing operations, a cannabis business must obtain
authorization from the Community Development Director certifying that the
business is located on a site that meets all of the requirements of §§
6-5.30,
6-5.32 and
6-5.33 of this chapter.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.32 RIGHT TO OCCUPY AND TO USE PROPERTY.
   Prior to the city's issuance of a cannabis business permit pursuant to this
chapter, any person intending to open and to operate a cannabis business shall
first provide sufficient evidence of the legal right to occupy and to use the
proposed location. If the proposed location will be leased from the property
owner, the applicant shall be required to provide a signed and notarized
statement from the owner of the property, acknowledging that the property owner
has read this chapter and consents to the operation of the cannabis business on
the owner's property.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.33 LOCATION AND DESIGN OF CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A cannabis business must meet land use and building standards pursuant
to Title X of this Code:
      (1)   Conform with the city's general plan, any applicable specific plan,
master plan, and design requirements.
      (2)   Comply with all applicable zoning and related development standards
pursuant to Title X of this Code.
      (3)   Be constructed in a manner that minimizes odors to surrounding
uses, and promotes quality design and construction, and consistency with the
surrounding properties.
      (4)   Be adequate in size and shape to accommodate the yards, walls,
fences, parking and loading facilities, landscaping and all items required for
the development.
      (5)   Be served by highways adequate in width and improved as necessary
to carry the kind and quantity of traffic such use will generate.
      (6)   Be provided with adequate electricity, sewerage, disposal, water,
fire protection and storm drainage facilities for the intended purpose.
   (B)   A cannabis business must meet all of the following requirements:
      (1)   Shall be no closer than 600 feet from any zoned parcel in the city
designated by state law as a sensitive use. The distance measured shall be the
horizontal distance measured in a straight line from the property line of those
parcels to the closest property line of the lot on which the cannabis business
is located.
      (2)   Shall not be closer than 600 feet from any parcel containing any of
the following:
         (a)   A school providing instruction in kindergarten or any grades 1
through 12, (whether public, private, or charter, including pre-school,
transitional kindergarten, and K-12);
         (b)   A commercial daycare center licensed by the state, county or
city or that is in existence at the time the license is issued, unless the
state licensing authority or the city specifies a greater radius;
         (c)   A youth center that is in existence prior to the submittal of
the initial cannabis application or at the time the permit is issued, unless
the state licensing authority or the city specifies a greater radius.
   (C)   The distance requirements prescribed in this section (§
6-5.33) shall not apply to:
      (1)   The Fresno River;
      (2)   Rotary Park, Courthouse Park, Wells Center (including the community
garden and Centennial Park), Frank Bergon Center, and Lions Town and Country
Community Park;
      (3)   Madera County Fairgrounds;
      (4)   Madera Municipal Golf Course;
      (5)   Madera County Library; and
      (6)   Madera Downtown Business Improvement Area as depicted in the
following diagram.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/caa15145c45f5c21dbe689a7aab4fe2c8bbd5078/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3704.png]
 
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21; Am. Ord. 980 C.S., passed 11-3-21)
§ 6-5.34 LIMITATIONS ON CITY’S LIABILITY.
   To the fullest extent permitted by law, the City of Madera shall not assume
any liability whatsoever with respect to having issued a cannabis business
permit pursuant to this chapter or otherwise approving the operation of any
cannabis business. As a condition to the approval of any cannabis business
permit, the applicant shall be required to meet all of the following conditions
before they can receive the cannabis business permit:
   (A)   Execute an agreement, in a form approved by the City Attorney,
agreeing to indemnify, defend (at applicant's sole cost and expense), and hold
the City of Madera, and its officers, officials, employees, representatives,
and agents, harmless, from any and all claims, losses, damages, injuries,
liabilities or losses which arise out of, or which are in any way related to,
the city's issuance of the cannabis business permit, the city's decision to
approve the operation of the cannabis business or activity, the process used by
the city in making its decision, or the alleged violation of any federal, state
or local laws by the cannabis business or any of its officers, employees or
agents.
   (B)   Maintain insurance at coverage limits, and with conditions thereon
determined necessary and appropriate from time to time by the City Manager.
   (C)   Reimburse the city for all costs and expenses, including but not
limited to legal fees and costs and court costs, which the city may be required
to pay as a result of any legal challenge related to the city's approval of the
applicant's cannabis business permit or related to the city's approval of a
cannabis activity. The city, at its sole discretion, may participate at its own
expense in the defense of any such action, but such participation shall not
relieve any of the obligations imposed hereunder.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.35 RECORDS AND RECORDKEEPING.
   (A)    Each owner and operator of a cannabis business shall maintain
accurate books and records in an electronic format, detailing all of the
revenues and expenses of the business, and all of its assets and liabilities.
On no less than an annual basis (at or before the time of the renewal of a
cannabis business permit issued pursuant to this chapter), or at any time upon
reasonable request of the city, each cannabis business shall file a sworn
statement detailing the number of sales by the cannabis business during the
previous 12-month period (or shorter period based upon the timing of the
request), provided on a per-month basis. The statement shall also include gross
sales for each month, and all applicable taxes and fees paid or due to be paid.
On an annual basis, each owner and operator shall submit to the city a
financial audit of the business's operations conducted by an independent
certified public accountant. Each permittee shall be subject to a regulatory
compliance review and financial audit as determined by the city.
   (B)   Each owner and operator of a cannabis business shall maintain a
current register of the names and the contact information (including the name,
address, and telephone number) of anyone owning or holding an interest in the
cannabis business, and separately of all the officers, managers, employees,
agents, and volunteers currently employed or otherwise engaged by the cannabis
business. The register required by this division shall be provided to the City
Manager upon a reasonable request.
   (C)   All cannabis businesses shall maintain an inventory control and
reporting system that accurately documents the present location, amounts, and
descriptions of all cannabis and cannabis products for all stages of the
growing and production or manufacturing, laboratory testing processes until
purchase as set forth in the MAUCRSA.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.36 SECURITY MEASURES.
   (A)   A cannabis business permittee shall implement sufficient security
measures to deter and prevent the unauthorized entrance into areas containing
cannabis or cannabis products and to deter and prevent the theft of cannabis or
cannabis products at the cannabis business. Except as may otherwise be
determined by the City Manager, these security measures shall include, but
shall not be limited to, all of the following:
      (1)   Perimeter fencing and exterior lighting systems (including motion
sensors) for after-hours security as approved by the Chief of Police and/or the
Community Development Director were applicable.
      (2)   Preventing individuals from remaining on the premises of the
cannabis business if they are not engaging in an activity directly related to
the permitted operations of the cannabis business in cases in which the
individual will not voluntarily leave the premises the cannabis employee shall
contact the Police Department.
      (3)   Establishing limited access areas accessible only to authorized
cannabis business personnel.
      (4)   Except for live growing clone plants which are being sold at a
cannabis business where applicable, all cannabis and cannabis products shall be
stored in a secured and locked vault or vault equivalent. All safes and vaults
shall be compliant with Underwriter Laboratories burglary-resistant and fire-
resistant standards. All cannabis and cannabis products, including live clone
plants that are being sold, shall be kept in a manner as to prevent diversion,
theft, and loss.
      (5)   Installing 24-hour security surveillance cameras of at least high-
definition (HD) quality to monitor all entrances and exits to and from the
premises, all interior spaces within the cannabis business which are open and
accessible to the public, all interior spaces where cannabis, cash, or
currency, is being stored for any period of time on a regular basis and all
interior spaces where diversion of cannabis could reasonably occur. All cameras
shall record in color. All exterior cameras shall be in weather-proof
enclosures, shall be located so as to minimize the possibility of vandalism,
and shall have the capability to automatically switch to black and white in low
light conditions. The cannabis business shall be responsible for ensuring that
the security surveillance camera's footage is remotely accessible by the City
Manager, and that it is compatible with the city's software and hardware. In
addition, if required remote and real-time, live access to the video footage
from the cameras shall be provided to the Chief of Police at the expense of the
permittee. Video recordings shall be maintained for a minimum of 90 days and
shall be made available to the Chief of Police upon request. Video shall be of
sufficient quality for effective prosecution of any crime found to have
occurred on the site of the cannabis business and shall be capable of
enlargement via projection or other means. Internet protocol address
information shall be provided to the Police Department by the cannabis
business, to facilitate remote monitoring of security cameras by the Department
or its designee. Each business shall have network security protocols that are
certified by Underwriters Laboratories.
      (6)   Sensors shall be installed to detect entry and exit from all secure
areas and shall be monitored in real time by a security company licensed by the
State of California Bureau of Security and Investigative Services.
      (7)   Panic buttons shall be installed in all cannabis businesses with
direct notification to the Police Department dispatch and shall be configured
to immediately alert dispatch for the Police Department.
      (8)   Having a professionally installed, maintained, and monitored real-
time alarm system by a security company licensed by the State of California
Bureau of Security and Investigative Services. If requested by the Police
Department permittee shall also be required to participate in the MPD False
Alarm reduction unit program.
      (9)   Any security measures, such as bars, installed on the windows or
the doors of the cannabis business shall be installed only on the interior of
the building.
      (10)   Security personnel shall be on-site 24 hours a day or alternative
security as authorized by the City Manager and must have a verified response
security patrol when closed. Security personnel must be licensed by the State
of California Bureau of Security and Investigative Services personnel and shall
be subject to the prior review and approval of the City Manager, with such
approval not to be unreasonably withheld.
      (11)   Each cannabis business shall have the capability to remain secure
during a power outage and shall ensure that all access doors are not solely
controlled by an electronic access panel to ensure that locks are not released
during a power outage.
      (12)   Entrance areas are to be locked at all times and under the control
of a designated responsible party that is either:
         (a)   An employee of the cannabis business; or
         (b)   A licensed security professional.
      (13)   Each cannabis business shall have an accounting software system in
place to provide point of sale data as well as audit trails or both product and
cash, where applicable.
      (14)   Each cannabis business shall demonstrate to the Chief of Police,
City Manager or their designees, compliance with the state's track and trace
system for cannabis and cannabis products as soon as it is operational.
      (15)   Each cannabis business shall have a professionally installed video
surveillance system, access control and intrusion alarm systems designed to
protect the inventory, facility, and employees. Each business shall have
network security protocols that are certified by Underwriters Laboratories.
      (16)   Exterior vegetation shall be planted, altered and maintained in a
fashion that precludes its use as a hiding place for persons on the premises.
      (17)   Emergency access and emergency evacuation plans that are in
compliance with state and local fire safety standards.
      (18)   Installation of "mosquitos" (high-pitch frequency devices) as a
deterrent to vandalism/loitering.
   (B)   Each cannabis business shall identify a designated security
representative/liaison to the city, who shall be reasonably available to meet
with the City Manager regarding any security related measures and/or
operational issues. The designated security representative/liaison shall, on
behalf of the cannabis business, annually maintain a copy of the current
security plan on the premises of the business, to present to the City Manager
upon request that meets the following requirements:
      (1)   Confirms that a designated manager will be on duty during business
hours and will be responsible for monitoring the behavior of employees.
      (2)   Identifies all managers of the cannabis business and their contact
phone numbers.
      (3)   Confirms that first aid supplies and operational fire extinguishers
are located in the service areas and the manager's office.
      (4)   Confirms that burglar, fire, and panic alarms are operational and
monitored by a licensed security company 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and
provides contact information for each licensed security company.
      (5)   Identify a sufficient number of licensed, interior, and exterior
security personnel who will monitor individuals inside and outside the cannabis
business, the parking lot, any adjacent property under the business' control,
and ensure that the parking lot is cleared of employees and their vehicles one-
half hour after closing.
   (C)   As part of the application and permitting process each cannabis
business shall have a storage and transportation plan, which describes in
detail the procedures for safely and securely storing and transporting all
cannabis, cannabis products, any hazardous materials that may be used by the
business, and any currency.
   (D)   The cannabis business shall cooperate with the city whenever the City
Manager makes a request, with or without prior notice, to inspect or audit the
effectiveness of any security plan or of any other requirement of this chapter.
   (E)   A cannabis business shall notify the City Manager within 24 hours
after discovering any of the following:
      (1)   Significant discrepancies identified during inventory. The level of
significance shall be determined by the regulations promulgated by the City
Manager.
      (2)   Diversion, theft, loss, or any criminal activity involving the
cannabis business or any agent or employee of the cannabis business.
         (a)   The loss or unauthorized alteration of records related to
cannabis, customers or employees or agents of the cannabis business.
         (b)   Any other breach of security.
   (F)   Compliance with the foregoing requirements shall be verified by the
City Manager prior to commencing business operations. The City Manager may
supplement these security requirements once operations begin, subject to review
by the City Manager if requested by the business owner.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.37 FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   No person may commence or continue any cannabis activity in the city,
without timely paying in full all fees and charges required for the operation
of a cannabis activity. Fees and charges associated with the operation of a
cannabis activity shall be established by resolution of the City Council which
may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   All cannabis businesses authorized to operate under this chapter shall
pay all sales, use, business and other applicable taxes, and all license,
registration, and other fees required under federal, state, and local law. Each
cannabis business shall cooperate with the city with respect to any reasonable
request to audit the cannabis business' books and records for the purpose of
verifying compliance with this section, including but not limited to a
verification of the amount of taxes or fees required to be paid during any
period.
   (C)   Prior to operating in the city and as a condition of issuance of a
regulatory permit, the operator of each cannabis facility shall enter into an
operational or community benefit agreement with the city setting forth the
terms and conditions under which the cannabis facility will operate that are in
addition to the requirements of this chapter, including, but not limited to,
public outreach and education, community service, payment of fees and other
charges as mutually agreed, and such other terms and conditions that will
protect and promote the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.38 GENERAL OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Cannabis businesses may operate only during the hours specified in the
cannabis business permit issued by the city. No person under the age of 21
shall operate or be issued a permit for a cannabis business of any kind, unless
permitted per division (H)(2) of this section.
   (B)   Restriction on sales and consumption. Cannabis shall not be consumed
by any person on the premises of any cannabis business. No person shall cause
or permit the sale, dispensing, or consumption of alcoholic beverages or
tobacco on or about the premises of the cannabis business.
   (C)   No cannabis or cannabis products or graphics depicting cannabis or
cannabis products shall be visible from the exterior of any property issued a
cannabis business permit, or on any of the vehicles owned or used as part of
the cannabis business. No outdoor storage of cannabis or cannabis products is
permitted at any time.
   (D)   Reporting and tracking of product and of gross sales. Each cannabis
business shall have in place a point-of-sale or management inventory tracking
system to track and report on all aspects of the cannabis business including,
but not limited to, such matters as cannabis tracking, inventory data, gross
sales (by weight and by sale) and other information which may be deemed
necessary by the city. The cannabis business shall ensure that such information
is compatible with the city's record-keeping systems. In addition, the system
must have the capability to produce historical transactional data for review.
Furthermore, any system selected must be approved and authorized by the City
Manager prior to being used by the permittee.
   (E)   All cannabis and cannabis products sold, distributed, or manufactured
shall be cultivated, manufactured, and transported by licensed facilities that
maintain operations in full conformance with the state and local regulations.
   (F)   Emergency contact. Each cannabis business shall provide the City
Manager with the name, telephone number (both land line and mobile, if
available) of an on-site employee or owner to whom emergency notice can be
provided at any hour of the day.
   (G)   Signage and notices.
      (1)   In addition to the requirements otherwise set forth in this
section, business identification signage for a cannabis business shall conform
to the requirements of
Title X, Chapter 6 Sign Regulations for the city, including, but not limited
to, seeking the issuance of a city sign permit.
      (2)   No signs placed on the premises of a cannabis business shall
obstruct any entrance or exit to the building or any window.
      (3)   Each entrance to a cannabis business shall be visibly posted with a
clear and legible notice indicating that smoking, ingesting, or otherwise
consuming cannabis on the premises or in the areas adjacent to the cannabis
business is prohibited.
      (4)   Business identification signage shall be limited to that needed for
identification only and shall not contain any logos or information that
identifies, advertises, or lists the services or the products offered. No
cannabis business shall advertise by having a person holding a sign and
advertising the business to passersby, whether such person is on the premises
of the cannabis business or elsewhere including, but not limited to, the public
right-of-way.
      (5)   Signage shall not depict any image of cannabis or cannabis
products. No banners, flags, snipe signs, billboards, or other prohibited signs
may be used at any time.
      (6)   In accordance with state law and regulations or as stipulated in
the city's cannabis business permit, holders of a cannabis business permit
shall agree that, as an express and ongoing condition of permit issuance and
subsequent renewal, the holder of the permit shall be prohibited from
advertising any cannabis business located in the city limits utilizing a
billboard (fixed or mobile), bus shelter, placard, aircraft, or other similar
forms of advertising. This division is not intended to place limitations on the
ability of a cannabis business to advertise in other legally authorized forms,
including on the internet, in magazines, or in other similar ways.
   (H)   Minors.
      (1)   Persons under the age of 21 years shall not be allowed on the
premises of a cannabis business and shall not be allowed to serve as a driver
for a mobile delivery service. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this
chapter for any person to employ any person at a cannabis business who is not
at least 21 years of age.
      (2)   The entrance to the cannabis business shall be clearly and legibly
posted with a notice that no person under the age of 21 years of age is
permitted to enter upon the premises of the cannabis business.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (H)(1) of this section, persons at least
18 years shall be allowed on the premises of a cannabis retail business if they
can produce a physician's recommendation and/or Cal. Health and Safety Code §
11362.71 identification card (Medical Marijuana Card). In that event, such
persons can lawfully purchase cannabis for the sole purpose of addressing the
medical need that is the subject of the physician's recommendation.
   (I)   Odor control. Odor control devices and techniques shall be
incorporated in all cannabis businesses to ensure that odors from cannabis are
not detectable off-site. Cannabis businesses shall provide a sufficient odor
absorbing ventilation and exhaust system so that odor generated inside the
cannabis business that is distinctive to its operation is not detected outside
of the facility, anywhere on adjacent property or public rights-of-way, on or
about the exterior or interior common area walkways, hallways, breezeways,
foyers, lobby areas, or any other areas available for use by common tenants or
the visiting public, or within any other unit located inside the same building
as the cannabis business. As such, cannabis businesses must install and
maintain the following equipment, or any other equipment which the Community
Development Director or his/her designee(s) determine is a more effective
method or technology:
      (1)   An exhaust air filtration system with odor control that prevents
internal odors from being emitted externally; and
      (2)   An air system that creates negative air pressure between the
cannabis business's interior and exterior, so that the odors generated inside
the cannabis business are not detectable on the outside of the cannabis
business.
   (J)   Display of permit and city business license. The original copy of the
cannabis business permit issued by the city pursuant to this chapter and the
city issued business license shall be posted inside the cannabis business in a
location readily visible to the public.
   (K)   Background check. Pursuant to Cal. Penal Code §§ 11105(b)(11) and
13300(b)(11), which authorizes city authorities to access state and local
summary criminal history information for cannabis employment, licensing, or
certification purposes and authorizes access to federal level criminal history
information by transmitting fingerprint images and related information to the
Department of Justice to be transmitted to the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
every person listed as an owner, investor, manager, supervisor, employee,
contract employee or who otherwise works in a cannabis business must submit
fingerprints and other information deemed necessary by the Chief of Police or
his/her designee(s) for a background check by the City of Madera Police
Department. Pursuant to Cal. Penal Code §§ 11105(b)(11) and 13300(b)(11), which
requires that there be a requirement or exclusion from cannabis employment,
licensing or certification based on specific criminal conduct on the part of
the subject of the record. No person shall be issued a permit to operate a
cannabis business or be allowed to work in a cannabis business unless they have
first cleared the background check, as determined by the Chief of Police or
his/her designee(s), as required by this section. A fee for the cost of the
background investigation, which shall be the actual cost to the City of Madera
to conduct the background investigation as it deems necessary and appropriate,
shall be paid at the time the application for a cannabis business permit is
submitted. Evidence of a conviction of any of the offenses enumerated in Cal.
Business and Professions Code § 26057(b)(4), absent a certificate of
rehabilitation, shall be grounds for immediate disqualification of the
applicant.
   (L)   Loitering. The owner and/or operator of a cannabis business shall
prohibit loitering by persons outside the facility both on the premises and
within 50 feet of the premises. The cannabis business shall notify the Police
Department if anyone continues to loiter around the building or premises after
all reasonable action has been taken to remove the individual(s) and the action
has failed to do so in a timely manner.
   (M)   Permits and other approvals. Prior to the establishment of any
cannabis business or the operation of any such business, the person intending
to establish a cannabis business must first obtain all applicable planning,
zoning, building, and other applicable permits from the relevant governmental
agency which may be applicable to the zoning district in which such cannabis
business intends to establish and to operate pursuant to §
6-5.25 and all applicable requirements in this chapter.
   (N)   Each cannabis operator shall establish minimum training standards for
all employees. The City Manager shall have the discretion to require other
training for the business operations should the city identify deficiencies or
non-compliance issues with city or state requirements.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.39 AMENDMENTS TO GENERAL OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   The City Manager may develop other cannabis business operational
requirements or regulations as are determined to be necessary to protect the
public health, safety, and welfare.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.40 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR STORE FRONT/RETAIL FACILITIES.
   (A)   No more than the number of cannabis retailers adopted by Council
resolution may operate within the city at any one time and shall be issued a
permit by the city.
   (B)   Retailers shall verify the age and all necessary documentation of each
individual to ensure the customer is not under the age of 18 years. If the
potential customer is 18 to 20 years old, retailer shall confirm the customer's
possession of a valid doctor's recommendation and/or Cal. Health and Safety
Code § 11362.71 identification card (Medical Marijuana Card). For adult-use
purchases, retailers shall verify that all customers are 21 years of age or
older for the purchase of cannabis or cannabis products.
   (C)   Individuals must show their government-issued identification, and, in
the case of medical cannabis facilities, their physician's recommendation, or a
cannabis card issued pursuant to Cal. Health and Safety Code § 11362.71 in
order to gain access into the retailer. The government-issued identification
and, if applicable, doctor's recommendation or cannabis card must also be shown
at the point-of-sale station at the time of purchase. Doctor recommendations
are not to be obtained or provided at the retail location.
   (D)   Uniformed licensed security personnel shall be employed to monitor
site activity, control loitering and site access, and to serve as a visual
deterrent to unlawful activities. Security personnel may be allowed to carry
firearms if authorized by the Chief of Police.
   (E)   Retailers may have only that quantity of cannabis and cannabis
products to meet the daily demand readily available for sale on-site in the
retail sales area of the retailer. Additional product may be stored in a
secured, locked area to which customers, vendors, and visitors shall not have
access.
   (F)   All restroom facilities shall remain locked and under the control of
management.
   (G)   Retailers authorized to conduct retail activities shall only serve
customers who are within the licensed premises, or at a delivery address that
meets the requirements of this division.
      (1)   The sale and delivery of cannabis goods shall not occur through a
pass-through window or a slide-out tray to the exterior of the premises.
      (2)   Retailers shall not operate as or with a drive-in or drive-through
at which cannabis goods are sold to persons within or about a motor vehicle.
      (3)   No cannabis goods shall be sold and/or delivered by any means or
method to any person within a motor vehicle.
      (4)   All cannabis goods sold by a retail business shall be contained in
child-resistant packaging.
      (5)   Retailers shall record point-of-sale areas and areas where cannabis
goods are displayed for sale on the video surveillance system. At each point-
of-sale location, camera placement must allow for the recording of the facial
features of any person purchasing or selling cannabis goods, or any person in
the retail area, with sufficient clarity to determine identity.
      (6)   A retail licensee who is engaged in retail sale shall hire or
contract for security personnel who are at least 21 years of age to provide
security services for the licensed retail premises. All security personnel
hired or contracted for by the licensee shall be licensed by the Bureau of
Security and Investigative Services and shall comply with Chapters 11.4 and
11.5 of Division 3 of the Business and Professions Code.
   (H)   Access to retailer premises.
      (1)   Access to the premises of a retail licensee/permittee shall be
limited to individuals who are at least 21 years of age.
      (2)   Notwithstanding §
6-5.38(H)(1), individuals who are at least 18 years of age and in possession of
a valid physician's recommendation shall be granted access to the premises of a
retail licensee/permittee for the sole purpose of purchasing medicinal cannabis
consistent with the physician's recommendation.
   (I)   Authorized sales. A retailer shall only sell adult-use cannabis and
adult-use cannabis products to individuals who are at least 21 years of age. A
retailer shall only sell medicinal cannabis or medicinal cannabis products to
individuals who are at least 18 years of age, but not yet 21, if those
individuals are in possession of a valid physician's recommendation. Medicinal
cannabis sales to individuals 21 years of age and older are unrestricted.
   (J)   Limited access areas. A retailer shall establish limited-access areas
and permit only authorized individuals to enter the limited-access areas.
Authorized individuals include individuals employed by the retailer as well as
any outside vendors, contractors, or other individuals conducting business that
requires access to the limited access area. All individuals granted access to
the limited access area shall be at least 21 years of age, and if not employed
by the retailer, shall be escorted at all times by an employee of the licensee/
permittee. A retailer shall maintain a log of all individuals who are not
employees who are granted access to the limited access area. These logs shall
be made available to the City Manager, Chief of Police, or their designees upon
request.
   (K)   Operating hours of the store front retailer license shall be limited
to the hours of 9:00 a.m. through 9:00 p.m., seven days a week.
   (L)   Store front/retail security requirements. All provisions incorporated
within §
6-5.31 of this chapter (Security Measures), are directly applicable to and
binding on all cannabis businesses, including all store front/retail
businesses.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.41 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR NON-STORE FRONT RETAILER.
   (A)   Non-store front retailer license owners and operators are required to
verify the age and the necessary documentation of each customer. They must
ensure that medical customers are at least 18 years of age and verify that the
customer has a valid doctor's recommendation and/or Cal. Health and Safety Code
§ 11362.71 identification card (Medical Marijuana Card). Doctor recommendations
are not to be obtained or provided at the retail location. In the case of
adult-use customers, they must verify that the customer is at least 21 years of
age. Sales shall only be made to persons matching this criteria.
   (B)   All store front retailers, non-store front retailers (delivery) and
microbusinesses which conduct deliveries into or within the City of Madera
shall be required to obtain a permit from the City of Madera in order to
conduct retail sales regardless, if they are located in the city or another
local jurisdiction.
   (C)   Operating hours of the non-store front retailer license or out of town
retail delivery services shall be limited to the hours of 9:00 a.m. through 9:
00 p.m., seven days a week.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.42 RETAILER, NON-STORE FRONT RETAILER AND MICROBUSINESS DELIVERY VEHICLE
REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to commencing delivery operations, a cannabis retailer, cannabis non-
store front retailer and microbusiness shall provide the following information
to the city:
   (A)   Proof of ownership of the vehicle or a valid lease for any and all
vehicles that will be used to deliver cannabis or cannabis products.
   (B)   The year, make, model, color, license plate number, and numerical
Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) for any and all vehicles that will be used
to deliver cannabis goods.
   (C)   Proof of insurance as required in §
6-5.34(B) for any and all vehicles being used to deliver cannabis goods.
   (D)   The licensee shall provide the city with the information required by
this section in writing for any new vehicle that will be used to deliver
cannabis goods prior to using the vehicle to deliver cannabis goods.
   (E)   The licensee shall provide the city with any changes to the
information required by this section in writing within 30 calendar days.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.43 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR DISTRIBUTERS.
   (A)   A distributor shall not store non-cannabis products or non-cannabis
accessories that are to be sold to another party on any licensed or permitted
premises. Additionally, a distributor shall not distribute non-cannabis
products or non-cannabis accessories at a licensed premises. For the purposes
of this section, non-cannabis products are any goods that do not meet the
definition of cannabis goods as defined in Cal. Code of Regulations, Title 16,
Division 42, § 5000(c).
   (B)   After taking physical possession of a cannabis goods batch, the
distributor shall contact a testing laboratory and arrange for a laboratory
employee to come to the distributor's licensed premises to select a
representative sample for laboratory testing. The determination of which
cannabis goods are to be included in the sample for laboratory testing shall be
left to the sole discretion of the laboratory employee.
   (C)   A distributor shall ensure that all cannabis goods batches are stored
separately and distinctly from other cannabis goods batches on the
distributor's premises.
   (D)   The distributor shall ensure that the batch size from which the sample
is taken meets the requirements of state law, specifically the testing
provisions within the California Code of Regulations.
   (E)   A distributor or an employee of the distributor shall be physically
present to observe the laboratory employee obtain the sample of cannabis goods
for testing and shall ensure that the increments are taken from throughout the
batch. The sampling shall be video-recorded, and the recording kept available
to state and the city for a minimum of 180 days, pursuant to Cal. Code of
Regulations, Title 16, Division 42, § 5305.
   (F)   A distributor shall not transport cannabis or cannabis products to a
licensed retail facility until and unless it has verified that the cannabis or
cannabis products have been tested and certified by a testing lab as being in
compliance with state health and safety requirements pursuant to Cal. Code of
Regulations, Title 16, Division 42, §§ 5705, 5710 and 5714.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.44 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR TESTING LABS.
   (A)   Testing labs shall be required to conduct all testing in a manner
pursuant to Cal. Business and Professions Code § 26100 and shall be subject to
state and local law. Each testing lab shall be subject to additional
regulations as determined from time to time as more regulations are developed
under this chapter and any subsequent State of California legislation regarding
the same.
   (B)   Testing labs shall conduct all testing in a manner consistent with
general requirements for the competence of testing and calibrations activities,
including sampling using verified methods.
   (C)   All cannabis testing laboratories performing testing shall obtain and
maintain ISO/IEC 17025 accreditation as required by the Bureau of Cannabis
Control.
   (D)   Testing labs shall destroy any harvest batch whose testing sample
indicates noncompliance with health and safety standards required by the Bureau
unless remedial measures can bring the cannabis or cannabis products into
compliance with quality standards as specified by law and implemented by the
Bureau.
   (E)   Each operator shall ensure that a testing laboratory employee takes
the sample of cannabis or cannabis products from the distributor's premises for
testing required by state law and that the testing laboratory employee
transports the sample to the testing laboratory.
   (F)   Except as provided by state law, a testing laboratory shall not
acquire or receive cannabis or cannabis products except from a licensee in
accordance with state law, and shall not distribute, sell, or dispense
cannabis, or cannabis products, from the licensed premises from which the
cannabis or cannabis products were acquired or received. All transfer or
transportation shall be performed pursuant to a specified chain of custody
protocol.
   (G)   A testing laboratory may receive and test samples of cannabis or
cannabis products from a qualified patient or primary caregiver only if the
qualified patient or primary caregiver presents the qualified patient's valid
physician's recommendation for cannabis for medicinal purpose. A testing lab
shall not certify samples from a qualified patient or primary caregiver for
resale or transfer to another party or licensee. All tests performed by a
testing laboratory for a qualified patient or primary caregiver shall be
recorded with the name of the qualified patient or primary caregiver and the
amount of the cannabis or cannabis products received.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.45 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR CANNABIS MANUFACTURING: EDIBLES AND OTHER
CANNABIS PRODUCTS; SALE OF EDIBLE AND OTHER CANNABIS PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Cannabis manufacturing shall only be permitted pursuant to §
6-5.01 of this chapter or any subsequent created manufacturing state license as
defined in MAUCRSA and may be permitted to operate only within those zone
districts as defined in the city's Municipal Code.
   (B)   Any compressed gases used in the manufacturing process shall not be
stored on any property within the city in containers that exceeds the amount
which is approved by the Madera Fire Department and authorized by the
regulatory permit. Each site or parcel subject to a cannabis business permit
shall be limited to a total number of tanks as authorized by the Madera Fire
Department on the property at any time.
   (C)   Cannabis manufacturing facilities may use heat, screens, presses,
steam distillation, ice water, ethanol, and other methods without employing
solvents or gases to create keef, hashish, bubble hash, or infused dairy
butter, or oils or fats derived from natural sources, and other extracts.
   (D)   If an extraction process uses a professional grade closed loop CO2 gas
extraction system every vessel must be certified by the manufacturer for its
safe use as referenced in division (F) of this section. The CO2 must be of at
least 99% purity.
   (E)   Closed loop systems for compressed gas extraction systems must be
commercially manufactured and bear a permanently affixed and visible serial
number.
   (F)   Certification from an engineer licensed by the State of California, or
by a certified industrial hygienist, must be provided to the Community
Development Department for a professional grade closed loop system used by any
cannabis manufacturing manufacturer to certify that the system was commercially
manufactured, is safe for its intended use, and was built to codes of
recognized and generally accepted good engineering practices, including but not
limited to:
      (1)   The American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME);
      (2)   American National Standards Institute (ANSI);
      (3)   Underwriters Laboratories (UL); or
      (4)   The American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM).
   (G)   The certification document must contain the signature and stamp of the
professional engineer or industrial hygienist and serial number of the
extraction unit being certified.
   (H)   Professional closed loop systems, other equipment used, the extraction
operation, and facilities must be approved for their use by the Fire Department
and meet any required fire, safety, and building code requirements specified in
the California Building Reference Codes.
   (I)   Cannabis manufacturing facilities may use food grade glycerin,
ethanol, and propylene glycol solvents to create or refine extracts. Ethanol
should be removed from the extract in a manner to recapture the solvent and
ensure that it is not vented into the atmosphere.
   (J)   Cannabis manufacturing facilities creating cannabis extracts must
develop standard operating procedures, good manufacturing practices, and a
training plan prior to producing extracts for the marketplace.
   (K)   Any person using solvents or gases in a closed looped system to create
cannabis extracts must be fully trained on how to use the system, have direct
access to applicable material safety data sheets to handle, and store the
solvents and gases safely.
   (L)   Parts per million for one gram of finished extract cannot exceed state
standards for any residual solvent or gas when quality assurance tested.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.46 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR CULTIVATORS.
   (A)   Cultivators may operate 24 hours a day. Operations shall be subject to
the provisions of the Noise Ordinance, Article 1 of Chapter 10 of this Code, as
may be amended.
   (B)   Outdoor cultivation prohibited. The cultivation of all cannabis must
occur indoors. All outdoor cultivation, including outdoor greenhouse
cultivation, is prohibited.
   (C)   Cannabis plants shall not be visible from a public or private road,
sidewalk, park, or any common public viewing area.
   (D)   Cultivator shall only be allowed to cultivate the square feet of
canopy space permitted by state law. Research and development area shall be
limited to 10% of the total permitted canopy square footage.
   (E)   Cannabis cultivation shall be conducted in accordance with state and
local laws related to land conversion, grading, electricity, water usage, water
quality, woodland and riparian habitat protection, agricultural discharges, and
similar matters.
   (F)   Pesticides and fertilizers shall be properly labeled and stored to
avoid contamination through erosion, leakage or inadvertent damage from pests,
rodents, or other wildlife.
   (G)   The cultivation of cannabis shall at all times be operated in such a
way as to ensure the health, safety, and welfare of the public, the employees
working at the cultivation site, visitors to the area, neighboring properties,
and the end users of the cannabis being cultivated, to protect the environment
from harm to streams, fish, and wildlife; to ensure the security of the
cannabis being cultivated; and to safeguard against the diversion of cannabis.
   (H)   All applicants for a cultivation permit shall submit the following in
addition to the information generally otherwise required for a cannabis
business permit:
      (1)   A cultivation and operations plan that meets or exceeds minimum
legal standards for water usage, conservation and use; drainage, runoff, and
erosion control; watershed and habitat protection; and proper storage of
fertilizers, pesticides, and other regulated products to be used on the parcel,
and a description of the cultivation activities (indoor, mixed-light) and
schedule of activities during each month of growing and harvesting, or
explanation of growth cycles and anticipated harvesting schedules for all-
season harvesting (indoor, mixed-light).
      (2)   A description of a legal water source, irrigation plan, and
projected water use.
      (3)   Identification of the source of electrical power and plan for
compliance with applicable Building Codes and related codes.
      (4)   Plan for addressing public nuisances that may derive from the
cultivation site.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.47 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR DELIVERY SERVICES.
   Prior to commencing operations, a cannabis out-of-city delivery service
shall comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Obtain from the city a permit authorizing the delivery of cannabis and
cannabis products within the city limits. A copy of this permit shall be
retained by all drivers.
   (B)   The retail business operating the delivery service shall provide the
City Manager with evidence of a valid state license for a cannabis business on
whose authorization the delivery service is performing the delivery function.
   (C)   The retail business operating the delivery service shall furnish to
the City Manager the year, make, model, license plate number, and numerical
Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) for any and all vehicles that will be used
to deliver cannabis goods.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.48 PERMISSIBLE DELIVERY LOCATIONS AND CUSTOMERS.
   Cannabis delivery businesses located outside of the city permitted to engage
in delivery of cannabis and cannabis products inside the City of Madera are
subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   A licensed cannabis business shall not deliver cannabis goods to an
address located on publicly owned land or any address on land or in a building
leased by a public agency.
   (B)   A licensed cannabis business shall comply with all requirements of
state and local law pertaining to the cannabis business permit and all
subsequent policies, procedures and regulations which may be amended by the
City Manager from time to in order to enforce this chapter.
   (C)   Any kiosk, i-Pad, tablet, smartphone, fixed location or technology
platform, whether manned or unmanned, other than a retail location permitted by
the city, that facilitates, directs, or assists the retail sale or delivery of
cannabis or cannabis products is prohibited and shall be a violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.49 PROMULGATION OF REGULATIONS, STANDARDS AND OTHER LEGAL DUTIES.
   (A)   In addition to any regulations adopted by the City Council, the City
Manager is authorized to establish any additional rules, regulations and
standards governing the issuance, denial or renewal of cannabis business
permits, the ongoing operation of cannabis businesses and the city's oversight,
or concerning any other subject determined to be necessary to carry out the
purposes of this chapter.
   (B)   Regulations shall be published on the city's website.
   (C)   Regulations promulgated by the City Manager shall become effective
upon date of publication. Cannabis businesses shall be required to comply with
all state and local laws and regulations, including but not limited to any
rules, regulations or standards adopted by the City Manager.
   (D)   Special events shall be subject to state law and city permitting
requirements. They shall also be subject to applicable city regulations
developed under §
6-5.02 of this chapter and any applicable state legislation.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.50 COMMUNITY RELATIONS.
   (A)   Each cannabis business shall provide the name, telephone number, and
email address of a community relations contact to whom notice of problems
associated with the cannabis business can be provided. Each cannabis business
shall also provide the above information to all businesses and residences
located within 100 feet of the cannabis business.
   (B)   During the first year of operation pursuant to this chapter, the
owner, manager, and community relations representative from each cannabis
business holding a permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall attend meetings
with the City Manager, and other interested parties as deemed appropriate by
the City Manager, to discuss costs, benefits, and other community issues
arising as a result of implementation of this chapter. After the first year of
operation, the owner, manager, and community relations representative from each
such cannabis business shall meet with the City Manager when and as requested
by the City Manager.
   (C)    Cannabis businesses to which a permit is issued pursuant to this
chapter shall develop a city approved public outreach and educational program
for youth organizations and educational institutions that outlines the risks of
youth addiction to cannabis, and that identifies resources available to youth
related to drugs and drug addiction.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.51 FEES DEEMED DEBT TO THE CITY.
   The amount of any fee, cost or charge imposed pursuant to this chapter shall
be deemed a debt to the city that is recoverable via an authorized
administrative process as set forth in the city ordinance or in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.52 PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBLE FOR VIOLATIONS.
   The person to whom a permit is issued pursuant to this chapter shall be
responsible for all violations of the laws of the State of California or of the
regulations and/or the ordinances of the city, whether committed by the
permittee or any employee or agent of the permittee, which violations occur in
or about the premises of the cannabis business whether or not said violations
occur within the permit holder's presence.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.53 INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The City Manager charged with enforcing the provisions of the City of
Madera Municipal Code, or any provision thereof, may enter the location of a
cannabis business at any time, without notice, and inspect the location of any
cannabis business as well as any recordings and records required to be
maintained pursuant to this chapter or under applicable provisions of state
law.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person having responsibility over the operation
of a cannabis business, to impede, obstruct, interfere with, or otherwise not
to allow, the city to conduct an inspection, review or copy records, recordings
or other documents required to be maintained by a cannabis business under this
chapter or under state or local law. It is also unlawful for a person to
conceal, destroy, deface, damage, or falsify any records, recordings or other
documents required to be maintained by a cannabis business under this chapter
or under state or local law.
   (C)   The City Manager charged with enforcing the provisions of this chapter
may enter the location of a cannabis business at any time during the hours of
operation and without notice to obtain samples of the cannabis to test for
public safety purposes. Any samples obtained by the City of Madera shall be
logged, recorded, and maintained in accordance with established procedures by
the City of Madera's City Manager or these regulations.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 6-5.54 VIOLATIONS DECLARED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Each and every violation of the provisions of this chapter constitutes a
misdemeanor and is hereby deemed unlawful and a public nuisance. The city
reserves the right to pursue any available legal remedy to address violations
of this chapter.
(Ord. 977 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
TITLE VII: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
1.   EXCAVATIONS
   
2.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
3.   [Reserved]
   
4.   [Reserved]
   
5.   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 1: EXCAVATIONS
Section
   
7-1.01   Excavations for irrigation waters unlawful
   
7-1.02   Relocation or enlargement of ditches unlawful
§ 7-1.01 EXCAVATIONS FOR IRRIGATION WATERS UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether as principal, agent, or
employee, to excavate or construct any open ditch for the purpose of
transporting, conducting, or conveying irrigation waters within or through the
city.
('61 Code, § 7-1.01) (Ord. 263 N.S., passed - - )
§ 7-1.02 RELOCATION OR ENLARGEMENT OF DITCHES UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether as principal, agent, or
employee, to relocate or enlarge any open ditch within the city for the purpose
of transporting, conveying, or conducting irrigation waters within or through
the city.
('61 Code, § 7-1.02) (Ord. 263 N.S., passed - - )
CHAPTER 2: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
7-2.01   Definitions
   
7-2.02   Permits required
   
7-2.03   Applications
   
7-2.04   Fees
   
7-2.05   Minimum requirements for sidewalks, curbs, and gutters
   
7-2.06   Insurance and indemnity for street work
   
7-2.07   Contractor's license required
   
7-2.08   Time for commencement and completion of work
   
7-2.09   Changes in permit
   
7-2.10   Bond or deposit required
   
7-2.11   Inspections
   
7-2.12   Final cleaning
   
7-2.13   Notice of acceptance
   
7-2.14   Lights and safeguards
   
7-2.15   Warranty; materials and workmanship
   
7-2.16   Maps to be filed; scale and information
   
7-2.17   Procedure upon abandonment of any system
§ 7-2.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECTOR. The Public Works Director of the city or an authorized agent or
representative.
   DEPARTMENT. The Public Works Department of the city.
   INSPECTOR. The representative of the Public Works Director authorized to
inspect work being performed under the provisions of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 7-2.01) (Ord. 37 C.S., passed 12-4-62)
§ 7-2.02 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No person shall grade, prepare, subgrade, pave, excavate, or construct
sewers, drains, curbs, gutters, driveways, sidewalks, manholes, catch-basins or
similar structures or works in any street, alley, or way, which street, alley,
or way is dedicated or proposed to be dedicated for public use, within the city
unless and until a permit for the work has been issued by the Department in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 7-2.02) (Ord. 37 C.S., passed 12-4-62)
§ 7-2.03 APPLICATIONS.
   Any person desiring a permit under this chapter shall make application
therefor to the department on the form prescribed by the department, setting
forth the name and address of the applicant, details concerning the location,
the nature, and extent of construction intended to be made, and the purpose for
which such construction is to be made and used.
('61 Code, § 7-2.03) (Ord. 37 C.S., passed 12-4-62)
§ 7-2.04 FEES.
   Each application for a permit shall be accompanied by a fee as set forth by
resolution of the City Council, and each applicant shall pay for all work
approved by the Director, such charges for inspection as fixed by resolution of
the City Council, payable at the time of issuance of the permit. The
application fee shall not be refundable. No application fee shall be required
of city, county, or state departments.
('61 Code, § 2.04) (Ord. 37 C.S., passed 12-4-62; Am. Ord. 377 C.S., passed 12-
31-81)
§ 7-2.05 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR SIDEWALKS, CURBS, AND GUTTERS.
   The construction of cement concrete sidewalks, curbs, or gutters shall
conform to specifications on file in the department. Sidewalks shall be not
less than four inches in thickness and not less than five feet in width. Curbs
shall not be less than six inches in width at the top, 7½ inches in width at
the bottom, 12 inches in depth, and with a six-inch curb face. Gutters shall be
not less than six inches in thickness and 22½ inches in width. Such dimensions
shall be minimum requirements and may be increased if, in the opinion of the
City Engineer, it is necessary and required to conform to good design or to
provide proper drainage facilities. The City Engineer may also authorize the
use of a sidewalk of not less than four feet in width on existing developed
streets in circumstances where the construction of a sidewalk wider than four
feet will require the acquisition of additional property or improvements,
including but not limited to, trees, fences, minor structures, or the removal
of existing buildings or portions of existing buildings.
('61 Code, § 7-2.05) (Ord. 37 C.S., passed 12-4-62; Am. Ord. 739 C.S., passed
7-3-02)
§ 7-2.06 INSURANCE AND INDEMNITY FOR STREET WORK.
   No permit under this chapter shall issue for work to be done in a city
street unless the applicant carries the following insurance which shall be
maintained for the full effective period of the permit and any renewal thereof:
   (A)   Bodily injury liability and property damage. Bodily injury liability
and property damage insurance, including completed operations coverage,
protecting the permittee from any and all claims and actions for bodily injury,
including accidental death, and for property damage which may directly or
indirectly arise from, grow out of, or be attributable to the permittee's
operations or performance under the permit or contract, whether such operations
be by the permittee or by any subcontractor or by any person directly or
indirectly employed by either or any of them, in an amount not less than
$100,000 for bodily injuries, including accidental death, to any one person,
and subject to the same limit for each person in an amount not less than
$300,000 on account of any one occurrence, and in an amount not less than
$20,000 for property damage on account of any one occurrence; and
   (B)   Underground and collapse insurance. When excavations are to be made
and the Director determines that the interests of the city require it,
underground and collapse insurance in amounts to be specified by the Director,
but not less than the above amounts, shall also be included.
   (C)   Insurance shall protect city. Such insurance shall name the city, and
its officers, employees, and representatives, as additional insureds and
protect them from any and all claims and actions for bodily injury, including
accidental death, and for property damage arising from the use of the premises
or facilities of the city and which may directly or indirectly arise from, grow
out of, or be attributable to operations under the permit or contract. However,
such insurance need not protect against injury or death occurring to any
officer, employee, or representative while acting within the scope of his or
her employment under the Workmen's Compensation Act.
   (D)   Notice of cancellation. Such insurance shall provide that it will not
be modified, changed, or terminated until at least a ten-day written notice
thereof has been filed with the City Clerk. Lapse or termination of such
insurance shall automatically void the permit.
   (E)   Exceptions to insurance and indemnity requirements.
      (1)   Governmental agencies. The federal and state government, or any
political subdivision, agency, or department thereof, doing work directly with
its own employees need not furnish the insurance prescribed by this section.
      (2)   Public utilities. Public utility companies with net assets of not
less than $1,000,000 under the jurisdiction of the State Public Utilities
Commission may, in lieu of the above insurance requirements, file annually with
the City Clerk a statement in affidavit form, duly authenticated by its
president or vice-president and secretary or assistant secretary, showing such
net worth and indicating its election and agreement to be bound by the
indemnification provisions of this section. Such election, when approved as to
form by the City Attorney, shall constitute an agreement to indemnify and save
harmless the city, its officers, employees, and representatives from any and
all claims and actions for bodily injury, including accidental death, and for
property damage arising from the use of the premises or facilities of the city
and which may directly or indirectly arise from, grow out of, or be
attributable to its operations or performance under the permit, as provided in
§
7-2.06(C).
('61 Code, § 2.06) (Ord. 37 C.S., passed 12-4-62)
§ 7-2.07 CONTRACTOR'S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   The person responsible for any work performed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be licensed in accordance with the provisions of Cal. Bus. &
Prof. Code Chapter 9 of Division 3 for the type or kind of work being
performed.
('61 Code, § 7-2.07) (Ord. 37 C.S., passed 12-4-62)
§ 7-2.08 TIME FOR COMMENCEMENT AND COMPLETION OF WORK.
   The permittee shall commence the work authorized by the permit issued in
accordance with this chapter within 60 days from the date of issuance unless a
different period is stated in the permit. If the work is not commenced within
60 days or within the date stated in the permit, the permit shall become void
unless, prior to the time for commencement, the date for commencement has been
extended in writing by the Director. The permittee shall complete the work
authorized by the permit before the expiration date shown on the permit unless
such expiration date has been extended in writing by the Director. If the
permittee commences work and fails to complete the work before the expiration
date, the Director may cancel the permit and restore the right-of-way to its
former condition or complete the work. All costs incurred by the Director in
restoring the right-of-way or completing the work shall be deducted from the
deposit or bond, if any, filed with the city by the applicant for the permit.
('61 Code, § 7-2.08) (Ord. 37 C.S., passed 12-4-62)
§ 7-2.09 CHANGES IN PERMIT.
   No changes may be made in the location, dimensions, or character of the work
authorized to be done pursuant to a permit issued except on written
authorization from the Director. All work described on a permit shall be
completed unless the permit is changed in writing by the Director or unless the
permit is cancelled and the right-of-way is restored to its former condition.
('61 Code, § 7-2.09) (Ord. 37 C.S., passed 12-4-62)
§ 7-2.10 BOND OR DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of any such permit, the applicant shall deposit
with the City Treasurer, through the department, cash, a certified check, or a
cashier's check in the amount fixed by the Director as necessary to reimburse
the city for the costs of inspection and performing the work should the
applicant fail to complete the work or pay the required inspection fees. In
lieu of such deposit, the applicant may file with the city a faithful
performance bond issued by a company authorized to act as a general surety in
the state. In lieu of a deposit or surety bond for a specific permit, the
applicant may, upon approval of the Director, annually file with the city such
an approved surety bond in an amount to be determined by the Director
sufficient to reimburse the city for the cost of performing any and all work
described in permits issued to the applicant should the applicant fail to
complete the work described in those permits or pay the required inspection
fees. The Director may limit the amount of work to be performed at any one time
by an applicant or require an additional bond.
   (B)   The City Treasurer is authorized to refund the unused amount of any
cash, certified check, or cashier's check filed as a deposit with the city upon
notice from the Director that the work has been completed or that the permit
has been cancelled.
('61 Code, § 7-2.10) (Ord. 37 C.S., passed 12-4-62)
§ 7-2.11 INSPECTIONS.
   The person performing work under the provisions of this chapter shall cause
all work to be inspected by the Inspector and shall notify the Inspector at
least 24 hours before the time set for such inspection. Work completed without
giving such notice or request for inspection shall not be acceptable, and work
done during the absence of the Inspector shall be subject to rejection. All
work performed under this chapter shall be in conformance with applicable
plans, details, and specifications of the city and shall be done to the
satisfaction and under the supervision of the Director.
('61 Code, § 7-2.11) (Ord. 37 C.S., passed 12-4-62)
§ 7-2.12 FINAL CLEANING.
   All excess earth, debris, form lumber, waste material, or construction
material not a part of the completed work shall be removed from the right-of-
way by the person performing the work under the provisions of this chapter
within three days after the completion of the work. If the same is not removed
within such three-day period, the Director shall cause such debris to be
removed and shall charge the applicant the actual costs thereof.
('61 Code, § 7-2.12) (Ord. 37 C.S., passed 12-4-62)
§ 7-2.13 NOTICE OF ACCEPTANCE.
   After the work described in the permit, and any authorized changes thereto,
has been completed to the satisfaction of the Director, the Director shall
issue to the applicant a notice of acceptance stating that the work has been
completed in an acceptable manner.
('61 Code, § 7-2.13) (Ord. 37 C.S., passed 12-4-62)
§ 7-2.14 LIGHTS AND SAFEGUARDS.
   It shall be the duty of any person making any excavation in any public
street, road, alley, or place to place and maintain lights at each end of such
excavation, and at distances not more than 50 feet along the line thereof, from
sunset of each day to sunrise of the following day and to provide such other
safeguards as shall be reasonably necessary to prevent damage by such
excavation until such excavation is entirely refilled.
('61 Code, § 7-2.14) (Ord. 37 C.S., passed 12-4-62)
§ 7-2.15 WARRANTY; MATERIALS AND WORKMANSHIP.
   The person by whom an excavation in any street, road, alley, or other public
place shall be made shall be deemed and held to warrant the work of refilling
and repairing thereof for the period of one year after the refilling of such
excavation against all defects in workmanship or materials.
('61 Code, § 7-2.15) (Ord. 37 C.S., passed 12-4-62)
§ 7-2.16 MAPS TO BE FILED; SCALE AND INFORMATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person when such person shall own, use,
control, or have an interest in any pipes, pipe lines, conduits, ducts,
tunnels, or conveyor systems under or beneath the surface of any public street,
alley, sidewalk, or other public place, which pipes, pipe lines, conduits,
ducts, tunnels, or conveyor systems shall be used or provided for the purpose
of supplying or conveying gas, oil, petroleum products, hydrocarbons, ammonia,
water, steam, heat, sewerage, discharge of wastes, electricity, or
communication circuits in, to, or from the city, or to or from any person
situated within the city, or for any other similar purpose, to file in the
office of the Department a map or set of maps each drawn to a scale of not more
than 200 feet to one inch, which maps shall show the exact location, size, and
description of the pipes, pipe lines, conduits, ducts, tunnels, or conveyor
systems, together with all mains, laterals, services and service pipes, valves,
pressure regulators, traps, vents, manholes, handholes, transformer chambers,
or other appliances, installed beneath the surface of the public streets,
alleys, sidewalks, or other public places in the city belonging to, used by, or
under the control of such person, or in which such person has an interest,
together with the date of installation of such improvement if such date of
installation is known.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every person owning, using, controlling, or
having an interest in any pipes, pipe lines, conduits, ducts, tunnels, or
conveyor systems under or beneath the surface of any public street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place, which pipes, pipe lines, conduits, ducts,
tunnels, or conveyor systems shall be used or provided for the purpose of
supplying or conveying gas, oil, petroleum products, hydrocarbons, ammonia,
water, steam, heat, sewerage, discharge of wastes, electricity, or
communication circuits in, to, or from the city, or to or from any person
situated within the city, or for any other similar purpose, to file, on or
before the first day of each and every March commencing on March 1, 1963, a
corrected map or set of maps each drawn to a scale of not more than 200 feet to
one inch, showing the complete installation or changes of all pipes, pipe
lines, conduits, ducts, tunnels, or conveyor systems, including all mains,
laterals, services, service pipes, vents, valves, pressure regulators, traps,
manholes, handholes, transformer chambers, or other appliances installed under
or beneath the surface of the public streets, alleys, sidewalks, or other
public places in the city belonging to, used by, or under the control of such
person or in which such person has an interest. Such map or set of maps shall
include all installations or changes made during the previous year to, and
including the last day of, each such year.
   (C)   In the event a map or set of maps has been filed in accordance with
this section, and on the last day of any year subsequent to such filing, no
additional pipes, pipe lines, conduits, or other items referred to shall have
been installed during such year, no new map shall be required, but in lieu
thereof a statement from such person shall be filed with the department
referring to such maps on file and stating that the same represents the pipes,
pipe lines, conduits, or other items of the person submitting such statement
and that no additional pipes have been installed.
('61 Code, § 7-2.16) (Ord. 37 C.S., passed 12-4-62)
§ 7-2.17 PROCEDURE UPON ABANDONMENT OF ANY SYSTEM.
   Whenever any pipe, pipe lines, conduits, ducts, tunnels, or conveyor
systems, or other structures located beneath or under the surface of any public
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place, or the use thereof is abandoned
the person owning, using, or having an interest therein shall, within 30 days
after such abandonment file in the office of the department, a statement in
writing giving in detail the location of the pipes, pipe lines, conduits,
ducts, tunnels, or conveyor systems or other structures so abandoned. Each map
or set of maps filed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall show in
detail the location of all such pipes, pipe lines, conduits, ducts, tunnels, or
other structures abandoned subsequent to the filing of the last preceding map
or set of maps.
('61 Code, § 7-2.17) (Ord. 37 C.S., passed 12-4-62)
CHAPTER 3
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 4
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 5
[Reserved]
TITLE VIII: FINANCE, REVENUE, AND TAXATION
Chapter
   
1.   PROPERTY TAXES
   
2.   SALES AND USE TAXES
   
3.   SPECIAL GAS TAX STREET IMPROVEMENT FUND
   
4.   TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
   
5.   REAL PROPERTY TRANSFER TAX
   
6.   TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX (1998)
   
7.   MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
   
8.   TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX (2016)
CHAPTER 1: PROPERTY TAXES
Section
   
8-1.01   Adoption of Government Code provisions
   
8-1.02   Duties of Assessor and Tax Collector
   
8-1.03   (Repealed)
   
8-1.04   Fixing rate of taxes
   
8-1.05   Levying of assessments
   
8-1.06   Redemption of property
§ 8-1.01 ADOPTION OF GOVERNMENT CODE PROVISIONS.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Cal. Gov't Code §§ 51500 through 51507 of
Article I of Chapter 2, the city elects to avail itself of the assessment and
collection of taxes by the county.
('61 Code, § 8-1.01) (Ord. 83 N.S., passed - - )
§ 8-1.02 DUTIES OF ASSESSOR AND TAX COLLECTOR.
   The duties of assessing property and collecting taxes shall be performed by
the Assessor and the Tax Collector of the County.
('61 Code, § 8-1.02) (Ord. 83 N.S., passed - - )
§ 8-1.03 (REPEALED).
§ 8-1.04 FIXING RATE OF TAXES.
   The Council, not later than the last Tuesday in August of each year, shall
fix the rate of taxes, or rates of taxes if different portions or districts
within the city require different rates, designating the number of cents upon
each $100, and using as a basis the value of property as assessed by the County
Assessor after same may be equalized and returned to the Council by the County
Auditor as required by the Cal. Gov't Code.
('61 Code, § 8-1.04) (Ord. 83 N.S., passed - - )
§ 8-1.05 LEVYING OF ASSESSMENTS.
   The County Auditor shall compute and enter in the assessment books of the
city the city taxes on the property therein enumerated and assessed and being
in such municipal corporation, using the rate of levy fixed by the Council and
the assessments as found in such assessment book and at the same time and in
the same manner as he or she computes and enters state and city taxes.
('61 Code, § 8-1.05) (Ord. 83 N.S., passed - - )
§ 8-1.06 REDEMPTION OF PROPERTY.
   Property which has been sold to the city on account of nonpayment of taxes
shall be redeemed through the office of the County Auditor.
('61 Code, § 8-1.06) (Ord. 83 N.S., passed - - )
§ 8.1.07 COLLECTION OF UNPAID TAXES.
   The collection of unpaid taxes levied on any property by the city shall be
enforced by the sale of such property in the same manner and at the same time,
and upon the same penalties, as property sold for the payment of county taxes.
Real property so sold may be redeemed within the same time and upon the same
terms as property sold for the nonpayment of county taxes. Whenever any real
property situated in the city has been sold for taxes and has been redeemed,
the money paid for such redemption shall be apportioned by the County Auditor
to the city in the proportion which the tax due the city bears to the total tax
for which such real property was sold.
('61 Code, § 8-1.07) (Ord. 83 N.S., passed - - )
CHAPTER 2: SALES AND USE TAXES
Section
   
8-2.01   Short title
   
8-2.02   Rate
   
8-2.03   Purpose
   
8-2.04   Contract with State Board of Equalization
   
8-2.05   Sales taxes
   
8-2.06   Place of sale
   
8-2.07   Use taxes
   
8-2.08   Adoption of state law provisions
   
8-2.09   Limitations on adoption of state law provisions
   
8-2.10   Permits not required
   
8-2.11.1   Exclusions and exemptions; aircraft
   
8-2.11.2   1983 exclusions and exemptions; aircraft and waterborne vessels
   
8-2.12   1974 exclusions and exemptions; aircraft and waterborne vessels
   
8-2.13   Application of provisions relating to exclusions and exemptions
   
8-2.14   Amendments
   
8-2.15   Enjoining collection forbidden
   
8-2.16   Existing sales and use tax ordinances suspended
   
8-2.17   City and county sales and use tax agreement and implementation of
sales tax revenue collection
§ 8-2.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law" of
the city.
('61 Code, § 8-2.01) (Ord. 206 C.S., passed 10-31-73)
§ 8-2.02 RATE.
   The rate of the sales tax and use tax imposed by the provisions of this
chapter shall be 1% to and including December 31, 1993; thereafter it shall be
at the rate of .97% to and including June 30, 1994; thereafter it shall be at
the rate of .96% to and including June 30, 1995; thereafter it shall be at the
rate of .95% to and including June 30, 1996; and thereafter it shall be at the
rate of .94%.
('61 Code, § 8-2.02) (Ord. 206 C.S., passed 10-31-73; Am. Ord. 227 C.S., passed
8-14-74; Am. Ord. 235 C.S., passed 8-6-75; Am. Ord. 606 C.S., passed 12-1-93)
§ 8-2.03 PURPOSE.
   The Council declares that the provisions of this chapter are adopted to
achieve the following, among other, purposes, and directs that the provisions
of this chapter be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:
   (A)   To adopt a sales and use tax law which complies with the requirements
and limitations contained in Cal. Rev & Tax. Code, Part 1.5 of Division 2;
   (B)   To adopt a sales and use tax law which incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the state insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained
in Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code, Part 1.5 of Division 2;
   (C)   To adopt a sales and use tax law which imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefor which can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the sales and use taxes of the state; and
   (D)   To adopt a sales and use tax law which can be administered in a manner
that will, to the degree possible consistent with the provisions of Cal. Rev. &
Tax. Code, Part 1.5 of Division 2, minimize the cost of collecting city sales
and use taxes and at the same time minimize the burden of record keeping upon
persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 8-2.03) (Ord. 206 C.S., passed 10-31-73)
§ 8-2.04 CONTRACT WITH STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be operative January 1, 1974, and prior
thereto, the city shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform all the functions incident to the administration and operation of this
sales and use tax law; provided, however, if the city shall not have contracted
with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, the city
shall nevertheless so contract, and, in such a case, the operative date shall
be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such
contract rather than the first day of the first calendar quarter following the
adoption of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 8-2.04) (Ord. 206 C.S., passed 10-31-73)
§ 8-2.05 SALES TAXES.
   For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is
imposed upon all retailers in the city at the rate set forth in §
8-2.02 of this chapter of the gross receipts of the retailer from the sale of
all tangible personal property sold at retail in the city on, and after, the
operative date of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 8-2.05) (Ord. 206 C.S., passed 10-31-73)
§ 8-2.06 PLACE OF SALE.
   For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the
place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his or her agent to an out-of-state destination or
to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross
receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are
subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which
delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in
the state or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which
the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.
('61 Code, § 8-2.06) (Ord. 206 C.S, passed 10-31-73)
§ 8-2.07 USE TAXES.
   An excise tax is imposed on the storage, use, or other consumption in the
city of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on, and after,
the operative date of this chapter for the storage, use, or other consumption
in the city at the rate set forth in §
8-2.02 of this chapter of the sales price of the property. The sales price
shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or
use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made.
('61 Code, § 8-2.07) (Ord. 206 C.S, passed 10-31-73)
§ 8-2.08 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW PROVISIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code, Part 1.5 of Division
2, all of the provisions of Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code, Part 1 of Division 2 are
adopted and made a part of this chapter as though fully set forth in this
chapter.
('61 Code, § 8-2.08) (Ord. 206 C.S, passed 10-31-73)
§ 8-2.09 LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW PROVISIONS.
   In adopting the provisions of Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code, Part 1 of Division 2,
wherever the state is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of
the city shall be substituted therefor. Such substitution, however, shall not
be made when the word STATE is used as part of the title of the State
Controller, the State Treasurer, the State Board of Control, the State Board of
Equalization, the State Treasury, or the Constitution of the state; the
substitution shall not be made when the result of that substitution would
require action to be taken by or against the city, or any agency thereof,
rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the
functions incident to the administration or operation of the provisions of this
chapter; the substitution shall not be made in those sections, including, but
not necessarily limited to, sections referring to the exterior boundaries of
the state, where the result of the substitution would be to provide an
exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use, or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt
from this tax while such sales, storage, use, or other consumption remains
subject to tax by the state under the provisions of Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code, Part
1 of Division 2, or to impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use, or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be
subject to tax by the state under the provisions of the code; the substitution
shall not be made in Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code §§ 6701, 6702 (except in the last
sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797, or 6828; and the substitution shall
not be made for the word STATE in the phrase "retailer engaged in business in
this state" in Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code § 6203 of the code or in the definition of
that phrase in Cal Rev. & Tax. Code § 6203.
('61 Code, § 8-2.09) (Ord. 206 C.S., passed 10-31-73)
§ 8-2.10 PERMITS NOT REQUIRED.
   If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer pursuant to the
provisions of Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code § 6067, an additional seller's permit shall
not be required by the provisions of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 8-2.10) (Ord. 206 C.S., passed 10-31-73)
§ 8-2.11.1 EXCLUSIONS AND EXEMPTIONS; AIRCRAFT.
   (A)   The amount subject to tax shall not include any sales or use tax
imposed by the state upon a retailer or consumer.
   (B)   The storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal property,
the gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to tax under a
sales and use tax ordinance enacted in accordance with Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code,
Part 1.5 of Division 2 by any city and county, county, or city in this state
shall be exempt from the tax due under this chapter.
   (C)   There are exempted from the computation of the amount of the sales tax
the gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property to operators of
aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the city in which the sale
is made, and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this state,
the country, or any foreign government.
   (D)   In addition to the exemptions provided in Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code §§
6366 and 6366.1, the storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal
property purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this state, the
country, or any foreign government is exempted from the use tax.
('61 Code, § 8-2.11.1) (Ord. 206 C.S., passed 10-31-73; Am. Ord. 420 C.S.,
passed 12-5-83)
§ 8-2.11.2 1983 EXCLUSIONS AND EXEMPTIONS; AIRCRAFT AND WATERBORNE VESSELS.
   (A)   The amount subject to tax shall not include any sales or use tax
imposed by the state upon a retailer or consumer.
   (B)   The storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal property,
the gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to tax under a
sales and use tax ordinance enacted in accordance with Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code,
Part 1.5 of Division 2 by any city and county, county, or city in this state
shall be exempt from the tax due under this chapter.
   (C)   There are exempted from the computation of the amount of the sales tax
the gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property to operators of
waterborne vessels to be used or consumed principally outside the city in which
the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the carriage of persons or
property in such vessels for commercial purposes.
   (D)   The storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal property
purchased by operators of waterborne vessels and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in the carriage of persons or property of
such vessels for commercial purposes is exempted from the use tax.
   (E)   There are exempted from the computation of the amount of the sales tax
the gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property to operators of
aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the city in which the sale
is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this state,
the country, or any foreign government.
   (F)   In addition to the exemptions provided in Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code §§
6366 and 6366.1 the storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal
property purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft common carriers
of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this state, the
country, or any foreign government is exempted from the use tax.
('61 Code, § 8-2.11.2) (Ord. 206 C.S., passed 10-31-73; Am. Ord. 420 C.S.,
passed 12-5-83)
§ 8-2.12 1974 EXCLUSIONS AND EXEMPTIONS; AIRCRAFT AND WATERBORNE VESSELS.
   (A)   The amount subject to tax shall not include any sales or use tax
imposed by the state upon a retailer or consumer.
   (B)   The storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal property,
the gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to tax under a
sales and use tax ordinance enacted in accordance with the provisions of Cal.
Rev. & Tax. Code, Part 1.5 of Division 2 by any city and county, county, or
city in the state shall be exempt from the tax due under the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   There shall be exempted from the computation of the amount of sales
tax the gross receipts from the salts of tangible personal property to
operators of waterborne vessels to be used or consumed principally outside the
city in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the carriage of
persons or property in such vessels for commercial purposes.
   (D)   The storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal property
purchased by operators of waterborne vessels and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in the carriage of persons or property of
such vessels for commercial purposes shall be exempted from the use tax.
   (E)   There shall be exempted from the computation of the amount of the
sales tax the gross receipts from the sales of tangible personal property to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the city in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft
as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of
the state, the country, or any foreign government.
   (F)   In addition to the exemptions set forth in Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code §§
6366 and 6366.1, the storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal
property purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of the state, the
country, or any foreign government shall be exempted from the use tax.
('61 Code, § 8-2.12) (Ord. 206 C.S., passed 10-31-73)
§ 8-2.13 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS RELATING TO EXCLUSIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of §
8-2.12 of this chapter shall become operative on January 1 of the year
following the year in which the State Board of Equalization adopts an
assessment ratio for state-assessed property, which ratio is identical to the
ratio which is required for local assessments by the provisions of Cal. Rev. &
Tax. Code § 401, at which time the provisions of §
8-2.11 of this chapter shall become inoperative.
   (B)   In the event the provisions of §
8-2.12 of this chapter become operative, and the State Board of Equalization
subsequently adopts an assessment ratio for the state-assessed property, which
ratio is higher than the ratio which is required for local assessments by the
provisions of Cal. Rev & Tax. Code § 401, the provisions of §
8-2.11 of this chapter shall become operative on the first day of the month
next following the month in which such higher ratio is adopted, at which time
the provisions of §
8-2.12 shall be inoperative until the first day of the month following the
month in which the Board again adopts an assessment ratio for state-assessed
property, which ratio is identical to the ratio required for local assessments
by the provisions of Cal. Rev. & Tax Code § 401, at which time the provisions
of §
8-2.12 shall again become operative, and the provisions of §
8-2.11 shall become inoperative.
('61 Code, § 8-2.13) (Ord. 206 C.S., passed 10-31-73)
§ 8-2.14 AMENDMENTS.
   All subsequent amendments of the Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code, which amendments
relate to the sales and use tax and which are not inconsistent with the
provisions of Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code, Part 1.5 of Division 2, shall
automatically become a part of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 8-2.14) (Ord. 206 C.S., passed 10-31-73)
§ 8-2.15 ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN.
   No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action, or proceeding in any court against the state or the
city, or against any officer of the state or the city, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this chapter or Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code, Part 1.5 of Division 2
of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.
('61 Code, § 8-2.15) (Ord. 206 C.S., passed 10-31-73)
§ 8-2.16 EXISTING SALES AND USE TAX ORDINANCES SUSPENDED.
   At the time this chapter goes into operation, the provisions of Ords. 168
N.S, 177 N.S., and 198 N.S. shall be suspended and shall not again be of any
force and effect until and unless for any reason the State Board of
Equalization ceases to perform the functions incident to the administration and
operation of the sales and use taxes imposed by the provisions of this chapter;
provided, however, if for any reason it is determined that the city is without
power to adopt the provisions of this chapter, or that the State Board of
Equalization is without power to perform the functions incident to the
administration and operation of the taxes imposed by this chapter, the
provisions of Ords. 168 N.S., 177 N.S., and 198 N.S. shall not be deemed to
have been suspended, but shall be deemed to have been in full force and effect
at the rate of 1% continuously from and after April 1, 1957. Upon the ceasing
of the State Board of Equalization to perform the functions incident to the
administration and operation of the taxes imposed by this chapter, the
provisions of Ords. 168 N.S., 177 N.S., and 198 N.S. shall again be in full
force and effect at the rate of 1%. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed
as relieving any person of the obligation to pay to the city any sales or use
tax accrued and owing by reason of the provisions of Ords. 168 N.S, 177 N.S.,
and 198 N.S. in force and effect prior to and including March 31, 1957.
('61 Code, § 8-2.16) (Ord. 212 C.S, passed 1-2-74)
§ 8-2.17 CITY AND COUNTY SALES AND USE TAX AGREEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF
SALES TAX REVENUE COLLECTION.
   Pursuant to the Bradley Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law (Cal.
Revenue and Taxation Code § 7200 et seq., hereinafter "Bradley Burns"), the
city shall provide to the county, pursuant to it's sales and use tax agreement,
a portion of the city's 1% Bradley Burns sales tax that is generated within the
incorporated area of the city, as follows: 6.75%, from January 1, 2015 through
December 31, 2015.
(Ord. 858 C.S., passed 6-3-09; Am. Ord. 918 C.S., passed 3-18-15)
CHAPTER 3: SPECIAL GAS TAX STREET IMPROVEMENT FUND
Section
   
8-3.01   Created
   
8-3.02   Deposits
   
8-3.03   Use
§ 8-3.01 CREATED.
   To comply with the provisions of Cal. Sts. & High. Code, Article 5 of
Chapter 1 of Division 1, there is created in the City Treasury a special fund
to be known as the "Special Gas Tax Street Improvement Fund."
('61 Code, § 8-3.01) (Ord. 79 N.S., passed - - )
§ 8-3.02 DEPOSITS.
   All moneys received by the city from the state under the provisions of the
Streets and Highways Code of the state for the acquisition of real property, or
interests therein, or for the construction, maintenance, or improvement of
streets or highways other than state highways, shall be paid into such fund.
('61 Code, § 8-3.02) (Ord. 79 N.S., passed - - )
§ 8-3.03 USE.
   All money in such fund all be expended exclusively for the purpose
authorized by, and subject to all the provisions of Cal. Sts. & High. Code,
Article 5 of Chapter 1 of Division 1.
('61 Code, § 8-3.03) (Ord. 79 N.S., passed - - )
CHAPTER 4: TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
Section
   
8-4.01   Title
   
8-4.02   Definitions
   
8-4.03   Charge imposed
   
8-4.04   Exemptions
   
8-4.05   Operator's duties
   
8-4.06   Collection of tax by operator; rules for collection schedules
   
8-4.07   Registration
   
8-4.08   Reporting and remitting
   
8-4.09   Penalties and interest
   
8-4.10   Failure to collect and report tax; determination of tax by Director of
Finance
   
8-4.11   Appeals
   
8-4.12   Records
   
8-4.13   Refunds
   
8-4.14   Actions to collect
   
8-4.15   Violations of provisions
§ 8-4.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Uniform Transient Room Tax Law of the
city.
('61 Code, § 8-4.01) (Ord. 79 C.S., passed 7-21-65)
§ 8-4.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOTEL. Any structure, or any portion of any structure, which is occupied, or
intended or designed for occupancy, by transients for dwelling, lodging, or
sleeping purposes and shall include any hotel, inn, tourist home or house,
motel, studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house, apartment
house, dormitory, public or private club, mobile home or house trailer at a
fixed location, or other similar structure, or portion thereof.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of
any room, or portion thereof, in any hotel from dwelling, lodging, or sleeping
purposes.
   OPERATOR. The person who is the proprietor of the hotel, whether in the
capacity of owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee, or any
other capacity. Where the operator performs his or her functions through a
managing agent of any type or character other than an employee, the managing
agent shall also be deemed an operator for the purposes of this chapter and
shall have the same duties and liabilities as the principal. Compliance with
the provisions of this chapter by either the principal or the managing agent
shall, however, be considered to be compliance by both.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate,
trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate or any other group or
combination acting as a unit.
   RENT. The consideration charged whether or not received, for the occupancy
of space in a hotel valued in money, whether to be received in money, goods,
labor, or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, property, and
services of any kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
   TRANSIENT. Any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy by
reason of concession, permit, right of access, license, or other agreement for
a period of 30 consecutive calendar days or less, counting portions of calendar
days as full days. Any such person so occupying space in a hotel shall be
deemed to be a transient until the period of 30 days has expired unless there
is an agreement in writing between the operator and the occupant providing for
a longer period of occupancy. In determining whether a person is a transient,
uninterrupted periods of time extending both prior and subsequent to the
effective date of the provisions of this chapter may be considered.
('61 Code, § 8-4.02) (Ord. 79 C.S., passed 7-21-65)
§ 8-4.03 CHARGE IMPOSED.
   For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient shall be subject
to and shall pay a charge in the amount of 9% of the rent charged by the
operator. Such charge shall constitute a debt owed by the transient to the
city, which debt shall be extinguished only by payment to the operator or to
the city. The transient shall pay the charge to the operator of the hotel at
the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate
share of the charge shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid charge
shall be due upon the transient's ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. If for
any reason the charge due is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the
Director of Finance may require that such charge shall be paid directly to the
Director of Finance.
('61 Code, § 8-4.03) (Ord. 79 C.S., passed 7-21-65; Am. Ord. 196 C.S., passed
1-17-73; Am. Ord. 374 C.S., passed 8-3-81; Am. Ord. 523 C.S., passed 6-22-89)
§ 8-4.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No tax shall be imposed upon:
      (1)   Any person as to whom, or any occupancy as to which, it is beyond
the power of the city to impose the tax provided for in this chapter;
      (2)   Any federal officer or employee when on official business;
      (3)   Any officer or employee of a foreign government, which officer or
employee is exempt by reason of express provision of federal law or
international treaty;
      (4)   Any occupant for more than 30 successive calendar days;
      (5)   Any occupant whose rent is of a value less than $2 a day;
      (6)   Any person who rents a private home, vacation cabin, or like
facility from any owner who is not regularly engaged in the business of renting
such facilities but does so only occasionally and incidentally to his or her
own use thereof; and
      (7)   Any occupant whose rent is paid for a hospital room or to a medical
clinic, convalescent home, or home for aged people.
   (B)   No exemption shall be granted under subsections §
8-4.04(A)(1), (2), or (3) of this section except upon a claim therefor made at
the time the rent is collected and under penalty of perjury upon a form
prescribed by the Director of Finance.
('61 Code, § 8-4.04) (Ord. 79 C.S., passed 7-21-65; Am. Ord. 844 C.S., passed
10-1-08)
§ 8-4.05 OPERATOR'S DUTIES.
   Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by the provisions of this
chapter to the same extent and at the same time as the rent is collected from
every transient. The amount of tax shall be separately stated from the amount
of the rent charged, and each transient shall receive a receipt for payment
from the operator. No operator of a hotel shall advertise or state in any
manner, whether directly or indirectly, that the tax, or any part thereof, will
be assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be added to the
rent, or that, if added, any part will be refunded except in the manner
provided in this chapter.
('61 Code, § 8-4.05) (Ord. 79 C.S., passed 7-21-65)
§ 8-4.06 COLLECTION OF TAX BY OPERATOR; RULES FOR COLLECTION SCHEDULES.
   (A)   Every operator maintaining a place of business and renting rooms in
the city, the occupancy of which is not exempted under the terms of this
chapter, shall collect the tax from the occupant. The tax required to be
collected by the operator shall constitute a debt owing by the operator to the
city. In all cases of transactions upon credit or deferred payment, the payment
of the tax to the operator may be deferred in accordance therewith, and the
operator shall be liable therefor at the time and to the extent that such
credits are paid or deferred payments are made in accordance with the rate of
tax owing on the amount thereof.
   (B)   The Director of Finance shall enforce the provisions of this chapter
and shall have the power to adopt rules and regulations not inconsistent with
this chapter as may be necessary or desirable to aid in the enforcement of this
chapter. He or she shall provide schedules for payment of the tax, and such
schedules shall eliminate fractions of one cent.
('61 Code, § 8-4.06) (Ord. 79 C.S., passed 7-21-65)
§ 8-4.07 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   From and after August 1, 1965, or within 30 days after commencing
business, whichever is later, each operator of any hotel renting an occupancy
to transients shall register such hotel with the Director of Finance and obtain
from the Director of Finance a "Transient Occupancy Registration Certificate"
which shall at all times be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises. Such
certificate shall, among other things, set forth the following information:
      (1)   The name of the operator;
      (2)   The address of the hotel;
      (3)   The date upon which the certificate was issued; and
      (4)   A statement as follows:
"This Transient Occupancy Registration Certificate signifies that the person
named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the Uniform
Transient Occupancy Tax Law by registering with the Director of Finance for the
purpose of collecting from transients the Transient Occupancy Tax and remitting
such tax to the Director of Finance. This certificate shall not authorize any
person to conduct any unlawful business or to conduct any lawful business in an
unlawful manner, nor to operate a hotel without strictly complying with all
local applicable laws, including, but not limited to, those requiring a permit
from any board, commission, department, or office of this city. This
certificate shall not constitute a permit."
('61 Code, § 8-4.07) (Ord. 79 C.S., passed 7-21-65)
§ 8-4.08 REPORTING AND REMITTING.
   Each operator shall, on or before the last day of the month following the
close of each calendar quarter, or at the close of any shorter reporting period
which may be established by the Director of Finance, make a return to the
Director of Finance, on forms provided by the Director of Finance, of the total
rents charged and received and the amount of tax collected for transient
occupancies. At the time the return is filed, the full amount of the tax
collected shall be remitted to the Director of Finance. The Director of Finance
may establish shorter reporting periods for any certificate holder if he or she
deems it necessary in order to insure collection of the tax, and he or she may
require further information in the return. Returns and payments shall be due
immediately upon cessation of business for any reason. All taxes collected by
operators pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be held in trust for
the account of the city until payment thereof is made to the Director of
Finance.
('61 Code, § 8-4.08) (Ord. 79 C.S., passed 7-21-65)
§ 8-4.09 PENALTIES AND INTEREST.
   (A)   Original delinquency. Any operator who shall fail to remit any tax
imposed by the provisions of this chapter within the time required shall pay a
penalty in the amount of 10% at the tax in addition to the amount of the tax.
   (B)   Continued delinquency. Any operator who shall fail to remit any
delinquent remittance on or before a period of 30 days following the date on
which the remittance first became delinquent shall pay a second delinquency
penalty in the amount of 10% of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax
and the 10% penalty first imposed.
   (C)   Fraud. If the Director of Finance shall determine that the nonpayment
of any remittance due pursuant to the provisions of this chapter is due to
fraud, a penalty in the amount of 25% of the amount of the tax shall be added
thereto in addition to the penalties set forth in subsections §
8-4.09(A) and (B) of this section.
   (D)   Interest. In addition to the penalties imposed, any operator who shall
fail to remit any tax imposed by the provisions of this chapter shall pay
interest at the rate of 1% per month, or fraction thereof, on the amount of the
tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became
delinquent until paid.
   (E)   Penalties merged with tax. Every penalty imposed, and such interest as
accrues, pursuant to the provisions of this section shall become a part of the
tax required to be paid by the provisions of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 8-4.09) (Ord. 79 C.S., passed 7-21-65; Am. Ord. 523 C.S., passed
6-22-89)
§ 8-4.10 FAILURE TO COLLECT AND REPORT TAX; DETERMINATION OF TAX BY DIRECTOR OF
FINANCE.
   If any operator shall fail or refuse to collect such tax and to make, within
the time provided in this chapter, any report and remittance of such tax, or
any portion thereof, required by the provisions of this chapter, the Director
of Finance shall proceed in such manner as he or she may deem best to obtain
the facts and information on which to base his or her estimate of the tax due.
As soon as the Director of Finance shall procure such facts and information as
he or she is able to obtain upon which to base the assessment of any such tax
imposed by the provisions of this chapter and payable by any operator who has
failed or refused to collect the same and to make such report and remittance,
the Director of Finance shall proceed to determine and assess against such
operator the tax, interest, and penalties provided for by the provisions of
this chapter. In the event such determination is made, the Director of Finance
shall give notice of the amount so assessed by serving it personally or by
depositing it in the US mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the operator so
assessed at his or her last known place of address. Such operator may, within
ten days after the service or mailing of such notice, make an application in
writing to the Director of Finance for a hearing on the amount assessed. If an
application by the operator for a hearing is not made within the time
prescribed, the tax, interest, and penalties if any, determined by the Director
of Finance shall become final and conclusive and immediately due and payable.
If such an application is made, the Director of Finance shall give not less
than a five-day written notice in the manner prescribed in this section to the
operator to show cause at a time and place fixed in such notice why the amount
specified therein should not be fixed for such tax, interest, and penalties. At
such hearing the operator may appear and offer evidence why such specified tax,
interest, and penalties shall not be so fixed. After such hearing the Director
of Finance shall determine the proper tax to be remitted and shall thereafter
give written notice to the person in the manner prescribed in this section of
such determination and the amount of such tax, interest, and penalties. The
amount determined to be due shall be payable after 15 days unless an appeal is
filed as provided in §
8-4.11 of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 8-4.10) (Ord. 79 C.S., passed 7-21-65)
§ 8-4.11 APPEALS.
   Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the Director of Finance with
respect to the amount of such tax, interest, and penalties, if any, may appeal
to the Council by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk within 15 days
after the service or mailing of the determination of the tax due. The Council
shall fix a time and place for bearing such appeal, and the City Clerk shall
give notice in writing to such operator at his or her last known place of
address. The findings of the Council shall be final and conclusive and shall be
served upon the appellant in the manner prescribed in this chapter for the
service of a notice of hearing. Any amount found to be due shall be immediately
due and payable upon the service of notice.
('61 Code, § 8-4.11) (Ord. 79 C.S., passed 7-21-65)
§ 8-4.12 RECORDS.
   It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the collection and payment
to the city of any tax imposed by the provisions of this chapter to keep and
preserve, for a period of three years, all records as may be necessary to
determine the amount of such tax as he or she may have been liable for the
collection of and payment to the City, which records the Director of Finance
shall have the right to inspect at all reasonable times.
('61 Code, § 8-4.12) (Ord. 79 C.S., passed 7-21-65)
§ 8-4.13 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever the amount of any tax, interest, or penalty of been overpaid,
or paid more than once, or erroneously or illegally collected or received by
the city, such amount may be refunded as provided in subsections §
8-4.13(B) and (C) of this section provided a claim in writing therefor, stating
under penalty of perjury the specific grounds upon which the claim is founded,
is filed with the Director of Finance within three years after the date of
payment. The claim shall be on forms furnished by the Director of Finance.
   (B)   Any operator may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes
collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once, or erroneously
or illegally collected or received when it is established in a manner
prescribed by the Director of Finance that the person from whom the tax has
been collected was not a transient; provided however, neither a refund nor a
credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has either
been refunded to the transient or credited to rent subsequently payable by the
transient to the operator.
   (C)   A transient may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid, paid more than
once, or erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city by filing a
claim in the manner provided in subsection §
8-4.13(A) of this section but only when the tax was paid by the transient
directly to the Director of Finance, or when the transient, having paid the tax
to the operator, establishes to the satisfaction of the Director of Finance
that the transient has been unable to obtain a refund from the operator who
collected the tax.
   (D)   No refund shall be paid pursuant to the provisions of this section
unless the claimant establishes his or her right thereto by written records
showing entitlement thereto.
('61 Code, § 8-4.13) (Ord. 79 C.S., passed 7-21-65)
§ 8-4.14 ACTIONS TO COLLECT.
   Any tax required to be paid by any transient pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the transient to the city. Any such
tax collected by an operator which has not been paid to the city shall be
deemed a debt owed by the operator to the city. Any person owing money to the
city pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be liable to an action
brought in the name of the city for the recovery of such amount.
('61 Code, § 8-4.14) (Ord. 79 C.S., passed 7-21-65)
§ 8-4.15 VIOLATIONS OF PROVISIONS.
   Any operator or other person who fails or refuses to register as required,
or to furnish any return required to be made, or who fails or refuses to
furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the Director of
Finance, or who renders a false or fraudulent return or claim shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor. Any person required to make, render, sign, or verify any
report or claim and who makes any false or fraudulent report or claim with
intent to defeat or evade the determination of any amount due required by the
provisions of this chapter to be made shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
('61 Code, § 8-4.15) (Ord. 79 C.S., passed 7-21-65)
CHAPTER 5: REAL PROPERTY TRANSFER TAX
Section
   
8-5.01   Title
   
8-5.02   Tax imposed
   
8-5.03   Person responsible for payment
   
8-5.04   Debt security instruments exempted
   
8-5.05   Governmental agencies exempted
   
8-5.06   Bankruptcies, receiverships, and reorganizations
   
8-5.07   Securities and exchange commission
   
8-5.08   Partnerships
   
8-5.09   Administration
   
8-5.10   Claims for refunds
   
8-5.11   Operative date
§ 8-5.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Real Property Transfer Tax Law of the
City." It is adopted pursuant to the authority contained in Cal. Rev. & Tax.
Code, Part 6.7 (commencing with Cal Rev. & Tax. Code § 11901) of Division 2.
('61 Code, § 8-5.01) (Ord. 116 C.S., passed 12-4-67)
§ 8-5.02 TAX IMPOSED.
   There is imposed on each deed, instrument, or writing by which any lands,
tenements, or other realty sold within the city shall be granted, assigned,
transferred, or otherwise conveyed to, or vested in, the purchaser or
purchasers, or any other person or persons, by his, her, or their direction,
when the consideration or value of the interest or property conveyed (exclusive
of the value of any lien or encumbrances remaining thereon at the time of sale)
exceeds $100 a tax at the rate of $.275 for each $500 or fractional part
thereof.
('61 Code, § 8-5.02) (Ord. 116 C.S., passed 12-4-67)
§ 8-5.03 PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR PAYMENT.
   Any tax imposed pursuant to the provisions of §
8-5.02 of this chapter shall be paid by any person who makes, signs, or issues
any document or instrument subject to the tax, or for whose use or benefit the
same is made, signed, or issued.
('61 Code, § 8-5.03) (Ord. 116 C.S., passed 12-4-67)
§ 8-5.04 DEBT SECURITY INSTRUMENTS EXEMPTED.
   Any tax imposed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall not apply
to any instrument in writing given to secure a debt.
('61 Code, § 8-5.04) (Ord. 116 C.S., passed 12-4-67)
§ 8-5.05 GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES EXEMPTED.
   Any deed, instrument, or writing in which the country, or any agency or
instrumentality thereof or any state or territory or political subdivision
thereof, is a party shall be exempt from any tax imposed pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter when the exempt agency is acquiring title.
('61 Code, § 8-5.05) (Ord. 116 C.S., passed 12-4-67; Am. Ord. 146 C.S., passed
5-6-70)
§ 8-5.06 BANKRUPTCIES, RECEIVERSHIPS, AND REORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   Any tax imposed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall not
apply to the making, delivering, or filing of conveyances to make effective any
plan of reorganization or adjustment:
      (1)   Confirmed under the Federal Bankruptcy Act, as amended;
      (2)   Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court involving
a railroad corporation, as defined in subsection (m) of § 205 of Title 11 of
the United States Code, as amended;
      (3)   Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court involving
a corporation, as defined in subsection (3) of § 506 of Title 11 of the United
States Code, as amended; or
      (4)   Whereby a mere change in identity, form, or place of organization
is effected.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall only apply if the making,
delivery, or filing of instruments of transfer or conveyances occurs within
five years from the date of such confirmation, approved, or change.
('61 Code, § 8-5.06) (Ord. 116 C.S., passed 12-4-67)
§ 8-5.07 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION.
   Any tax imposed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall not apply
to the making or delivery of conveyances to make effective any order of the
Securities and Exchange Commission, as defined in subsection (a) of § 1083 of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, but only if:
   (A)   The order of the Securities and Exchange Commission in obedience to
which such conveyance is made recites that such conveyance is necessary or
appropriate to effectuate the provisions of § 79k of Title 15 of the United
States Code relating to the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935;
   (B)   Such order specifies the property which is ordered to be conveyed; and
   (C)   Such conveyance is made in obedience to such order.
('61 Code, § 8-5.07) (Ord. 116 C.S., passed 12-4-67)
§ 8-5.08 PARTNERSHIPS.
   (A)   In the case of any realty held by a partnership, no levy shall be
imposed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter by reason of any transfer of
an interest in a partnership or otherwise if:
      (1)   Such partnership (or another partnership) if considered a
continuing partnership within the meaning of § 708 of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1954; and
      (2)   Such continuing partnership continues to hold the realty concerned.
   (B)   If there is a termination of any partnership within the meaning of §
708 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, for the purposes of this chapter such
partnership shall be treated as having executed an instrument whereby there was
conveyed, for fair market value (exclusive of the value of any lien or
encumbrance remaining thereon), all realty held by such partnership at the time
of such termination.
   (C)   Not more than one tax shall be imposed pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter by reason of a termination described in subsection §
8-5.08(B) of this section, and any transfer pursuant thereto, with respect to
the realty held by such partnership at the time of such termination.
('61 Code, § 8-5.08) (Ord. 116 C.S., passed 12-4-67)
§ 8-5.09 ADMINISTRATION.
   The County Recorder shall administer the provisions of this chapter in
conformity with the provisions of Cal Rev. & Tax. Code, Part 6.7 of Division 2
and the provisions of any county ordinance adopted pursuant thereto.
('61 Code, § 8-5.09) (Ord. 116 C.S., passed 12-4-67)
§ 8-5.10 CLAIMS FOR REFUNDS.
   Claims for the refund of taxes imposed pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter shall be governed by the provisions of Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code, Chapter 5
(commencing with Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code § 5096) of Part 9 of Division 1.
('61 Code, § 8-5.10) (Ord. 116 C.S., passed 12-4-67)
§ 8-5.11 OPERATIVE DATE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall become operative upon the operative
date of any ordinance adopted by the county pursuant to the provisions of Cal.
Rev. & Tax. Code, Part 6.7 (commencing with Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code § 11901) of
Division 2, or on December 4, 1967, whichever is the later.
('61 Code, § 8-5.11) (Ord. 116 C.S., passed 12-4-67)
CHAPTER 6: TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX (1998)
Section
   
8-6.01   Short title
   
8-6.02   Operative date
   
8-6.03   Purpose
   
8-6.04   Contract with state
   
8-6.05   Transactions tax rate
   
8-6.06   Accounting for revenues
   
8-6.07   Place of sale
   
8-6.08   Use tax rate
   
8-6.09   Adoption of provisions of state law
   
8-6.10   Limitations on adoption of state law and collection of use taxes
   
8-6.11   Permit not required
   
8-6.12   Exemptions and exclusions
   
8-6.13   Amendments
   
8-6.14   Enjoining collection forbidden
   
8-6.15   Implementing policies
   
8-6.16   Violations of provisions
§ 8-6.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Transactions and Use Tax Law" of the
city. This chapter shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the
city.
(Ord. 682 C.S., passed 3-4-98)
§ 8-6.02 OPERATIVE DATE.
   OPERATIVE DATE means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing
more than 110 days after the adoption of this chapter, the date of such
adoption being as set forth below.
(Ord. 682 C.S., passed 3-4-98)
§ 8-6.03 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and
directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:
   (A)   To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Cal. Rev. & Tax Code, Part 1.6 (commencing with § 7251) of
Division 2, and § 7286.65 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the city
to adopt this tax law which shall be operative if a two-thirds majority of the
electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an
election called for that purpose.
   (B)   To adopt a retail transactions and use tax law which incorporates
provisions identical to those of the State Sales and Use Tax Law insofar as
those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations
contained in Cal. Rev. & Tax Code, Part 1.6 of Division 2.
   (C)   To adopt a retail transactions and use tax law which imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable
to, and requires the least possible deviation from the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the state sales and use taxes.
   (D)   To adopt a retail transactions and use tax law which can be
administered in a manner which will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of Cal. Rev. & Tax Code, Part 1.6 of Division 2,
minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes and at the same
time minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation
under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 682 C.S., passed 3-4-98)
§ 8-6.04 CONTRACT WITH STATE.
   Prior to the operative date, the city shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax law, provided that, if the city
shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the
operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and, in such a case, the
operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following
the execution of such a contract.
(Ord. 682 C.S., passed 3-4-98)
§ 8-6.05 TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE.
   For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is
hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the city at
the rate of one-quarter of one (.25) percent of the gross receipts of any
retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said
territory on and after the operative date of this chapter. This amount is in
addition to any existing or future authorized state or local sales tax or
transactions and use tax.
(Ord. 682 C.S., passed 3-4-98)
§ 8-6.06 ACCOUNTING FOR REVENUES.
   All net revenues when received and all interest on said revenues shall be
placed in an account separate and apart from the general fund and shall be
designated for use and used in the providing of Public Safety Services as
defined herein consistent with Cal. Gov't Code § 30052 and the net revenues
derived herefrom shall be used in addition to, and not to supplant, the level
of funding for public safety services that was provided from other revenue
sources by the city for the 1996-1997 fiscal year.
   (A)   Annually, commencing the first Wednesday in November 1999, a report
detailing the use of all funds collected pursuant to this chapter shall be
presented for review to the City Council at a public meeting.
   (B)   PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES includes only the following services
administered by the Police Department under the direction of the Chief of
Police:
      (1)   Gang prevention programs.
      (2)   Expanding neighborhood watch programs.
      (3)   Supervising offending youths and cleaning up graffiti.
      (4)   Police officer training and retention.
      (5)   School patrols and gang activity surveillance.
      (6)   Additional police officers for neighborhood patrols.
      (7)   Providing improved police officer equipment.
      (8)   Acquiring and using specially trained dogs to assist in tracking
and building and drug searches.
(Ord. 682 C.S., passed 3-4-98)
§ 8-6.07 PLACE OF SALE.
   For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the
place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject
to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the state
or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.
(Ord. 682 C.S., passed 3-4-98)
§ 8-6.08 USE TAX RATE.
   An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in
the city of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after
the operative date of this chapter for storage, use or other consumption in
said territory at the rate of one-quarter of one (.25) percent of the sales
price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which
delivery is made.
(Ord. 682 C.S., passed 3-4-98)
§ 8-6.09 ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Cal. Rev. & Tax Code, Part 1.6 of Division
2, all of the provisions of Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code, Part 1 (commencing with §
6001) of Division 2 are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as
though fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 682 C.S., passed 3-4-98)
§ 8-6.10 LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES.
   In adopting the provisions of Cal. Rev. & Tax Code, Part 1 of Division 2:
   (A)   Wherever the state is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of the city shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall
not be made when:
      (1)   The word STATE is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of
Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State;
      (2)   The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by
or against the city or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by
or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this chapter.
      (3)   In those sections, including but not necessarily limited to
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the state, where the result of
the substitution would be to:
         (a)   Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which
would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or
other consumption remains subject to tax by the state under the provisions of
Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code, Part 1 of Division 2; or
         (b)   Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to
tax by the state under the said provision of that code.
      (4)   In Cal. Rev. & Tax Code §§ 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence
thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828.
   (B)   The word CITY shall be substituted for the word STATE in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business in this state" in § 6203 and in the definition of
that phrase in § 6203.
(Ord. 682 C.S., passed 3-4-98)
§ 8-6.11 PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.
   If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Cal. Rev. & Tax
Code § 6067, an additional transactor's permit shall not be required by this
chapter.
(Ord. 682 C.S., passed 3-4-98)
§ 8-6.12 EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and
the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the state or by
any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform
Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered
transactions or use tax.
   (B)   There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions
tax the gross receipts from:
      (1)   Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside
the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of
the laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign government.
      (2)   Sales of property to be used outside the city which is shipped to a
point outside the city, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such
point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier
for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph,
delivery to a point outside the city shall be satisfied:
         (a)   With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Cal. Veh. Code, Chapter 1 (commencing with
§ 4000) of Division 3, aircraft licensed in compliance with Cal. Pub. Util.
Code § 21411, and undocumented vessels registered under Cal. Veh. Code, Chapter
2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with § 9840) by registration to an out-of-city
address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer,
stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence;
and
         (b)   With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place
of business out-of-city and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.
      (3)   The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated
to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into
prior to the operative date of this chapter.
      (4)   A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date
of this chapter.
      (5)   For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.
   (C)   There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this chapter the
storage, use or other consumption in this city of tangible personal property:
      (1)   The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.
      (2)   Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
pursuant to the laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Cal.
Rev. & Tax. Code §§ 6366 and 6366.1.
      (3)   If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
chapter.
      (4)   If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this chapter.
      (5)   For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right
or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.
      (6)   Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the city shall not be required to collect use tax from the
purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers
the property into the city or participates within the city in making the sale
of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the
order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in
the city or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor,
subsidiary, or person in the city under the authority of the retailer.
      (7)   A RETAILER ENGAGED IN BUSINESS IN THE CITY shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to
Cal. Veh. Code, Chapter 1 (commencing with § 4000) of Division 3, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Cal. Pub. Util. Code § 21411, or undocumented
vessels registered under Cal. Veh. Code, Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing
with § 9840). That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any
purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an
address in the city.
   (D)   Any person subject to use tax under this chapter may credit against
that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a
district imposing or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Cal.
Rev. & Tax. Code, Part 1.6 of Division 2, with respect to the sale to the
person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is
subject to the use tax.
(Ord. 682 C.S., passed 3-4-98)
§ 8-6.13 AMENDMENTS.
   All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this chapter to Cal. Rev.
& Tax Code, Part 1 of Division 2, relating to sales and use taxes and which are
not inconsistent with Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code, Part 1.6 of Division 2, and all
amendments to Cal. Rev. & Tax, Code, Part 1.6 of Division 2, shall
automatically become a part of this chapter, provided, however, that no such
amendment shall operate so as to effect the rate of tax imposed by this
chapter.
(Ord. 682 C.S., passed 3-4-98)
§ 8-6.14 ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN.
   No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the state or the
city, or against any officer of the state or the city, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this chapter or Cal. Rev. & Tax. Code, Part 1.6 of Division 2,
of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.
(Ord. 682 C.S., passed 3-4-98)
§ 8-6.15 IMPLEMENTING POLICIES.
   (A)   Upon approval of this chapter by a two-thirds majority of the voters,
the city may adopt policies and take such other action as may be necessary for
the implementation of the transactions and use tax authorized by this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter shall become effective on June 2, 1998 only if a two-
thirds majority of all electors voting on the tax imposed by this chapter at
the June 2, 1998 election vote to approve the tax. This chapter shall no longer
be effective on and after January 1, 2007.
(Ord. 682 C.S., passed 3-4-98)
§ 8-6.16 VIOLATIONS OF PROVISIONS.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of an infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in
the State Government Code.
(Ord. 682 C.S., passed 3-4-98)
CHAPTER 7: MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
Section
   
8-7.01   Name of chapter
   
8-7.02   Purpose
   
8-7.03   (Reserved)
   
8-7.04   (Reserved)
   
8-7.05   Administration of utility rates, rules, policies, billings,
collections
   
8-7.06   Deposits for utility services
   
8-7.07   Application for municipal utility services
   
8-7.08   Charges for municipal utilities
   
8-7.09   Discontinuance of service for non-payment
   
8-7.10   Delinquent accounts
   
8-7.11   Unauthorized use of utility services; penalties
   
8-7.12   Terminations, turnoffs and transfers
   
8-7.13   Appeals
   
8-7.14   Noticing prior to termination of service
§ 8-7.01 NAME OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall be known as "Municipal Utilities". It shall contain the
ordinances regulating the collection of revenues for the providing of water,
sewer, drainage, garbage collection and street cleaning services by the city.
(Ord. 731 C.S., passed 5-16-01; Am. Ord. 919 C.S., passed 5-20-15)
§ 8-7.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to unify and update policies for billing and
collection of municipal utility revenues for water, sewer, drainage, garbage
collection and street cleaning services.
(Ord. 731 C.S., passed 5-16-01; Am. Ord. 919 C.S., passed 5-20-15)
§ 8-7.03 (RESERVED).
§ 8-7.04 (RESERVED).
§ 8-7.05 ADMINISTRATION OF UTILITY RATES, RULES, POLICIES, BILLINGS,
COLLECTIONS.
   The Finance Director, or his or her designee, shall:
   (A)   Perform all functions and duties relating to the administration of all
provisions, rules, and regulations, as described in this chapter, and
Chapters 3,
4 and
5 of Title V of the Madera Municipal Code; garbage collection, sewer, storm
drainage and water utility services hereinafter referred to as "Municipal
Utilities".
   (B)   Make such forms, rules, regulations, and decisions as may be necessary
to aid in the administration or enforcement of provisions related to municipal
utilities in this chapter and
Chapters 3,
4 and
5 of Title V of the Madera Municipal Code.
   (C)   Apply all utility charges to customer accounts, and collect all fees
owed to the city as prescribed by applicable approved minute orders,
resolutions, and/or ordinances of the City Council.
   (D)   Collect all other charges and deposits as directed by applicable
approved minute orders, ordinances, or resolutions adopted by the Council, or
other statutory mandates.
(Ord. 731 C.S., passed 5-16-01; Am. Ord. 919 C.S., passed 5-20-15)
§ 8-7.06 DEPOSITS FOR UTILITY SERVICES.
   (A)   Applicants for municipal utility services may be required to guarantee
with a security deposit the payment of municipal utility services. Residential
accounts shall deposit with the city the amount required by the city's Master
Fee Schedule. All other accounts including multi-family will deposit with the
city a sum equal to three months average monthly billing.
   (B)   A deposit for residential municipal services may be waived if the
applicant is creditworthy and meets one of the following criteria:
      (1)   If the owner of the service location is the applicant, a deposit
shall be required, unless it can be determined that the applicant has not
previously been delinquent in the previous 12 months at another service
location. If a deposit is waived, it shall be on the condition that the
applicant remains current on all future utility bills; or
      (2)   If the applicant has a previous credit history with the city, and
can demonstrate that there have been no delinquencies on his or her account.
   (C)   In the event of non-payment of all or a portion of the utilities bill,
after notice is given the deposit may be applied against delinquent charges or
against outstanding charges upon termination of service, as deemed necessary by
the Finance Director or his or her designee.
   (D)   Deposits shall be automatically applied to a customer's account after
a one-year period.
(Ord. 731 C.S., passed 5-16-01; Am. Ord. 898 C.S., passed 7-5-12; Am. Ord. 919
C.S., passed 5-20-15; Am. Ord. 975 C.S., passed 8-19-20)
§ 8-7.07 APPLICATION FOR MUNICIPAL UTILITY SERVICES.
   (A)   Applications for municipal utility services shall be in writing on a
form prescribed by the Finance Director.
   (B)   Utility services can be initiated by written application or by
telephone. If utility services are activated by telephone, a written
application and either deposit or waiver verification must be received by the
City Finance Department within five business days of service activation,
otherwise the utility services may be discontinued.
   (C)   A non-refundable application fee shall be collected from each
applicant for municipal utility services for each service location. The amount
of the application fee will be as set by resolution of the Council.
   (D)   Deposit requirements unless waived as provided in this chapter shall
be determined by the Finance Director based on the applicant's past municipal
utility account history and any other pertinent information pursuant to this
chapter.
   (E)   Accepted applications will be set up as utility accounts and
thereafter billed accordingly as set forth by resolutions, ordinances, and/or
policies in effect at the time of application, and at all times of service.
   (F)   Municipal utility policies shall govern the obligations and rights of
municipal utility customers. The municipal utility policies shall consist of
ordinances, City Utility Services Policy, resolutions, and shall be consistent
with applicable sections of the California Public Utilities Code, and
administrative directives applying to municipal utilities.
   (G)   A customer whose application is accepted shall be responsible for the
utility bill at the service location until a request for termination of
service, or other written notice is received in the Department of Finance
office, as prescribed in §
8-7.12 of this chapter.
   (H)   A residential property owner shall be responsible for utility services
to the unoccupied property, if any, during the time period in which the Finance
Department receives a termination of service request from the previous tenant
and the time the Finance Department receives a request for service from the
subsequent tenant. The property owner will not be responsible for the utility
services if it can be established that another tenant occupied the property
between the time a termination of service request was received and the time a
request for service was received. During such time period, the tenant occupying
the property shall be responsible for the utility service.
(Ord. 731 C.S., passed 5-16-01; Am. Ord. 919 C.S., passed 5-20-15)
§ 8-7.08 CHARGES FOR MUNICIPAL UTILITIES.
   (A)   Rates. Charges, fees, and assessments for municipal utilities shall be
in the amounts and times designated by City Council resolution, or ordinance,
and shall constitute a debt owing and payable to the city.
   (B)   Billing. Regular municipal utility services shall be issued according
to the billing dates established by the Director of Finance.
   (C)   Unified billing. Municipal utility services shall be billed under a
unified bill which includes water, sewer, drainage, street cleaning, garbage
collection charges and other charges as the Council designates.
   (D)   Payment. All charges for utility services shall be due and payable on
the billing date. All unpaid utility charges shall become delinquent at the
close of business on either the 7th, the 14th, the 21st, or the 28th of the
current month, depending on billing dates established by the Director of
Finance as allowed in §
8-7.08(B) and at the discretion of the same. The specific due and payable date
selected by the Director of Finance for each account will be identified on each
unified bill. The Director of Finance may also update the specific due and
payable date identified herein for any account upon 60 days prior notice to the
utility customer in the unified bill. If the delinquent date falls on a
Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, charges shall become delinquent at the close
of business on the next business day after said Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday. Postmarks will not be accepted as the date the payment was received.
   (E)   Proration. For the first and last months of active utility service,
the utility charges shall be prorated beginning with the first day of service
in the current billing cycle, until the last day of the billing cycle or the
last day of utility services if the Finance Director has been notified in
advance of the proposed termination.
   (F)   Meter failures. If a meter fails to register during any billing period
or is known to register inaccurately, the customer shall be charged on the
basis of the average monthly consumption for a period of one year as shown by
the meter when in use and registering accurately or, in the event the customer
has not received water for a period of one full year, then over such lesser
period based on the average monthly consumption.
   (G)   Disputed meter reading. In case of a disputed meter reading, the
customer may make a written complaint to the Director of Finance, together with
a deposit of a fee as set by Council resolution. The deposit will be returned
and the utility bill equitably adjusted for a period of not to exceed the prior
12 months in any case where the meter shall be tested and found to register
flows demonstrating more than 3% over or under the amount of water which
actually passes through the meter. If it is determined that no error occurred,
the customer shall receive credit on his utility account in the amount of the
difference between the amount to be charged to the city for the testing of the
disputed meter and the amount of deposit.
   (H)   Billing errors. In the event a clerical error or other circumstance
occurs which creates an inaccurate billing for service charges, an adjustment
shall be made in the customer's bill for a period not to exceed the preceding
36 months, either in the customer's favor or the city's favor as appropriate.
(Ord. 731 C.S., passed 5-16-01; Am. Ord. 919 C.S., passed 5-20-15; Am. Ord.
1005 C.S., passed 2-21-24)
§ 8-7.09 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE FOR NON-PAYMENT.
   (A)   Residential utility accounts remaining unpaid for at least 60 calendar
days after the due date shall be subject to disconnection from water utility
services in the manner prescribed in the City Utility Services Policy and
consistent with applicable sections of the California Public Utilities Code.
   (B)   Commercial utility accounts remaining unpaid after the due date shall
be subject to disconnection from water utility services in the manner
prescribed in the City Utility Services Policy and consistent with applicable
sections of the California Public Utilities Code.
   (C)   Where more than one residence is billed under one multi-unit account,
including but not limited to apartment units, mobile home parks, etc., accounts
remaining unpaid for at least 60 days after the due date shall be subject to
disconnection from water utility services in the manner prescribed in the City
Utility Services Policy and consistent with applicable sections of the
California Public Utilities Code.
   (D)   In order to restore service to an account with discontinued service,
payment in the form of check will not be accepted. Cash, debit, credit, or
money order will be accepted.
(Ord. 731 C.S., passed 5-16-01; Am. Ord. 919 C.S., passed 5-20-15; Am. Ord. 969
C.S., passed 2-19-20)
§ 8-7.10 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   In the event that a utility bill is not paid on or before the
delinquent date, the following additional charges shall be added to each
delinquent billing:
      (1)   The amount determined by resolution or, in the absence of such
resolution, 10% of the delinquent balance of all utility charges.
      (2)   In addition, the delinquent balance, including additional charges,
shall be charged interest at the rate of 1 ½% per month.
   (B)   If water service had been discontinued for failure to pay a utility
bill as set forth in § 8-7.09 of this chapter, the entire amount of the utility
bill including all applicable penalties, interest, and deposit shall be paid
before water service is restored, unless an amortization agreement for payment
of the delinquent balance consistent with the Public Utilities Code and the
city policy under California Water Shut Off Act (SB 992: Cal. Health and Safety
Code §§ 116900 to 116926) is arranged with the Finance Director or his or her
designee. The city policy is established by City Council Resolution as "City of
Madera Utility Service Policy for Residential and Multi-Family Customers").
   (C)   A charge as determined by resolution of the Council shall be charged
on all returned checks, plus any service charges assessed by the bank. Accounts
shall be subject to the following payment restrictions.
      (1)   Checks will not be accepted as payment when service has been
interrupted because of a returned check.
      (2)   If account holder has two checks returned to the city from the
issuing bank within a six- month period, no checks will be accepted as payment
on that account for the six months following the last returned check.
   (D)   In addition to any other fees or charges provided in this section, any
customer requesting a utility service, including but not limited to application
for water service, service turn-on, or shut-off, on any Saturday, Sunday, legal
holiday, or before the hour of 8:00 a.m. or after the hour of 5:00 p.m. of any
day, shall pay an additional charge as determined by resolution of the Council
for after hours or weekend or holiday service.
   (E)   Accounts shall be subject to collection of any delinquent fees and
charges in the following manner:
      (1)   At the time the fees become delinquent and until such time as they
are fully paid, the delinquent account balance, including late charges, shall
constitute an unrecorded lien against the property and, as such, may be
identified during a title search. In addition, commercial businesses'
delinquent account balances, including late charges, may be considered an
unrecorded lien against the business and/or owner of the business except that
all procedures under the City of Madera Utility Service Policy for Residential
and Multi-Family Residential Customers shall be followed first.
      (2)   Once a year, the Council shall cause to be prepared a report of
current delinquent fees, including late charges, for that year. The Council
shall fix a time, date and place for hearing the report and receiving any
objections or protests thereto.
      (3)   The Council shall cause notice of the hearing to be mailed to the
landowners listed on the report not less than 15 calendar days prior to the
date set for hearing.
      (4)   At the hearing, the Council shall hear any objections or protests
of landowners liable to be assessed for delinquent fees including late charges
and administrative fees. The Council may then make revisions or corrections to
the report as it deems just, after which, by resolution, the report shall be
affirmed.
      (5)   The delinquent fees set forth in the report as confirmed shall
constitute a lien against the respective parcels of land and are a lien on the
property for the amount of such delinquent fees, including interest and late
charges. A certified copy of the resolution affirming the assessments shall be
filed with the County Recorder and the County Auditor-Controller/Tax Collector
for the amounts of the respective assessments against the respective parcels as
they appear on the current assessment roll. The lien created attaches upon
filing. The assessments shall be collected at the same time and in the same
manner as other property taxes and shall be subject to the same penalties and
the same procedures and sale in case of delinquency as provided for such taxes.
All laws applicable to the levy, collection and enforcement of property taxes
shall be applicable to such assessments. However, if during the first year for
which the charges are prescribed, the property served by the city has been
transferred or conveyed to a bona fide purchaser for value, and attached
thereon, prior to the date on which the first installment of county taxes would
become delinquent, the charge shall not result in a lien against the real
property, but shall become transferred to the unsecured roll for collection.
      (6)   In addition to, or alternatively to, imposing a lien, the city may
file an action for the collection of any amounts due and unpaid. In any such
action, the delinquent balances may also be processed through a collection
agency.
      (7)   If the account of a commercial customer who is not the property
owner remains delinquent for over 90 days, a billing will be rendered to the
property owner so as to provide notice of the delinquency and lien on the
property, as mandated in subsection (1) of this section, such that payment of
the account can occur prior to applying subsections (2), (3), (4), (5), and (6)
of this section. The charges for utility service referred to herein shall
constitute a lien against the lot or parcel of land against which the charge
was imposed if such charge remains delinquent for a period of 90 days. In the
event that utility services are provided to property occupied by a non-owner/
tenant, and payment for such service had been guaranteed by the property owner,
the Director of Finance is authorized and directed to notify such owner of any
delinquencies hereunder upon their occurrence.
      (8)   The city shall have the right to require that commercial property
owners guarantee tenant accounts that are delinquent or have a history of
delinquency.
      (9)   The provisions of this section shall be applicable, in addition to
the fees and charges arising from service provided under
Chapters 5-3,
5-4, and
5-5 of this municipal code.
(Ord. 731 C.S., passed 5-16-01; Am. Ord. 898 C.S., passed 7-5-12; Am. Ord. 919
C.S., passed 5-20-15; Am. Ord. 969 C.S., passed 2-19-20)
§ 8-7.11 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF UTILITY SERVICES; PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any unauthorized use of utility services by failing to apply for
service, or by tapping, opening, or connecting to another source for water or
sewer service which has been interrupted due to non-payment shall pay an
additional charge as determined by resolution of the Council. If it is
determined that a neighboring address is supplying utility service to an
address which has had service terminated due to non-payment, the account holder
supplying such service will have an additional cost to their account in
addition to the user who is not authorized to receive such service.
   (B)   The penalty for unauthorized use of utility services, shall include a
monthly charge as set by resolution of the Council for each instance of
unauthorized use of municipal utilities for a residential user, and 10% of the
monthly charges of a commercial, industrial, or other non-residential user.
This monthly penalty shall be in addition to the monthly utility charges for
consumption, and any other charges approved by this chapter.
(Ord. 731 C.S., passed 5-16-01; Am. Ord. 898 C.S., passed 7-5-12; Am. Ord. 919
C.S., passed 5-20-15)
§ 8-7.12 TERMINATIONS, TURNOFFS AND TRANSFERS.
   (A)   Request for termination of service by the current customer shall be by
advance written notice on a form provided by the Finance Department and signed
by the account holder. The completed form should specify the date service is/
was to be discontinued and the forwarding address for the closing bill.
Otherwise, said customer shall be held responsible for utility services
provided to the service location until the Finance Department receives a
written request for termination.
   (B)   Temporary disconnection of service at the request of the customer
requires an advance notice, as in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   Any account balance considered delinquent as set forth in §
8-7.10(A) may be disconnected from the water system for non-payment. Upon
interruption of service the account will be charged a fee as set by the city's
Master Fee Schedule. Residential services shall be given notice consistent with
the applicable provisions of the California Public Utilities Code sections.
Other accounts shall be notified pursuant to the City Utility Service Policy
prior to disconnection for nonpayment of utility bill.
   (D)   Any customer request for service at another location when accompanied
with a request for termination at a previous service location, shall be treated
as a new account with prior service. In the case where a customer's prior
account is delinquent, all past due amounts will be due in full, and a new
deposit required, prior to activation of service at the new location.
   (E)   A violation of any of the sections of this chapter or other applicable
law that prohibits, regulates, or authorizes water service may be grounds for
service disconnection depending on the severity of the violation at the
discretion of the Finance Director. Factors to be considered in determining
severity of the violations include, but are not limited to, the nature of the
offense, the number of prior, or repeated offenses, disregard for public
safety, and disregard for public property.
(Ord. 731 C.S., passed 5-16-01; Am. Ord. 898 C.S., passed 7-5-12; Am. Ord. 919
C.S., passed 5-20-15)
§ 8-7.13 APPEALS.
   All appeals under this chapter shall be in accordance with the City Utility
Policy.
(Ord. 731 C.S., passed 5-16-01; Am. Ord. 919 C.S., passed 5-20-15)
§ 8-7.14 NOTICING PRIOR TO TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Delinquent residential accounts and properties without an active
account.
      (1)   Ten calendar days before an account becomes delinquent, a notice is
to be forwarded to the account holder by mail, to the service address. The
notice will indicate that a penalty will be applied and the water will be shut
off if the past due balance is not paid in full by the required payment date as
established in the City of Madera Municipal Code. The notice is applicable to
those accounts that are at least 60 days past due and are not already under a
payment agreement. The notice will include (a) a customer's name and address;
(b) amount past due; (c) date by which payment or payment arrangements are
required to avoid termination of service; (d) description of the process to
apply for payment arrangements; (e) description of the process to dispute or
appeal a bill; and (f) City Finance Department's telephone number and a web
link to the City Finance Utility Billing Department's written delinquent
account policy.
      (2)   Ten calendar days prior to termination of service, a notice that
water services will be discontinued is mailed to the customer. If the mailing
address and the address of the property to which water service is provided are
different, a second notice will be mailed to the service address and addressed
to "occupant." If unable to reach customer by telephone or the mailed notice
has been returned undeliverable, the city will make every effort to hand
deliver or post a notice in a conspicuous place regarding the shut off process.
      (3)   City staff will proceed to shut off procedure if the account holder
has made no response to the ten-day or 48-hour notices.
   (B)   Delinquent commercial accounts and properties without an active
account.
      (1)   Ten calendar days prior to termination of service, a termination
notice is to be forwarded to the account holder either by mail or posted in a
conspicuous place at the service address. That notice will typically be
provided on the customer's utility bill and will relate to the balance from the
prior utility bill that has become delinquent. The notice will indicate that a
penalty will be applied and the water will be shut off if the past due balance
is not paid in full by the required payment date, as established in the City of
Madera Municipal Code § 8-7.08(D). The ten-day notice is for those accounts
that have not paid their balance from the prior utility bill and are not
already under a special payment agreement. If the notice is mailed, the ten-day
period will begin five days after the date of mailing the notice. If the notice
is physically posted at the service address, the ten-day period will begin on
the day of posting.
      (2)   Seven calendar days prior to termination of service, a 48-hour
shut-off notice will be forwarded to the customer by mail. The 48-hour period
will begin five days after the mailing of the notice. At least 48 hours prior
to termination of service city staff will make a reasonable attempt to contact
an adult person residing at the premises by phone. In certain instances, this
notice may be hand delivered or posted in a conspicuous place to expedite the
shut-off process once city staff has made a reasonable attempt to contact an
adult at the premises by phone.
      (3)   Proceed to shut-off procedure if the commercial account holder has
not made an attempt to contact the office or if the account has not been
brought to a current status.
   (C)   Delinquent multi-family accounts and properties without an active
account.
      (1)   Ten calendar days before an account becomes delinquent, a notice is
to be forwarded to the account holder by mail to the service address. The
notice will indicate that a penalty will be applied and the water will be shut
off if the past due balance is not paid in full by the required payment date as
established in the City of Madera Municipal Code. The notice is applicable to
those accounts that are at least 60 calendar days past due and are not already
under a payment agreement. The notice will include (a) a customer's name and
address; (b) amount past due; (c) date by which payment or payment arrangements
are required to avoid termination of service; (d) description of the process to
apply for payment arrangements; (e) description of the process to dispute or
appeal a bill; and (f) City Finance Department's telephone number and a web
link to the City Finance Utility Billing Department's written delinquent
account policy.
      (2)   Ten calendar days prior to termination of service, a notice that
water service will be discontinued is mailed to the customer. If the mailing
address and the address of the property to which water is provided are
different, a second notice will be mailed to the service address and marked
"occupant." If unable to reach customer by telephone or the mailed notification
has been returned undeliverable, the city will make every effort to hand
deliver or post a notice in a conspicuous place regarding the shut-off process.
      (3)   The notice will advise tenant/occupant that they have the right to
become customers of the city without being required to pay the amount due on
the delinquent account, as long as they are willing to assume financial
responsibility for subsequent charges for water service at the address(es)
served by master meters. Tenants must have the opportunity to transfer the
account into their name.
      (4)   Proceed to the shut-off procedure if all monies, including penalty
and interest have not been paid within the required time frame.
   (D)   Breached special payment agreements.
      (1)   At least 48 hours prior to termination of service, city staff will
make a reasonable attempt to contact the account holder by phone. If a phone
call is unable to be completed, then a 48-hour notice will be posted at the
service address.
      (2)   Service will be shut off if the account holder has made no response
to the 48-hour notice.
(Ord. 898 C.S., passed 7-5-12; Am. Ord. 919 C.S., passed 5-20-15; Am. Ord. 969
C.S., passed 2-19-20)
CHAPTER 8: TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX (2016)
Section
   
8-8.01   Title
   
8-8.02   Definitions
   
8-8.03   Purpose
   
8-8.04   Contract with the state
   
8-8.05   Transactions tax rate
   
8-8.06   Place of sale
   
8-8.07   Use tax rate
   
8-8.08   Adoption of provisions of state law
   
8-8.09   Limitations on adoption of state law and collection of use taxes
   
8-8.10   Permit not required
   
8-8.11   Exemptions and exclusions
   
8-8.12   Amendments
   
8-8.13   Prohibition on enjoining collection
§ 8-8.01 TITLE.
   This ordinance shall be known as the City of Madera Transactions and Use Tax
Ordinance. The City of Madera will hereinafter be called city. This ordinance
shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the city.
(Ord. 935 C.S., passed 8-17-16)
§ 8-8.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases shall be defined as set forth herein, except
that any term or phrase not defined in this shall have the same meaning as that
term or phrase is defined in the California Revenue and Taxation Code, Division
2, Parts 1.6 and 1.7:
   (A)   CITY means the City of Madera.
   (B)   OPERATIVE DATE means the first day of the first calendar quarter
commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this chapter by vote of the
electorate on November 8, 2016.
   (C)   STATE means the State of California.
(Ord. 935 C.S., passed 8-17-16)
§ 8-8.03 PURPOSE.
   This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes,
and it shall be interpreted liberally in order to accomplish all of its lawful
purposes:
   (A)   To impose a retail transactions and use tax to be applied throughout
the entire territory of the city to the fullest extent permitted by law and in
accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with section 7251) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of
Division 2, which authorizes the city to adopt this ordinance if a majority of
the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at
an election called for that purpose.
   (B)   To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the
requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.
   (C)   To adopt a retail transactions and use tax chapter that imposes a tax
and provides a measure that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable
to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.
   (D)   To adopt a retail transactions and use tax chapter that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes
and, at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons
subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.
   (E)   To provide transactions and use tax revenue to the city to be used for
general purposes.
(Ord. 935 C.S., passed 8-17-16)
§ 8-8.04 CONTRACT WITH THE STATE.
   Prior to the Operative Date, the city shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this chapter; provided, that if the city shall not have contracted
with the State Board of Equalization prior to the Operative Date, it shall
nevertheless so contract and in such a case the Operative Date shall be the
first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a
contract.
(Ord. 935 C.S., passed 8-17-16)
§ 8-8.05 TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE.
   For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a general
transactions tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated
territory of the city at the rate of 0.5% of the gross receipts of any retailer
from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail within the
territory of the city on and after the Operative Date of this ordinance.
(Ord. 935 C.S., passed 8-17-16)
§ 8-8.06 PLACE OF SALE. 
   For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the
place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject
to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the state
or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.
(Ord. 935 C.S., passed 8-17-16)
§ 8-8.07 USE TAX RATE. 
   An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in
the city of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after
the Operative Date of this chapter for storage, use or other consumption in the
territory of the city at the rate of 0.5% of the sales price of the property.
The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to
state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.
(Ord. 935 C.S., passed 8-17-16)
§ 8-8.08 ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW.
   Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance, and except insofar as they
are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with section
6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted,
incorporated, and made a part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 935 C.S., passed 8-17-16)
§ 8-8.09 LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. 
   In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code:
   (A)   Wherever the state is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of the city shall be substituted. However, this substitution shall not be
made when:
      (1)   The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board,
State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State
of California;
      (2)   The result of the substitution would require action to be taken by
or against the city or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by
or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this ordinance.
      (3)   In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to,
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where
the result of the substitution would be to:
         (a)   Provide an exemption from the tax in this chapter with respect
to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not otherwise be exempt from the tax while such sales,
storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the state under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code; or
         (b)   Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to
tax by the state under the same provision of that code.
         (c)   In sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof),
6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
   (B)   The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the
phrase "retailer engaged in business in this State" in section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in section 6203.
(Ord. 935 C.S., passed 8-17-16)
§ 8-8.10 PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.
   If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under section 6067 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be
required by this chapter.
(Ord. 935 C.S., passed 8-17-16)
§ 8-8.11 EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and
the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the state or by
any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform
Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered
transactions or use tax.
   (B)   There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions
tax the gross receipts from:
      (1)   Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside
the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of
the laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign government;
      (2)   Sales of property to be used outside the city, which is shipped to
a point outside the city pursuant to the contract of sale by delivery to such
point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier
for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph,
delivery to a point outside the city shall be satisfied:
         (a)   With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration
to an out-of-city address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed
by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place
of residence; and
         (b)   With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place
of business out-of-city and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.
      (3)   The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated
to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into
prior to the Operative Date of this chapter.
      (4)   A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date
of this chapter.
      (5)   For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.
   (C)   There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the
storage, use or other consumption in this city of tangible personal property:
      (1)   The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance;
      (2)   Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
pursuant to the laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California;
      (3)   If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the Operative Date of this
chapter;
      (4)   If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
Operative Date of this chapter.
      (5)   For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right
or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.
      (6)   Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the city shall not be required to collect use tax from the
purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers
the property into the city or participates within the city in making the sale
of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the
order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in
the city or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor,
subsidiary, or person in the city under the authority of the retailer.
      (7)   "A retailer engaged in business in the city" shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code,
aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft at an address in the city.
   (D)   Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against
that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a
district imposing, or retailer liable for, a transactions tax pursuant to Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to
such person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is
subject to the use tax.
(Ord. 935 C.S., passed 8-17-16)
§ 8-8.12 AMENDMENTS.
   All amendments subsequent to the Effective Date of this chapter to Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and
which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become adopted
and part of this chapter; provided, however, that no such amendment shall
operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this chapter. The City
Council or the city's voters may amend this chapter to comply with applicable
law or as may be otherwise necessary to further the chapter's stated purposes.
However, as required by Article XIII C of the California Constitution, no
amendment to this chapter may increase the rates of the taxes authorized by
this chapter unless such amendment is submitted to and approved by the voters.
(Ord. 935 C.S., passed 8-17-16)
§ 8-8.13 PROHIBITION ON ENJOINING COLLECTION.
   No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the state or the
city, or against any officer of the state or the city, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this chapter, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected under
this chapter.
(Ord. 935 C.S., passed 8-17-16)
TITLE IX: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
1.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
2.   MANUFACTURED HOUSING
   
3.   TEMPORARY USE OF UTILITIES
   
4.   EXPEDITED PERMIT PROCESS FOR SMALL RESIDENTIAL ROOFTOP SOLAR SYSTEMS
   
5.   SIGNS
   
6.   LOT AND HOUSE NUMBERING
   
7.   [Repealed]
   
8.   [Repealed]
   
9.   MOVING OF BUILDINGS
   
10.   [Repealed]
   
11.   ABANDONED REAL PROPERTY REGISTRATION
   
12.   VACANT BUILDINGS
CHAPTER 1: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
9-1.01   Adoption of building regulations
   
9-1.02   Adoption of the California Building Code
   
9-1.03   Adoption of the California Plumbing Code
   
9-1.04   Adoption of the California Mechanical Code
   
9-1.05   Adoption of the California Electrical Code
   
9-1.06   Adoption of the California Fire Code
   
9-1.07   Reserved
   
9-1.08   Reserved
   
9-1.09   Adoption of the California Residential Code
   
9-1.10   Adoption of the California Energy Code
   
9-1.11   Adoption of the California Green Building Standards Code
§ 9-1.01 ADOPTION OF BUILDING REGULATIONS.
   Pursuant to Cal. Gov't Code § 50022.1 through 50022.6, the texts of those
certain publications of the International Code Council, and the National Fire
Protection Association, together with parts of the appendices thereto, the 2022
California Building Code, based on the 2021 International Building Code, the
2022 California Mechanical Code, based on the 2021 Uniform Mechanical Code, the
2022 California Fire Code, based on the 2022 International Fire Code, the 2022
California Plumbing Code, based on the 2022 Uniform Plumbing Code, the 2022
California Residential Code based on the 2021 International Residential Code,
the 2022 California Electrical Code, based on the 2020 National Electrical
Code, the 2022 California Energy Code, the 2022 California Existing Building
Code based on the 2021 International Existing Building Code, the 2022
California Green Building Standards, (CALGreen) Code, as published by the
California Building Standards Commission, are all hereby adopted as the rules,
regulations and standards within this city as to all matters therein contained
except as otherwise provided by this chapter. The applicable requirements of
the adopted appendices to such codes shall be enforceable to the same extent as
if contained in the body of such code of said regulations as the equivalent to
a referenced standard. One copy of said regulations are and shall be at all
times kept on file with the office of the chief enforcement officer (Building
Official) in accordance with Cal. Gov’t Code § 50022.6. Notwithstanding the
forgoing, including Section 109.2 of Division II Scope and Administration, of
the California Building Code 2022 edition, fees for permits, plan review,
investigation, and re-inspection shall be as follows:
   (A)   Permit fees. The fee for each permit shall be set forth in the fee
schedule established by resolution of the City Council. The determination of
value or valuation under any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
the Building Official, who is the Director of the Department of Building and
Safety for the city, or the designee of the Director of Building and Safety.
The value to be used in computing the building permit and building plan review
shall be the total value of all construction work for which the permit is
issued, as well as all finished work, painting, roofing, electrical, plumbing,
heating, air conditioning, elevators, fire extinguishing systems and any other
permanent equipment whether donated, purchased or provided by self.
   (B)   Plan review fees. When submittal documents are required, a plan review
fee shall be paid at the time of submitting the documents for plan review. Said
plan review fee shall be set forth in the fee schedule established by
resolution of the City Council. The plan review fees specified in this
subsection are separate fees from the permit fees specified above and are in
addition to the permit fees. When submittal documents are incomplete or changed
so as to require additional plan review, an additional plan review fee shall be
charged as set forth in the fee schedule established by resolution of the City
Council.
   (C)   Investigation fees. An investigation fee in addition to the permit fee
shall be collected whether or not a permit is then or subsequently issued. The
investigation fee shall be set forth in the fee schedule established by
resolution of the City Council. The payment of such investigation fee shall not
exempt any person from compliance with all other provision of this code, nor
from any penalty prescribed by law.
   (D)   Re-inspection fees. A re-inspection fee may be assessed for each
inspection or re-inspection when such portion of work for which inspection is
called is not complete or when corrections called for are not made. This
section is not to be interpreted as requiring re-inspection fees the first time
a job is rejected for failure to comply with the requirements of this code, but
as controlling the practice of calling for inspections before the job is ready
for such inspection or re-inspection. Re-inspection fees may be assessed when
the inspection record card is not posted or otherwise available to the
inspector, for failure to provide access on the date for this inspection is
requested, or for deviating from plans requiring the approval of the Building
Official. To obtain a re-inspection, the applicant shall file an application
therefor in writing on a form furnished for that purpose and pay the re-
inspection fee as set forth in the fees schedule established by resolution of
the City Council. In instances where re-inspection fees have been assessed, no
additional inspection of the work will be performed until the required fees
have been paid.
(Ord. 999 C.S., passed 5-3-23)
§ 9-1.02 ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE.
   For the purpose of regulating the erection, construction, enlargement,
alteration, repair, moving, removal, conversion, demolition, occupancy,
equipment, use, height, area, and maintenance of buildings and structures in
the city, the 2022 California Building Code (CBC), excluding Chapter 29
Plumbing systems, and including Appendix P Emergency Housing, as promulgated by
the California Building Standards Commission which incorporates the 2021
edition of the International Building Code with California amendments, is
hereby adopted by reference thereto as if fully set forth in this chapter, save
and except such portions as are deleted, modified, or amended by the provisions
of this chapter. Any changes made by the California Building Standards
Commission applicable to the city, including new editions, shall be deemed
incorporated herein. If any conflicts between this code and any other city,
state or federal code should arise, the most restrictive code providing the
highest level of safety as determined by the Building Official shall prevail.
(Ord. 999 C.S., passed 5-3-23)
§ 9-1.03  ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE.
   For the purpose of regulating plumbing systems, the 2022 California Plumbing
Code (CPC) promulgated by the California Building Standards Commission, which
incorporates the adoption of the 2021 edition of the Uniform Plumbing Code,
excluding Table 104.5, is hereby adopted by reference thereto as if fully set
forth in this chapter, save and except for portions as are deleted, modified,
or amended by the provisions of this chapter. Any changes made by the
California Building Standards Commission applicable to the city, including new
editions, shall be deemed incorporated herein. If any conflicts between this
code and any other city, state or federal code should arise, the most
restrictive code providing the highest level of safety as determined by the
Building Official shall prevail.
(Ord. 999 C.S., passed 5-3-23)
§ 9-1.04  ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE.
   For the purpose of regulating mechanical systems, the 2022 California
Mechanical Code (CMC) promulgated by the California Building Standards
Commission, which incorporates the adoption of the 2021 edition of the Uniform
Mechanical Code, excluding Table 104.5, is hereby adopted by reference thereto
as if fully set forth in this chapter, save and except for portions as are
deleted, modified, or amended by the provisions of this chapter. Any changes
made by the California Building Standards Commission applicable to the City,
including new editions, shall be deemed incorporated herein. If any conflicts
between this code and any other city, state or federal code should arise, the
most restrictive code providing the highest level of safety as determined by
the Building Official shall prevail.
(Ord. 999 C.S., passed 5-3-23)
§ 9-1.05 ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE.
   For the purpose of regulating electrical systems, the 2022 California
Electrical Code (CEC) promulgated by the California Building Standards
Commission, which incorporates the adoption of the 2020 edition of the National
Electrical Code, is hereby adopted by reference thereto as if fully set forth
in this chapter, save and except such portions as are deleted, modified, or
amended by the provisions of this chapter. Any changes made by the California
Building Standards Commission applicable to the city, including new editions,
shall be deemed incorporated herein. If any conflicts between this code and any
other city, state or federal code should arise, the most restrictive code
providing the highest level of safety as determined by the Building Official
shall prevail.
(Ord. 999 C.S., passed 5-3-23)
§ 9-1.06  ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE.
   For the purpose of regulating fire protection systems, the 2022 California
Fire Code (CFC) promulgated by the California Building Standards Commission,
which incorporates the adoption of the 2021 edition of the International Fire
Code, is hereby adopted by reference thereto as if fully set forth in this
chapter, save and except such portions as are deleted, modified, or amended by
the provisions of this chapter. Any changes made by the California Building
Standards Commission applicable to the city, including new editions, shall be
deemed incorporated herein. If any conflicts between this code and any other
city, state or federal code should arise, the most restrictive code providing
the highest level of safety as determined by the Building Official shall
prevail.
(Ord. 999 C.S., passed 5-3-23)
§ 9-1.07 RESERVED.
§ 9-1.08  RESERVED.
§ 9-1.09 ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   For the purpose of regulating one and two-family dwellings, the 2022
California Residential Code (CRC) promulgated by the California Building
Standards Commission, and including Appendix Z Emergency Housing, which
incorporates the adoption of the 2021 edition of the International Residential
Code, is hereby adopted by reference thereto as if fully set forth in this
chapter. Any changes made by the California Building Standards Commission
applicable to the city, including new editions, shall be deemed incorporated
herein. If any conflicts between this code and any other city, state or federal
code should arise, the most restrictive code providing the highest level of
safety as determined by the Building Official shall prevail.
(Ord. 999 C.S., passed 5-3-23)
§ 9-1.10 ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE.
   For the purpose of regulating energy conservation standards for all
residential and non-residential buildings, the 2022 California Energy Code
promulgated by the California Building Standards Commission is hereby adopted
by reference thereto as if fully set forth in this chapter. Any changes made by
the California Building Standards Commission applicable to the city, including
new editions, shall be deemed incorporated herein. If any conflicts between
this code and any other city, state or federal code should arise, the most
restrictive code providing the highest level of safety as determined by the
Building Official shall prevail.
(Ord. 999 C.S., passed 5-3-23)
§ 9-1.11 ADOPTION OF THE CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS CODE.
   For the purpose of regulating residential and non-residential buildings, the
2022 California Green Building Standards Code (CALGreen Code) promulgated by
the California Building Standards Commission is hereby adopted by reference
thereto as if fully set forth in this chapter. Any changes made by the
California Building Standards Commission applicable to the city, including new
editions, shall be deemed incorporated herein. If any conflicts between this
code and any other city, state or federal code should arise, the most
restrictive code providing the highest level of safety as determined by the
Building Official shall prevail.
(Ord. 999 C.S., passed 5-3-23)
CHAPTER 2: MANUFACTURED HOUSING
Section
   
9-2.01   Installation of manufactured homes
§ 9-2.01 INSTALLATION OF MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Definition. A manufactured home is a home certified to be manufactured
under the National Manufactured Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974
(42 U.S.C.A. Section 5401 et seq.).
   (B)   Permit Required. As provided by Section 18551 of the California Health
and Safety Code, installation or relocation of a manufactured home on permanent
foundation systems outside a state- licensed mobile home park, travel trailer
park, recreational vehicle park or temporary trailer park on lots where
conventional single-family dwellings can be developed shall first be authorized
by a building permit issued by the Community Development Department Building
Division. The issuance validity, expiration, suspension or revocation of
manufactured home building permits and inspections, performed under such
permits, are subject to Chapter 3 et. seq. of the most recently adopted edition
of the Uniform Administrative Code as published by the International Conference
of Building Officials (ICBO).
   (C)   Application. Application for the installation of a manufactured home
shall be made to the Building Official on a form provided by the Building
Official prior to the transporting of the manufactured home to the intended
site. Each application shall be accompanied with the following information.
      (1)   Address of site on which the manufactured home is to be located.
      (2)   Name and current address of the owner of the property.
      (3)   Name and address of the persons installing the manufactured home.
      (4)   A completed city provided fully dimensioned plot plan, drawn to
scale, showing lot size and location of the manufactured home, garage, carport,
patios, porches and other buildings on the site, existing or proposed.
      (5)   A certificate of compliance from the Madera Unified School
District, reflecting the correct area address and owners name of the
manufactured home.
      (6)   One current and unexpired copy of the manufacture's installation
instructions bearing the State Department of Housing and Community
Development's insignia of approval or a conventional foundation clan.
      (7)   A name plate or certificate indicating the date of manufacture
bearing the State Department of Housing and Community Development's insignia of
approval.
      (8)   Plans and specifications of the foundation, water and sewer
connections, and details required to illustrate connections and construction of
garage, carport, porch, patio or other structures attached to the manufactured
home.
      (9)   Photographs or brochures of the home to be installed.
   (D)   Architectural Requirements. Manufactured homes shall have the same
architectural standards as a conventional single family dwelling and look
substantially like a conventional single family dwelling as to its roof
overhang, roofing material, siding material, parking and zoning requirements.
It shall be permanently attached to an approved foundation system, City sewer
and water services. Mobile homes, travel trailers, motor homes and recreational
vehicles do not meet this criteria.
   (E)   Zoning Requirements. Manufactured homes shall meet the same standards
as a conventional single family dwelling in regards to parking, building
setbacks and other zoning requirements.
      (1)   Installation shall be allowed on all lots in the R-1. Residential
Zone, created for conventional single family dwelling units, pursuant to the
provisions of the individual zone.
      (2)   Installation shall not be permitted in the PD. Planned Development
Zone, unless so authorized by the approved Precise Plan.
      (3)   Installation shall not be permitted in any subdivision where
manufactured units or mobile homes are prohibited by recorded deed
restrictions.
   (F)   Age Limitation. No manufactured home shall be allowed to be installed
when more than ten years have elapsed between date of manufacture of the
manufactured home and the date of application for the installation of the
manufactured home.
   (G)   Permit Fees. All fees to be charged in connection with the regulations
set forth in this chapter shall be as established by resolution of the City
Council.
(Ord. 670 C.S., passed 4-2-97)
CHAPTER 3: TEMPORARY USE OF UTILITIES
Section
   
9-3.01   Temporary use of utilities
§ 9-3-01 TEMPORARY USE OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   Use of temporary power poles. The City Building Division shall give
authorization for the setting of an electrical meter on a temporary power pole
for residential, commercial or industrial construction to Pacific Gas and
Electric Company upon the installation of a temporary power pole by the
applicant and after inspection and approval of the electrical meter panel
together with the associated wiring by the City Building Division.
   (B)   Residential construction.
      (1)   Authorization for the setting of an electrical meter for new
residential construction, when located on the electrical service panel serving
residential unit, shall be given to Pacific Gas and Electric Company upon:
         (a)   The completion of a Temporary Power Agreement with the city, as
approved by and signed by the Building Official or his/her designee; and
         (b)   Inspection approval of the electrical meter panel together with
the associated wiring by the City Building Division.
      (2)   Prior to final inspection and occupancy authorization for the
setting of a gas meter for new residential construction during the months of
December, January, February and March shall be given to Pacific Gas and
Electric Company upon:
         (a)   The completion of a Temporary Power Agreement with the city, as
approved by and signed by the Building Official or his/her designee; and
         (b)   Inspection approval of the associated gas piping.
   (C)   Commercial and industrial construction. Authorization for the setting
of an electrical meter and/or gas meter for new commercial or industrial
construction shall be given to Pacific Gas and Electric Company upon:
      (1)   The completion of a Temporary Power Agreement with the city, as
approved by and signed by the Building Official or his/her designee; and
      (2)   Inspection approval of the electrical meter panel together with the
associated wiring, and/or inspection approval of the associated gas piping by
the City Building Division.
   (D)   Enforcement and penalties.
      (1)   Temporary Utilities Certificates and Temporary Power Agreements
authorize the connection of electrical and/or gas utilities on a temporary
basis. Approval or acceptance or issuance of a Temporary Utilities Certificate
and/or Temporary Power Agreement shall not constitute approval for occupancy.
      (2)   In the event of an unapproved occupancy the contractor, owner and
tenant will be notified, and given no more than three working days to complete
and final the project or obtain a temporary occupancy permit as authorized
under Section 309{'{'}.4{'}'} of the Uniform Administrative Code as adopted by
the city.
      (3)   If the contractor, owner or tenant fails to respond or fails to
proceed to complete all required items by the time limit given in the Temporary
Occupancy Permit, the Temporary Power Agreement and the Temporary Occupancy
Permit shall become void.
      (4)   In addition, no other temporary electrical meter releases,
excluding temporary power poles, will be approved or issued to the contractor
in violation for a period of 180 days for residential uses and 360 days for
commercial/industrial uses from the date of notification of violation of
unapproved occupancy or the date of final inspection and final occupancy
approval by the City Building Division and other city departments as required
for the structure occupied prior to final occupancy approval, whichever occurs
last.
(Ord. 646 C.S., passed 12-6-95)
CHAPTER 4: EXPEDITED PERMIT PROCESS FOR
SMALL RESIDENTIAL ROOFTOP SOLAR SYSTEMS
Section
   
9-4.01   Purpose and intent
   
9-4.02   Definitions
   
9-4.03   Applicability
   
9-4.04   Solar energy system requirements
   
9-4.05   Applications and documents
   
9-4.06   Permit review and inspection requirements
§ 9-4.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of the chapter is to provide an expedited, streamlined solar
permitting process that complies with the Solar Rights Act and AB 2188 (Chapter
521, Statutes 2014, Cal. Gov’t Code, § 65850.5) in order to achieve timely and
cost-effective installations of small residential rooftop solar energy systems.
This chapter encourages the use of solar systems by removing unreasonable
barriers, minimizing costs to property owners and the city and expanding the
ability of property owners to install solar energy systems. This chapter allows
the city to achieve these goals while protecting the public health and safety.
(Ord. 927 C.S., passed 8-19-15)
§ 9-4.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   (A)   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. Means either of the following:
      (1)   Any solar collector or other solar energy device whose primary
purpose is to provide for the collection, storage, and distribution of solar
energy for space heating, space cooling, electric generation, or water heating.
      (2)   Any structural design feature of a building, whose primary purpose
is to provide for the collection, storage, and distribution of solar energy for
electricity generation, space heating or cooling, or for water heating.
   (B)   SMALL RESIDENTIAL ROOFTOP SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. Means all of the
following:
      (1)   A solar energy system that is no larger than 10 kilowatts
alternating current nameplate rating or 30 kilowatts thermal.
      (2)   A solar energy system that conforms to all applicable state fire,
structural, electrical, and other building codes as adopted or amended by the
city, and all state and city health and safety standards.
      (3)   A solar energy system that is installed on a single or two family
dwelling.
      (4)   A solar panel or module array that does not exceed the maximum
legal building height as defined by the city.
   (C)   ELECTRONIC SUBMITTAL. Means the utilization of electronic e-mail or
submittal via the internet.
   (D)   SPECIFIC, ADVERSE IMPACT. Means a significant, quantifiable, direct,
unavoidable impact, based on objective, identified, and written public health
or safety standards, policies, or conditions as they existed on the date the
application was deemed complete.
   (E)   REASONABLE RESTRICTIONS on a solar energy system are those
restrictions that do not significantly increase the cost of the system or
significantly decrease its efficiency or specified performance, or that allow
for an alternative system of comparable cost, efficiency, and energy
conservation benefits.
   (F)   RESTRICTIONS THAT DO NOT SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASE THE COST OF THE SYSTEM
OR DECREASE ITS EFFICIENCY OR SPECIFIED PERFORMANCE. Means:
      (1)   For water heater systems or solar swimming pool heating systems: an
amount exceeding 10% of the cost of the system, but in no case more than
$1,000, or decreasing the efficiency of the solar energy system by an amount
exceeding 10%, as originally specified and proposed.
      (2)   For Photovoltaic Systems: an amount not to exceed $1,000 over the
system cost as originally specified and proposed, or a decrease in system
efficiency of an amount exceeding 10% as originally specified and proposed.
(Ord. 927 C.S., passed 8-19-15)
§ 9-4.03 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter applies to the permitting of all small residential
rooftop solar energy systems in the city.
   (B)   Small residential rooftop solar energy systems legally established or
permitted prior to the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter
are not subject to the requirements of this chapter unless physical
modifications or alterations are undertaken that materially change the size,
type, or components of a small rooftop energy system in such a way as to
require new permitting. Routine operation and maintenance or like-kind
replacements shall not require a permit.
   (C)   A use permit and/or architectural review may be required for
properties on the city's list of historic resources as deemed necessary by the
Community Development Director.
(Ord. 927 C.S., passed 8-19-15)
§ 9-4.04 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All solar energy systems shall meet applicable health and safety
standards and requirements imposed by the state and the city.
   (B)   Solar energy systems for heating water in single-family residences and
for heating water in commercial or swimming pool applications shall be
certified by an accredited listing agency as defined by the Cal. Plumbing and
Mechanical Code.
   (C)   Solar energy systems for producing electricity shall meet all
applicable safety and performance standards established by the Cal. Electrical
Code, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, and accredited
testing laboratories such as Underwriters Laboratories and, where applicable,
rules of the Public Utilities Commission regarding safety and reliability.
(Ord. 927 C.S., passed 8-19-15)
§ 9-4.05 APPLICATIONS AND DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   All documents required for the submission of an expedited solar energy
system application shall be made available on the city website.
   (B)   Electronic submittal of the required permit application and documents
by email or the internet shall be made available to all small residential
rooftop solar energy system permit applicants.
   (C)   The city's Building and Safety Division shall adopt a standard plan
and checklist of all requirements with which small residential rooftop solar
energy systems shall comply to be eligible for expedited review.
   (D)   The small residential rooftop solar system permit process, standard
plan(s), and checklist(s) shall substantially conform to recommendations for
expedited permitting, including the checklist and standard plans contained in
the most current version of the California Solar Permitting Guidebook adopted
by the Governor's Office of Planning and Research.
(Ord. 927 C.S., passed 8-19-15)
§ 9-4.06 PERMIT REVIEW AND INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Community Development Director shall implement an administrative,
nondiscretionary review process to expedite approval of small residential
rooftop solar energy systems. The Building Division shall issue a building
permit, the issuance of which is nondiscretionary, on the same day for over-
the-counter applications or within 1-3 business days for electronic
applications upon receipt of a complete application that meets the requirements
of the approved checklist and standard plan. The Chief Building Official may
require an applicant to apply for an Administrative Use Permit if the official
finds, based on substantial evidence, that the solar energy system could have a
specific, adverse impact upon the public health and safety. Such decisions may
be appealed to the city Planning Commission.
   (B)   Review of the application shall be limited to the Chief Building
Official's review of whether the application meets local, state, and federal
health and safety requirements.
   (C)   If an administrative use permit is required, the city may deny such
application if it makes written findings based upon substantive evidence in the
record that the proposed installation could have a specific, adverse impact
upon public health or safety and there is no feasible method to satisfactorily
mitigate or avoid, as defined, the adverse impact. Such findings shall include
the basis for the rejection of the potential feasible alternative for
preventing the adverse impact. Such decisions may be appealed to the city
Planning Commission.
   (D)   Any condition imposed on an application shall be designed to mitigate
the specific, adverse impact upon health and safety at the lowest possible
cost.
   (E)   A FEASIBLE METHOD TO SATISFACTORILY MITIGATE OR AVOID THE SPECIFIC,
ADVERSE IMPACT includes, but is not limited to, any cost-effective method,
condition, or mitigation imposed by the city on another similarly situated
application in a prior successful application for a permit. The city shall use
its best efforts to ensure that the selected method, condition, or mitigation
meets the conditions of subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1) of
subdivision (d) of Section 714 of the Civil Code, defining restrictions that do
not significantly increase the cost of the system or decrease its efficiency or
specified performance.
   (F)   If an application is deemed incomplete, a written correction notice
detailing all deficiencies in the application and any additional information or
documentation required to be eligible for expedited permit issuance shall be
sent to the applicant for resubmission.
   (G)   Only one inspection shall be required and performed by the Building
and Safety Division for small residential rooftop solar energy systems eligible
for expedited review.
   (H)   The inspection shall be done in a timely manner and should include
consolidated inspections.
   (I)   If a small residential rooftop solar energy system fails inspection, a
subsequent inspection is authorized.
(Ord. 927 C.S., passed 8-19-15)
CHAPTER 5: SIGNS
Section
Freeway Structures
   
9-5.101   Definitions
   
9-5.102   Advertising structures prohibited
   
9-5.103   Removal of nonconforming structures and signs
   
9-5.104   Exceptions
Cross-reference:
   Sign regulations, see §§ 10-6.01 et seq.
FREEWAY STRUCTURES
§ 9-5.101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVERTISING STRUCTURE, SIGNS, ADVERTISING DISPLAY, FREEWAY, and LAND- SCAPED
FREEWAY. As specifically set forth and defined in the Outdoor Advertising Act,
and amendments thereto, of the Business and Professions Code of the state, and
the same are adopted by reference thereto.
('61 Code, § 9-5.101) (Ord. 285 N.S., passed - - )
§ 9-5.102 ADVERTISING STRUCTURES PROHIBITED.
   No advertising structure or sign shall be placed or maintained on property
adjacent to a section of freeway which has been or hereafter may be landscaped
if the advertising display or sign is designed to be viewed primarily by
persons traveling on such landscaped section of a freeway.
('61 Code, § 9-5.102) (Ord. 285 N.S., passed - - )
§ 9-5.103 REMOVAL OF NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES AND SIGNS.
   Any advertising structure or sign which is or shall be in violation of the
provisions of §
9-5.102 of this subchapter shall be removed within one year from the date when
the project for the landscaping of the particular section of a freeway shall
have been completed or accepted, and the character of such section shall have
been changed from a freeway to a landscaped freeway, whichever is later.
('61 Code, § 9-5.103) (Ord. 285 N.S., passed - - )
§ 9-5.104 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of §
9-5.102 of this chapter shall not apply to any advertising structure or sign if
the same is used exclusively as follows:
   (A)   To advertise the sale or lease of the property upon which such
advertising display is placed;
   (B)   To designate the name of the owner or occupant of the premises upon
which such advertising display is placed, or to identify such premises; or
   (C)   To advertise goods manufactured, produced, or sold, or services
rendered, on the property upon which such advertising display is placed.
('61 Code, § 9-5.104) (Ord. 285 N.S., passed - - )
CHAPTER 6: LOT AND HOUSE NUMBERING
Section
   
9-6.01   Duty of Superintendent of Streets
   
9-6.02   Lot and house numbering system
   
9-6.03   North and south division of city; odd and even numbers
   
9-6.04   East and west division of city; odd and even numbers
   
9-6.05   Subdivision lot and house numbering
   
9-6.06   Building numbers required
   
9-6.07   Tampering with numbers
§ 9-6.01 DUTY OF SUPERINTENDENT OF STREETS.
   All lot and house numbering in the city shall conform with the provisions of
this chapter and be under the supervision of the Superintendent of Streets.
('61 Code, § 9-6.01) (Ord. 149, passed - - )
§ 9-6.02 LOT AND HOUSE NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each unit of house number
shall represent a frontage or space of 25 feet, and each unit of block tier
number shall be 100, increasing in successive blocks or tiers by 100 for each
successive block or tier.
('61 Code, § 9-6.02) (Ord. 149, passed - - )
§ 9-6.03 NORTH AND SOUTH DIVISION OF CITY; ODD AND EVEN NUMBERS.
   (A)   North division. All blocks or streets north of Yosemite Avenue shall
be designated by the name of the street with its number designated as NORTH,
for example, the blocks situated between Yosemite Avenue and the first cross
street north thereof, running at right angles therewith, shall be designed as
number 100 North, and the blocks between 5th Street and 4th Street of each
street north of Yosemite Avenue, running at right angles therewith, shall be
designated as number 200 North, and theme increasing 100 for each successive
block north to the city limits.
   (B)   South division. All blocks or streets south of Yosemite Avenue shall
be designated by the name of the street with its number designated as SOUTH,
for example, the blocks situate between Yosemite Avenue and Sixth street,
running at right angles therewith, shall be designated as number 100 South.
   (C)   Odd and even numbers. The odd numbers on all streets running at right
angles with Yosemite Avenue shall be on the right, beginning with number 1,
added to the block or tier number, and the even numbers shall be on the left
thereof, added to the block or tier number, for example, the first space of 25
feet on the left of D Street, North from the corner of Yosemite Avenue and D
Street going Northerly on D Street, shall be numbered 102 D Street, North, or
102 North D Street, and the like space on the right side of D Street shall be
numbered 101 D Street, North, or 101 North D Street. The first space of 25 feet
on the left of D Street (facing north) between Yosemite Avenue and Sixth
Street, extending southerly on D Street, shall be numbered 102 D Street, South,
or 102 South D Street, and the like space on the right side of D Street (facing
north) but extending south in the direction of Sixth Street shall be numbered
101 D Street, South, or 101 South D Street.
('61 Code, § 9-6.03) (Ord. 149, passed - - )
§ 9-6.04 EAST AND WEST DIVISION OF CITY; ODD AND EVEN NUMBERS.
   (A)   East and west division. The city shall be divided on the east and the
west by the main line and tracks of the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, and
the blocks shall be numbered in the following manner: the first block of all
streets lying east of the railroad, at right angles therewith and running
easterly and westerly and parallel with Yosemite Avenue, and including Yosemite
Avenue, shall be designated as number 100 East, for example, Yosemite Avenue
east of the railroad tracks and between the tracks and E Street shall be
designated as number 100; between E Street and D Street, 200, and adding 100 to
each block on to the city limits on the east.
   (B)   Odd and even numbers. The odd numbers shall be on the left (facing
east) beginning with number 1 added to the block or tier number, and the even
numbers shall be on the right added to the block or tier number, for example,
Yosemite Avenue west of the railroad tracks, and all streets running parallel
therewith, shall begin with the block number 100. The block lying between the
railroad tracks and F Street shall be designated as number 100, West, and the
block lying between F Street and G Street shall be designated as number 200 and
on West to the end of the streets.
('61 Code, § 9-6.04) (Ord. 149, passed - - )
§ 9-6.05 SUBDIVISION LOT AND HOUSE NUMBERING.
   When an area shall be opened for subdivision, the following rules shall
govern:
   (A)   Each unit of house number may represent a frontage or space of more
than 25 feet.
   (B)   Each successive unit of 100 may include more than one block.
   (C)   The designation of blocks as North, East, South, or West shall not be
necessary.
   (D)   The numbering need not run in any particular direction but may be set
forth in that manner as may be deemed most suitable for that particular area.
   (E)   For the purposes of this section only, any changes allowed by this
section shall be made only after approval by the Planning Commission.
   (F)   In the event the provisions of this section shall conflict with any
other provisions of this chapter, the provisions of this section shall control.
('61 Code, § 9-6.05) (Ord. 149, as added by Ord. 180 N.S., passed - - )
§ 9-6.06 BUILDING NUMBERS REQUIRED.
   All owners or persons in charge of buildings shall cause the proper numbers
to be placed upon such buildings in the front thereof or on some conspicuous
place visible from the street in figures large enough to be read from the
street and not less than 2½ inches in length in conformity to the numbers
required by this chapter. The Superintendent of Streets shall notify such
person of the proper number, when requested, and, upon failure to so number a
building when required by the Superintendent of Streets to do so, such person
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
('61 Code, § 9-6.06) (Ord. 149, passed - - )
§ 9-6.07 TAMPERING WITH NUMBERS.
   No person shall wilfully remove, disturb, or mutilate any correct number
placed as required by this chapter without immediately replacing it with
another such number. Any person violating the provisions of this section shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
('61 Code, § 9-6.07) (Ord. 149, passed - - )
CHAPTER 7
   [Repealed]
CHAPTER 8
   [Repealed]
CHAPTER 9: MOVING OF BUILDINGS
Section
   
9-9.01   Permit required
   
9-9.02   Application for permit
   
9-9.03   Posting of notice
   
9-9.04   Planning Commission hearing
   
9-9.05   Permit conditions
   
9-9.06   Appeals
   
9-9.07   Provisions in addition to other requirements
   
9-9.08   Outside the city
§ 9-9.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to move any building in the city from
one lot or parcel of property to another lot or parcel of property, or from one
place to another place upon the same lot or parcel of property, or to move any
building into the city from outside the city without first securing a permit so
to do from the Council.
('61 Code, § 9-9.01) (Ord. 35 C.S., passed 9-4-62; Am. Ord. 40 C.S., passed 12-
19-62)
§ 9-9.02 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   All applications for a permit to move any building shall be made in
writing to the Planning Commission through the office of the Planning Engineer,
accompanied by a fee as established by resolution of the City Council, and
shall contain the following information:
      (1)   A description of the type of building to be moved;
      (2)   The present location of the building;
      (3)   The proposed location of the building; and
      (4)   The route over which the building is to be moved and the method to
be used in moving the building.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the designated fee and an application in proper form,
the Planning Engineer shall cause such application to be placed upon the agenda
of the Planning Commission meeting at its regular meeting following receipt of
such application and the posting of property as provided in §
9-9.03 of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 9-9.02) (Ord. 35 C.S., passed 9-4-62; Am. Ord. 40 C.S., passed 12-
19-62; Am. Ord. 143 C.S., passed 2-4-70; Am. Ord. 323 C.S., passed 9-17-79)
§ 9-9.03 POSTING OF NOTICE.
   (A)   Not less than seven days prior to the date upon which the application
for a permit is to be heard by the Planning Commission, the Planning Engineer
shall post or cause to be posted, a notice in two conspicuous places upon the
property to which the building is to be moved and upon the property from which
the building is to be moved, which notice shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The date on which the applicant will present to the Planning
Commission his or her application for a permit to move a building;
      (2)   A description of the type of building to be moved;
      (3)   The present location of the building; and
      (4)   The proposed location of the building.
   (B)   The Planning Engineer shall, at the time of, or prior to, the hearing
of the Planning Commission, file with the Secretary of the Planning Commission
an affidavit attesting to the posting as required by this section.
('61 Code, § 9-9.03) (Ord. 35 C.S., passed 9-4-62; Am. Ord. 40 C.S., passed 12-
19-62)
§ 9-9.04 PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING.
   (A)   At the time fixed in such notice any person may appear before the
Planning Commission and produce evidence in support of, or in opposition to,
the granting of a permit. After hearing the application and receiving evidence
in connection with such application, the Planning Commission shall, at its
discretion, either grant or deny the permit; provided, however, before granting
a permit the Planning Commission shall find that:
      (1)   All requirements for the issuance of a permit have been or can be
met by the applicant; and
      (2)   The building or structure is not too large, or in such a state of
deterioration, disrepair, or so structurally unsafe, that it cannot be moved
without endangering persons or property in the city; and
      (3)   The building is structurally safe and fit for the purpose for which
it is moved if the location to which it is to be moved is within the city; and
      (4)   The applicant's equipment is safe and that neither persons nor
property would be endangered by its use; and
      (5)   All zoning, building, subdivision, and any other rules,
regulations, or statutes have been or can be complied with if the building is
relocated as requested by the applicant; and
      (6)   The moving of the building will not be detrimental to the health,
safety, or general welfare of the neighborhood or area to which the building is
to be moved.
   (B)   The applicant for any permit to move a building shall have the burden
of proving the existence or non-existence of facts necessary to enable the
Planning Commission to make the above findings.
('61 Code, § 9-9.04) (Ord. 35 C.S., passed 9-4-62; Am. Ord. 40 C.S., passed 12-
19-62)
§ 9-9.05 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   The Planning Commission, if it finds that a permit should be granted, may
impose any reasonable conditions upon the applicant which may, in the Planning
Commission's discretion be required for the safe orderly movement of the
building or placement thereof in any particular location within the city,
including, but not necessarily limited to, requiring the applicant to provide
insurance coverage in limits specified by the Planning Commission protecting
the applicant and the city and its elected officers, boards, commissioners, and
employees from any claims for injuries to persons or damage to property arising
out of the moving of any building, a bond or cash deposit in such amount as
deemed necessary by the Building Inspector to guarantee payment to the city for
any damage which the applicant may cause to any public property, streets,
sidewalks, trees, shrubs, or other objects arising out of the movement of any
building, and a performance bond to guarantee that any such building shall be
brought to Building Code standards within the time prescribed by the Planning
Commission.
('61 Code, § 9-9.05) (Ord. 35 C.S., passed 9-4-62; Am. Ord. 40 C.S., passed 12-
19-62)
§ 9-9.06 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Planning Commission may appeal
such decision to the Council as provided in this code; provided, however, such
appeal shall be filed with the City Clerk within five days after the decision
of the Planning Commission. Upon receipt of any such appeal, the City Clerk
shall cause the same to be placed upon the agenda of the Council meeting next
succeeding such filing. Pending a hearing by the Council of such appeal, no
permit issued by the Planning Commission shall have any force or effect.
('61 Code, § 9-9.06) (Ord. 35 C.S., passed 9-4-62; Am. Ord. 40 C.S., passed 12-
19-62)
§ 9-9.07 PROVISIONS IN ADDITION TO OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   The requirements of this chapter shall be in addition to any other
regulations or requirements which may be contained in this code or in
resolutions of the city relating to the construction, alteration, or movement
of buildings or the granting of permits therefor.
('61 Code, § 9-9.07) (Ord. 40 C.S., passed 12-19-62)
§ 9-9.08 OUTSIDE THE CITY.
   No person shall move any building or structure from within the city to
outside the city limits without first securing a permit from the City Engineer
so to do. The City Engineer is authorized and directed to issue permits for the
moving of buildings or structures outside the city limits subject to the
condition that an applicant for such a permit produces evidence of insurance
coverage, in an amount determined to be adequate by the City Engineer, to
protect the applicant and the city, and its elected officers, boards,
commissions, and employees, from any claim for injuries to persons or for
damage to property arising out of the moving of any such building, and that the
applicant delivers to the City Engineer a bond or cash deposit in such amount
as may be deemed necessary by the City Engineer to guarantee payment to the
city for any damage which the applicant may cause to any public property,
streets, sidewalks, trees, shrubs, or other objects arising out of the movement
of any such building. Such insurance or deposit may be submitted by the
applicant or by a licensed house mover hired by the applicant and in such form
to adequately provide the protection required by this section, even though the
coverage or deposit is not in the exact form as stated in this section.
('61 Code, § 9-9.08) (Ord. 47 C.S., passed 5-15-63)
CHAPTER 10: [Repealed]
CHAPTER 11: ABANDONED REAL PROPERTY REGISTRATION
Section
   
9-11.01   Purpose/scope
   
9-11.02   Definitions
   
9-11.03   Recordation of transfer of loan/deed of trust/assignment of rents
   
9-11.04   Registration
   
9-11.05   Maintenance requirements
   
9-11.06   Security requirements
   
9-11.07   Additional authority
   
9-11.08   Fees
   
9-11.09   Enforcement
   
9-11.10   Appeals
   
9-11.11   Violation/penalty
   
9-11.12   Cost recovery
§ 9-11.01 PURPOSE/SCOPE.
   It is the purpose and intent of the Madera City Council, through the
adoption of this chapter, to establish an abandoned real property registration
program as a mechanism to protect residential neighborhoods and commercial
property from becoming blighted through the lack of adequate maintenance and
security of abandoned properties.
(Ord. 847 C.S., passed 10-15-08)
§ 9-11.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. A property that is vacant, including a property that is under a
current notice of default and/or notice of trustee's sale, pending tax
assessor's lien sale and/or properties that have been the subject of a
foreclosure sale where the title was retained by the beneficiary of a deed of
trust involved in the foreclosure and any properties transferred under a deed
in lieu of foreclosure/sale.
   ACCESSIBLE PROPERTY. A property that is accessible through a compromised/
breached gate, fence, wall, etc.
   ACCESSIBLE STRUCTURE. A structure/building that is unsecured and/or breached
in such a way as to allow access to the interior space by unauthorized persons.
   AGREEMENT.  Any agreement or written instrument which provides that title to
real property shall be transferred or conveyed from one owner to another owner
after the sale, trade, transfer or exchange.
   ASSIGNMENT OF RENTS. An instrument that transfers the beneficial interest
under a deed of trust from one lender/entity to another.
   BENEFICIARY. A lender under a note secured by a deed of trust.
   BUYER. Any person, co-partnership, association, corporation, or fiduciary
who agrees to transfer anything of value in consideration for property
described in an agreement of sale, as defined in this subsection.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. Any building/structure that is in violation of any
condition referenced in the Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous
Buildings.
   DAYS. Consecutive calendar days.
   DEED OF TRUST. An instrument by which title to real estate is transferred to
a third party trustee as security for a real estate loan. This definition
applies to any and all subsequent deeds of trust, i.e., second trust deed,
third trust deed, etc.
   DEED IN LIEU OF FORECLOSURE/SALE. A recorded document that transfers
ownership of a property from the trustor to the holder of a deed of trust upon
consent of the beneficiary of the deed of trust.
   DEFAULT. The failure to fulfill a contractual obligation, monetary or
conditional.
   DISTRESSED. A property that is under a current notice of default and/or
notice of trustee's sale and/or pending tax assessor's lien sale or has been
foreclosed upon by the trustee or has been conveyed to the beneficiary/trustee
via a deed in lieu of foreclosure/sale.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any condition that on its own or combined with other
conditions present would lead a reasonable person to believe that the property
is vacant. Such conditions include, but are not limited to, overgrown and/or
dead vegetation, accumulation of newspapers, circulars, flyers and/or mail,
past due utility notices and/or disconnected utilities, accumulation of trash,
junk and/or  debris, the absence of window coverings such as curtains, blinds
and/or shutters, the absence of furnishings and/or personal items consistent
with residential habitation, statements by neighbors, passersby, delivery
agents, government employees that the property is vacant.
   FORECLOSURE. The process by which a property, placed as security for a real
estate loan, is sold at auction to satisfy the debt if the trustor (borrower)
defaults.
   LOCAL. Within 40 road/driving miles distance of the subject property.
   NEIGHBORHOOD STANDARD. Those conditions that are present on a simple
majority of properties within a 300-foot radius of an individual property. A
property that is the subject of a neighborhood standard comparison, or any
other abandoned property within the 300-foot radius, shall not be counted
toward the simple majority.
   NOTICE OF DEFAULT. A recorded notice that a default has occurred under a
deed of trust and that the beneficiary intends to proceed with a trustee's
sale.
   OUT OF AREA. In excess of 40 road/driving miles distance of the subject
property.
   OWNER. Any person, co-partnership, association, corporation, or fiduciary
having a legal or equitable title or any interest in any real property.
   OWNER OF RECORD.  The person having recorded title to the property at any
given point in time that the record is provided by the County of Madera County
Recorder's Office.
   PROPERTY. Any unimproved or improved real property, or portion thereof,
situated in the city and includes the buildings or structures located on the
property regardless of condition.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. Any improved real property, or portion thereof,
situated in the city, designed or permitted to be used for dwelling purposes,
and shall include the buildings and structures located on such improved real
property. This includes any real property being offered for sale, trade,
transfer, or exchange as "residential" whether or not it is legally permitted
and/or zoned for such use.
   SECURING. Such measures as may be directed by the Director of Planning and
Building or his or her designee that assist in rendering the property
inaccessible to unauthorized persons, including but not limited to the
repairing of fences and walls, chaining/padlocking of gates, the repair or
boarding of door, window and/or other openings. Boarding shall be completed to
a minimum of the current HUD securing standards at the time the boarding is
completed or required.
   TRUSTEE.  The person, firm or corporation holding a deed of trust on a
property.
   TRUSTOR. A borrower under a deed of trust, who deeds property to a trustee
as security for the payment of a debt.
   VACANT. A building/structure that is not legally occupied.
(Ord. 847 C.S., passed 10-15-08)
§ 9-11.03 RECORDATION OF TRANSFER OF LOAN/DEED OF TRUST/ASSIGNMENT OF RENTS.
   Within ten days of the purchase and/or transfer of a loan/deed of trust
secured by residential property, the new beneficiary/trustee shall record, with
the Madera County Recorder's Office, an assignment of rents, or similar
document, that lists the name of the corporation, and/or individual, the
mailing address and contact phone number of the new beneficiary/trustee
responsible for receiving payments associated with the loan/deed of trust.
(Ord. 847 C.S., passed 10-15-08)
§ 9-11.04 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Upon default by the trustor, any beneficiary/trustee, who holds a deed
of trust on a property located within the City of Madera, shall perform an
inspection of the property that is the security for the deed of trust, prior to
recording a notice of default with the Madera County Recorder's Office. If the
property is found to be vacant or shows evidence of vacancy, it is, by this
chapter, deemed abandoned, and the beneficiary/trustee shall, within ten days
of the inspection, register the property with the Neighborhood Revitalization
Coordinator or his or her designee on forms provided by the city.
   (B)   (1)   If the property is occupied but remains in default it shall be
inspected by the beneficiary/trustee, or his designee, monthly until:
         (a)   The trustor or other party remedies the default; or
         (b)   It is found to be vacant or shows evidence of vacancy at which
time it is deemed abandoned; and
      (2)   The trustee shall, within ten days of that inspection, register the
property with the Neighborhood Revitalization Coordinator or his designee on
forms provided by the city.
   (C)   In either case the registration shall contain the name of the
beneficiary/trustee (corporation or individual), the direct street/office
mailing address of the beneficiary/trustee (no P.O. boxes), a direct contact
name and phone number for the beneficiary/trustee and, in the case of a
corporation or out-of-area beneficiary/trustee, the local property management
company responsible for the security, maintenance and marketing of the
property. Registration fees will not be prorated.
   (D)   An annual registration fee shall accompany the registration form. The
fee and registration shall be valid for 12 months from the date of registration
of the property.
   (E)   This section shall also apply to properties that have been the subject
of a foreclosure sale where the title was transferred to the beneficiary of a
deed of trust involved in the foreclosure and any properties transferred under
a deed in lieu of foreclosure/sale.
   (F)   Properties subject to this chapter shall remain under the annual
registration requirement, security and maintenance standards of this section as
long as they remain vacant.
   (G)   Any person, firm or corporation that has registered a property under
this chapter must report any change of information contained in the
registration within ten days of the change.
(Ord. 847 C.S., passed 10-15-08; Am. Ord. 886 C.S., passed 5-4-11)
§ 9-11.05 MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Properties subject to this chapter shall be, in comparison to the
neighborhood standard, kept free of weeds, dry brush, dead vegetation, trash,
junk, debris, building materials, any accumulation of newspapers, circulars,
flyers, notices, except those required by federal, state or local law,
discarded personal items including but not limited to furniture, clothing,
large and small appliances, printed material or any other items that give the
appearance that the property is abandoned.
   (B)   The property shall be maintained free of graffiti, tagging or similar
markings by removal or painting over with an exterior grade paint that matches
the color of the exterior of the structure.
   (C)   Visible front and side yards shall be landscaped and maintained to the
neighborhood standard at the time registration was required.
   (D)   Landscape includes, but is not limited to, grass, ground covers,
bushes, shrubs, hedges or similar plantings, decorative rock or bark or
artificial turf/sod designed specifically for residential installation.
   (E)   Landscape does not include weeds, gravel, broken concrete, asphalt,
decomposed granite, plastic sheeting, mulch, indoor-outdoor carpet or any
similar material.
   (F)   Maintenance includes but is not limited to regular watering,
irrigation, cutting, pruning and mowing of required landscape and removal of
all trimmings.
   (G)   Pools and spas shall be kept in working order so the water remains
clear and free of pollutants and debris or drained and kept dry. In either case
properties with pools and/or spas must comply with the minimum security fencing
requirements of the State of California.
   (H)   Adherence to this section does not relieve the beneficiary/trustee or
property owner of any obligations set forth in any covenants, conditions and
restrictions and/or homeowners' association rules and regulations which may
apply to the property.
(Ord. 847 C.S., passed 10-15-08)
§ 9-11.06 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Properties subject to this chapter shall be maintained in a secure
manner so as not to be accessible to unauthorized persons.
   (B)   Secure manner includes but is not limited to the closure and locking
of windows, doors (walk-through, sliding and garage), gates and any other
opening of such size that it may allow a child to access the interior of the
property and or structure(s). In the case of broken windows securing means the
reglazing or boarding of the window.
   (C)   If the property is owned by a corporation and/or out-of-area
beneficiary/trustee/owner, a local property management company shall be
contracted to perform weekly inspections to verify that the requirements of
this section, and any other applicable laws, are being met.
   (D)   The property shall be posted with name and 24-hour contact phone
number of the local property management company. The posting shall be no less
than 18 inches by 24 inches and shall be of a font that is legible from a
distance of 45 feet and shall contain along with the name and 24-hour contact
number the words "THIS PROPERTY MANAGED BY" and "TO REPORT PROBLEMS OR CONCERNS
CALL." The posting shall be placed on the interior of a window facing the
street to the front of the property so it is visible from the street, or
secured to the exterior of the building/structure facing the street to the
front of the property so it is visible from the street or, if no such area
exists, on a stake of sufficient size to support the posting in a location that
is visible from the street to the front of the property but not readily
accessible to vandals. Exterior posting must be constructed of and printed with
weather resistant materials.
   (E)   The local property management company shall inspect the property on a
weekly basis to determine if the property is in compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 847 C.S., passed 10-15-08)
§ 9-11.07 ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY.
   The Neighborhood Revitalization Coordinator or his or her designee shall
have the authority to require the beneficiary/trustee/owner and/or owner of
record of any property affected by this section to implement additional
maintenance and/or security measures including but not limited to securing any/
all door, window or other openings, installing additional security lighting,
increasing on-site inspection frequency, employment of an on-site security
guard or other measures as may be reasonably required to arrest the decline of
the property.
(Ord. 847 C.S., passed 10-15-08)
§ 9-11.08 FEES.
   The fee for registering an abandoned property as set forth in this chapter
shall be set by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 847 C.S., passed 10-15-08)
§ 9-11.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   Violations of this chapter may by enforced in any combination as allowed in
the Madera Municipal Code, by administrative citation, remedies seeking
injunctive relief, summary abatement and/or abatement by court order.
(Ord. 847 C.S., passed 10-15-08)
§ 9-11.10 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by any of the requirements of this section may appeal
insofar as such appeal is allowed by §
1-9.09 of this code.
(Ord. 847 C.S., passed 10-15-08; Am. Ord. 867 C.S., passed 5-5-10)
§ 9-11.11 VIOLATION/PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor, and shall be
treated as a strict liability offense regardless of intent. Any person, firm
and/or corporation that violates any portion of this section shall be subject
to prosecution and/or administrative enforcement under §§
1-9.01 et seq. of this code. The city may, at its option, pursuant to Cal.
Civil Code § 2929.3, issue a 30-day notice of violation to the property owner.
In the event a 30-day notice is issued, a fine of not more than $1,000 may be
imposed for each day the violation(s) are not corrected.
(Ord. 847 C.S., passed 10-15-08; Am. Ord. 912 C.S., passed 9-17-14)
§ 9-11.12 COST RECOVERY.
   If the failure of any person to pay a fine assessed by administrative
citation results in the filing of an action with the small claims court, or any
other court to collect the fine, the city shall be entitled to collect all
costs, including reasonable attorney fees; associated with the filing of such
an action.
(Ord. 847 C.S., passed 10-15-08)
CHAPTER 12: VACANT BUILDINGS
Section
   
9-12.01   Purpose
   
9-12.02   Definitions
   
9-12.03   Owner responsibilities
   
9-12.04   Boarding requirements
   
9-12.05   Registration requirement for vacant properties
   
9-12.06   Registration fees
   
9-12.07   Monitoring program - departmental responsibilities and fees
   
9-12.08   Violations; penalty
§ 9-12.01 PURPOSE.
   Vacant buildings are a major cause and source of blight in both residential
and nonresidential neighborhoods, especially when the owner of the building
fails to actively maintain and manage the building to ensure that it does not
become a liability to the neighborhood. Vacant, substandard, or unkempt
buildings discourage economic development and retard appreciation of property
values. Vacant buildings are potential fire hazards and can jeopardize the
ability of owners of neighboring property from securing or maintaining
affordable fire insurance. It is the responsibility of property ownership to
prevent owned property from becoming a burden to the neighborhood and community
and a threat to the public health, safety, or welfare. One vacant building
which is not actively and well maintained and managed can be the core and cause
of spreading blight.
(Ord. 877 C.S., passed 9-15-10)
§ 9-12.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARDED BUILDING. A vacant building or portion of a vacant building whose
doors and windows have been covered with plywood or other material for the
purpose of preventing entry into the vacant building by persons or animals.
   BUILDING. Any structure including, but not limited to, any residential,
commercial, industrial, or assembly structure, approved for occupancy on either
a lot of record or within a single project approved by the city pursuant to the
city's zoning ordinance.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Director of the Department of Building and Safety for
the city, or the designee of the Director of Building and Safety.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any real property condition that independently, or in
the context of the totality of circumstances relevant to that real property
would lead a reasonable person to believe that a property is vacant or occupied
by a person without a legal right of occupancy. Such real property conditions
include but are not limited to: overgrown or dead vegetation; accumulation of
newspapers, circulars, flyers or mail; past due utility notices or disconnected
utilities; accumulation of trash, junk or debris; the absence of window
coverings such as curtains, blinds or shutters; the absence of furnishings or
personal items consistent with residential habitation; and/or statements by
neighbors, passersby, delivery agents, government employees that the property
is vacant.
   LOCAL. Within 40 driving miles of the building, structure or real property
in question.
   OUT OF AREA.  In excess of 40 road or driving miles of the subject property.
   OWNER.  Any person, partnership, association, corporation, fiduciary or
other legal entity having a legal or equitable title or any interest in real
property.
   OWNER OF RECORD. The person holding recorded title to the real property in
question at any point in time when official records are produced by the Madera
County Recorder's office.
   VACANT BUILDING. An unoccupied or an illegally occupied structure or an
occupied structure without adequate facilities/utilities.
(Ord. 877 C.S., passed 9-15-10)
§ 9-12.03 OWNER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   No person, corporation, or other entity shall allow a building designed for
human use or occupancy to stand vacant for more than 90 days, unless the owner
establishes by substantial evidence to the reasonable satisfaction of the
Neighborhood Preservation Manager or his/her designee that one or more of the
following applies:
   (A)   The building is the subject of an active building permit for repair or
rehabilitation and the owner is progressing diligently to complete the repair
or rehabilitation;
   (B)   The building meets all applicable codes, is actively maintained, and
is ready for occupancy, and is actively being offered for sale, lease or rent;
   (C)   The building does not contribute to and is not likely to contribute to
blight because the owner is actively maintaining and monitoring the building so
that it does not contribute to blight. Active maintenance and monitoring shall
include:
      (1)   Maintenance of landscaping and plant materials in good condition;
      (2)   Maintenance of the exterior of the building including, but not
limited to, paint, finishes, windows, doors, and signage in good condition and
in compliance with this code;
      (3)   All signage shall be maintained in compliance with Chapter 10-6 of
this code;
      (4)   Regular removal of all exterior trash, debris and graffiti;
      (5)   Maintenance of the building in continuing compliance with all
applicable codes and regulations;
      (6)   Prevention of criminal activity on the premises including, but not
limited to, use and sale of controlled substances, prostitution and criminal
street gang activity;
      (7)   Securing the property in a manner so as not to be accessible to
unauthorized persons. Secure manner includes, but is not limited to, closing
and locking of windows, doors (walk-through, sliding and garage) gates and any
other opening that may allow access to the interior of the property and or
structure(s). In the case of broken windows, securing includes the replacement
of the broken window. Alternatively, structures on the property may be boarded
as set forth in §
9-12.04.
(Ord. 877 C.S., passed 9-15-10)
§ 9-12.04 BOARDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Vacant buildings must be secured using exterior grade plywood which is at
least one-half inch or thicker, fastened to the building in such a manner as to
prevent unauthorized removal of the boarding material, and which will prohibit
entry by unauthorized persons. All wood used to secure vacant buildings must be
painted to match the paint on the structure. If the structure is multicolored,
the paint should match the predominant color on the wall on which it is
located.
(Ord. 877 C.S., passed 9-15-10)
§ 9-12.05 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT FOR VACANT PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Within ten business days of identification of any vacant property, or
owner's actual knowledge of any vacant property, the owner, or owner of record,
must register the property with the City Finance Department.
   (B)   The registration pursuant to subsection (A) shall contain the identity
of the owner, or owner of record, and in the case of a corporate or out of area
owner or owner of record, the local property management company, if any,
responsible for the security, maintenance, and marketing of the property in
question.
   (C)   The registration pursuant to subsection (A) shall be renewed annually.
   (D)   An annual registration fee, as set by resolution of the City Council,
shall accompany the submission of each registration form. The fee and
registration shall be valid for one year from the date of registration.
   (E)   Properties subject to this chapter shall remain subject to the annual
registration requirement, security and maintenance standards of this chapter as
long as they remain vacant.
   (F)   Any person, partnership, association, corporation, fiduciary or other
legal entity that has registered a property under this chapter must notify the
Neighborhood Revitalization Department in writing of any change of information
contained in the registration within ten days of the change.
   (G)   The duties/obligations specified in this section shall be joint and
several among and between all owners or owners of record, and their respective
agents, successors, and assigns.
(Ord. 877 C.S., passed 9-15-10)
§ 9-12.06 REGISTRATION FEES.
   The fee for registering and re-registering a vacant property shall be set,
from time to time, by resolution of the City Council. The amount of the fee
charges shall not exceed the reasonable estimated cost of administering the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 877 C.S., passed 9-15-10)
§ 9-12.07 MONITORING PROGRAM - DEPARTMENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES AND FEES.
   (A)   Authority. The Neighborhood Preservation Manager or his or her
designee shall be responsible for administering a program for identifying and
monitoring the maintenance of all vacant buildings in the city. The program
shall be documented and regularly updated. The program shall be available for
public review.
   (B)   Purposes. The purposes of the monitoring program shall be:
      (1)   To identify buildings which become vacant as defined in this
chapter;
      (2)   To order vacant buildings which are open and accessible to be
secured against unlawful entry;
      (3)   To initiate proceedings against the owner and/or the owner of
record of any vacant building found to be substandard as defined in this title
or a nuisance under Title 10 of this code; and
      (4)   To maintain surveillance over vacant buildings so that timely code
enforcement proceedings are commenced in the event a building becomes
substandard or a nuisance.
(Ord. 877 C.S., passed 9-15-10)
§ 9-12.08 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   Penalty. Any person, partnership, association, corporation, fiduciary, or
other legal entity that owns, leases, occupies, controls or manages any
building or property subject to this chapter, and causes, permits, or maintains
a violation of this chapter as to that property, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 877 C.S., passed 9-15-10)
TITLE X: PLANNING AND ZONING
Chapter
   
1.   PLANNING COMMISSION
   
2.   SUBDIVISIONS
   
3.   ZONING
   
4.   BUILDING LINE SETBACKS
   
5.   AIRPORT APPROACH ZONING
   
6.   SIGN REGULATIONS
   
7.   ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
   
8.   DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
   
9.   WIRELESS FACILITIES
CHAPTER 1: PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
   
10-1.01   Created
   
10-1.02   Membership requirements, terms of office, and removal
   
10-1.03   Appointment of Planning Commissioners
§ 10-1.01 CREATED.
   The City Planning Commission is created in accordance with the provisions of
the State Planning Law (Cal. Gov't Code, Chapter 3 of Title 7).
('61 Code, § 10-1.01) (Ord. 126 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-1.02 MEMBERSHIP REQUIREMENTS, TERMS OF OFFICE, AND REMOVAL.
   The Planning Commission of the city shall consist of seven members who shall
be appointed as provided in this chapter. Members shall be residents of the
city and shall be appointed for the terms of office provided in this chapter,
unless the appointment is made to fill an early vacancy on the Commission, in
which case the appointment shall be for the unexpired term of the member who is
replaced. Any member of the Planning Commission may be removed by a majority
vote of the Council.
('61 Code, § 10-1.02) (Ord. 126 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 128 N.S., passed -
- ; Am. Ord. 96 C.S., passed 8-31-66; Am. Ord. 504 C.S., passed 9-14-88; Am.
Ord. 642 C.S., passed 9-20-95; Am. Ord. 668 C.S., passed 3-19-97)
§ 10-1.03 APPOINTMENT OF PLANNING COMMISSIONERS.
   All Planning Commissioner terms of office and filing of vacancies shall be
as follows:
   (A)   Initial Selection of Commission Members. Each Council Member,
inclusive of the Mayor, shall nominate one person each for the seven member
Commission. Should one or more Council Members waive their nomination, such
Planning Commission vacancy shall be filled by a nominee proposed by the
Council as a whole. All nominees shall be appointed upon the adoption of a
resolution of appointment approved by at least four members of the Council.
   (B)   Subsequent Appointments of Commission Members. After the initial
appointment of Commissioners as provided in this chapter, any vacancy created
by the resignation, removal or end of the term of office of a Planning
Commissioner, shall be as provided in subsection (A) above except that the
nomination to fill the vacancy shall be made by the Council Member who
originally nominated the person whose leaving office has created the vacancy.
Should the Council Member who made the original nomination no longer be serving
as a Council Member then such nomination shall be made by a Council Member who
has not yet made or waived their opportunity to nominate a person to serve on
the Commission. Subsequent to the expansion of the City Council to seven
members inclusive of the Mayor, at the expiration of the terms of Planning
Commissioners serving pursuant to appointment by the Council as a whole,
nominations to fill such vacancies shall be made by a Council Member who has
not yet made or waived their opportunity to nominate a person to serve on the
Commission. Every position filled by the Council as a whole as a result of a
Council Member having waived their appointment shall be filled as provided
herein as if the Council Member who waived their nomination had actually made
the original nomination for such Commission position.
   (C)   Term of office. Each Commission member who was nominated by an
individual Council Member shall serve a term of four years or until the Council
Member who nominated such Commissioner is no longer serving as a Council
Member, whichever period is less. The term of any Commissioner who was to be
appointed by a Council Member but who was nominated by the Council as a whole
because the Council Member waived their nomination shall serve a term of four
years or until the Council Member who was to make such appointment is no longer
serving, whichever period is less. Any member whose term expires shall continue
until he/she is reappointed or his/her successor is appointed.
(Ord. 642 C.S., passed 9-20-95; Am. Ord. 668 C.S., passed 3-19-97; Am. Ord. 879
C.S., passed 12-1-10; Am. Ord. 906 C.S., passed 7-17-13)
CHAPTER 2: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
10-2.101   Citation and authority
   
10-2.102   Purpose
   
10-2.103   Conformity to general plan, specific plan, and zoning ordinances
   
10-2.104   Application
   
10-2.105   Modification of requirements
Definitions and Responsibilities
   
10-2.201   Definitions
   
10-2.202   Responsibilities
   
10-2.202.1   City Attorney
   
10-2.202.2   City Council
   
10-2.202.3   City Engineer
   
10-2.202.4   Planning Department
   
10-2.202.5   Development Review Committee
   
10-2.202.6   Planning Commission
Maps Required
   
10-2.301   General
   
10-2.302   Division of land, five or more parcels
   
10-2.303   Division of land, four or less parcels
   
10-2.304   Fees and deposits
   
10-2.305   Lot line adjustment
Subdivision Maps (Five or More Parcels)
   
10-2.401   Preliminary maps
   
10-2.401.1   General
   
10-2.401.2   Submittal to Planning Department and Development Review Committee
   
10-2.402   Tentative subdivision maps
   
10-2.402.1   General
   
10-2.402.2   Form and contents
   
10-2.402.3   Accompanying data and reports
   
10-2.402.4   Submittal of Planning Department
   
10-2.402.5   Planning Department review and subdivision conference
   
10-2.402.6   Planning Commission action
   
10-2.402.6.1   Notice of public hearings
   
10-2.402.6.2   Approval
   
10-2.402.6.3   Denial
   
10-2.402.6.4   Extension of time for Planning Commission or City Council action
   
10-2.402.7   Appeals of Planning Commission action
   
10-2.402.7.1   By subdivider
   
10-2.402.7.2   By interested persons adversely affected
   
10-2.402.7.3   For general plan and specific plan conformity
   
10-2.402.7.4   By tenant
   
10-2.402.8   Expiration and extensions
   
10-2.402.8.1   Expiration
   
10-2.402.8.2   Extensions
   
10-2.402.9   Amendments to approved tentative map
   
10-2.403   Final maps
   
10-2.403.1   General
   
10-2.403.2   Survey required
   
10-2.403.3   Form
   
10-2.403.4   Contents
   
10-2.403.5   Submittal for city approval
   
10-2.403.5.1   Preliminary submittal
   
10-2.403.5.2   Return to subdivider's engineer for corrections
   
10-2.403.5.3   Resubmittal
   
10-2.403.5.4   Approval by City Engineer
   
10-2.403.5.5   Approval by the City Council
   
10-2.403.5.6   Denial by the Council
   
10-2.403.5.7   Filing with the County Recorder
   
10-2.403.5.8   Submittal by units
Subdivision Maps (Four or Less Parcels)
   
10-2.501   Tentative parcel map
   
10-2.501.1   General
   
10-2.501.2   Form
   
10-2.501.3   Content
   
10-2.501.4   Submittal to Planning Department
   
10-2.501.5   Review and notice of public hearings
   
10-2.501.6   Action by Development Review Committee
   
10-2.501.7   Approval and/or denial
   
10-2.501.8   Conditions of approval
   
10-2.501.9   Appeals of Development Review Committee action
   
10-2.501.9.1   By subdivider
   
10-2.501.9.2   By interested persons adversely affected
   
10-2.501.10   Expiration and extensions
   
10-2.501.10.1   Expiration
   
10-2.501.10.2   Extensions
   
10-2.502   Parcel maps
   
10-2.502.1   General
   
10-2.502.2   Survey required
   
10-2.502.3   Form
   
10-2.502.4   Contents
   
10-2.502.5   Preliminary submittal
   
10-2.502.6   Return to subdivider's engineer for connections
   
10-2.502.7   Resubmittal
   
10-2.502.8   Approval by City Engineer
   
10-2.502.9   Filing with the County Recorder
   
10-2.502.10   Waiver of parcel map requirements
Condominium Conversion
   
10-2.601   Purpose
   
10-2.602   Requirements and procedures
   
10-2.602.1   General
   
10-2.602.2   Physical elements report
   
10-2.602.3   Additional submittals
   
10-2.602.4   Acceptance of reports
   
10-2.602.5   Copy to buyers
   
10-2.602.6   Public hearing
   
10-2.602.7   Final information submitted
   
10-2.603   Physical standards for condominium conversions
   
10-2.603.1   Adequate physical condition
   
10-2.603.2   Specific physical standards
   
10-2.604   Tenant provisions
   
10-2.604.1   Notice of intent
   
10-2.604.2   Tenant's right to purchase
   
10-2.604.3   Vacation of units
   
10-2.605   Findings
Subdivision Improvements
   
10-2.701   General
   
10-2.702   Improvements required
   
10-2.702.1   General
   
10-2.702.2   Storm drainage
   
10-2.702.3   Sanitary sewers
   
10-2.702.4   Water supply
   
10-2.702.5   Utilities
   
10-2.702.6   Street lights
   
10-2.702.7   Curb and gutters
   
10-2.702.8   Sidewalks
   
10-2.703   Deferred improvement agreements
   
10-2.703.1   Subdivisions of four or less parcels
   
10-2.704   Design
   
10-2.704.1   General
   
10-2.704.2   Energy conservation
   
10-2.705   Access
   
10-2.706   Improvement plans
   
10-2.706.1   General
   
10-2.706.2   Form
   
10-2.706.3   Contents
   
10-2.706.4   Supplementary plans and calculations
   
10-2.706.5   Review by the City Engineer
   
10-2.706.6   Approval by the City Engineer
   
10-2.706.7   Revisions to approved plans
   
10-2.706.7.1   By subdivider
   
10-2.706.7.2   By City Engineer
   
10-2.706.7.3   Plan checking and inspection costs for revisions
   
10-2.707   Improvement agreement
   
10-2.708   Improvement security
   
10-2.708.1   General
   
10-2.708.2   Form of security
   
10-2.708.3   Amount of security
   
10-2.708.4   Cash bond
   
10-2.708.5   Warranty security
   
10-2.708.6   Reduction in performance security
   
10-2.708.7   Release of improvement securities
   
10-2.708.7.1   Performance security
   
10-2.708.7.2   Material and labor security
   
10-2.708.7.3   Warranty security
   
10-2.709   Construction
   
10-2.710   Construction inspection
   
10-2.710.1   General
   
10-2.710.2   Preconstruction notification
   
10-2.710.3   Final inspection and deficiency list
   
10-2.711   Completion of improvements
   
10-2.711.1   Subdivisions of five or more parcels
   
10-2.711.2   Subdivisions of four or less parcels
   
10-2.711.3   Extensions
   
10-2.712   Acceptance of improvements
   
10-2.712.1   General
   
10-2.712.2   Notice of completion
   
10-2.712.3   Acceptance of a portion of the improvements
Reversion to Acreage
   
10-2.801   General
   
10-2.802   Initiation of proceedings
   
10-2.802.1   By owners
   
10-2.802.2   By City Council
   
10-2.803   Contents of petition
   
10-2.804   Submittal of petition to the City Engineer
   
10-2.805   City Council approval
   
10-2.806   Filing with County Recorder
Correction and Amendments of Maps
   
10-2.901   Requirements
   
10-2.902   Form and contents
   
10-2.903   Submittal and approval by the City Engineer
   
10-2.904   Filing with the County Recorder
   
10-2.905   Fee
Enforcement of Chapter Provisions
   
10-2.1001   Prohibition
   
10-2.1002   Remedies
   
10-2.1003   Certificate of compliance
   
10-2.1004   Certificate of non-compliance
Parcel Mergers
   
10-2.1101   Mergers not required
   
10-2.1102   Mergers required
   
10-2.1103   Notice of merger
   
10-2.1104   Request by property owner
Vesting Tentative Maps
   
10-2.1202   Citation and authority
   
10-2.1204   Purpose of intent
   
10-2.1206   Applicability
   
10-2.1208   Filing and processing
   
10-2.1210   Consistency
   
10-2.1212   Fees
   
10-2.1214   Expiration
   
10-2.1216   Extension of time for filing
   
10-2.1218   Development rights on approval of vesting tentative map
Acquisition of Land and/or Payment of Fees for City Park Facilities
   
10-2.1300   Purpose
   
10-2.1301   Definitions
   
10-2.1302   Applicability
   
10-2.1303   Park acreage standard
   
10-2.1304   Formula for the dedication of land
   
10-2.1305   Standards for the dedication of land
   
10-2.1306   Amount of fees in lieu of land dedication
   
10-2.1307   Determinations of fair market value
   
10-2.1308   Park development impact fees
   
10-2.1309   Determinations of land or fees
   
10-2.1310   Credit for private open space
   
10-2.1311   Procedure
   
10-2.1312   Disposition of fees
   
10-2.1313   Exemptions
   
10-2.1314   Developer-provided park and recreation improvements
   
10-2.1315   Schedule for the use of land or fees
   
10-2.1316   Access
   
10-2.1317   Sale of dedicated land
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 10-2.101 CITATION AND AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted to supplement and implement the Subdivision Map Act,
Cal. Gov't Code § 66410, et seq., and may be cited as the subdivision ordinance
of the city.
('61 Code, § 10-2.101) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.102 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate and control the division of
land within the city and to supplement the provisions of the Subdivision Map
Act concerning the design, improvement, and survey data of subdivisions, the
form and content of all maps provided for by the Subdivision Map Act and the
procedure to be followed in securing the official approval of the Development
Review Committee, Planning Commission, the Planning Department, and City
Council regarding such maps. To accomplish this purpose, the regulations
outlined in this chapter are determined to be necessary for the preservation of
the public health, safety, and general welfare, to promote orderly growth and
development and to promote open space, conservation, protection, and proper use
of land and to insure provision for adequate traffic circulation, utilities,
and services.
('61 Code, § 10-2.102) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.103 CONFORMITY TO GENERAL PLAN, SPECIFIC PLAN, AND ZONING ORDINANCES.
   (A)   No land shall be subdivided and developed for any purpose which is not
in conformity with the General Plan and any specific plan of the city or
specifically authorized by the precise zoning ordinance of the city.
   (B)   The type and intensity of land use as shown on the General Plan shall
determine the type of streets, roads, highways, utilities, and public services
that shall be provided by the subdivider.
('61 Code, § 10-2.103) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.104 APPLICATION.
   The regulations set forth in this chapter shall apply to all subdivisions or
parts thereof within the city and to the preparation of subdivision maps
thereof and to other maps provided for by the Subdivision Map Act. Each such
subdivision and each part thereof lying within the city shall be made and each
such map shall be prepared and presented for approval as hereafter provided for
and required.
('61 Code, § 10-2.104)
§ 10-2.105 MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS.
   Whenever, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, the land involved in
any subdivision is of such size or shape, or is subject to such title
limitations of record, or is affected by such topographical location or
conditions, or is to be devoted to such use that it is impossible or
impracticable in the particular case for the subdivider to conform fully to the
regulations contained in this chapter, the Planning Commission may make such
modifications thereof as, in its opinion, are reasonably necessary or expedient
and in conformity with the State Subdivision Map Act. In the case of
subdivisions of four or less units, this determination may be made by the
Planning Director with the concurrence of the City Engineer.
('61 Code, § 10-2.105)
DEFINITIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
§ 10-2.201 DEFINITIONS.
   ADVISORY AGENCY. A designated official or an official body charged with the
duty of making investigations and reports on the design and improvements of
proposed divisions of real property, the imposing of requirements or conditions
thereon, or having the authority to approve, conditionally approve, or
disapprove maps.
   BLOCK. The area of land within a subdivision which area is entirely bounded
by streets, highways, or ways, except alleys, or the exterior boundary or
boundaries of the subdivision.
   CONDOMINIUM. An estate in real property consisting of an undivided interest
in common in a portion of a parcel of real property together with a separate
interest in space in a residential, industrial, or commercial building on such
real property, such as an apartment, office, or store. A condominium may
include, in addition, a separate interest in other portions of such real
property.
   CONVERSION. The creation of separate ownership of existing real property
together with a separate interest in space of residential, industrial, or
commercial buildings thereon.
   DESIGN. Street alignments, grades, and widths; drainage and sanitary
facilities and utilities, including alignments and grades thereof; location and
size of all required easements and rights-of-way; fire roads and fire breaks;
lot size and configuration; traffic access; grading; land to be dedicated for
park or recreational purposes; and such other specific requirements in the plan
and configuration of the entire subdivision as may be necessary or convenient
to insure conformity to, or implementation of, the General Plan or any adopted
specific plan. (From the definition contained in the State Subdivision Map
Act).
   ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT (EIR). A detailed statement setting forth the
environmental effects and considerations pertaining to a project as specified
in § 22100 of the State Environmental Quality Act, and may mean either a draft
or a final EIR.
   FINAL MAP. A map showing a subdivision for which a tentative and final map
is required by the Subdivisions Map Act or this chapter, prepared in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter and the Subdivision Map Act designed to be
recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
   GENERAL PLAN. The General Plan of the city.
   IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Such street work, storm drainage, utilities, and landscaping to be
installed, or agreed to be installed, by the subdivider on the land to be used
for public or private streets, highways, and easements, as are necessary for
the general use of the lot owners in the subdivision and local neighborhood
traffic and drainage needs as a condition precedent to the approval and
acceptance of the final map thereof; or to such other specific improvements or
type of improvements, the installation of which, either by the subdivider, by
public agencies, by private utilities, by any other entity approved by the
local agency, or by a combination thereof, is necessary or convenient to insure
conformity to, or implementation of, the general plan or any adopted specific
plan.
      (2)   Improvements shall be constructed in accordance with the City
Standard Specifications and Details and/or when applicable with standards as
adopted by local utility companies and approved by the City Engineer.
   LOT. A parcel or portion of land separated from other parcels or portions by
description, as on a subdivision or record of survey map, or by metes and
bounds, for purpose of sale, lease, or separate use.
   LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT. A minor shift or rotation of an existing lot line or
other adjustments where a greater number of parcels than originally existed is
not created.
   MERGER. The joining of two or more contiguous parcels of land under one
ownership into one parcel.
   MAP ACT. The Subdivision Map Act of the state.
   PARCEL MAP. A map showing a division of land of four or less parcels as
required by this ordinance, prepared in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter and the Map Act.
   PERIPHERAL STREET. An existing street whose right-of-way is contiguous to
the exterior boundary of the subdivision.
   REMAINDER. The portion of an existing parcel which is not included as part
of the subdivided land. The remainder is not considered as part of the
subdivision but must be shown on the required maps as part of the area
surrounding subdivision development.
   SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS. Standard details, standard
specifications, and other standards approved by the City Engineer that shall
govern the improvements to be constructed pursuant to this chapter and the Map
Act.
   SUBDIVIDER. A person, firm, corporation, partnership, or associate who
purposes to divide, divides, or causes to be divided real property into a
subdivision for himself or herself or for others; except that employees and
consultants of such persons or entities, acting in such capacity, are not
SUBDIVIDERS.
   SUBDIVISION. The division, by any subdivider, of any unit or units of
improved or unimproved contiguous land shown on the latest equalized county
assessment roll as a unit or as contiguous units for the purpose of sale,
lease, or financing, whether immediate or future. Property shall be considered
as contiguous units, even if it is separated by roads, streets, utility
easements, or railroad rights-of-way. SUBDIVISION includes a condominium
project, as defined herein or in Cal. Civ. Code § 1350 or a community apartment
project, as defined in Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 11004, or the conversion of
five or more existing dwelling unit to a stock cooperative, as defined in Cal.
Bus. & Prof. Code § 11003.2. Any conveyance of land to a governmental agency,
public entity, or public utility shall not be considered a division of land for
purposes of computing the number of parcels.
   SUBDIVISION does not include:
      (1)   Buildings divided into apartments, offices, stores, or similar
space within apartment buildings, industrial buildings, commercial buildings,
mobile home parks, or trailer parks for the purpose of lease or financing;
      (2)   Land divided by mineral, oil, or gas leases; or
      (3)   Land dedicated for cemetery purposes under the Health and Safety
Code of the state.
      (4)   A lot line adjustment between two or more adjacent parcels, where
land taken from one parcel is added to an adjacent parcel, and where a greater
number of parcels than originally existed is not created.
   TENTATIVE MAP. A map made for the purpose of showing the design and
improvements of a proposed subdivision and the existing conditions in and
around it.
   VESTING TENTATIVE MAP. A tentative map for a subdivision as defined in
Article 12, that has printed on its face the words "Vesting Tentative Map" at
the time it is filed, and is thereafter processed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and the Subdivision Map Act. When approved, a
vesting tentative map confers a vested right to develop property after
subdivision, subject to the provisions of this Article and Chapter 4.5 of the
Subdivision Map Act.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. Title 10, of the City Municipal Code, or any ordinance
enacted under zoning law.
('61 Code, § 10-2.201) (Ord. 252, passed 8-3-81; Am. Ord. 626 C.S., passed 10-
5-94; Am. Ord. 651 C.S., passed 3-6-96)
§ 10-2.202 RESPONSIBILITIES.
§ 10-2.202.1 CITY ATTORNEY.
   The City Attorney shall be responsible for approving as to form all
subdivision improvement agreements and subdivision improvement securities.
('61 Code, § 10-2.202.1) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.202.2 CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The City Council shall have final jurisdiction in the approval of
final maps and improvement agreements and the acceptance by the city of such
lands and/or improvements as may be proposed for dedication to the city for
subdivisions of five or more parcels.
   (B)   The City Council shall act as the appeal board for hearing appeals of
the approval, conditional approval, or denial of tentative subdivision maps for
subdivisions of five or more parcels.
('61 Code, § 10-2.202.2) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.202.3 CITY ENGINEER.
   The City Engineer shall be responsible for:
   (A)   Establishing design and construction details, standards, and
specifications;
   (B)   Determining if proposed subdivision improvements comply with the
provisions of this chapter and the Map Act and for reporting the findings
together with any recommendations for approval, or conditional approval, of the
tentative map to the Planning Director for subdivisions of five or more
parcels.
   (C)   The processing and certification of final maps, reversion to acreage
maps, and amended maps; the processing and approval of subdivision improvement
plans, lot line adjustments, mergers, and certificates of compliance.
   (D)   The inspection and approval of subdivision improvements.
   (E)   The acceptance of dedications and improvements for subdivisions of
four or less parcels.
   (F)   The acceptance of private improvements (improvements not to be
maintained by the city).
   (G)   The approval, conditional approval, or denial of the tentative maps
for subdivisions of four or less parcels. ('61 Code, § 10-2.202.3) (Ord. 252
C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.202.4 PLANNING DEPARTMENT.
   The Planning Department shall be responsible for the processing of
preliminary and tentative maps, final and parcel maps, and for the collection
of all required deposits and fees.
('61 Code, § 10-2.202.4) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.202.5 DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   The Development Review Committee shall be responsible for the review of
preliminary maps (for subdivisions of five or more parcels or units) for
general layout and aesthetics and making its recommendations for approval or
conditional approval to the Planning Commission. The Development Review
Committee shall also be responsible for approving, conditionally approving, or
denying an application for tentative parcel map applications of four or fewer
lots or units. The Development Review Committee shall consist of the following
voting members, or their designated representatives;
   (A)   Community Development Director/City Engineer;
   (B)   Building Official;
   (C)   Director of Public Works;
   (D)   Fire Chief;
   (E)   Parks and Community Services Director;
   (F)   Planning Director;
   (G)   Police Chief;
   In addition, the Development Review Committees may invite a member from
other City Developments or affected agencies to contribute to the review
process.
('61 Code, § 10-2.202.5) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81; Am. Ord. 661 C.S.,
passed 9-4-96)
§ 10-2.202.6 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission shall be responsible for approving, conditionally
approving, or denying the application for tentative map approval of
subdivisions of five or more units and reporting its action to the City
Council; and hearing or appeals for subdivisions of four or less parcels.
('61 Code, § 10-2.202.6) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
MAPS REQUIRED
§ 10-2.301 GENERAL.
   The necessity for preliminary, tentative, final, and parcel maps shall be
governed by the provisions of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10-2.301) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.302 DIVISION OF LAND, FIVE OR MORE PARCELS.
   (A)   A preliminary, tentative, and final map shall be required for all
divisions of land when determined by the Planning Director that such land may
be divided into five or more parcels, five or more condominiums as defined in
Cal. Civ. Code § 783, a community apartment project containing five or more
parcels, or for the conversion of a dwelling to a stock cooperative containing
five or more dwelling units, except where:
      (1)   The land before division contains less than five acres, each parcel
created by the division abuts upon a maintained public street or highway and no
dedications or improvements are required by the legislative body, or
      (2)   Each parcel created by the division has a gross area of 20 acres or
more and has an approved access to a maintained public street or highway, or
      (3)   The land consists of a parcel or parcels of land having approved
access to a public street or highway which comprises part of a tract of land
zoned for industrial or commercial development, and which has the approval of
the governing body as to street alignments and widths, or
      (4)   Each parcel created by the division has a gross area of not less
than 40 acres or is not less than a quarter of a quarter section.
   (B)   A parcel map shall be required for these subdivisions described in
subdivisions §
10-2.302(A)(1), (2), (3), and (4).
('61 Code, § 10-2.302) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.303 DIVISION OF LAND, FOUR OR LESS PARCELS.
   (A)   A tentative map and parcel map shall be required for all divisions of
lands which create four or less parcels except for:
      (1)   Divisions of land created by short-term leases (terminable by
either party on not more than 30 days notice in writing) of a portion of an
operating right-of-way of a railroad corporation defined as such by Cal. Pub.
Util. Code § 230, provided, however, that upon a showing made to the City
Engineer based upon substantial evidence that public policy necessitates such a
map, this exception shall not apply.
      (2)   Lot line adjustments, provided:
         (a)   No additional parcels or building sites have been created,
         (b)   The adjustment does not create the potential to further divide
either of the two parcels into more parcels than would have been otherwise
possible.
         (c)   There are no resulting violations of the City Municipal Code.
      (3)   When the parcel map is waived by the City Engineer.
   (B)   A plat map, in a form as required by the City Engineer, and a
certificate of compliance in accordance with §
10-2.104 shall be required for lot line adjustments, mergers, certificates of
compliance, and parcel map waivers.
('61 Code, § 10-2.303) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.304 FEES AND DEPOSITS.
   All persons submitting maps as required by this chapter shall pay all fees
and/or deposits as provided by the city's resolution establishing fees and
charges, or as provided by this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10-2.304) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.305 LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT.
   Lot line adjustment between two or more adjacent parcels, where land taken
from one parcel is added to an adjacent parcel, and where a greater number of
parcels than originally existed is not created, shall be processed pursuant to
this section.
   (A)   Applications for a lot line adjustments shall be submitted to the
Community Development Department and must include:
      (1)   A completed application form; the application shall contain any
additional information necessary to explain the request.
      (2)   The filing fee as established by resolution of the City Council;
      (3)   A copy of a current preliminary title report concerning the
property; this requirement may be waived by the Community Development Director;
and
      (4)   Eight copies of a lot line adjustment map. The lot line adjustment
map must be a scaled drawing which clearly defines the existing parcels, the
property line(s) to be adjusted and the new property line(s). The area of the
newly created parcels shall be shown on the lot line adjustment map. The
drawing must also show the location of all existing and proposed structures and
improvements in relation to the lines to be adjusted. Any easements which would
conflict with the proposed new lines must be noted. Specific dimensions will be
necessary to determine that the adjustment will not affect setbacks, lot
coverage, parking, minimum lot dimensions, or other requirements of the zoning
code.
   (B)   Applications will be distributed to various city departments and other
agencies for review and comment in regard to compliance with applicable
standards and regulations.
   (C)   A lot line adjustment shall not be approved or conditionally approved
unless there is compliance with criteria relative to general plan consistency,
parcel design, minimum lot area, environmental quality, and public health and
safety criteria as specified in this title and other applicable county and
state code provisions relating to real property divisions. These criteria will
be considered satisfied if the resulting parcels maintain a position with
respect to the criteria which is equal to, or better than, such position prior
to approval or conditional approval of the lot line adjustment.
   (D)   If it is found that the proposed lot line adjustment conforms to all
of the requirements of the Municipal Code, the Community Development Director
shall within ten days of acceptance, approve, or conditionally approve the
application. Any action by the Community Development Department may be appealed
to the Planning Commission in accordance with provisions of this title.
   (E)   If it is found that the proposed lot line adjustment would not conform
to the zoning code, or that there are unusual circumstances which warrant
further evaluation, the Community Development Director shall refer the
application to the Development Review Committee. The Committee may approve,
conditionally approve, or deny the application. Any action by the Development
Review Committee may be appealed to the Planning Commission in accordance with
provisions of this title.
   (F)   Following action on the lot line adjustment, the applicant and
property owner of an approved lot line adjustment are required to execute an
acknowledgement and acceptance to the terms and conditions of the approval.
Building permits for the project will not be issued until the agreement is
signed by the applicable parties, and the lot line adjustment documentation and
ownership change is filed with the County Recorder.
   (G)   Upon approval of the lot line adjustment, the applicant must submit
the following information to the City Engineering Department for review and
recording:
      (1)   Copies of existing deeds and a current preliminary title report for
each affected parcel;
      (2)   New deeds for each affected parcel with an attachment consisting of
an 8½ × 11-inch map reflecting the change; this map will be recorded by City
Engineering with the new deeds;
      (3)   Proof of monumentation for all new property corners created by the
Lot Line Adjustment and compliance with § 8762 (e) of the Land Surveyor's Act.
      (4)   A check made out to the county in the appropriate current amount
necessary for recordation.
   (H)   Before recordation, the deeds will be reviewed for technical accuracy
by the city and approved by a Certificate of Compliance consisting of a stamp
on each deed original or on a separate document signed by the approving
representative. Documents will be delivered to the County Recorder's Office by
the city staff.
   (I)   Failure to complete the recording process within one year of the date
of the Community Development Director's, Development Review Committee's, or
Planning Commission's approval as applicable will render the approval null and
void.
(Ord. 626 C.S., passed 10-5-94)
SUBDIVISION MAPS (FIVE OR MORE PARCELS)
§ 10-2.401 PRELIMINARY MAPS.
§ 10-2.401.1 GENERAL.
   The contents and form and submittal of preliminary maps shall be governed by
the provisions of this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 10-2.401.1) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.401.2 SUBMITTAL TO PLANNING DEPARTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   Prior to the filing of an application for a tentative subdivision map for a
subdivision of five or more parcels, the subdivider shall submit plans and data
related to the design, layout, grading, existing noise levels, and other
features proposed for the development as required by the department. The data
obtained shall be submitted to the Development Review Committee for preliminary
review and comment. Within 28 days after such submittal, the Development Review
Committee shall advise the Planning Commission in writing of any comments it
desires to make and any changes to the proposed plan it deems appropriate as a
result of its preliminary review. Upon receipt of the Development Review
Committee comments, grading, building design, landscaping, building layout, the
subdivider shall cause to be prepared a tentative subdivision map pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter. A preliminary map and Development Review
Committee review shall not apply to condominium conversions unless required by
the Planning Director. The tentative subdivision map may be submitted to the
Development Review Committee in lieu of a preliminary map. If such is
submitted, the review time by the Development Review Committee shall not be
considered as a part of the time limit specified by §
10-2.402.6 for Planning Commission action.
('61 Code, § 10-2.401.2) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.402 TENTATIVE SUBDIVISION MAPS.
§ 10-2.402.1 GENERAL.
   The form and contents, submittal, and approval of tentative subdivision maps
shall be governed by the provisions of this section.
('61 Code, § 10-2.402.1) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.402.2 FORM AND CONTENTS.
   (A)   The tentative map shall be prepared in a manner acceptable to the
Planning Department and shall be prepared by a registered civil engineer.
   (B)   The tentative map shall be clearly and legibly drawn on one sheet and
contain not less than the following:
      (1)   A title which shall contain the subdivision number, subdivision
name, and type of subdivision.
      (2)   Name and address of legal owner, subdivider, and person preparing
the map (including registration number).
      (3)   Sufficient legal description to define the boundary of the proposed
subdivision.
      (4)   Date, north arrow, scale, and contour interval.
      (5)   Existing and proposed land use.
      (6)   A vicinity map showing roads, adjoining subdivisions, towns,
creeks, railroads, and other data sufficient to locate the proposed subdivision
and show its relation to the community.
      (7)   Existing topography of the proposed site and at least 100 feet
beyond its boundary, including but not limited to:
         (a)   Existing contours at two feet intervals if the existing ground
slope is less than 10% and at not less than five foot intervals for existing
ground slopes equal to or greater than 10%.  Contour intervals shall not be
spread more than 150 feet apart. Existing contours shall be represented by
dashed lines or by screened lines.
         (b)   Type and circumference of existing trees. Any tree proposed to
be removed shall be so indicated.
         (c)   The approximate location and outline of existing structures
identified by type. Buildings to be removed shall be so marked.
         (d)   The approximate location of all areas subject to inundation or
storm water overflow and the location, width, and direction of flow of each
watercourse.
         (e)   The location, pavement, and right-of-way width, grade, and name
of existing streets or highways.
         (f)   The widths, location, and identity of all existing easements.
         (g)   The location and size of existing sanitary sewers, water mains,
and storm drains. The approximate slope of existing sewers and storm drains
shall be indicated. The location of existing overhead utility lines on
peripheral streets.
         (h)   The approximate location of the 60, 65, and 70 CNEL (Community
NOISE Equivalent Level) contours, if any.
      (8)   Proposed improvements to be shown shall include but not be limited
to:
         (a)   The location, grade, centerline radius, and arc length of
curves, pavement, and right- of-way width and name of all streets. Typical
sections of all streets shall be shown.
         (b)   The location and radius of all curb returns and cul-de-sacs.
         (c)   The location, width, and purpose of all easements.
         (d)   The angle of intersecting streets if such angle deviates from a
right angle by more than four degrees.
         (e)   The approximate lot layout and the approximate dimensions of
each lot and of each building site. Engineering data shall show the approximate
finished grading of each lot, the preliminary design of all grading, the
elevation of proposed building pads, the top and toe of cut and fill slopes to
scale, and the number of each lot.
         (f)   Proposed contours at two-foot intervals shall be shown if the
existing ground slope is less than 10% and not at less than five-foot intervals
for existing ground slopes greater than or equal to 10%. A separate grading
plan may be submitted.
         (g)   Proposed recreation sites, trails, and parks for private or
public use.
         (h)   Proposed common areas and areas to be dedicated to public open
space.
         (i)   The location and size of sanitary sewers, water mains, and storm
drains. Proposed slopes and approximate elevations of sanitary sewers and storm
drains shall be indicated.
      (9)   The name or names of any geologist or soils engineer whose services
were required in the preparation of the design of the tentative map.
      (10)   The source and date of existing contours.
      (11)   All lettering size shall be -inch minimum.
      (12)   Certificates for execution by the Secretary of the Planning
Commission indicating the approval of the tentative map and the date thereof by
the Planning Commission, and a certificate by the City Clerk indicating the
approval by the City Council if the map was reviewed by the City Council.
      (13)   If the subdivider plans to develop the site as shown on the
tentative map in units, then the subdivider shall show the proposed units and
their proposed sequence of construction on the tentative map.
      (14)   The Planning Department may waive any of the foregoing tentative
map requirements whenever it finds that the type of subdivision is such as not
to necessitate compliance with these requirements, or that other circumstances
justify such waiver. The Planning Department may require other such drawings,
data, or other information as deemed necessary.
('61 Code, § 10-2.402.2) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.402.3 ACCOMPANYING DATA AND REPORTS.
   (A)   The tentative map shall be accompanied by the following data or
reports:
      (1)   Soils report. The City Engineer may require a preliminary soils
report. If the preliminary soils report indicates the presence of critically
expansive soils or other soil problems, which, if not corrected, would lead to
structural defects, the soils report accompanying the final map shall contain
an investigation of each lot within the subdivision.
      (2)   Title report. A preliminary title report, showing the legal owners
at the time of filing the tentative map.
      (3)   Environmental impact study. The various time limits set forth in
this chapter for taking action on tentative maps shall not be deemed to
commence until the subdivision is found exempt or an initial study is completed
and a negative declaration or environmental impact report, as appropriate, is
prepared, processed and considered in accordance with the provisions of the
State Environmental Quality Act. The subdivider shall provide such additional
data and information and deposit and pay such fees as may be required for the
preparation and processing of environmental review documents.
      (4)   Utility certification. Certification in writing from all utilities
that the proposed subdivision can be adequately served. The City Engineer may
defer the required certifications until after the filing of the tentative map.
      (5)   Other reports. Any other data or reports deemed necessary by the
Planning Department.
   (B)   Paragraphs § 10-2.402.3(A)(1) and (4) shall not apply to condominium
conversions.
('61 Code, § 10-2.402.3) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.402.4 SUBMITTAL OF PLANNING DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The tentative map shall be considered for filing only when such map
conforms to §
10-2.402.2 and when all accompanying data or reports, as required by §
10-2.402.3, have been submitted and accepted by the Planning Department.
   (B)   The subdivider shall file with the Planning Department the number of
tentative maps the Director may deem necessary.
('61 Code, § 10-2.402.4) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.402.5 PLANNING DEPARTMENT REVIEW AND SUBDIVISION CONFERENCE.
   (A)   The Department shall forward copies of the tentative map to the
affected public agencies which may, in turn, forward to the Planning Department
their findings and recommendations thereon.
   (B)   Within ten days of the filing of a tentative map, the Planning
Department shall send a notice of the filing of the tentative map to the
Unified School District. Such notice shall also contain information about the
location of the proposed subdivision, the number of units, density, and any
other information which would be relevant to the Unified School District. The
Unified School District may review the notice and may send a written report
thereon to the agency required by law to approve such tentative map. The report
shall indicate the impact of the proposed subdivision on the school district
and shall make such recommendations as the district deems appropriate. In the
event the school district fails to respond within a 20-day period from receipt
of notice of the tentative map, such failure shall be deemed approval of the
proposed subdivision by the school district. The Planning Commission shall
consider the report from the school district in approving or conditionally
approving the tentative map.
   (C)   Upon completion of review by the Planning Department and prior to the
date the tentative map is scheduled for Planning Commission action, the
Planning Department may hold a subdivision conference on its own initiative. A
subdivision conference shall be held if requested by the subdivider. Advance
written notice of the subdivision conference shall be given to the subdivider
or his or her agent and to all affected agencies. The results of the
subdivision conference shall be reported to the Planning Commission. A copy of
the report shall be served to the subdivider at least three days prior to any
hearing or action on such map by the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Any requests for exceptions to the various conditions to be considered
by the Planning Commission shall be filed, in writing, with the Planning
Director not later than the first working day following the subdivision
conference.
('61 Code, § 10-2.402.5) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.402.6 PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION.
§ 10-2.402.6.1 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   Upon completion of any subdivision conference and receipt of any
recommendations of other departments and agencies, the Community Development
Director shall set the tentative subdivision map for public hearing. Review and
public notice procedures for the application shall be in accordance with §
10-3.4.0105 of this title. The hearing shall be held pursuant to the rules of
conduct established by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   In addition, in the case of a proposed conversion of residential real
property to a condominium project, community apartment project, or stock
cooperative project, notice shall also be given as required by Cal. Gov't Code
§§ 66452.8, 66452.9, and 66452.51.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall approve, conditionally approve, or deny
the tentative subdivision and shall report its decision to the City Council and
the subdivider within 50 days after the tentative map application has been
accepted as complete for processing. Notwithstanding any provision to the
contrary, this time period shall commence after the certification of the
environmental impact report or adoption of a negative declaration, or a
determination that the project is categorically exempt.
('61 Code, § 10-2.402.6.1) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81; Am. Ord. 618 C.S.,
passed 3-16-94)
§ 10-2.402.6.2 APPROVAL.
   (A)   In approving or conditionally approving the tentative subdivision map,
the Planning Commission shall find that the proposed subdivision, together with
its provisions for its design and improvements, is consistent with applicable
general or specific plans adopted by the city.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may modify or delete any of the conditions of
approval recommended in the Planning Department's report, except conditions
required by city ordinance or by the City Engineer, related to public health
and safety or standards approved by the City Engineer, or add additional
requirements as a condition of approval.
   (C)   If no action is taken by the Planning Commission within the time limit
as specified, the tentative map as filed shall be deemed to be approved,
insofar as it complies with other applicable provisions of the State
Subdivision Map Act, this chapter or other city ordinance, and it shall be the
duty of the City Clerk to certify the approval.
('61 Code, § 10-2.402.6.2) (Ord. 232 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.402.6.3 DENIAL.
   (A)   The tentative subdivision map may be denied by the Planning Commission
on any of the grounds provided by city ordinances or the State Subdivision Map
Act.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall deny approval of the tentative map if it
makes any of the following findings:
      (1)   The proposed map is not consistent with applicable general and
specific plans.
      (2)   The design or improvement of the proposed subdivision is not
consistent with applicable general and specific plans.
      (3)   The site is not physically suitable for the type of development.
      (4)   The site is not physically suitable for the proposed density of
development.
      (5)   The design of the subdivision or the proposed improvements are
likely to cause substantial environmental damage or substantially and avoidably
injure fish or wildlife or their habitat.
      (6)   The design of the subdivision or the type of improvements is likely
to cause serious public health problems.
      (7)   That the design of the subdivision or the type of improvements will
conflict with easements, acquired by the public at large, for access through,
or use of, property within the proposed subdivision. In this connection, the
governing body may approve a map if it finds that alternate easements for
access or for use will be provided, and that these will be substantially
equivalent to ones previously acquired by the public. This subsection shall
apply only to easements of record or to easements established by judgment of a
court of competent jurisdiction and no authority is granted to a legislative
body to determine that the public at large has acquired easements for access
through, or use of, property within the proposed subdivision.
('61 Code, § 10-2.402.6.3) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.402.6.4 EXTENSION OF TIME FOR PLANNING COMMISSION OR CITY COUNCIL
ACTION.
   The time limits set forth above for acting on the tentative map may be
extended by mutual consent of the subdivider and the Planning Commission or the
City Council.
('61 Code, § 10-2.402.6.4) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.402.7 APPEALS OF PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION.
§ 10-2.402.7.1 BY SUBDIVIDER.
   If the subdivider disagrees with any action by the Planning Commission with
respect to the tentative subdivision map, the subdivider may, within 15 days of
such decision, file an appeal with the City Clerk. The Council shall consider
the appeal within 30 days or at its first regular meeting subsequent to such
appeal, unless the subdivider consents to a continuance. This appeal shall be a
public hearing after notice has been given pursuant to §
10-2.402.6.1. In addition, notice shall be given to the subdivider and the
Planning Commission and upon conclusion of the public hearing, the Council
shall, within ten days, declare its findings. The Council may sustain, modify,
reject, or overrule any recommendations or rulings of the Planning Commission
and may make such findings as are not inconsistent with the provisions of this
chapter or the State Subdivision Map Act.
('61 Code, § 10-2.402.7.1) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.402.7.2 BY INTERESTED PERSONS ADVERSELY AFFECTED.
   Any interested person adversely affected by a decision of the Planning
Commission may file a complaint with the City Council concerning such decision.
Any such complaint shall be filed with the City Clerk within 15 days after the
action which is the subject of the complaint. No complaint shall be considered
after the 15-day period. The City Council may, at its discretion, reject the
complaint within 15 days or set the matter for hearing. If the City Council
rejects the complaint, the complainant shall be notified of such action. If the
matter is set for hearing, a public hearing shall be held within 30 days after
filing of the complaint pursuant to the procedures contained in §
10-2.402.7.1 with additional notice being given to the affected interested
persons.
('61 Code, § 10-2.402.7.2) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.402.7.3 FOR GENERAL PLAN AND SPECIFIC PLAN CONFORMITY.
   Any interested person may appeal any decision of the Planning Commission
relative to conformity to the General Plan or any specific plan of the City
Council. Such appeal and hearing thereon shall be in accordance with §
10-2.402.7.1 of this chapter, with additional notice to be given to the
appellant.
('61 Code, § 10-2.402.7.3) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.402.7.4 BY TENANT.
   Any tenant of the property being subdivided in the course of a proposed
conversion of residential real property to a condominium project, community
apartment project, or stock cooperative project may appeal from any action of
the Planning Commission pursuant to Cal. Gov't Code § 66452.5.
('61 Code, § 10-2.402.7.4)
§ 10-2.402.8 EXPIRATION AND EXTENSIONS.
§ 10-2.402.8.1 EXPIRATION.
   (A)   The approval or conditional approval of a tentative subdivision map
shall expire 24 months from the date of the adoption of the resolution by the
Planning Commission approving or conditionally approving the map. An extension
to the expiration date may be approved as provided in §
10-2.402.8.2(B).
   (B)   The period of time specified above shall not include any period of
time during which a lawsuit has been filed and is pending in a court of
competent jurisdiction involving the approval or conditional approval of a
tentative map only if a stay of the time period is approved by the City
Council. Within ten days of the service of the initial petition or complaint
upon the city, the subdivider shall, in writing, to the Planning Director,
request a stay in the time period of the tentative map. Within 40 days after
receiving such request, the City Council shall either stay the time period for
up to five years or deny the requested stay. The request for the stay shall be
a hearing with notice to the subdivider and to the appellant, and upon
conclusion of the hearing, the City Council shall, within ten days, declare its
findings.
   (C)   Expiration of an approved or conditionally approved tentative map
shall terminate all proceedings and no final map or parcel of all or any
portion of the real property included within such tentative map shall be filed
without first processing a new tentative map.
('61 Code, § 10-2.402.8.1) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.402.8.2 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Request by subdivider. The subdivider or his or her engineer may
request an extension of the expiration date of the approved or conditionally
approved tentative subdivision map by written application to the Planning
Department. The application shall be filed not less than 15 days before the map
is to expire and shall state the reasons for requesting the extension.
   (B)   Planning Commission action. The Planning Director shall review the
request and submit the application for the extension, together with a report,
to the Planning Commission for approval, conditional approval, or denial. A
copy of the Planning Director's report shall be forwarded to the subdivider
prior to the Planning Commission meeting on the extension. The resolution
adopted by the Planning Commission approving or conditionally approving an
extension shall specify the new expiration date of the tentative subdivision
map.
   (C)   Time limit of extension. An approved extension shall not exceed the
period authorized under the state law as set forth in the Subdivision Map Act
and shall only be approved for a period beyond the date of the resolution
adopted by the Planning Commission approving, or conditionally approving, the
tentative subdivision map.
   (D)   Conditions of approval. As a condition of the extension of a tentative
subdivision map, the Planning Commission may impose new conditions or revise
existing conditions on the approved tentative map as recommended by the
Planning Department in its report, or as it may find necessary.
   (E)   Appeal of conditions of extension. The subdivider may appeal any
action of the Planning Commission on the extension to the City Council within
15 days of such action in conformance to §
10-2.402.7.1 of this chapter.
   (F)   Fee. The fee for processing an extension shall be at actual cost. A
deposit to be applied toward this fee may be required.
('61 Code, § 10-2.402.8.2) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81; Am. Ord. 546 C.S.,
passed 4-3-90)
§ 10-2.402.9 AMENDMENTS TO APPROVED TENTATIVE MAP.
   (A)   Minor changes in the tentative map may be approved by the Planning
Department, upon application by the subdivider or on its own initiative,
provided:
      (1)   No lots, units, or building sites are added.
      (2)   Such changes are consistent with the intent and spirit of the
original tentative map approval.
      (3)   There are no resulting violations of the City Municipal Code.
   (B)   Any revision shall be approved by the Planning Director and the City
Engineer. The amendment shall be indicated on the approved map and certified by
the Planning Director and the City Engineer.
   (C)   Amendments of the tentative map other than minor shall be presented to
the Planning Commission for approval. Processing shall be in accordance with §§
10-1.402.5 and 10-1.402.6.
   (D)   Any approved amendment shall not alter the expiration date of the
tentative map.
('61 Code, § 10-2.402.9) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.403 FINAL MAPS.
§ 10-2.403.1 GENERAL.
   (A)   The form, contents, accompanying data, and filing of the final map
shall conform to the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The final map shall be prepared by, or under the direction of, a
registered civil engineer or licensed land surveyor.
('61 Code, § 10-2.403.1) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.403.2 SURVEY REQUIRED.
   (A)   An accurate and complete survey of the land to be subdivided shall be
made by a registered civil engineer or licensed land surveyor. All monuments,
property lines, centerlines of streets, alleys, and easements adjoining or
within the subdivision shall be tied into the survey. The allowable error of
closure on any portion of the final map shall not exceed 1/10,000 for field
closures and 1/20,000 for calculated closures.
   (B)   At the time of making the survey for the final map, the engineer or
surveyor shall set sufficient durable monuments to conform with the standards
described in Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 8771 so that another engineer or surveyor
may readily retrace the survey. At least one exterior boundary line shall be
monumented prior to recording the final map. Other monuments shall be set as
required by the City Engineer.
('61 Code, § 10-2.403.2) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.403.3 FORM.
   (A)   The form of the final map shall conform to the Subdivision Map Act and
as provided herein.
   (B)   The final map shall be legibly drawn, printed, or reproduced by a
process guaranteeing a permanent record in black on tracing cloth or polyester
base film. Certificates, affidavits, and acknowledgements may be legibly
stamped or printed upon the map with opaque ink. If ink is used on polyester
base film, the ink surface shall be coated with a suitable substance to assure
permanent legibility.
   (C)   The size of each sheet shall be 18 × 26-inches. A marginal line shall
be drawn completely around each sheet, leaving an entirely blank margin of one
inch. The scale of the map shall be not less than one inch equals 100 feet or
as may be necessary to show all details clearly, and enough sheets shall be
used to accomplish this end. The particular number of the sheet and the total
number of sheets comprising the map shall be stated on each of the sheets, and
its relation to each adjoining sheet shall be clearly shown. When four or more
sheets including the certificate sheet are used, a key sheet will be included.
   (D)   All printing or lettering on the map shall be of -inch minimum height
and of such shape and weight as to be readily legible on prints and other
reproductions made from the original drawings.
   (E)   The final form of the final map shall be as approved by the City
Engineer.
('61 Code, § 10-2.403.3) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.403.4 CONTENTS.
   The contents of the final map shall conform to the Subdivision Map Act and
as provided herein.
   (A)   Boundary. The boundary of the subdivision shall be designated by a
heavy black line in such a manner as not to obliterate figures or other data.
   (B)   Title. Each sheet shall have a title showing the subdivision number
and name and the location of the property being subdivided with reference to
maps which have been previously recorded, or by reference to the plat of a
United States Survey. The following words shall appear in the title, "in the
City of Madera."
   (C)   Certificates. The following certificates shall appear only once on the
cover sheet:
      (1)   Owner's certificate. A certificate, signed and acknowledged by all
parties having record title interest in the land subdivided, excepting those
parties having rights-of-way, easements, or other interests which cannot ripen
into a fee, or exceptions provided by the Subdivision Map Act and consenting to
the preparation and recordation of the map and offering for dedication to the
public certain specific parcels of land.
      (2)   Engineer's certificate.
         (a)   A certificate by the engineer or surveyor responsible for the
survey and final map shall appear on the map. The certificate shall give the
date of the survey, state that the survey and final map were made by, or under
the direction of, the engineer or surveyor, and that the survey is true and
complete as shown.
         (b)   The certificate shall also state that all the monuments are of
the character and occupy the positions indicated, or that they will be set in
such positions on or before a specified later date. The certificate shall also
state that the monuments are, or will be, sufficient to enable the survey to be
retraced.
         (c)   The certificate shall state that the map complies to the
Subdivision Map Act and the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   City Engineer's certificate. A certificate by the City Engineer
stating that the map has been examined and that it is in accord with the
tentative map and any approved alterations thereof, complies with the
Subdivision Map Act of the state and the provisions of this chapter, and is
technically correct.
      (4)   Planning Commission certificate. A certificate by the secretary of
the Planning Commission stating that the tentative map was approved by
resolution of the Planning Commission. The date and number of the resolution
shall appear in the certificate.
      (5)   City Clerk's certificate. A certificate for execution by the City
Clerk stating the date and number of the resolution adopted by the City Council
approving the final map and stating that the City Council accepted, accepted
subject to improvement, or rejected on behalf of the public any real property
offered for dedication for public use in conformity with the terms of the offer
of dedication.
      (6)   Certificate of soils and geologic report. When a soils report, a
geologic report, or soils and geologic reports have been prepared specifically
for the subdivision, such fact shall be noted on the final map.
      (7)   County Recorder's certificate.
         (a)   A certificate to be executed by the County Recorder stating
that: the map has been accepted for filing; and the map has been examined and
it complies with the provisions of state laws and local ordinances governing
the filing of final maps.
         (b)   The certificate shall show who requested the filing of the map,
the time and date the map was filed, and the book and page where the map was
filed.
      (8)   County Clerk's certificate. A certificate to be executed by the
County Clerk stating that all taxes due have been paid or that a tax bond
assuring the payment of all taxes which are a lien but not yet payable has been
filed with the county.
   (D)   Scale, north point and basis of bearings. There must appear on each
map sheet the scale, the north point, and the basis of bearings based on Zone
III of the State Coordinates, and the equation of the bearing to true north.
The basis of bearings shall be approved by the City Engineer.
   (E)   Linear, angular, and radial data.  Sufficient linear, angular, and
radial data shall be shown to determine the bearings and lengths of monument
lines, street centerlines, the boundary lines of the subdivision, and of the
boundary lines on every lot and parcel which is a part thereof. Length, radius,
and total central angle or radial bearings of all curves shall be shown. Ditto
marks shall not be used in the dimensions and data shown on the map.
   (F)   Monuments. The location and description of all existing and proposed
monuments shall be shown. Standard city monuments shall be set at (or from
offsets as approved by the City Engineer) the following locations:
      (1)   The intersection of street centerlines.
      (2)   Beginning and end of curves in centerlines.
      (3)   At other locations as may be required by the City Engineer.
   (G)   Lot numbers. Lot numbers shall begin with the number one in each
subdivision and shall continue consecutively with no omissions or duplications
except where contiguous lands, under the same ownership, are being subdivided
in successive units, in which event lot numbers may begin with the next
consecutive number following the last number in the preceding unit. Each lot
shall be shown entirely on one sheet of the final map, unless approved by the
City Engineer.
   (H)   Adjoining properties. The adjoining corners of all adjoining
subdivisions shall be identified by subdivision number, or name when not
identified by official number, and reference to the book and page of the filed
map showing such subdivision; and if no such subdivision is adjacent, then by
the name of the owner and reference to the recorded deed by book page number
for the last recorded owner of such adjacent property.
   (I)   City boundaries. City boundaries which cross or join the subdivision
shall be clearly designated.
   (J)   Street names. The names of all streets, alleys, or highways within, or
adjoining, the subdivision shall be shown.
   (K)   Easements.
      (1)   Easements for roads or streets, paths, storm water drainage,
sanitary sewers, or other public use as may be required, shall be dedicated to
the public for acceptance by the city or other public agency, and the use shall
be specified on the map. If at the time the final map is approved, any streets,
paths, alleys, or storm drainage easements are not accepted by the City
Council, the offer of dedication shall remain open and the City Council may, by
resolution at any later date, accept and open the streets, paths, alleys, or
storm drainage easements for public use, which acceptance shall be recorded in
the office of the County Recorder.
      (2)   All easements of record shall be shown on the map, together with
the name of the grantee and sufficient recording data to identify the
conveyance, for example, recorder's serial number and date, or book and page of
official records.
      (3)   Easements not disclosed by the records in the office of the County
Recorder and found by the surveyor or engineer to be existing, shall be
specifically designated on the map, identifying the apparent dominant tenements
for which the easement was created.
      (4)   The sidelines of all easements of record shall be shown by dashed
lines on the final map with the widths, lengths, and bearings of record. The
width and location of all easements shall be approved by the City Engineer.
('61 Code, § 10-2.403.4) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.403.5 SUBMITTAL FOR CITY APPROVAL.
§ 10-2.403.5.1 PRELIMINARY SUBMITTAL.
   The subdivider shall submit four sets of prints of the final map to the City
Engineer for checking. The preliminary prints shall be accompanied by two
copies of the following data, plans, reports, and documents in a form as
approved by the City Engineer.
   (A)   Improvement plans. Improvement plans as required by §
10-2.706 of this chapter.
   (B)   Title report. A title report showing the legal owners at the time of
submittal of the final map.
   (C)   Improvement bond estimate. The improvement bond estimate shall include
all improvements within public rights-of-way, easements, or common areas and
utility trench backfill as provided by the developer, except for those utility
facilities installed by a utility company under the jurisdiction of the State
Public Utilities Commission.
   (D)   Deeds for easements or rights-of-way. Deed for easements or rights of
way required for road or drainage purposes which have not been dedicated on the
final map. Written evidence acceptable to the city in the form or rights of
entry or permanent easements across private property outside of the subdivision
permitting or granting access to perform necessary construction work and
permitting the maintenance of the facility.
   (E)   Traverse closures.
      (1)   Traverse closures for the boundary blocks, lots, easements, street
centerlines, and monument lines.
      (2)   The error of field closures in the traverse around the subdivision
and around the interior lots or blocks shall not exceed 1/20,000.
   (F)   Hydrology and hydraulic calculations. Complete hydrology and hydraulic
calculations of all storm drains.
   (G)   Organization documents. The submittal of the final map or parcel map
shall include the proposed Declaration of Covenants, Conditions, and
Restrictions, and all other organizational documents for the subdivision in a
form as prescribed by Cal. Civ. Code § 1355. All documents shall be subject to
review by the City Engineer and City Attorney.
   (H)   Any additional data, reports, or information as required by the City
Engineer.
('61 Code, § 10-2.403.5.1) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.403.5.2 RETURN TO SUBDIVIDER'S ENGINEER FOR CORRECTIONS.
   Upon completing the preliminary check, the City Engineer shall note the
required corrections on the preliminary prints, reports, and data and return
one set to the subdivider's engineer for revision.
('61 Code, § 10-2.403.5.2) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.403.5.3 RESUBMITTAL.
   The subdivider's engineer shall submit two sets of the revised map, reports,
and data to the City Engineer. After checking the revisions, one set shall be
returned to the subdivider's engineer marked approved as submitted, approved
when corrected as noted, or revise and resubmit.
('61 Code, § 10-2.403.5.3) (252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.403.5.4 APPROVAL BY CITY ENGINEER.
   Upon receipt of an approved print, the subdivider shall submit to the City
Engineer the original tracing of the revised map, prepared in accordance with
the Subdivision Map Act and this chapter, corrected to its final form, and
signed by all parties required by the Map Act and this chapter to execute
certificates on the map. Upon receipt of the map in its final form and
completion of all of the conditions of the approval of the tentative map,
including, but not necessarily limited to, installation of all public
improvements, both within and outside of the subdivision, payment of all
inspection fees and other fees required in connection with the improvement of
the subdivision, the submission of a required warranty bond or security and any
other conditions of approval of the tentative map, the City Engineer shall sign
the final map and transmit the original to the City Clerk for formal approval
by the City Council and acceptance by the City of all offers of dedication set
forth on the final map. If all other conditions of approval of the tentative
map have been fulfilled except the installation of public improvements required
by the tentative map, upon receipt by the City Engineer of the corrected map in
its final form and signed by all parties required to execute the same as
hereinabove set forth, and receipt by the City Engineer of an executed
improvement agreement together with final approved plans and specifications for
all public improvements, both within and outside of the subdivision,
improvement securities as required by law, insurance certificates, and any and
all other commitments required of the subdivider under the agreement, the
Engineer shall sign the map and transmit the map, together with the executed
agreement and appropriate documentation necessary in connection therewith, to
the City Clerk.
('61 Code, § 10-2.403.5.4) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81; Am. Ord. 546 C.S.,
passed 4-3-90)
§ 10-2.403.5.5 APPROVAL BY THE CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall consider the final map for approval within ten days
after filing with the City Clerk, or at its next regular meeting, at which time
it receives the map, whichever is later. If all of the conditions of the
tentative map approval, including, but not necessarily limited to, completion
of all improvements, both within and outside of the subdivision, have been
completed, the final map shall be approved and the City Clerk authorized and
directed to certify on the map that the Council has accepted or rejected any
offers of dedication, absolutely or conditionally, and authorize the same to be
recorded. If all of the conditions of the tentative map have not been fulfilled
but the subdivider has executed an agreement with the city providing for
completion of the terms and conditions and has provided improvement securities,
evidence of insurance and all other requirements in connection therewith, the
Council shall consider and approve the subdivision improvement agreement and
the final map and shall instruct the Mayor to execute the agreement on behalf
of the City and authorize the Clerk to certify the final action of the City
Council on the offers of dedication set forth on the final map. Acceptance of
offers of dedications on the map shall not be effective until the acceptance by
the city of all improvements to be installed within the subdivision as required
by the conditional approval of the tentative map. If the subdivision
improvement agreement and/or final map are unacceptable, the Council shall make
its recommended corrections, instruct the City Engineer to draft a new
agreement and/or revise the final map and defer approval until an acceptable
agreement and/or final map has been resubmitted.
('61 Code, § 10-2.403.5.5) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81; Am. Ord. 546 C.S.,
passed 4-3-90)
§ 10-2.403.5.6 DENIAL BY THE COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall deny the approval of a final map if it finds that the
final map is not in substantial compliance with the previously approved
tentative map.
('61 Code, § 10-2.403.5.6) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81; Am. Ord. 546 C.S.,
passed 4-3-90)
§ 10-2.403.5.7 FILING WITH THE COUNTY RECORDER.
   Upon approval of the final map by the City Council and receipt of the
improvement security by the City Engineer, the City Clerk shall execute the
appropriate certificate on the certificate sheet and forward the map, or have
an authorized agent forward the map, to the Clerk of the County Board of
Supervisors for transmittal to the County Recorder.
('61 Code, § 10-2.403.5.7) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.403.5.8 SUBMITTAL BY UNITS.
   Multiple final maps relating to an approved or conditionally approved
tentative map may be filed prior to the expiration of the tentative map;
provided, however, that the subdivider, at the time the tentative map is filed,
informs the Planning Director of the subdivider's intention to file multiple
final maps on the tentative map. In providing such notice the subdivider shall
not be required to define the number or configuration of the proposed multiple
maps. However, the Planning Commission shall approve the sequence of map
approvals. The filing of a final map on a portion of an approved or
conditionally approved tentative map shall not invalidate any part of the
tentative map. Each final map which constitutes a part or unit, of the approved
tentative map shall have a separate subdivision number. The subdivision
improvement agreement to be executed by the subdivider shall provide for the
construction of such improvements as may be required to constitute a logical
and orderly development of the whole subdivision by units.
('61 Code, § 10-2.403.5.8) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
SUBDIVISION MAPS (FOUR OR LESS PARCELS)
§ 10-2.501 TENTATIVE PARCEL MAP.
§ 10-2.501.1 GENERAL.
   The form and contents, submittal, and approval of tentative parcel maps
shall conform to the provisions of this section. The tentative parcel map shall
be prepared by a registered civil engineer or licensed land surveyor.
('61 Code, § 10-2.501.1) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.501.2 FORM.
   The tentative map shall be clearly and legibly drawn on one sheet. The scale
shall be as approved by the City Engineer and all lettering shall be -inch
minimum in height. The final form shall be as approved by the City Engineer.
('61 Code, § 10-2.501.2) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.501.3 CONTENT.
   (A)   The tentative map shall show the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of legal owner, subdivider, and the person
preparing the map (including registration number).
      (2)   Assessor's parcel number.
      (3)   Date prepared, north arrow, scale, and contour interval.
      (4)   Existing and proposed land use.
      (5)   Title.
      (6)   A vicinity map, sufficient to show the relation to the local
community.
      (7)   Existing topography of the site extending at least 100 feet from
its boundary, including but not limited to:
         (a)   Existing contours at two-foot intervals, if the existing ground
slope is less than 10% and not less than five-foot intervals for existing
ground slopes greater than or equal to 10%. Existing contours shall be
represented by screened or dashed lines.
         (b)   Type and circumference of all trees. Any trees proposed to be
removed shall be so indicated.
         (c)   The approximate location and outline of existing structures
identified by type. Structures to be removed shall be so marked.
         (d)   The location, width, and direction of flow of each watercourse.
         (e)   The location, pavement, and right-of-way width, and grade and
name of existing streets or highways.
         (f)   Location and type of street improvements.
         (g)   The location, size, and slope of existing storm drains and the
location of existing overhead utility lines on peripheral streets.
         (h)   The location, width, and identity of existing easements.
      (8)   Any improvements proposed by the owner shall be shown.
      (9)   If the site is to be graded, proposed contours shall be shown or on
an approved grading plan shall be submitted.
      (10)   The proposed lot layout and lot areas.
      (11)   Proposed easements or rights-of-way.
      (12)   The source and date of existing contours.
      (13)   A preliminary report of title showing the current vested owner.
      (14)   A soils and/or engineering geology report may be required by the
City Engineer.
   (B)   The City Engineer may waive any of the foregoing requirements upon
finding that the location or nature of the proposed minor subdivision is such
as not to necessitate compliance with these requirements; or may require
additional information as deemed necessary.
('61 Code, § 10-2.501.3) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.501.4 SUBMITTAL TO PLANNING DEPARTMENT.
   Any person making a division of land for which a parcel map is required
shall, in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, file three prints
of the tentative parcel map, together with any deposits toward plan checking
and review fees as may be required, to the Planning Department.
('61 Code, § 10-2.501.4) (Ord. 252. C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.501.5 REVIEW AND NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   The tentative parcel map shall be reviewed by the Planning Department
for compliance to all applicable city ordinances and the State Subdivision Map
Act. Upon completion of the review and upon receipt of a valid application for
the tentative parcel map, the Planning Department shall set the matter for
public hearing. At least ten calendar days before the public hearing, the
Planning Department shall cause notice to be given of the time, date, and place
of the hearing including a general explanation of the matter to be considered
and a general description of the area affected, and the street address, if any,
of the property involved.
   (B)   The notice shall be published at least once in a newspaper of general
circulation, published and circulated in the city.
   (C)   In addition to notice by publication, the city shall give notice of
the hearing by mail or delivery to all persons, including businesses,
corporations, or other public or private entities, shown on the last equalized
assessment roll as owning real property within 300 feet of the property which
is the subject of the proposed change.
   (D)   In the event that the proposed change has been requested by a person
other than the property owner as such property owner is shown on the last
equalized assessment roll, the city shall also give mailed notice to the owner
of the property as shown on the last equalized assessment roll.
   (E)   In addition, notice shall be given by first class mail to any person
who has filed a written request with the Secretary of the Planning Commission.
Such a request may be submitted at any time during the calendar year and shall
apply for the balance of such calendar year. The city may impose a reasonable
fee on persons requesting such notice for the purpose of recovering the cost of
such mailing.
   (F)   Substantial compliance with these provisions therewith to notice shall
be sufficient, and a technical failure to comply shall not affect the validity
of any action taken pursuant to the procedures set forth in this subchapter.
   (G)   The Planning Director, at his or her discretion, may require that the
public hearing be held by the Planning Commission when the proposed development
arouses extraordinary public concern. The hearing and action shall be in
accordance with §
10-402.6 of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10-2.501.5) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.501.6 ACTION BY DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   Upon completion of the public hearing, the Development Review Committee
shall approve, conditionally approve, or deny the tentative parcel map. If the
map is approved, it shall be signed and dated by the Planning Director and City
Engineer or their authorized representative. A letter of the action taken,
along with any conditions imposed, shall be sent to the subdivider and
engineer. If the subdivision is denied, the subdivider or the engineer shall be
so notified in writing with a statement for the reasons of denial. The Planning
Department may refer the tentative parcel map to the Planning Commission for
its consideration.
('61 Code, § 10-2.501.6) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.501.7 APPROVAL AND/OR DENIAL.
   (A)   In approving or conditionally approving the tentative parcel map, the
Development Review Committee or authorized representative shall find that the
proposed subdivision, together with its provisions for its design and
improvements, is consistent with applicable general or specific plans adopted
by the city.
   (B)   The tentative parcel map may be denied for any reason provided by city
ordinances, resolutions, or the State Subdivision Map Act. The Planning
Director shall deny approval of the tentative parcel map if he or she makes any
of the findings contained in §
10-2.402.6.3.
('61 Code, § 10-2.501.7) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.501.8 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   In approving the tentative parcel map, the City Engineer may impose as
conditions of filing a parcel map any or all but not limited to the following
requirements:
      (1)   Frontage improvements.
      (2)   On-site improvements.
      (3)   Off-site improvements.
      (4)   Dedications.
      (5)   Applicable fees.
      (6)   A soils and/or engineering geology report.
   (B)   These requirements shall be in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. The subdivider or the engineer shall be notified in writing of all
conditions imposed.
('61 Code, § 10-2.501.8) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.501.9 APPEALS OF DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACTION.
§ 10-2.501.9.1 BY SUBDIVIDER.
   If the subdivider disagrees with any action by the Development Review
Committee with respect to the tentative map, the subdivider may, within 15 days
of the receipt of such decision, appeal such action to the Planning Commission
in accordance with §
10-2.501.9.2.
('61 Code, § 10-2.501.9.1) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.501.9.2 BY INTERESTED PERSONS ADVERSELY AFFECTED.
   (A)   Any interested person adversely affected by a decision of the
Development Review Committee with respect to the tentative parcel map, may,
within 15 days of such decision, file an appeal with the Secretary of the
Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall consider the appeal within
30 days. This appeal shall be a public hearing with notice being given pursuant
to §
10-2.402.6.1 and with additional notices to be given to the subdivider and to
the affected interested persons. Upon conclusion of the public hearing the
Planning Commission may sustain, modify, reject, or overrule any
recommendations or rulings of the Community Development Department and may make
such findings as are not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or
the State Subdivision Map Act.
   (B)   Any interested person adversely affected by a decision of the Planning
Commission with respect to the tentative parcel map may file an appeal with the
City Council concerning such decision. The procedure contained in §
10.2.402.7.2 shall apply.
('61 Code, § 10-2.501.9.2) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.501.10 EXPIRATION AND EXTENSIONS.
§ 10-2.501.10.1 EXPIRATION.
   (A)   The approval or conditional approval of the tentative parcel map shall
expire 24 months from the date of its approval.
   (B)   The period of time specified shall not include any period of time
during which a lawsuit has been filed and is pending in a court of competent
jurisdiction involving the approval or conditional approval of a tentative map
only if a stay of the time period is approved by the City Council. Within ten
days of the service of the initial petition or complaint upon the city, the
subdivider shall, in writing, to the Planning Director, request a stay in the
time period of the tentative map. Within 40 days after receiving such request,
the City Council shall either stay the time period for up to five years or deny
the requested stay. The request for the stay shall be a hearing with notice to
the subdivider and to the appellant, and upon conclusion of the hearing, the
City Council shall, within ten days, declare its findings.
   (C)   The expiration of the approved or conditionally approved tentative
parcel map shall terminate all proceedings and no parcel map of all or any
portion of the real property included within such tentative parcel map shall be
filed without first processing a new tentative parcel map.
('61 Code, § 10-2.501.10.1) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81; Am. Ord. 652 C.S.,
passed 3-6-96)
§ 10-2.501.10.2 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Request by subdivider. The subdivider or his or her engineer may
request an extension of the expiration date of the approved or conditionally
approved tentative map by written application to the Planning Division. The
application shall be filed not less than 30 days prior to the expiration date
and shall state the reasons for requesting the extension.
   (B)   Planning Division action. The Planning Division shall review the
request for extension for approval, conditional approval, or denial. Not more
than three extensions shall be approved for a tentative map and the period of
extension shall not exceed 12 months. The extension of time shall commence with
the expiration date of the approved or conditionally approved tentative map.
The approved new expiration date shall not extend more than 3 years beyond the
date of initial approval by the Development Review Committee.
   (C)   Conditions of approval of the extension shall be in accordance with
the provisions of this section.
   (D)   If the Planning Division denies a subdivider's application for
extension, the subdivider may appeal to the City Council within 15 days after
the Planning Division has denied the extension. Appeals shall be in accordance
with §
10-2.402.8.1 of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10-2.501.10.2) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81; Am. Ord. 652 C.S.,
passed 3-6-96)
§ 10.2.501.11 AMENDMENTS TO THE APPROVED TENTATIVE PARCEL MAP.
   (A)   Amendments to the tentative map or conditions of approval thereof may
be approved by the Planning Department, upon application by the subdivider or
on its own initiative; provided:
      (1)   No lots, units, or building sites are added.
      (2)   Such changes are consistent with the intent of the original
tentative map approval.
      (3)   There are no resulting violations of the City Municipal Code.
   (B)   Any revision shall be approved by the City Engineer or authorized
representative. The revision shall be denoted on the approved tentative map
and/or in writing to the subdivider, whichever is appropriate.
   (C)   Any amendment shall not affect the expiration date of the approved
tentative map.
   (D)   The Planning Director or City Engineer or their authorized
representative may require a new tentative parcel map application in lieu of
the above procedure when, in their opinion, requested changes are substantial
enough to warrant refiling and reprocessing.
('61 Code, § 10-2.501.11) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.502 PARCEL MAPS.
§ 10-2.502.1 GENERAL.
   The form and contents, submittal, approval, and filing of parcel maps shall
conform to the provisions of this section and the State Subdivision Map Act.
('61 Code, § 10-2.502.1) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.502.2 SURVEY REQUIRED.
   An accurate and complete survey of the land to be subdivided shall be made
by a registered civil engineer or licensed land surveyor. All monuments,
property lines, centerlines of streets, alleys, and easements adjoining or
within the subdivision shall be tied into the survey. The allowable error of
closure on any portion of the parcel map shall not exceed 1/10,000 for field
closures and 1/20,000 for calculated closures.
('61 Code, § 10-2.502.2) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.502.3 FORM.
   The form of the parcel map shall conform to final map form requirements as
specified by §
10-2.403 of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10-2.502.3) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.502.4 CONTENTS.
   (A)   The contents of the parcel map shall conform to final map content
requirements as specified by §
10-2.403 of this chapter, and as modified herein.
   (B)   Certificates shall be in accordance with Cal. Gov't Code § 66449.
   (C)   The Planning Commission certificates will not be required unless the
tentative parcel map was referred to the Planning Commission for its
consideration. The City Clerk's certificate will not be required.
   (D)   Lots shall be designated by letters commencing with an "A."
('61 Code, § 10-2.502.4) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.502.5 PRELIMINARY SUBMITTAL.
   (A)   The subdivider shall submit three sets of prints of the parcel map to
the City Engineer for checking. The preliminary prints shall be accompanied by
two copies of the date, plans, reports and documents as required for final maps
by §
10-2.403, "Preliminary Submittal," and as modified herein.
   (B)   The City Engineer may waive any of the requirements upon finding that
the location and nature of the proposed subdivision is such as not to
necessitate compliance with the requirements of §
10-2.403.
   (C)   Any additional information or documents required shall be as specified
with the conditions of approval of the tentative map.
('61 Code, § 10-2.502.5) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.502.6 RETURN TO SUBDIVIDER'S ENGINEER FOR CORRECTIONS.
   Upon completing preliminary check, the City Engineer shall note the required
corrections on the preliminary prints, reports, and data and return one set to
the subdivider's engineer for revision.
('61 Code, § 10-2.502.6) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.502.7 RESUBMITTAL.
   The subdivider's engineer shall submit two sets of the revised map, reports,
and data to the City Engineer. After checking the revisions, one set shall be
returned to the subdivider's engineer marked, "Approved as Submitted,"
"Approved When Corrected as Noted," or "Revise and Resubmit."
('61 Code, § 10-2.502.7) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.502.8 APPROVAL BY CITY ENGINEER.
   Upon receipt of an approved print, the subdivider shall submit the original
tracing of the revised map, prepared in accordance with the Subdivision Map Act
and this chapter and corrected to its final form, and signed by all parties
required by the Map Act and this chapter to execute the certificates on the
map, to the City Engineer.
('61 Code, § 10-2.502.8) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.502.9 FILING WITH THE COUNTY RECORDER.
   The City Clerk or authorized agent shall transmit the approved parcel map
directly to the County Recorder.
('61 Code, § 10-2.502.9) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.502.10 WAIVER OF PARCEL MAP REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The City Engineer may waive the parcel map for the following:
      (1)   Division of real property or interests therein created by probate,
eminent domain procedures, partition, or other civil judgments or decrees; or
      (2)   A division of property resulting from the conveyance of land, or
interest therein, to a public agency for a public purpose, such as school
sites, public building sites, or rights-of-way for streets, sewers, utilities,
drainage, and the like; or
      (3)   The City Engineer may waive the parcel map upon making a finding
that the proposed division of land complies with requirements as to area,
improvement and design, flood water drainage control, appropriate improved
public roads, sanitary disposal facilities, water supply availability,
environmental protection, and other requirements of this chapter, local
ordinance, and the Subdivision Map Act.
   (B)   Upon waiving the parcel map requirement, the City Engineer shall cause
to be filed with the County Recorder a "Certificate of Compliance" for the land
to be divided.
   (C)   A parcel map waived by the City Engineer may be conditioned to provide
for payment of parkland, drainage, and other fees by a method approved by the
City Engineer.
('61 Code, § 10-2.502.10) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
CONDOMINIUM CONVERSION
§ 10-2.601 PURPOSE.
   (A)   To establish criteria for the conversion of the existing multiple
family rental housing to condominiums, community apartments, stock
cooperatives, and any other subdivision which is a conversion of existing
rental housing.
   (B)   To reduce the impact of such conversions on residents in rental
housing who may be required to relocate due to the conversion of apartments to
condominiums by providing for procedures for notification and adequate time and
assistance for such relocation.
   (C)   To assure that purchasers of converted housing have been properly
informed as to the physical conditions of the structure which is offered for
purchase.
   (D)   To insure that converted housing achieves a high degree of appearance,
quality, and safety and is consistent with the goals of the city.
   (E)   Attempt to provide a reasonable balance of ownership and rental
housing in the city and a variety of choices of tenure, type, price, and
location of housing.
   (F)   Attempt to maintain a supply of rental housing for low and moderate
income persons.
('61 Code, § 10-2.601) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.602 REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES.
§ 10-2.602.1 GENERAL.
   In addition to the requirements and procedures as set forth by subchapters
on Maps Required, Subdivision Maps for Five or More Parcels, Subdivision Maps
for Four or Less Parcels, and Condominium Conversion of this chapter,
conversions of existing multiple family rental housing to condominiums,
community apartments, stock cooperatives, and any other subdivision which is a
conversion of existing rental housing shall be subject to the additional
requirements provided by this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 10-2.602.1) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.602.2 PHYSICAL ELEMENTS REPORT.
   A report on the physical elements of all structures and facilities shall be
submitted with the tentative subdivision or parcel map. The report shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Structural condition.
      (1)   A report detailing the structural condition of all elements of the
property including foundations, electrical, plumbing, utilities, walls,
ceilings, windows, recreational facilities, sound transmission of each
building, mechanical equipment, parking facilities, and appliances.
      (2)   Regarding each such element, the report shall state, to the best
knowledge or estimate of the applicant, when such element was built; the
condition of each element; when the element was replaced; the approximate date
upon which the element will require replacement; the cost of replacing the
element; and any variation of the physical condition of the element from the
current zoning and from the City Housing Code and City Building Code in effect
on the date that the last building permit was issued for the subject structure.
The report shall identify any defective or unsafe elements and set forth the
proposed corrective measures to be employed.
   (B)   A report from a licensed structural pest control operator, approved by
the city, on each structure and each unit within the structure.
   (C)   A report on any known soil and geological conditions regarding soil
deposits, rock formations, faults, groundwater, and landslides in the vicinity
of the project and a statement regarding any known evidence of soils problems
relating to the structures. Reference shall be made to any previous soils
reports for the site and a copy submitted with the report.
   (D)   A statement of repairs and improvements to be made by the subdivider
necessary to refurbish and restore the project to achieve a high degree of
appearance and safety.
('61 Code, § 10-2.602.2) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.602.3 ADDITIONAL SUBMITTALS.
   (A)   A declaration of covenants, conditions, and restrictions which would
be applied on behalf of any and all owners of condominium units within the
project. The declaration shall include, but not be limited to, the conveyance
of units; the assignment of parking; an agreement for common area maintenance,
including facilities and landscaping, together with an estimate of any initial
assessment fees anticipated for such maintenance, description of a provision
for maintenance of all vehicular access areas within the project; and an
indication of appropriate responsibilities for maintenance of all utility lines
and services for each unit.
   (B)   Demographic characteristics.
      (1)   Specific information concerning the demographic characteristics of
the project, including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   Square footage and number of rooms in each unit;
         (b)   Rental rate history for each type of unit for previous five
years;
         (c)   Monthly vacancy rate for each month during preceding two years;
         (d)   Makeup of existing tenant households, including family size,
length of residence, age of tenants, and whether receiving federal or state
rent subsidies;
         (e)   Proposed sale price of units;
         (f)   Proposed homeowners' association fee;
         (g)   Financing available; and
         (h)   Names and addresses of all tenants.
      (2)   When the subdivider can demonstrate that such information is not
available, this requirement may be modified by the Planning Department.
   (C)   Signed copies from each tenant of notice of intent to convert, as
specified in §
10-2.604.1. The subdivider shall submit evidence that a certified letter of
notification was sent to each tenant for whom a signed copy of the notice is
not submitted.
   (D)   Any other information which, in the opinion of the Planning
Department, will assist in determining whether the proposed project will be
consistent with the purposes of this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 10-2.602.3) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.602.4 ACCEPTANCE OF REPORTS.
   The final form of the physical elements report and other documents shall be
as approved by the city. The reports in their acceptable form shall remain on
file with the Planning Department for review by any interested persons. The
report shall be referenced in the subdivision report to the Planning
Commission.
('61 Code, § 10-2.602.4) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.602.5 COPY TO BUYERS.
   The subdivider shall provide each purchaser with a copy of all reports (in
their final, acceptable form), except the information required by §§
10-2.602.3(B) and (C), prior to the purchaser executing any purchase agreement
or other contract to purchase a unit in the project, and the developer shall
give the purchaser sufficient time to review the reports. Copies of the reports
shall be made available at all times at the sales office and shall be posted at
various locations, as approved by the city, at the project site.
('61 Code, § 10-2.602.5) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.602.6 PUBLIC HEARING.
   Prior to tentative map approval, the Planning Commission shall hold a public
hearing. Notice of the hearing shall be given to tenants of the proposed
conversion and posted on the property.
('61 Code, § 10-2.602.6) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.602.7 FINAL INFORMATION SUBMITTED.
   (A)   Prior to the close of escrow, the subdivider shall submit the
following information to the Planning Department:
      (1)   Name, address, and phone number of homeowners association;
      (2)   Actual sale price of units;
      (3)   Actual homeowner's association fee;
      (4)   Number of prior tenants who purchased units;
      (5)   Number of units purchased with intent to be used as rentals.
   (B)   The provisions of §
10-2.602.7 will expire October 7, 1982 unless reenacted by the City Council.
('61 Code, § 10-2.602.7) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.603 PHYSICAL STANDARDS FOR CONDOMINIUM CONVERSIONS.
§ 10-2.603.1 ADEQUATE PHYSICAL CONDITION.
   (A)   To achieve the purpose of this subchapter, the Planning Commission
shall require that all condominium conversions conform to the City Municipal
Code in effect at the time of tentative map approval except as otherwise
provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   All provisions of the Municipal Code must be met and violations
corrected prior to the approval of the final map or, upon approval of the
Planning Department, funds shall be adequately escrowed or bonded to assure
completion of such corrective work, prior to the closing of escrow of any unit
in the project.
('61 Code, § 10-2.603.1) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.603.2 SPECIFIC PHYSICAL STANDARDS.
   The Planning Commission shall require conformance with the standards of this
section in approving the map.
   (A)   Building regulations. The project shall conform to the applicable
standards of the Uniform Building Code in effect on the date that the last
building permit was issued for the subject structure or structures except as
herein provided.
   (B)   Fire prevention.
      (1)   Smoke detectors. Each living unit shall be provided with approved
detectors of products of combustion other than heat, conforming to the latest
U.B.C. standards, mounted on the ceiling or wall at a point centrally located
in the corridor or area giving access to rooms used for sleeping purposes.
      (2)   Maintenance of fire protection systems. All fire hydrants, fire
alarm systems, portable fire extinguishers, and other fire protective
appliances shall be retained in an operable condition at all times.
   (C)   Sound transmission.
      (1)   Shock mounting of mechanical equipment. All permanent mechanical
equipment, such as motors, compressors, pumps, and compactors, which is
determined to be a source of structural vibration or structure-borne noise
shall be shock mounted with inertia blocks or bases and/or vibration isolators
in a manner approved by the Chief of Code Enforcement.
      (2)   Noise standards. The structure shall conform to all exterior and
exterior sound transmission standards of Chapter 35 (Appendix) of the Uniform
Building Code. In such cases where present standards cannot reasonably be met,
the Planning Commission may require the applicant to notify potential buyers of
the noise deficiency currently existing within these units.
   (D)   Utility metering. Each dwelling unit shall be separately metered for
gas and electricity. A plan for equitable sharing of communal water metering
shall be developed prior to final map approval and included in the covenants,
conditions, and restrictions. In such cases where the subdivider can
demonstrate that this standard cannot or should not reasonably be met, this
standard may be modified by the Planning Commission.
   (E)   Private storage space. Each unit shall have at least 200 cubic feet of
enclosed weather-proofed and lockable private storage space in addition to
guest, linen, pantry, and clothes closets customarily provided. Such space may
be provided in any location approved by the Planning Department, but shall not
be divided into two or more locations. In such cases where the subdivider can
demonstrate that this standard cannot or should not reasonably be met, this
standard may be modified by the Planning Commission.
   (F)   Laundry facilities. A laundry area shall be provided on each unit; or
if common laundry areas are provided, such facilities shall consist of not less
than one automatic washer and dryer for each five units or fraction thereof. In
such cases where the subdivider can demonstrate that this standard cannot or
should not reasonably be met, this standard may be modified by the Planning
Commission.
   (G)   Landscape maintenance. All landscaping shall be restored as necessary
and maintained to achieve a high degree of appearance and quality.
   (H)   Condition of equipment and appliances. The developer shall provide
written certification to the buyer of each unit at the close of escrow that any
dishwashers, garbage disposals, stoves, refrigerators, hot water tanks, and air
conditioners that are provided are in operable working condition as of the
close of escrow. At such time as the homeowners' association takes over
management of the development, the developer shall provide written
certification to the association that any pool and pool equipment (filter,
pumps, chlorinator) and any appliances and mechanical equipment to be owned in
common by the association is in operable working condition.
   (I)   Refurbishing and restoration. All main buildings, structures, fences,
patio enclosures, carports, accessory buildings, sidewalks, driveways,
landscaped areas, and additional elements as required by the Planning
Department shall be refurbished and restored as necessary to achieve a high
degree of appearance, quality, and safety.
('61 Code, § 10-2.603.2) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.604 TENANT PROVISIONS.
§ 10-2.604.1 NOTICE OF INTENT.
   A notice of intent to convert shall be delivered to each tenant. Evidence of
receipt by each tenant shall be submitted with the tentative map. The form of
the notice shall be as developed and approved by the Planning Department and
will inform the tenants of all rights provided under this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 10-2.604.1) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.604.2 TENANT'S RIGHT TO PURCHASE.
   As provided in Cal. Gov't Code § 66427.1(b), any present tenant or tenants
of any unit shall be given a nontransferable right of first refusal to purchase
the unit occupied at a price no greater than the price offered to the general
public. The right of first refusal shall extend for at least 60 days from the
date of issuance of the subdivision public report or commencement of sales,
whichever date is later.
('61 Code, § 10-2.604.2) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.604.3 VACATION OF UNITS.
   Each non-purchasing tenant not in default under the obligations of the
rental agreement or lease under which he or she occupies his or her unit, shall
have not less than 120 days from the approval date of the final subdivision map
to find substitute housing and relocate. The subdivider shall notify each
tenant immediately prior to the time of final map approval of the anticipated
date required to vacate the unit and when the 120-day period will begin.
Evidence of receipt by each tenant shall be submitted prior to approval of the
final map.
('61 Code, § 10-2.604.3) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.605 FINDINGS.
   The Planning Commission shall not approve an application for conversion
unless the Planning Commission finds that:
   (A)   All provisions of this subchapter are met;
   (B)   The proposed conversion is consistent with the City General Plan;
   (C)   The proposed conversion will conform to the City Municipal Code in
effect at the time of tentative map approval except as otherwise provided in
this subchapter;
   (D)   The overall design and physical condition of the condominium
conversion achieves a high degree of appearance, quality, and safety;
   (E)   The proposed project will not convert during the current calendar year
more than 5% of the potentially convertible rental units in the city for the
current calendar year except as otherwise provided in this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 10-2.605) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS
§ 10-2.701 GENERAL.
   (A)   The subdivider shall construct all required improvements both on- and
off-site according to approved standards.
   (B)   No final map shall be presented to the Council or parcel map to the
City Engineer for approval until the subdivider either completes the required
improvements, or enters into an agreement with the city agreeing to do such
work.
('61 Code, § 10-2.701) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.702 IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
§ 10-2.702.1 GENERAL.
   (A)   All improvements as may be required as conditions of approval of the
tentative map or city ordinance, together with but not limited to the
following, shall be required of all subdivisions.
   (B)   Requirements for construction of on-site and off-site improvements for
subdivisions of four or less parcels shall be noted on the parcel map, or
waiver of parcel map, or the subdivision improvement agreement recorded prior
to or concurrent with the parcel map.
('61 Code, § 10-2.702.1) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.702.2 STORM DRAINAGE.
   Storm water runoff from the subdivision shall be collected and conveyed by
an approved storm drain system. The storm drain system shall be designed for
ultimate development of the watershed. The storm drain system shall provide for
the protection of abutting and off-site properties that would be adversely
affected by any increase in runoff attributed to the development; off-site
storm drain improvements may be required to satisfy this requirement.
('61 Code, § 10-2.702.2) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.702.3 SANITARY SEWERS.
   Each unit or lot within the subdivision shall be served by an approved
sanitary sewer system.
('61 Code, § 10-2.702.3) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.702.4 WATER SUPPLY.
   Each unit or lot within the subdivision shall be served by an approved
domestic water system.
('61 Code, § 10-2.702.4) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.702.5 UTILITIES.
   Each unit or lot within the subdivision shall be served by gas (if
required), electric, telephone, and cablevision facilities. All utilities
within the subdivision and along peripheral streets shall be placed underground
except those facilities exempted by the Public Utilities Commission
regulations. Cablevision facilities shall be installed in accordance with plans
approved by the City Engineer.
   (A)   The subdivider may request that the undergrounding requirement along
existing perimeter streets be waived by the Planning Commission. Undergrounding
requirements may be waived or modified by the Planning Commission only upon
making the following findings:
      (1)   The subdivision is located adjacent to existing subdivision/
development where existing utilities have not been placed underground;
      (2)   The exemption will be allowed since undergrounding is impractical
due to the locational characteristics or physical constraints;
      (3)   Existing residential subdivisions immediately adjacent to the
proposed project are absent similar improvements; or,
      (4)   Consideration of an incentive is desired based on a proposal to
provided residential units for lower income households.
   (B)   Exceptions to the underground installation requirement for existing
utilities along existing perimeter streets may be granted by the Planning
Commission under the following circumstances:
      (1)   Exemptions may be granted for in-fill subdivisions which do not
have any street or residential access to the perimeter street where underground
installation of existing utilities would be required, where dedications and
improvements would match the adjacent street pattern, and where street
improvements would not require the relocation of the utilities;
      (2)   Exemptions may be granted for in-fill subdivisions which are
designed with street access to the perimeter street where undergrounding
existing utilities would be required, where dedications and improvements would
match the adjacent pattern, and when the number of new poles required to be
installed with the underground installation would exceed the number of poles
eliminated; or,
      (3)   Exemptions may be granted for in-fill subdivisions for lower income
households on two acres or less which can qualify for an Environmental Quality
Act exemption, which have no public financial assistance, and for which a legal
commitment can be made to ensure the availability of the units for 15 years.
   (C)   "In-fill" subdivisions for the purpose of this code shall be defined
as having existing urban development immediately adjacent on at least two
sides.
   (D)   Installation of conduit to assist in a later underground project, or
requiring a cash deposit with the city equivalent to the cost of such
installation to assist in placing the existing utilities underground at a later
date, may be required by the Planning Commission as a condition to granting an
exemption.
   (E)   In-fill subdivisions which are designed to front on and allow direct
residential access to the perimeter street shall place existing utilities
underground in all cases.
   (F)   In-fill subdivisions which require a greater street width in terms of
dedication and improvement than the adjacent residential developments shall
place existing utilities underground in all cases.
   (G)   The placement of existing utility lines along the perimeter streets of
a new subdivision underground shall be considered a part of the reimbursable
street and public utility improvements for the subdivision. The reimbursement
provisions of §
10-3.4.0109 of the Municipal Code shall apply to completing this portion of a
subdivision's required street improvements..
('61 Code, § 10-2.702.5) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81; Am. Ord. 659 C.S.,
passed 7-3-96)
§ 10-2.702.6 STREET LIGHTS.
   All subdivisions shall have adequate street lighting as per city standards.
('61 Code, § 10-2.702.6) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.702.7 CURB AND GUTTERS.
   All streets shall have full curb and gutter construction.
('61 Code, § 10-2.702.7) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.702.8 SIDEWALKS.
   Sidewalks shall be constructed in all subdivisions as directed by the City
Engineer.
('61 Code, § 10-2.702.8) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.703 DEFERRED IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENTS.
§ 10-2.703.1 SUBDIVISIONS OF FOUR OR LESS PARCELS.
   (A)   The frontage improvements along existing peripheral streets may be
deferred when deemed necessary by the City Engineer. Deferral will be allowed
when the City Engineer finds that construction is impractical due to physical
constraints, or the surrounding neighborhood is absent of similar improvements.
When improvements are deferred, the subdivider shall enter into an agreement
with the city for the installation of all frontage improvements at such time in
the future as required by the city. The agreement shall provide:
      (1)   Construction of the improvements shall commence within 90 days of
the receipt of the notice to proceed from the city.
      (2)   That in event of default by the owner, his or her successors, or
assigns, the city is authorized to cause the construction to be done and charge
the entire cost and expense to the owner, his or her successors, or assigns,
including interest from the date of notice of the cost and expense until paid.
      (3)   That this agreement shall be recorded in the office of the Recorder
of the County at the expense of the owner and shall constitute notice to all
successors and assigns of the title to the real property of the obligation
herein set forth, and also a lien in such amount as will fully reimburse the
city, including interest as hereinabove set forth, subject to foreclosure in
event of default in payment.
      (4)   That in event of litigation occasioned by any default of the owner,
his or her successors, or assigns, the owner, his or her successors, or assigns
agree to pay all costs involved, including reasonable attorney's fees, and that
the same shall become a part of the lien against the real property.
      (5)   That the term OWNER shall include not only the present owner but
also his or her heirs, successors, executors, administrators, and assigns, it
being the intent of the parties hereto that the obligations herein undertaken
shall run with the property and constitute a lien there against.
   (B)   The agreement shall not relieve the owner from any other requirements
specified herein. The construction of deferred improvements shall conform to
the provisions of this chapter and all applicable subchapters of the Municipal
Code in effect at the time of construction.
('61 Code, § 10-2.703.1) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10.2.703.2 REMAINDERS.
   Where remainders are made part of a final or parcel map, the city may enter
into an agreement with the subdivider to construct improvements within the
remainder at some future date and prior to the issuance of a permit or other
grant of approval for the development of a remainder parcel. The improvements
shall be at the developer's expense. In the absence of such an agreement, the
city may require fulfillment of such construction requirements within a
reasonable time following approval of the map, upon a finding that fulfillment
of the construction requirements is necessary for reasons of:
   (A)   The public health and safety, or
   (B)   The required construction is a necessary prerequisite to the orderly
development of the surrounding area.
('61 Code, § 10-2.703.2) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.704 DESIGN.
§ 10-2.704.1 GENERAL.
   The design and layout of all required improvements both on- and off-site,
private and public, shall conform to generally acceptable engineering standards
and to such standards as approved by the City Engineer.
('61 Code, § 10-2.704.1) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.704.2 ENERGY CONSERVATION.
   (A)   The design of a subdivision for which a tentative map is required,
pursuant to the subchapter on Maps Required of this chapter, shall provide, to
the extent feasible, for future passive or natural heating or cooling
opportunities in the subdivision.
   (B)   Examples of passive or natural heating opportunities in subdivision
design include design of lot size and configuration to permit orientation of a
structure in an east-west alignment for southern exposure.
   (C)   Examples of passive or natural cooling opportunities in subdivision
design include design of lot size and configuration to permit orientation of a
structure to take advantage of shade or prevailing breezes.
   (D)   In providing for future passive or natural heating or cooling
opportunities in the design of a subdivision, consideration shall be given to
local climate, to contour, to configuration of the parcel to be divided, and to
other design and improvement requirements, and such provision shall not result
in increasing allowable densities or the percentage of a lot which may be
occupied by a building or structure under applicable planning and zoning in
force at the time the tentative map is filed.
   (E)   The requirements of this section do not apply to condominium projects
which consist of the subdivision of airspace in an existing building when no
new structures are added.
   (F)   For the purposes of this section, FEASIBLE means capable of being
accomplished in a successful manner within a reasonable period of time, taking
into account economic, environmental, social, and technological factors.
('61 Code, § 10-2.704.2) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.705 ACCESS.
   (A)   The subdivision shall abut upon, or have an approved access to, a
public street.
   (B)   Each unit or lot within the subdivision shall have an approved access
to a public or private street.
   (C)   Street layout shall be designed to provide for future access to, and
not impose undue hardship upon, property adjoining the subdivision.
   (D)   Reserve strips, or non-access at the end of streets or at the
boundaries of subdivisions, shall be dedicated unconditionally to the city when
required.
('61 Code, § 10-2.705) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.706 IMPROVEMENT PLANS.
§ 10-2.706.1 GENERAL.
   (A)   Improvement plans shall be prepared under the direction of and signed
by a Registered Civil Engineer licensed by the state.
   (B)   Improvement plans shall include but not be limited to grading, storm
drains, landscaping, streets, water and sewer mains, and related facilities.
('61 Code, § 10-2.706.1) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.706.2 FORM.
   (A)   Plans, profiles, and details shall be legibly drawn, printed, or
reproduced on 24 × 36-inch sheets. A border shall be made on each sheet
providing ½-inch at top, bottom, and right side and 1½- inches on the left
side.
   (B)   A suitable title block 7½ × 3¾-inches shall be placed in the lower
right corner or along the right edge and provide adequate surface for approval
by the City Engineer and for approval of plan revision.
   (C)   Plan and profiles shall be drawn to the scale of one inch = 40 feet or
larger unless approved by the City Engineer. Details shall be drawn to such
scale that clearly shows the facility being constructed. The scales for various
portions of the plans shall be shown on each sheet.
   (D)   A vicinity map shall be shown on the first sheet of all sets of plans.
   (E)   A north arrow shall be shown on each sheet when applicable.
   (F)   Plans shall be laid out to orient north to the top or right edge of
the sheet unless approved otherwise by the City Engineer.
   (G)   All lettering shall be -inch minimum.
   (H)   If the plans include three or more sheets, a cover sheet showing the
streets, lots, easements, storm drains, index, and vicinity map shall be
included.
   (I)   The form of all plans shall conform to such additional requirements as
may be established by the City Engineer. The final form of all plans shall be
as approved by the City Engineer.
('61 Code, § 10-2.706.2) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.706.3 CONTENTS.
   The improvement plans shall show complete plans, profiles, and details for
all required improvements to be constructed, both public and private (including
common areas).
('61 Code, § 10-2.706.3) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.706.4 SUPPLEMENTARY PLANS AND CALCULATIONS.
   Hydrology, hydraulic plans and calculations, bond estimates, and any
structural calculations as may be required, shall be submitted with the
improvement plans to the City Engineer. All calculations shall be legible,
systematic, and signed and dated by a Registered Civil Engineer licensed by the
state and in a form as approved by the City Engineer.
('61 Code, § 10-2.706.4) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.706.5 REVIEW BY THE CITY ENGINEER.
   The subdivider shall submit two sets of improvement plans and two copies of
all computations to the City Engineer for review. Upon completion of the City
Engineer's review, one set of the preliminary plans, with the required
revisions indicated thereon, will be returned to the subdivider's engineer.
('61 Code, § 10-2.706.5) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.706.6 APPROVAL BY THE CITY ENGINEER.
   (A)   After completing all required revisions, the subdivider's engineer
shall transmit the originals of the improvement plans to the City Engineer for
his or her signature, plus four sets of prints and one set of sepia
reproducibles.
   (B)   Upon finding that all required revisions have been made and that the
plans conform to all applicable city ordinances, design review requirements,
and conditions of approval of the tentative map, the City Engineer shall sign
and date the plans. The sepias will be returned to the subdivider signed by the
City Engineer.
   (C)   Approval of the improvement plans shall not be construed as approval
of the sanitary sewer or water construction plans.
   (D)   Approval by the City Engineer shall in no way relieve the subdivider
or his or her engineer from responsibility for the design of the improvements
and for any deficiencies resulting from the design thereof or from any required
conditions of approval for the tentative map.
('61 Code, § 10-2.706.6) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.706.7 REVISIONS TO APPROVED PLANS.
§ 10-2.706.7.1 BY SUBDIVIDER.
   Requests by the subdivider or the engineer for revisions to the approved
plans appearing necessary or desirable during construction shall be submitted
in writing to the City Engineer or his or her appointee and shall be
accompanied by two sets of revised drawings showing the proposed revision. If
the revision is acceptable, the originals previously held by the City Engineer
shall be returned to the subdivider for revision, then resubmitted to the City
Engineer with two sets of prints for record purposes. Construction of any
proposed revision will not be permitted to commence until revised plans have
been received and forwarded to the City's Engineering Inspection Division.
('61 Code, § 10-2.706.7.1) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.706.7.2 BY CITY ENGINEER.
   (A)   When revisions are deemed necessary by the City Engineer to protect
public health and safety, or as field conditions may require, a request in
writing shall be made to the subdivider and his or her engineer. The
subdivider's engineer shall obtain and revise the original plans and resubmit
them to the City Engineer for initialing within such time as specified by the
City Engineer. Originals shall be accompanied by two sets of revised prints.
Construction of all or any portion of the improvements may be stopped by the
City Engineer until revised drawings have been submitted and approved.
   (B)   The subdivider may appeal revisions required by the City Engineer to
the City Council by filing a notice with the City Clerk within two working days
following receipt of the request to revise the plans.
('61 Code, § 10-2.706.7.2) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.706.7.3 PLAN CHECKING AND INSPECTION COSTS FOR REVISIONS.
   Costs incurred by the city for the checking of plans or calculations or
inspection as a result of revisions to the approved plans shall be borne by the
subdivider at actual cost. A deposit, when required, shall be submitted with
the revised prints; such deposit shall be applied toward the actual costs.
('61 Code, § 10-2.706.7.3) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.707 IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT.
   The agreement shall be prepared and signed by the City Engineer and approved
as to form by the City Attorney. The agreement shall provide for:
   (A)   Construction of all improvements per the approved plans and
specifications.
   (B)   Completion of improvements within the time specified by §
10-2.711.
   (C)   Right by city to modify plans and specifications.
   (D)   Warranty by subdivider that construction will not adversely affect any
portion of adjacent properties.
   (E)   Payment of inspection fees in accordance with the city's resolution
establishing fees and charges.
   (F)   Payment of drainage and other utility fees.
   (G)   Any other deposits, fees, or conditions as required by city ordinance
or resolution and as may be required by the City Engineer.
   (H)   Improvement security as required by this subchapter.
   (I)   Maintenance and repair of any defects or failures and causes thereof.
   (J)   Release of the city from all liability incurred by the agreement and
payment of all reasonable attorney's fees that the city may incur because of
any legal action arising from the agreement.
('61 Code, § 10-2.707) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.708 IMPROVEMENT SECURITY.
§ 10-2.708.1 GENERAL.
   (A)   Any improvement agreement, contract, or act required or authorized by
the Subdivision Map Act, for which security is required, shall be secured in
accordance with Cal. Gov't Code § 66499 and as provided herein.
   (B)   No final map or parcel map shall be signed by the City Engineer or
recorded until all improvement securities required by this section have been
received and approved.
('61 Code, § 10-2.708.1) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.708.2 FORM OF SECURITY.
   (A)   The form of security shall be one or the combination of the following
at the option and subject to the approval of the city:
      (1)   Bond or bonds by one or more duly authorized corporate sureties.
      (2)   A deposit, either with the local agency or a responsible escrow
agent or trust company, at the option of the city, or money or negotiable bonds
of the kind approved for securing deposits of public monies.
      (3)   An instrument of credit or a set aside letter from one or more
financial institutions subject to regulation by the state or federal government
and pledging that the funds necessary to carry out the act or agreement are on
deposit and guaranteed for payment.
   (B)   The provisions of the bond or bonds shall be in accordance with §
66499.1 and 66499.2 of the State Subdivision Map Act.
('61 Code, § 10-2.708.2) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.708.3 AMOUNT OF SECURITY.
   (A)   A performance bond or security in the amount of 100% of the estimated
construction cost to guarantee the construction or installation of all
improvements shall be required of all subdivisions. An additional amount of 50%
of the estimated construction cost shall be required to guarantee the payment
to the subdivider's contractor, subcontractors, and to persons furnishing
labor, materials, or equipment for the construction or installation of
improvements.
   (B)   If a set aside letter is used as security, an additional 20% of the
estimated construction cost will be required in addition to the 150% as stated
above.
   (C)   The estimate of improvement costs shall be as approved by the City
Engineer and shall provide for:
      (1)   10% of the total construction cost for contingencies.
      (2)   Increase for projected inflation computed to the estimated midpoint
of construction.
      (3)   All utility installation costs or a certification acceptable to the
City Engineer from the utility company that adequate security has been
deposited to insure installation.
      (4)   In addition to the full amount of the security, there shall be
included costs and reasonable expenses and fees, including attorney's fees,
incurred in enforcing the obligation secured.
('61 Code, § 10-2.708.3) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.708.4 CASH BOND.
   The developer shall deposit with the city not less than $1,000 cash for
subdivisions of four or less parcels, and $3,000 for other subdivisions, or
such additional amount as required by the City Engineer, not to exceed 1% of
the construction cost. The deposit may be used at the discretion of the city to
correct deficiencies and conditions caused by the subdivider or his or her
contractor that may arise during or after the construction of the subdivision.
Any unexpended amount will be returned to the developer at the time all bonds
are released.
('61 Code, § 10-2.708.4) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.708.5 WARRANTY SECURITY.
   Upon acceptance of the subdivision improvements by the City Council, the
subdivider shall provide security in the amount as required by the City
Engineer to guarantee the improvements throughout the warranty period. The
amount of the warranty security shall be not less than 10% of the cost of the
construction of the improvements and shall be retained for the one-year
warranty period.
('61 Code, § 10-2.708.5) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.708.6 REDUCTION IN PERFORMANCE SECURITY.
   The City Engineer may authorize in writing the release of a portion of the
security in conjunction with the acceptance of the satisfactory completion of a
part of the improvements as the work progresses upon application by the
subdivider, but in no case shall the security be reduced to less than 50% of
the total improvement security given for faithful performance. The amount of
reduction of the security shall be as determined by the City Engineer; however,
in no event shall the City Engineer authorize a release of the improvement
security which would reduce such security to an amount below the required to
guarantee the completion of the improvements and any other obligation imposed
by this chapter, the Subdivision Map Act, or the improvement agreement.
('61 Code, § 10-2.708.6) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.708.7 RELEASE OF IMPROVEMENT SECURITIES.
§ 10-2.708.7.1 PERFORMANCE SECURITY.
   The performance security shall be released only upon acceptance of the
improvements by the city and when an approved warranty security has been filed
with the City Engineer.
('61 Code, § 10-2.708.7.1) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.708.7.2 MATERIAL AND LABOR SECURITY. 
   Security given to secure payment to the contractor, subcontractors, and to
persons furnishing labor, materials, or equipment may, six months after the
completion and acceptance of the improvements by the City Council, be reduced
to an amount equal to the amount of all claims therefor filed and of which
notice has been given to the City Council. The balance of the security shall be
released upon the settlement of all such claims and obligations for which the
security was given.
('61 Code, § 10-2.708.7.2) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.708.7.3 WARRANTY SECURITY.
   The warranty security shall be released upon satisfactory completion of the
warranty period provided:
   (A)   All deficiencies appearing on the warranty deficiency list for the
subdivision have been corrected.
   (B)   Not less than 12 months have elapsed since the acceptance of the
improvements by the City Council.
('61 Code, § 10-2.708.7.3) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.709 CONSTRUCTION. 
   (A)   The construction methods and materials for all improvements shall
conform to the city's adopted standards. The general provisions of the City's
Standard Specifications shall apply to the developer where applicable.
   (B)   Construction shall not commence until required improvement plans have
been approved by the City Engineer.
('61 Code, § 10-2.709) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.710 CONSTRUCTION INSPECTION.
§ 10-2.710.1 GENERAL.
   All improvements are subject to inspection by the City Engineer or
authorized personnel in accordance with the City's Standard Specifications.
('61 Code, § 10-2.710.1) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.710.2 PRECONSTRUCTION NOTIFICATION.
   Prior to commencing any construction, the developer shall notify the Code
Enforcement Department 48 hours in advance of scheduled start-up.
('61 Code, § 10-2.710.2) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.710.3 FINAL INSPECTION AND DEFICIENCY LIST.
   (A)   Upon completion of the subdivision improvements, the developer shall
apply in writing to the City Engineer for a preliminary final inspection.
   (B)   A deficiency list shall be compiled during the inspection, noting all
corrections or any additional work required. If the number of items are
excessive or the subdivision appears incomplete, the preliminary final
inspection may be halted and rescheduled on a date as determined by the City
Engineer or authorized representative.
   (C)   When the preliminary final inspection has been completed, a copy of
the deficiency list shall be transmitted to the developer for correction.
   (D)   Upon having completed all corrections or additional work as outlined
by the deficiency list, the developer shall certify in writing that all
corrections have been completed satisfactorily and request a final inspection.
Forty-eight hours advance notice will be required for the City Engineer to
schedule a final inspection.
   (E)   Upon finding that all items on the deficiency list have been corrected
and as-built improvement plans have been received, the subdivision shall be
placed on the Council Agenda for acceptance.
   (F)   The completion of corrections indicated by the deficiency list shall
not relieve the developer from the responsibility of correcting any deficiency
not shown on the list that may be subsequently discovered.
('61 Code, § 10-2.710.3) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.711 COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
§ 10-2.711.1 SUBDIVISIONS OF FIVE OR MORE PARCELS.
   (A)   The subdivision improvements shall be completed by the developer
within 18 months, or such time as approved by the City Engineer, not to exceed
a period of 24 months, from the recording of the final map, unless an extension
is granted by the City Council.
   (B)   Should the subdivider fail to complete the improvements within the
specified time, the city may, by resolution of Council and at its option, cause
any or all uncompleted improvements to be completed and the parties executing
the surety or sureties shall be firmly bound for the payment of all necessary
costs therefor.
('61 Code, § 10-2.711.1) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.711.2 SUBDIVISIONS OF FOUR OR LESS PARCELS.
   (A)   Completion of improvements will not be required until such time as a
permit or other grant approval for the development of any parcel within the
subdivision is applied for. Improvements shall be completed prior to final
building inspection or occupancy of any unit within the subdivision.
   (B)   The completion of the improvements may be required by a specified date
by the city when the completion of such improvements are found to be necessary
for public health or safety or for the orderly development of the surrounding
area. This finding shall be made by the City Engineer or authorized
representative. Such specified date, when required, shall be stated in the
Subdivision Improvement Agreement.
('61 Code, § 10-2.711.2) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.711.3 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The completion date may be extended by the City Council for
subdivision of five or more parcels, and by the City Engineer for subdivision
of four or less parcels, upon written request by the developer and the
submittal of adequate evidence to justify the extension. The request shall be
made not less than 30 days prior to expiration of the Subdivision Improvement
Agreement.
   (B)   The subdivider shall enter into a Subdivision Improvement Agreement
Extension with the city. For subdivisions of five or more parcels the agreement
shall be prepared and signed by the City Engineer, approved as to form by the
City Attorney, executed by the subdivider and transmitted to the City Council
for their consideration. If approved by the City Council, the Mayor shall
execute the agreement on behalf of the city.
   (C)   In consideration of a Subdivision improvement Extension Agreement, the
following may be required:
      (1)   Revision of improvement plans to provide for current design and
construction standards when required by the City Engineer;
      (2)   Revised improvement construction estimates to reflect current
improvement costs as approved by the City Engineer;
      (3)   Increase of improvement securities in accordance with revised
construction estimates;
      (4)   Inspection fees may be increased to reflect current construction
costs but shall not be subject to any decrease or refund.
   (D)   The City Council may impose additional requirements as recommended by
the City Engineer or as it may deem necessary as a condition to approving any
time extension for the completion of improvements.
   (E)   The costs incurred by the city in processing the agreement shall be
borne by the developer at actual cost.
('61 Code, § 10-2.711.3) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.712 ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
§ 10-2.712.1 GENERAL.
   (A)   When all improvement deficiencies have been corrected and as-built
improvement plans filed, the subdivision improvements shall be considered by
the city for acceptance. Subdivisions of five or more parcels must be accepted
by the City Council. The City Engineer or authorized representative shall be
responsible for the acceptance of subdivisions of four or less parcels.
   (B)   Acceptance of the improvements shall imply only that the improvements
have been completed satisfactorily and that public improvements have been
accepted for public use.
('61 Code, 10-2.712.1) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.712.2 NOTICE OF COMPLETION.
   If the subdivision has been accepted by the city, the City Clerk shall cause
to be filed with the County Recorder a notice of completion.
('61 Code, § 10-2.712.2) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.712.3 ACCEPTANCE OF A PORTION OF THE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   When requested by the subdivider in writing, the city may consider
acceptance of a portion of the improvements as recommended by the City
Engineer. The improvements will be accepted by the city only if it finds that
it is in the public interest and such improvements are for the use of the
general public.
   (B)   Acceptance of a portion of the improvements shall not relieve the
developer from any other requirements imposed by this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 10-2.712.3) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
REVERSION TO ACREAGE
§ 10-2.801 GENERAL.
   Subdivided property may be reverted to acreage pursuant to provisions of
this subchapter and the State Subdivision Map Act. This subchapter shall apply
to final maps and parcel maps.
('61 Code, § 10-2.801) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.802 INITIATION OF PROCEEDINGS.
§ 10-2.802.1 BY OWNERS.
   Proceedings to revert subdivided property to acreage may be initiated by
petition of all of the owners of record of the property. The petition shall be
in a form prescribed by the City Engineer. The petition shall contain the
information required by §
10-2.403 and such other information as required by the City Engineer.
('61 Code, § 10-2.802.1) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.802.2 BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council, at the request of any person, or on its own motion, may,
by resolution, initiate proceedings to revert property to acreage. The City
Council shall direct the City Engineer to obtain the necessary information to
initiate and conduct the proceedings.
('61 Code, § 10-2.802.2) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.803 CONTENTS OF PETITION.
   The petition shall contain but not be limited to the following:
   (A)   Evidence of title to the real property; and
   (B)   Evidence of the consent by all of the owners of an interest in the
property; or
   (C)   Evidence that none of the improvements required to be made have been
made within two years from the date the final map or parcel map was filed for
record, or within the time allowed by agreement for completion of the
improvements, whichever is later; or
   (D)   Evidence that no lots shown on the final or parcel map have been sold
within five years from the date such final or parcel map was flied for record.
   (E)   A tentative map in the form prescribed by §§
10-2.402 or
10-2.501 of this chapter.
   (F)   A final or parcel map in the form prescribed by §§
10-2.403 or
10-2.502 of this chapter which delineates dedications which will not be vacated
and dedications required as a condition to reversion. Final or parcel maps
shall be conspicuously designated with the title, "The Purpose of this Map is a
Reversion to Acreage."
   (G)   A deposit as required by the City Engineer toward processing and plan
checking costs in accordance to the city's established fees and charges.
('61 Code, § 10-2.803) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.804 SUBMITTAL OF PETITION TO THE CITY ENGINEER.
   (A)   The final map or parcel map for the reversion together with all other
data as required by this subchapter shall be submitted to the City Engineer for
his or her review.
   (B)   Upon finding that the petition meets with all the requirements of this
chapter and the State Subdivision Map Act, the City Engineer shall submit the
final map or parcel map, together with his or her report and recommendations of
approval or conditional approval of the Reversion to Acreage, to the City
Council for their consideration.
('61 Code, § 10-2.804) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.805 CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   (A)   A public hearing shall be held by the City Council on all petitions
for initiations for reversions to acreage. The City Engineer may give such
other notice that the City Council deems necessary or advisable.
   (B)   The City Council may approve a reversion to acreage only if it finds
and records by resolution that:
      (1)   Dedications or offers of dedication to be vacated or abandoned by
the reversion to acreage are unnecessary for present or prospective public
purposes; and
      (2)   Either:
         (a)   All owners of an interest in the real property within the
subdivision have consented to reversion; or
         (b)   None of the improvements required to be made have been made
within two years from the date the final or parcel map was filed for record, or
within the time allowed by agreement for completion of the improvements,
whichever is later; or
         (c)   No lots shown on the final or parcel map where filed for record.
   (C)   The City Council may require as conditions of the reversion:
      (1)   The owners dedicate or offer to dedicate streets, public rights-of-
way, or easements.
      (2)   The retention of all or a portion of previously paid subdivision
fees, deposits, or improvement securities if the same are necessary to
accomplish any of the provisions of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10-2.805) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.806 FILING WITH COUNTY RECORDER.
   (A)   Upon approving the Reversion to Acreage, the City Engineer shall
transmit the final map or parcel map, together with the City Council resolution
approving the reversion, to the County Recorder for recordation.
   (B)   Reversion shall be effective upon the final map being filed for record
by the County Recorder. Upon filing, all dedications and offers of dedication
not shown on the final map for reversion shall be of no further force and
effect.
('61 Code, § 10-2.806) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
CORRECTION AND AMENDMENTS OF MAPS
§ 10-2.901 REQUIREMENTS.
   After a final or parcel map is filed in the office of the County Recorder,
it may be amended by a certificate of correction or an amending map:
   (A)   To correct an error in any course or distance shown thereon;
   (B)   To show any course or distance that was omitted therefrom;
   (C)   To correct an error in the description of the real property shown on
the map;
   (D)   To indicate monuments set after the death, disability, or retirement
from practice of the engineer or surveyor charged with responsibilities for
setting monuments; or
   (E)   To show the proper location of any monument which has been changed in
location, or character, or which was originally shown at the wrong location or
incorrectly as to its character.
   (F)   To correct any other type of map error or omission as approved by the
City Engineer, which does not affect any property right.
   (G)   In addition to the amendments authorized above, after a final map or
parcel map is filed in the Office of the County Recorder, such a recorded map
may be further modified by a certificate of correction or an amending map. Such
modifications may include, but not be limited, lot area, lot numbers, acreage,
and street names, and are subject to the following findings:
      (1)   There are changes in the circumstances which make any or all of the
conditions of such a map no longer appropriate or necessary;
      (2)   That the modifications do not impose any additional burden on the
present fee owner of the property;
      (3)   The modification does not allow any right, title, or interest in
the real property reflected on the recorded map.
      (4)   The map as modified conforms to the provisions of Section 66474 of
the Subdivision Map Act and Section
10-2.402.6.3 of the Code.
   Any such modification shall be set for public hearing before the City
Council as provided for in Section 66451.3 of the Subdivision Map Act and
Section
10-2.402.6.1 of this Title. The City Council shall confine the hearing to
consideration of and action on the proposed modification.
('61 Code, § 10-2.0901) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81; Am. Ord. 676 C.S.,
passed 7-2-97)
§ 10-2.902 FORM AND CONTENTS.
   The amending map or certificate of correction shall be prepared by a
Registered Civil Engineer or Licensed Land Surveyor. The form and contents of
the amending map shall conform to the requirements of §
10-2.403 if a final map, or §
10-2.502 if a parcel map. The certificate of correction shall set forth in
detail the corrections made and show the names of the present fee owners of the
property affected by the correction.
('61 Code, § 10-2.0902) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81; Am. Ord. 676 C.S.,
passed 7-2-97)
§ 10-2.903 SUBMITTAL AND APPROVAL BY THE CITY ENGINEER.
   (A)   The amending map or certificate of correction, complete as to final
form, shall be submitted to the City Engineer for his or her review and
approval.
   (B)   The City Engineer shall examine the amending map or certificate of
correction and if the only changes made are those set forth in §
10-2.901 above, he or she shall certify to this fact on the amending map or
certificate of correction.
('61 Code, § 10-2.0903) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81; Am. Ord. 676 C.S.,
passed 7-2-97)
§ 10-2.904 FILING WITH THE COUNTY RECORDER.
   The amending map or certificate of correction certified by the City Engineer
shall be filed in the office of the County Recorder in which the original map
was filed. Upon such filing, the County Recorder shall index the names of the
fee owners and the appropriate tract designation shown on the amending map or
certificate of correction in the general index and map index respectively.
Thereupon, the original map shall be deemed to have been conclusively so
corrected and thereafter shall impart constructive notice of all such
corrections in the same manner as though set forth upon the original map.
('61 Code, § 10-2.0904) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81; Am. Ord. 676 C.S.,
passed 7-2-97)
§ 10-2.905 FEE.
   The fee for checking, processing, and recording the amended map or
certificate of correction shall be in accordance with the city's resolution
establishing fees and charges. A deposit to be applied toward this fee may be
required by the City Engineer upon submittal of the amended map or certificate
of correction for his or her review.
('61 Code, § 10-2.0905) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81; Am. Ord. 676 C.S.,
passed 7-2-97)
ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER PROVISIONS
§ 10-2.1001 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No person shall offer to sell or lease, to contract to sell or lease,
to sell or lease or to finance any parcel or parcels of real property or to
commence construction of any building for sale, lease, or financing thereon,
except for model homes, or to allow occupancy thereof, for which a final map or
parcel map is required by this chapter, or the State Subdivision Map Act, until
such map thereof, in full compliance with the provisions of this chapter, or
the State Subdivision Map Act, has been filed with the County Recorder for
record.
   (B)   Conveyances of any part of a division of real property for which a
final or parcel map is required by this chapter shall not be made by parcel or
block number, initial, or other designation, unless and until such map has been
filed for record with the County Recorder.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any parcel or parcels of a subdivision
offered for sale or lease, contracted for sale or lease, or sold or leased in
compliance with or exempt from any law (including a local ordinance),
regulating the design and improvement of subdivisions in effect at the time the
subdivision was established.
('61 Code, § 10-2.1001) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.1002 REMEDIES.
   (A)   Any deed of conveyance, sale, or contract to sell real property which
has been divided, or which has resulted from a division, in violation of the
provisions of this chapter or State Subdivision Map Act, is voidable at the
sole option of the grantee, buyer, or person contracting to purchase, his or
her heirs, personal representative, or trustee in insolvency or bankruptcy
within one year after the date of discovery of the violation, but the deed of
conveyance, sale, or contract to sell is binding upon any successor in interest
of the grantee, buyer, or person contracting to purchase, other than those
above enumerated, and upon the grantor, vendor, or person contracting to sell,
or his or her assignee, heir, or devisee.
   (B)   Any grantee, or his or her successor in interest, of real property
which has been divided, or which has resulted from a division in violation of
the provisions of this chapter or the State Subdivision Map Act may, within one
year of the date of discovery of such violation, bring an action in the
superior court to recover any damages he or she has suffered by reason of such
division of property. The action may be brought against the person who divided
the property real property in detail, naming the owners thereof, and describing
the violation and stating that an opportunity will be given to the owner to
present evidence. At least 30 days prior to the recording of a final notice,
the owner of the real property shall be advised in writing of the intention to
record a final notice and specifying a time, date, and place at which the owner
may present evidence as to why such notice should not be recorded. If, after
the owner has presented evidence, it is determined that there has been no
violation, a release of the tentative notice shall be filed with the County
Recorder. Such tentative or final notice, when recorded, shall be deemed to be
constructive notice of the violation to all successors in interest in such
property.
('61 Code, § 10-2.1002) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.1003 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Any person owning real property within the city may request the City
Engineer to determine whether such real property complies with the provisions
of this chapter and the State Subdivision Map Act.
   (B)   Upon making such determination, the City Engineer shall cause a
certificate of compliance to be filed for record with the County Recorder. The
certificate of compliance will identify the real property and shall state that
the division of land complies with applicable provisions of the City Municipal
Code and the Statue Subdivision Map Act.
   (C)   Compliance.
      (1)   If the City Engineer determines that such real property does not
comply with the provisions of the Municipal Code or State Subdivision Map Act,
he or she may, as a condition to granting a certificate of compliance, impose
such conditions as would have been applicable to the division of the property
at the time the current owner of record acquired the property, and which had
been established at such time by ordinance, Upon making such a determination
and establishing such conditions, the City Engineer or authorized
representative shall cause a conditional certificate of compliance to be filed
for record with the County Recorder. Such certificate shall serve as notice to
the property owner who has applied for the certificate pursuant to this
section, a grantee of the property owner, or any subsequent transferee or
assignee of the property, that the fulfillment and implementation of such
conditions shall be required prior to subsequent issuance of a permit or other
grant of approval for development of the property.
      (2)   Compliance with such conditions shall not be required until such
time as a permit or grant of approval for development of such property is
issued.
   (D)   A recorded final map or parcel map shall constitute a certificate of
compliance with respect to the parcels of real property described therein.
   (E)   For the purposed of administration of this section, any parcel that is
shown on the County Assessor's maps prior to 1960 shall be considered as a
conforming parcel.
   (F)   A fee to be charged at actual cost shall be charged to the applicant
for making the determination and processing the certificate of compliance. A
deposit may be required to be applied toward this fee.
('61 Code, § 10-2.1003) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.1004 CERTIFICATE OF NON-COMPLIANCE.
   Whenever the City Engineer or an authorized representative has knowledge
that real property has been divided in violation of the provisions of this
chapter or the State Subdivision Map Act, he or she shall cause to be filed for
record with the recorder of the county a tentative notice of violation,
"Certificate of Non-compliance," describing the real property in detail, naming
the owners thereof, and describing the violation and stating that an
opportunity will be given to the owner to present evidence. At least 30 days
prior to the recording of a final notice, the owner of the real property shall
be advised in writing of the intention to record a final notice and specifying
a time, date, and place at which the owner may present evidence as to why such
notice should not be recorded. If, after the owner has presented evidence, it
is determined that there has been no violation, a release of the tentative
notice shall be filed with the County Recorder. Such tentative or final notice,
when recorded, shall be deemed to be constructive notice of the violation to
all successors in interest in such property.
('61 Code, § 10-2.1004) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
PARCEL MERGERS
§ 10-2.1101 MERGERS NOT REQUIRED.
   Two or more contiguous parcels or units of land which have been subdivided
under the provisions of this chapter or the State Subdivision Map Act shall not
merge by virtue of the fact that such contiguous parcels are held by the same
ownership. No further proceedings under this chapter shall be required, for the
purpose of sale, lease, or financing, except as provided by this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 10-2.1101) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.1102 MERGERS REQUIRED.
   If any one of two or more contiguous parcels or units held by the same owner
does not conform to existing zoning regulations so as not to permit its
development, and at least one parcel or unit has not been developed with a
building for which a building permit is required, then such parcels shall be
considered as merged for the purpose of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10-2.1102) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.1103 NOTICE OF MERGER.
   (A)   Whenever the City Engineer or an authorized representative has
knowledge that real property has merged pursuant to this subchapter, he or she
shall cause to be filed with the County Recorder a notice of merger. At least
30 days prior to recording of notice, the owner of the parcels or units shall
be advised in writing of the intention to record such notice.
   (B)   The notification to the owner shall specify a time, date, and place at
which the owner may present evidence as to why the notice of merger should not
be recorded.
   (C)   The notice of merger to be recorded shall specify the names of the
record owners and shall describe the property to be merged.
('61 Code, § 10-2.1103) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
§ 10-2.1104 REQUEST BY PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   Upon request of the legal owner of contiguous parcels, the City
Engineer or authorized representative may approve the merger of the property.
Such request shall be in writing and shall be accompanied by such data and
documents as required by the City Engineer's office.
   (B)   Upon approval, a "Notice of Merger" shall be filed with the County
Recorder. The form and content of the notice shall be as required by the City
Engineer.
   (C)   In approving such merger, the city may impose reasonable conditions.
The reasonableness of such conditions may be appealed within 15 days of written
notice of the conditions to the City Council in accordance with §
10-2.402.7.1 of this chapter.
   (D)   A fee calculated at actual cost shall be charged to the applicant for
processing such merger. A deposit may be required to be applied toward this
fee.
('61 Code, § 10-2.1104) (Ord. 252 C.S., passed 8-3-81)
VESTING TENTATIVE MAPS
§ 10-2.1202 CITATION AND AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to authority granted by Cal. Gov't Code
Ch. 4.5, of Title 7, § 66498.1 et seq. (hereinafter referred to as the Vesting
Tentative Map Statute) and may be cited as the Vesting Tentative Map Ordinance.
Except as otherwise set forth in the provisions of this subchapter, the
provisions of the Subdivision Ordinance shall apply to the processing of
vesting tentative maps under this subchapter.
(Ord. 651 C.S., passed 3-6-96)
§ 10-2.1204 PURPOSE OF INTENT.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to establish procedures for
implementing the Vesting Tentative Map Statute, and to supplement the
provisions of the Subdivision Map Act and the Subdivision Ordinance. To
accomplish this purpose, the regulations set forth in this subchapter are
determined to be necessary to protect the public health, safety and general
welfare, and to promote orderly growth and development of the city.
(Ord. 651 C.S., passed 3-6-96)
§ 10-2.1206 APPLICABILITY.
   A vesting tentative map is a tentative map for a subdivision which is filed
and processed in accordance with this chapter. When approved, a vesting
tentative map confers a vested right to develop property after subdivision,
subject to the provisions of this subchapter. Whenever a provision of the
Subdivision Map Act, as implemented and supplemented by this chapter, requires
the filing of a tentative map or parcel map, a vesting tentative map may
instead be filed, in accordance with these provisions. If a subdivider does not
seek the rights conferred by this subchapter, nothing in this title shall
require the filing of a vesting tentative map as a prerequisite to any approval
for any proposed subdivision, permit for construction, or work preparatory to
construction.
(Ord. 651 C.S., passed 3-6-96)
§ 10-2.1208 FILING AND PROCESSING.
   A vesting tentative map shall be filed in the same form and have the same
contents, accompanying data and reports and shall be processed in the same
manner as set forth in this chapter for tentative maps, except as follows:
   (A)   At the time a vesting tentative map is submitted, it shall have
printed conspicuously on its face the words "Vesting Tentative Map". In
accordance with provisions of the Subdivision Map Act, the city shall have a
period of 30 days to review the application for completeness, and must notify
the subdivider within that period whether additional information is required,
or if the application has been accepted for processing.
   (B)   At the time a vesting tentative map is submitted a subdivider shall
also supply such additional information as may be determined to be necessary by
the Planning Director. Precise plan applications as specified by §
10-3-4.104 of the Zoning Ordinance shall be required as follows:
      (1)   A precise plan shall be required and processed concurrently with
the submittal of a vesting tentative map in all planned development zones and
will satisfy the application and procedural requirements of that zone;
      (2)   Vesting tentative maps filed in conjunction with a general plan or
specific plan amendment, and/or a rezoning application shall be accompanied by
a precise plan;
      (3)   A precise plan shall be required with the submittal of a vesting
tentative map when a development proposal makes specific commitments relative
to lot size, housing types or styles, and square footage with the stated intent
to insure neighborhood compatibility or consistency with the general plan.
   (C)   The following information regarding the adequacy of available public
services and utilities shall also be submitted for review and approval prior to
acceptance of an application for processing:
      (1)   A preliminary drainage plan prepared by a registered civil engineer
to analyze storm water runoff to be generated by the project and evaluate
proposed and existing systems in dealing with the impacts;
      (2)   A traffic study prepared by a qualified consultant to determine
impacts on all local streets in the area of the subdivision and all key
intersections impacted by such development in the community;
      (3)   An engineering analysis regarding the project's demand for water
and sewage disposal services relative to the existing and long range capacities
of the municipal systems.
      (4)   Certification in writing from all public utilities that the
proposed subdivision can be adequately served.
   (D)   In addition to the tentative map application, approval of all other
discretionary permits required by zoning in effect at the time shall also be
required. These applications will be processed concurrently with the vesting
tentative map, and approvals must be obtained prior to or simultaneously with
the vesting tentative map application.
(Ord. 651 C.S., passed 3-6-96)
§ 10-2.1210 CONSISTENCY.
   No land shall be subdivided and developed under a vesting tentative map for
any purpose which is inconsistent with the State Subdivision Map Act, or with
the general plan and any applicable specific plan or the Zoning Ordinance of
the city.
(Ord. 651 C.S., passed 3-6-96)
§ 10-2.1212 FEES.
   On filing an application for a vesting tentative map, the subdivider shall
pay the application fees required by resolution of the City Council for
tentative subdivision maps. At the time of filing the final map for an approved
or conditionally approved vesting tentative map, the subdivider shall pay
subdivision fees in accordance with any conditions of approval of the vesting
tentative map and those adopted by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 651 C.S., passed 3-6-96)
§ 10-2.1214 EXPIRATION.
   An approved vesting tentative map shall expire 24 months after its approval
or conditional approval, unless otherwise extended by the provisions of the
Subdivision Map Act. The expiration of the approved or conditionally approved
vesting tentative map shall terminate all proceedings and no final map of all
or any portion of the real property included within the tentative map shall be
filed without first processing a new vesting tentative map.
(Ord. 651 C.S., passed 3-6-96)
§ 10-2.1216 EXTENSION OF TIME FOR FILING.
   (A)   Upon application of the subdivider filed prior to the expiration of
the approved or conditionally approved vesting tentative map, the time that the
map expires may be extended for periods of one year to a maximum of three
years. Extension requests shall be in writing and be filed with the Community
Development Department on or before the date of expiration of the approval or
previous extension, together with the filing fee as required by resolution of
the City Council. The Planning Commission may grant the extensions only after
finding that:
      (1)   There have been no changes to the provisions of the general plan or
zoning applicable to the project since the approval of the tentative map;
      (2)   There have been no changes in the character of the site or its
surroundings that affect how the policies and standards of the general plan or
zoning ordinance apply to the project; and
      (3)   There have been no changes to the capacities of community
resources, including but not limited to water supply, sewage treatment or
disposal facilities, roads or schools such that there is no capacity to serve
the project.
   (B)   Disapproval of the requested extension by the Planning Commission may
be appealed to the City Council within 15 calendar days of such action. Any
rights conferred by the subchapter shall expire if a final map is not approved
and recorded prior to the expiration of the vesting tentative map.
(Ord. 651 C.S., passed 3-6-96)
§ 10-2.1218 DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS ON APPROVAL OF VESTING TENTATIVE MAP.
   (A)   The approval or conditional approval of a vesting tentative map shall
confer a vested right to proceed with development in substantial compliance
with the ordinances, policies, and standards in effect at the time the vesting
tentative map application was deemed complete for processing subject to the
exceptions stated below. At the time of construction of any buildings within
the subdivision, the subdivider shall pay construction and building permit
fees, school district fees, and other development fees as required by any
conditions on the vesting tentative map. However, the city may adjust the
amount of such fees in accordance with applicable fee schedules in effect at
the time of issuance of any required grading, construction, or building
permits, unless otherwise specified in the conditions on the vesting tentative
map. Except as provided in division (B) below no new type of fee established
after approval of the vesting tentative map shall be applicable to development
of the subdivided property.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, the city may deny or impose new
conditions on any permit, approval, extension, or entitlement for development
within a property subject to a vesting tentative map if it makes any of the
following findings:
      (1)   A failure to do so would place the residents or occupants of the
subdivision or the immediate community, or both in a condition dangerous to
their health or safety; or
      (2)   The condition, or denial is required, in order to comply with state
or federal law.
   (C)   The rights referred to herein shall expire if a final map is not
approved and recorded prior to the expiration of the vesting tentative map as
provided in §
10-2.1214. If the final map is recorded these rights shall last for the
following periods of time:
      (1)   An initial time period of one year. Where several final maps are
recorded on various phases of a project covered by a single vesting tentative
map, this initial time period shall begin for each phase when the final map for
that phase is recorded.
      (2)   The initial time period set forth above shall be automatically
extended by any time used for processing a complete application for grading
permit or for design or architectural review (compliance with precise or site
plan review requirements) of such processing exceeds 30 days from the date an
application for the permit or review is found to be complete.
      (3)   A subdivider may apply for a one-year extension at any time before
the initial time period set forth in division (C)(1) above expires. The time
extension request shall be considered by the Planning Commission in accordance
with the provisions set forth in §
10-2.1216. If a time extension request is denied by the Planning Commission,
the subdivider may appeal the denial to the City Council within 15 calendar
days of such action.
      (4)   If the subdivider submits a complete application for a building
permit during the periods of time specified in divisions (C)(1) through (C)(3)
above, the rights referred to herein shall continue until the expiration of
that permit, or any extension of that permit.
(Ord. 651 C.S., passed 3-6-96)
ACQUISITION OF LAND AND/OR PAYMENT OF FEES FOR CITY PARK FACILITIES
§ 10-2.1300 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish the procedures for requiring the
dedication of land, the payment of fees in-lieu thereof (or a combination of
both) to serve new subdivisions in accordance with the requirements of the
City’s General Plan and in compliance with the requirements of California
Government Code § 66477 (the “Quimby Act”). This chapter is enacted pursuant to
the authority granted by the Quimby Act. The Quimby Act specifically authorizes
the city to require dedication of parkland or the payment of fees in-lieu of
such dedication in set amounts to meet the needs of the citizens of the
community for parkland and to further the health, safety and general welfare of
the community.
(Ord. 951 C.S., passed 3-21-18)
§ 10-2.1301 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in
this section govern the construction of this article. If any of the definitions
in this section conflict with definitions in other chapters of the Municipal
Code, these definitions shall prevail for the purpose of interpreting and
enforcing this section. If a term is not defined in this section, or other
sections of the Municipal Code, the most common dictionary definition is
assumed to be correct.
   (B)   The following definitions are listed in alphabetical order.
      DEVELOPER. Every person, firm, or corporation constructing a new dwelling
unit, directly or through the services of any employee, agent, independent
contractor, or otherwise.
      FAIR MARKET VALUE. The price, based on what a knowledgeable, willing, and
unpressured buyer would logically pay to a knowledgeable, willing, and
unpressured seller in the market. The FAIR MARKET VALUE of a buildable acre of
land shall be determined from time to time, as directed by the City Council.
      NEW DWELLING UNIT. Any structure of permanent character, placed in a
permanent location, which is planned, designed or used for residential
occupancy, including, but not limited to, one-family, two-family, and
multifamily dwellings, apartment houses and complexes and mobile home spaces,
but not including hotels, motels, and boarding houses for transient guests.
      SUBDIVISION. Any type of construction, land division or improvement of
land which provides for dwelling units identified under the provisions of §
66424 of the California Government Code. “Subdivision” shall also include any
increase in the number of mobile home spaces.
(Ord. 951 C.S., passed 3-21-18)
§ 10-2.1302 APPLICABILITY.
   At the time of approval of the tentative map, parcel map, or final map, or
upon issuance of a building permit, the Community Development Director, or his/
her assignee, shall determine pursuant to §
10-2.1304 hereof the land required for dedication and/or determine pursuant to
§
10-2.1306 the payment of a fee in lieu of dedication of land. As a condition of
approval of a final subdivision map or parcel map, or upon issuance of a
building permit, the subdivider shall dedicate land, pay a fee in lieu thereof,
or both, at the option of the city, for neighborhood and community park or
recreational purposes at the time and according to the standards and formula
contained in this chapter.
(Ord. 951 C.S., passed 3-21-18)
§ 10-2.1303 PARK ACREAGE STANDARD.
   It is hereby found and determined that the public interest, convenience,
health, welfare, and safety require that a minimum of three acres of property
for each 1,000 persons residing within this city be devoted to local parks and
recreational purposes. Said three acres are justified by the existing ratio of
2.202* acres of parks per 1,000 residents in the city, and the current maximum
utilization of said acreage by the residents of Madera.
   *   66,082 residents / 145.52 acres of parks = 454.109 residents per acre.
      1,000 residents / 454.109 residents per acre = 2.202 acres per thousand
residents.
(Ord. 951 C.S., passed 3-21-18)
§ 10-2.1304 FORMULA FOR THE DEDICATION OF LAND.
   (A)    The formula for determining the minimum acreage to be dedicated is
based on a standard of three acres of park area per one thousand members of the
population, and shall be as follows:
      Average number of persons per unit/1,000 population x 3 acres of parkland
x number of units in subdivision/development = land to be dedicated per unit.
 
Development Type            Population Per Dwelling Unit
Residential - Single Family 3.85
Residential - Multi-family  3.50
Residential - Mobile Home   1.70
 
      Example: for a subdivision of 120 units: 3.85/1,000 x 3 = 0.01155 x 120 =
1.386 acres to be dedicated (at a minimum).
   (B)    For the purpose of this section, the number of new dwelling units
shall be based upon the number of parcels indicated on the tentative or parcel
map when in an area zoned for one dwelling unit per parcel. When all or part of
the subdivision is located in an area zoned for more than one dwelling unit per
parcel, the number of proposed dwelling units in the area so zoned shall equal
the maximum allowed under that zone, including any applicable density
increases. In the case of a condominium project, the number of dwelling units
shall be the number of condominium units. The term “new dwelling unit” does not
include dwelling units lawfully in place prior to the date on which the parcel
or final map is filed.
   (C)    Nothing in this section shall prohibit the dedication and acceptance
of land for park and recreation purposes where the developer proposes such
dedication voluntarily and the land is approved by the Community Development
Director.
   (D)    Dedication of the land shall be made in accordance with the
procedures contained in §
10-2.1311 hereof.
(Ord. 951 C.S., passed 3-21-18)
§ 10-2.1305 STANDARDS FOR THE DEDICATION OF LAND.
   (A)   The developer shall, without credit:
      (1)   Provide full street improvements and utility connections including,
but not limited to, curbs, gutter, street paving, traffic control devices,
street trees, and sidewalks to land which is dedicated pursuant to this
section;
      (2)   Provide for fencing along the property line of that portion of the
subdivision contiguous to the dedicated land;
      (3)   Provide improved drainage through the site; and
      (4)   Provide other minimal improvements which the city determines to be
essential to the acceptance of the land for recreational purposes.
   (B)   The land to be dedicated and the improvements to be made pursuant to
this section shall be reviewed at the tentative map stage in accordance with
the criteria set forth in §
10-2.1309 and approved by the Community Development Director.
   (C)   Use of money. The money collected hereunder shall be used only for the
purpose of acquiring necessary land and developing new or rehabilitating
existing park or recreational facilities reasonably related to serving the
subdivision.
(Ord. 951 C.S., passed 3-21-18)
§ 10-2.1306 AMOUNT OF FEES IN LIEU OF LAND DEDICATION.
   (A)   When a fee is to be paid in lieu of land dedication, the amount of
such fee shall be based upon the fair market value determined by the City
Council per §
10-2.1307. The fee shall be determined by the following formula where:
      DUs         =   number of new dwelling units as defined in §
10-2.1304
      Pop DU      =   population per dwelling unit as defined in §
10-2.1304
      FMV         =   fair market value determined by §
10-2.1307
      Buildable acre      =   a typical acre of the subdivision, with a slope
less than 10%, and located in other than an area on which building is excluded
because of flooding, easements, or other restrictions
 
DUs x Pop DU x 3 acres      x FMV            = in-lieu fee
               1,000 people   buildable acre
 
      Example: 1 DU x 3.85 Pop per DU x 3 acres/1,000 = 0.01155 x $50,000 FMV
per acre = $577.50 in-lieu fee. The $50,000 fair market value is used for
example purposes only. The actual fair market value shall be determined by the
City Council, consistent with §
10-2.1307.
   (B)   Fees to be collected pursuant to this section shall be reviewed by the
Community Development Director to ascertain if they comply with the formula set
forth above. If compliance is found, then the fees shall be approved by the
Community Development Director.
(Ord. 951 C.S., passed 3-21-18)
§ 10-2.1307 DETERMINATIONS OF FAIR MARKET VALUE.
   (A)   The fair market value per buildable acre shall be determined by
resolution adopted by the City Council.
   (B)   The fair market value per buildable acre shall be updated from time to
time as directed by the City Council.
   (C)   If the developer objects to the fair market value, the city, at the
developer’s expense, shall obtain an appraisal of the property by a qualified
independent real estate appraiser, agreed to by the city and the developer, and
the value established by said appraiser using standard recognized appraisal
techniques to establish fair market value will be accepted as the fair market
value of the land in the proposed development.
(Ord. 951 C.S., passed 3-21-18)
§ 10-2.1308 PARK DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES.
   (A)   A fee shall be paid for park development by the developer of each new
dwelling unit irrespective of whether the developer is required to dedicate
land as set forth in §
10-2.1304 and/or pay fees in lieu of land dedication as set forth in §
10-2.1306.
   (B)   The park development impact fee shall be established at the rate set
forth by a resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 951 C.S., passed 3-21-18)
§ 10-2.1309 DETERMINATIONS OF LAND OR FEES.
   (A)   Only the payment of fees may be required in subdivisions containing 50
parcels or less, except that when a condominium project, stock cooperative, or
community apartment project, as those terms are defined in § 1351 of the Civil
Code, exceeds 50 dwelling units, dedication of land may be required,
notwithstanding that the number of parcels may be less than 50.
   (B)   Whether the city accepts land dedication or elects to require payment
of a fee in lieu thereof, or a combination of both, shall be determined by
consideration of the following:
      (1)   The General Plan and Parks Master Plan of the City of Madera.
      (2)   The natural features, access, and location of land in the
subdivision available for dedication;
      (3)   The size and shape of the subdivision and land available for
dedication;
      (4)   The feasibility of dedication;
      (5)   The compatibility of dedication with the Parks and Recreation
Element of the General Plan; and
      (6)   The location of existing and proposed park sites and trailways.
(Ord. 951 C.S., passed 3-21-18)
§ 10-2.1310 CREDIT FOR PRIVATE OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   No credit shall be given for private open space in the subdivision
except as hereinafter provided. Where private open space usable for active
recreational purposes is provided in a proposed planned development or real
estate development as defined in § 4175 or 6562 of the Civil Code, partial
credit, not to exceed 45%, shall be given against the requirement of and
dedication or payment of fees in lieu thereof if the city finds that it is in
the public interest to do so and that all the following standards are met:
      (1)   Yards, court areas, setbacks, and other open areas required by the
zoning and building ordinances and regulations shall not be included in the
computation of such private open space; and
      (2)   Private park and recreational facilities shall be owned by an
owners’ association composed of all property owners in the subdivision and
being an incorporated nonprofit organization capable of dissolution only by a
100% affirmative vote of the membership and approved by the city, operated
under recorded land agreements through which each lot owner in the neighborhood
is automatically a member, and each lot is subject to a charge for a
proportionate share of expenses for maintaining the facilities; and
      (3)   Use of the private open space is restricted for park and recreation
purposes by recorded covenant which runs with the land in favor of the future
owners of the property and which cannot be defeated or eliminated without the
consent of the city or its successor; and
      (4)   The proposed private open space is reasonably adaptable for use for
park and recreation purposes, taking into consideration such factors as size,
shape, topography, geology, access, and location; and
      (5)   The open space for which credit is given is a minimum of three
acres and provides a minimum of five (5) of the local park basic elements
listed as follows, or a combination of such, and other recreation improvements
that will meet the specific recreation needs of future residents of the area:
Elements Acres
Elements                                                              Acres
1.   Children’s play apparatus area                              .50 to
                                                                      .75
2.   Landscape park-like with quiet areas                          .50 to
                                                                      1.00
3.   Family picnic area                                            .25 to
                                                                      .75
4.   Game court area                                               .25 to
                                                                      .50
5.   Turf playfield                                                1.00 to
                                                                      3.00
6.   Swimming pool (42 feet by 75 feet with adjacent deck and lawn .25 to
areas)                                                                .50
7.   Recreation center building                                    .15 to
                                                                      .25
 
   (B)   Before credit is given, the Community Development Director shall make
written findings that the above standards are met.
(Ord. 951 C.S., passed 3-21-18)
§ 10-2.1311 PROCEDURE.
   (A)    In advance of application for tentative map or parcel map, rezoning,
or any other discretionary approval of residential development, the developer
shall contact the Community Development Director to determine whether a park
land dedication, a payment of in-lieu fee, or both will be applicable to the
proposed residential development.
   (B)   At the time of approval of the tentative map or parcel map, rezoning,
or any other discretionary approval of residential development, the Community
Development Director shall determine, pursuant to §
10-2.1304 hereof, the land required for dedication. At the time of filing of
final map, the subdivider shall dedicate the land, unless in-lieu fees are
solely being required.
   (C)   If the Community Development Director requires in-lieu fee payment by
the developer, the Community Development Director shall set the amount of land
upon which the in-lieu fee will be based. In-lieu fees shall be established
using current land values at the time of filing of final map with the formula
set forth in §
10-2.1306. In-lieu fees, if required, shall be paid at time of building permit.
Park development impact fees shall be paid at time of building permit.
   (D)   Open space covenants for private park or recreation facilities shall
be submitted to the city prior to approval of the final subdivision map or
parcel map and shall be recorded contemporaneously with the final subdivision
map.
   (E)   The land to be dedicated and/or in-lieu and park development fees to
be paid, shall be subject to the latest adopted ordinances, resolutions,
policies, and fees adopted by the City Council and in effect at the time of the
final map review and approval.
(Ord. 951 C.S., passed 3-21-18)
§ 10-2.1312 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   (A)   Fees pursuant to §§
10-2.1306 and
10-2.1308 shall be paid to the City and shall be deposited into the subdivision
park trust fund, or its successor. Money in said fund, including accrued
interest, shall be expended solely for acquisition, development, or
rehabilitation of park land or improvements related thereto.
   (B)   Collected fees shall be appropriated by the city to which the land or
fees are conveyed or paid for a specific project to serve residents of the
subdivision in a budgetary year within five years upon receipt of payments or
within five years after the issuance of building permits on one-half of the
lots created by the subdivision, whichever occurs later.
   (C)   If such fees are not so committed, these fees shall be distributed and
paid to the then record owners of the subdivision in the same proportion that
the size of their lot bears to the total area of all lots in the subdivision.
   (D)   The City Director of Financial Services shall report to the city at
least annually on income, expenditures, and status of the subdivision park
trust fund.
(Ord. 951 C.S., passed 3-21-18)
§ 10-2.1313 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Subdivisions containing less than five parcels and not used for
residential purposes shall be exempted from the requirements of this article;
provided, however, that a condition shall be placed on the approval of such
parcel map that if a building permit is requested for construction of a
residential structure or structures on one or more of the parcels, the fee may
be required to be paid by the owner of each such parcel as condition to the
issuance of such permit.
   (B)   The provisions of this article do not apply to commercial or
industrial subdivisions; nor do they apply to condominium projects or stock
cooperatives which consist of the subdivision of air space in an existing
apartment building which is more than five years old when no new dwelling units
are added.
(Ord. 951 C.S., passed 3-21-18)
§ 10-2.1314 DEVELOPER-PROVIDED PARK AND RECREATION IMPROVEMENTS.
   After the Planning Commission or Community Development Director determines
that land is required for dedication and/or in-lieu fee payment by the
developers, the developer may apply to the Engineering Department for
permission to construct specified park and recreation improvements on the land
of said developer required for dedication or on other land within the same
service area to be developed as a park. If the Engineering Department grants
the developer permission for construction of specified parks and recreation
improvements on said land, said Department shall fix the dollar value of the
parks and recreation improvements prior to construction. The agreed dollar
value of park and recreation improvements provided by the developer may be
credited against the fees, if any, required by this section, provided the
improvements are constructed per the approved plans by the Engineering
Department.
(Ord. 951 C.S., passed 3-21-18)
§ 10-2.1315 SCHEDULE FOR THE USE OF LAND OR FEES.
   The Parks and Community Services Department shall develop a schedule
specifying how, when, and where it will use the land or fees, or both, to
develop park or recreational facilities to serve residents of the subdivision.
(Ord. 951 C.S., passed 3-21-18)
§ 10-2.1316 ACCESS.
   All land offered for dedication for local park or recreational purposes
shall have access to at least one existing or proposed public street. This
requirement may be waived by the city if the city determines that public street
access is unnecessary for maintenance of the park area or use thereof by
residents.
(Ord. 951 C.S., passed 3-21-18)
§ 10-2.1317 SALE OF DEDICATED LAND.
   If during the ensuing time between dedication of land for park purposes and
commencements of first-stage development, circumstances arise which indicate
that another site would be more suitable for local park or recreational
purposes serving the subdivision and the neighborhood (such as receipt of a
gift of additional park land or a change in school location), the land may be
sold upon the approval of the city with the resultant funds being used for the
purchase of a more suitable site.
(Ord. 951 C.S., passed 3-21-18)
CHAPTER 3: ZONING
Section
Purpose and Title
   
10-3.101   Purpose
   
10-3.102   Short title
Definitions
   
10-3.201   Definitions
Zones
   
10-3.301   Establishment
   
10-3.302   Zoning maps
   
10-3.303   Annexation policy
   
10-3.304   Zone boundaries
   
10-3.305   Conformance to zone regulations
General Provisions
   
10-3.401   Interpretation
   
10-3.402   Less restrictive uses prohibited
   
10-3.403   Additional permitted uses
   
10-3.404   Additional excluded uses
   
10-3.405   Uses
   
10-3.406   Nonconforming buildings and uses
   
10-3.407   Location of dwellings
   
10-3.408   Height of buildings
   
10-3.409   Building site area
   
10-3.410   Through lots
   
10-3.411   Yard encroachments
   
10-3.412   Fences, walls, and hedges
   
10-3.413   Storage of commercial vehicles
   
10-3.414   Automotive storage or parking space
   
10-3.415   Dwelling on fronts of lots
   
10-3.415.1   (Reserved)
   
10-3.416   Outdoor retail sales
   
10-3.417   Zoning Administrator
   
10-3.418   Right to farm
   
10-3.419   Telecommunication towers, antennas and structures (Repealed)
   
10-3.420   Design and development guidelines
   
10-3.421   Interim agricultural
Emergency Shelters
   
10-3.422   Standards
Site Plan Review
   
10-3.4.0101   Purposes
   
10-3.4.0102   Applicability
   
10-3.4.0103   Application requirements
   
10-3.4.0104   Drawings to be submitted
   
10-3.4.0105   Review and action
   
10-3.4.0106   Approval determinations
   
10-3.4.0107   Conditions of approval
   
10-3.4.0108   Street dedications and improvements
   
10-3.4.0109   Reimbursement provisions
   
10-3.4.0110   Relationship to environmental assessment procedures
   
10-3.4.0111   Revisions of approved plans
   
10-3.4.0112   Acknowledgment and acceptance of conditions
   
10-3.4.0113   Building permit
   
10-3.4.0114   Lapse of site plan approval
   
10-3.4.0115   Occupancy
   
10-3.4.0116   Appeal to the Planning Commission
   
10-3.4.0117   Appeal to the City Council
   
10-3-4.101   P-D zones
   
10-3-4.102   Density
   
10-3-4.103   Planning Commission approval
   
10-3-4.104   Precise plan application
   
10-3-4.105   (Reserved)
   
10-3-4.106   Open space
   
10-3-4.107   Yard encroachments
   
10-3.501   R; purpose and application
   
10-3.502   R; permitted uses
   
10-3.503   R; density
   
10-3.504   R; permitted uses; administrative approval
   
10-3.504.1   R; uses allowed with Zoning Administrator's permit
   
10-3.505   R; conditional uses; commission approval
   
10-3.506   R; fences, walls, and hedges
   
10-3.507   R; minimum site area and dimensions
   
10-3.508   R; yard requirements
   
10-3.509   R; minimum open space
   
10-3.510   R; building height
   
10-3.511   Parking on unpaved surfaces prohibited
   
10-3.512   Multiple single-family units
   
10-3.513   Accessory dwelling units
Affordable Housing Density Bonus
   
10-3-5.101   Purpose
   
10-3-5.102   Eligibility for bonus, incentives, or concessions
   
10-3-5.103   Allowed density bonuses
   
10-3-5.104   Allowed incentives or concessions
   
10-3-5.105   Parking requirements in density bonus projects
   
10-3-5.106   Bonus and incentives for developments with child care facilities
   
10-3-5.107   Continued availability
   
10-3-5.108   Location and type of designated units
   
10-3-5.109   Density bonus agreement
   
10-3-5.110   Control of resale
   
10-3-5.111   Judicial relief, waiver of standards
Reasonable Accommodation
   
10-3-5.201   Purpose
   
10-3-5.202   Applicability
   
10-3-5.203   Procedure
   
10-3-5.204   Approval findings
   
10-3-5.205   Conditions of approval
   
10-3-5.206   Appeals
RCO; Resource Conservation and Open Space Zoning
   
10-3.601   RCO; purposes and application
   
10-3.602   RCO; permitted uses
   
10-3.603   (Repealed)
   
10-3.604   (Repealed)
   
10-3.605   RCO; distances between structures
   
10-3.606   RCO; building height
PF; Public Facilities Zone
   
10-3-6.501   PF; purpose and application
   
10-3-6.502   PF; permitted uses
   
10-3-6.503   PF; conditional uses; commission approval
   
10-3-6.504   PF; required conditions
   
10-3-6.505   PF; building height
Professional Office Zones
   
10-3.751   Professional office zones
   
10-3.752   Uses permitted
   
10-3.753   Site area
   
10-3.754   Height of structures
   
10-3.755   Lot coverage
   
10-3.756   Yard requirements
Light Commercial Zones
   
10-3.801   C-1 zones
   
10-3.802   Uses permitted
   
10-3.803   Site area
   
10-3.804   Height of structures
   
10-3.805   Yard requirements
Heavy Commercial Zones
   
10-3.901   C-2 zones
   
10-3.902   Uses permitted
   
10-3.903   Site area
   
10-3.904   Height of structures
   
10-3.905   Yard requirements
   
10-3.906   Trailer camp site requirements
Restricted Commercial Zone
   
10-3-9.101   C-R zone; purpose and application
   
10-3-9.102   Permitted uses
   
10-3-9.102.1 Uses allowed with Zoning Administrator's permit
   
10-3-9.103   Conditional uses
   
10-3-9.104   Site area
   
10-3-9.105   Building height
   
10-3-9.106   Yard requirements
   
10-3-9.107   Outside equipment
   
10-3-9.108   Enclosure of trash and storage areas
   
10-3-9.109   Time for pick-up and delivery
   
10-3-9.110   Landscaping
Neighborhood Commercial Zones
   
10-3-9.201   C-N zones; purpose and application
   
10-3-9.202   Permitted uses
   
10-3-9.203   Conditional uses
   
10-3-9.204   Limitations on use
   
10-3-9.205   Site area
   
10-3-9.206   Building height
   
10-3-9.207   Yard requirements
   
10-3-9.208   Outside equipment
   
10-3-9.209   Landscaping and fencing
Highway Commercial Zones
   
10-3-9.301   C-H zones; purpose and application
   
10-3-9.302   Permitted uses
   
10-3-9.302.1 Uses allowed with Zoning Administrator permit
   
10-3-9.303   Conditional uses
   
10-3-9.304   Accessory uses
   
10-3-9.305   Limitations on use
   
10-3-9.306   Site area
   
10-3-9.307   Building height
   
10-3-9.308   Yard requirements
   
10-3-9.309   Outside equipment
   
10-3-9.310   Landscaping and fencing
West Yosemite Avenue Overlay Zone (WY)
   
10-3-9.401   Purpose
   
10-3-9.402   Applicability
   
10-3-9.403   Use permits required
   
10-3-9.404   Development standards
Industrial Zones
   
10-3.1001   I zones
   
10-3.1002   Uses permitted
   
10-3.1003   Height of structures
   
10-3.1004   Yard requirements
Urban Reserve Zones (UR)
   
10-3.10.501   UR zones
   
10-3.10.502   Uses permitted
   
10-3.10.503   Special conditions
   
10-3.10.504   Site area
   
10-3.10.505   Yard requirements
   
10-3.10.506   Height of structures
   
10-3.10.507   Distance between buildings
Unclassified Zones (U)
   
10-3.1101   U zones
   
10-3.1102   Uses permitted
   
10-3.1103   Site area; height of structures; yard requirements
   
10-3.11.501   IP zones
   
10-3.11.502   Purpose
   
10-3.11.503   Permitted uses
   
10-3.11.503.1 Uses requiring a zoning permit
   
10-3.11.504   Accessory uses
   
10-3.11.505   Uses requiring use permits
   
10-3.11.506   Performance standards
   
10-3.11.507   Height regulations
   
10-3.11.508   Lot area
   
10-3.11.509   Lot width
   
10-3.11.510   Lot depth
   
10-3.11.511   Lot coverage
   
10-3.11.512   Yard requirements
   
10-3.11.513   Uses in buildings
   
10-3.11.514   Disposal facilities
   
10-3.11.515   Off-street parking
   
10-3.11.516   Storage
   
10-3.11.517   Fences
   
10-3.11.518   Off-street loading
   
10-3.11.519   Landscaping
   
10-3.11.520   Type of fuel
   
10-3.11.521   Buildings
   
10-3.11.522   Signs
Specific Plan Zones (SP)
   
10-3.11.601   Purpose and application
   
10-3.11.602   Applicability
   
10-3.11.603   Specific plan required elements
   
10-3.11.604   Allowed land uses
Off-Street Parking Regulations
   
10-3.1201   General requirements
   
10-3.1202   Parking spaces required
   
10-3.1203   Parking requirements for uses not specified
   
10-3.1204   In lieu payments
   
10-3.1205   Exemptions from parking space requirements
   
10-3.1206   Required improvement and maintenance of parking area
   
10-3.1207   General regulations and conditions
   
10-3.1208   Parking in the R zones
Use Permits
   
10-3.1301   Use permit prerequisite to building permit
   
10-3.1302   Application
   
10-3.1303   Filing fee
   
10-3.1304   Information required with application
   
10-3.1305   Investigation of application
   
10-3.1306   Public hearings
   
10-3.1307   Action by Commission
   
10-3.1308   Effective date
   
10-3.1309   Appeals
   
10-3.1310   Action on appeals by Council
   
10-3.1311   Termination and revocation
   
10-3.1312   Use permit - large family day care homes
Variances
   
10-3.1401   Necessity
   
10-3.1402   Necessary conditions
   
10-3.1403   Applications
   
10-3.1404   Filing fee
   
10-3.1405   Information required with application
   
10-3.1406   Investigation of applications
   
10-3.1407   Notice of public hearing
   
10-3.1408   Public hearing
   
10-3.1409   Action by the Commission
   
10-3.1410   Appeals to the Council
   
10-3.1411   Termination
Amendments
   
10-3.1501   Necessity
   
10-3.1502   Initiation of procedure
   
10-3.1503   Application for change
   
10-3.1504   Filing fee
   
10-3.1505   Investigation
   
10-3.1506   Notices
   
10-3.1507   Public hearing
   
10-3.1508   Findings of the Commission
   
10-3.1509   Action by Council
   
10-3.1510   Use permits required
   
10-3.1511   Special zoning exceptions
   
10-3.1512   Exceptions procedure
   
10-3.1513   Conditions
   
10-3.1514   Building permits
   
10-3.1515   Rezoning upon completion of work
Interpretation, Enforcement, Violations, and Penalties
   
10-3.1601   Interpretation
   
10-3.1602   Enforcement
   
10-3.1603   Violations of chapter; declaration of nuisance
   
10-3.1604   Abatement
   
10-3.1605   Commencement of proceedings
   
10-3.1606   Hearing; notice
   
10-3.1607   Hearing conduct
   
10-3.1608   Order of abatement
   
10-3.1609   Appeal
   
10-3.1610   Council action
   
10-3.1611   Notice of Council decision
   
10-3.1612   Cost of abatement
   
10-3.1613   Report; hearing and proceedings
   
10-3.1615   Alternatives
   
10-3.1616   Emergency abatement
   
10-3.1617   Violation; penalty
Development Agreements
   
10-3.1701   Authority for adoption
   
10-3.1702   Forms and information
   
10-3.1703   Qualification as an applicant
   
10-3.1704   Proposed form of agreement
   
10-3.1705   Fees
   
10-3.1706   Review of application
   
10-3.1707   Coordination of applications
   
10-3.1708   Hearing notice
   
10-3.1709   Rules governing conduct of hearing
   
10-3.1710   Irregularity in proceedings
   
10-3.1711   Determination by Planning Commission
   
10-3.1712   Decision by City Council
   
10-3.1713   Recordation of development agreement
   
10-3.1714   Amendment and cancellation of agreement
   
10-3.1715   Periodic review
   
10-3.1716   Statement of compliance appeals
   
10-3.1717   Procedures for modification or termination
   
10-3.1718   Certainty of development agreements
PURPOSE AND TITLE
§ 10-3.101 PURPOSE.
   An official land use plan for the city is adopted and established to promote
the growth of the city in an orderly manner and to promote and protect the
public health, safety, peace, comfort, and general welfare, and to provide the
economic and social advantages resulting from an orderly planned use of land
resources.
('61 Code, § 10-3.101) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.102 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Zoning Regulations."
('61 Code, § 10-3.102) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
DEFINITIONS
§ 10-3.201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. Part of the main building or a detached subordinate
building located on the same lot or building site, the use of which is
customarily incidental to that of the main building or to the main use of the
land. Where a substantial part of the wall of an accessory building is a part
of the main building, or where an accessory building is attached to the main
building in a substantial manner by a roof, such accessory building shall be
counted as part of the main building.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use naturally and normally incidental to, subordinate to,
and devoted exclusively to the principal use of the premises.
   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare or way not less than ten feet nor more than 20
feet in width, serving as a secondary means of access to abutting property, and
which has been deeded or dedicated to the city.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of two or more rooms in a multiple dwelling
occupied or suitable for occupancy as a residence for one family.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. See definition in this subchapter, DWELLING, MULTIPLE.
   AUTOMOBILE COURT. A group of two or more attached, detached, or semi-
detached buildings containing individual sleeping or living units designed for
or used primarily for the accommodation of transient automobile travelers, with
garage attached or parking space conveniently located to each unit, including
tourist courts, motels, or motor lodges.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling other than a hotel where lodging and/or meals for
three or more persons are provided for compensation. COMPENSATION shall include
compensation in money, services, or other things of value.
   BILLBOARD. Any sign containing advertising, not appurtenant to any permitted
use, over six square feet in area.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls and
designed for the housing or enclosure of any person, animal, or chattel.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the average level of the
highest and lowest point of that portion of the lot covered by the building to
the topmost point of the roof.
   BUILDING, MAIN. A building in which is conducted the principal use of the
lot on which it is situated. In any R zone, any dwelling shall be deemed to be
a main building on the lot on which the same is situated.
   BUILDING SITE. See definition in this subchapter, LOT.
   CAMP, TRAILER. Any area or tract of land used or designed to accommodate ten
or more automobile trailers or ten or more camping parties, including cabins,
tents, or other camping outfits.
   COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the city.
   DUPLEX. A building containing not more than two kitchens, designed and/or
used to house not more than two families, living independently of each other,
including all necessary employees of each family.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof designed exclusively for residential
occupancy, including one-family, two-family, and multiple dwellings, but not
including hotels, clubs, or boarding houses or any institution such as an
asylum, hospital, or jail where human beings are housed by reason of illness or
under legal restraint.
   DWELLING GROUPS. One or more buildings containing dwelling units occupying a
parcel of land, in one ownership, and arranged around a yard or court,
including one-family, two-family, and multiple dwellings, but not including
automobile courts.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building, or portion thereof, used, designed, or
intended as a residence for three or more families living independently of each
other, and doing their own cooking in the building, including apartment houses,
apartment hotels and flats, but not including automobile courts.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A building designed and/or used exclusively for
occupancy by one family, living independently of any other family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed and/or used exclusively for
occupancy by two families, living independently of each other (see definition
in this subchapter, DUPLEX).
   DWELLING UNIT. Two or more rooms in a dwelling or an apartment hotel
designed for occupancy by one family for living and sleeping purposes and
having only one kitchen.
   EMERGENCY SHELTER. Housing with minimal supportive services for homeless
persons that is limited to occupancy of six months or less by a homeless
person. No individual or household may be denied emergency shelter because of
an inability to pay.
   ERECTED. Shall include built, built upon, added to, altered, constructed,
reconstructed, moved upon, or any physical operation upon the land required for
a building.
   FAMILY. One or more persons living as a single housekeeping unit in a
dwelling unit, including necessary domestic servants. FAMILY shall not include
such groups as customarily occupy a hotel, club, fraternity, or sorority house.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building used for the care, repair, or equipment of
automobiles, or where such vehicles are parked or stored for remuneration,
hire, or sale.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or portion of a main building
for the parking or temporary storage of automobiles of the occupants of the
premises.
   GARAGE SPACE. Permanently maintained space of not less than 8½ × 19 feet for
the parking of automobiles off the street. Such space shall be located and
arranged for an accessory building and with adequate ingress and egress.
   HOME OCCUPATION. The conduct of an art or profession, the offering of a
service, or the conduct of a business, or the handcraft manufacture of products
within a house or garage in a residential district, which use is clearly
incidental and secondary to the use of a structure for dwelling purposes and
which use does not change the character thereof.
   HOTEL. Any building, or portion thereof, containing six or more guest rooms
used, designed, or intended to be used, let, or hired out to be occupied or
which are occupied as the more or less temporary abiding place of six or more
individuals who are lodged with or without meals for compensation, whether the
compensation for hire is paid directly or indirectly, and in which no provision
is made for cooking in any individual room or suite.
   JUNK YARD. The use of more than 200 square feet of the area of any lot or
the use of any portion of that half of any lot, which half adjoins any street
for the storage of junk, including scrap metals or other scrap materials, or
for the dismantling or wrecking of automobiles, other vehicles, or machinery,
whether for sale or storage.
   LOADING SPACE. A permanently maintained space of not less than 8 × 18 feet
located off the street with access for the parking of vehicles. Whenever the
provisions of this chapter shall require loading space, such space shall be in
addition to any required parking space and/or garage space.
   LOT. Any area or parcel of land held under separate ownership and occupied,
or to be occupied, by a main building or by a dwelling group, together with
such yards, open spaces, lot width, and lot area as are required by this
chapter and having its principal frontage on a public street, road, or highway.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two or more intersecting
streets.
   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines,
measured in the mean direction of the side lot lines.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The property line dividing a lot from a street. On a corner
lot the shorter street frontage shall be considered the front lot line.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT, KEY. The first lot to the rear of a reversed corner lot, whether or not
separated by an alley.
   LOT LINE. The lines bounding a lot.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The line opposite the front lot line.
   LOT, REVERSED CORNER. A corner lot which rears upon the side of another lot,
whether separated by an alley or not.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Lot lines other than front lot lines or rear lot lines.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines, measured at
right angles to the lot depth at a point midway between the front and rear lot
lines.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING. A building or structure or portion thereof lawfully
existing on September 15, 1954, which was designed, erected, or structurally
altered for a use that does not conform to the use regulations of the zone in
which it is located, or a building or structure that does not conform to all
the height or area regulations of the zone in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use which lawfully occupied a building or land on
September 15, 1954, and which does not conform with the use regulations of the
zone in which it is located.
   OPEN SPACE. As required in the R and PD zones shall mean area available and
accessible to residents for active and passive recreation including landscaped
areas, walkways, patios, yards, and recreation facilities. To qualify as open
space, an area must have a minimum dimension of 10 feet  except that balconies
may qualify as open space when the minimum dimension is five feet. Parking
areas (spaces and driveways) may not be included in open space calculations.
   PARKING SPACE. Permanently maintained space at least 8½ × 19 feet located
off the street with access for the parking of automobiles.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICES. An office for the conduct of any one of the following
uses: accountant, architect, attorney, chiropractor, civil engineer or
surveyor's drafting office, collection agency, cosmetologist, dentist, doctor,
funeral parlor, insurance, private detective, real estate, social worker or
similar use; but shall not include the following uses: advertiser, barber shop,
contractor, pest control, pharmacy, or veterinary.
   ROOMING HOUSE. See definition subsection in this subchapter, BOARDING HOUSE.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare or road easement not less than 20 feet in
width, which affords principal means of access to abutting property, but not
including an alley.
   STREET LINE. The boundary between a street and property.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires more
or less permanent location on or in the ground or attachment to something
having a permanent location on or in the ground, including site built swimming
pools. This definition does not include walls and fences less than three feet
in height when located in front yards, or less than six feet in height when
located in side or rear yards, nor other improvements of a minor character.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders, floor joists, or roof joists,
for which a building permit is required.
   SUPPORTIVE HOUSING. Housing with no limit on length of stay, that is
occupied by the target population and that is linked to onsite or offsite
services that assist the supportive housing resident in retaining the housing,
improving his or her health status, and maximizing his or her ability to live
and, when possible, work in the community. Supportive housing units are
residential uses subject only to those requirements and restrictions that apply
to other residential uses of the same type in the same zone.
   TARGET POPULATION. Persons with low incomes who have one or more
disabilities, including mental illness, HIV and AIDS, substance abuse, or other
chronic health condition, or individuals eligible for services provided
pursuant to the Lanterman Development Disabilities Services Act (Division 4.5
(commencing with § 4500) of the Welfare and Institutions Code) and may include,
among other populations, adults, emancipated minors, families with children,
elderly persons, young adults aging out of the foster care system, individuals
exiting from institutional settings, veterans, and homeless people.
   TRANSITIONAL HOUSING. Buildings configured as rental housing, but operating
under program requirements that require the termination of assistance and
recirculation of the assisted unit to another eligible program recipient at
some predetermined future point in time, which shall be no less than six months
from the beginning of the assistance. Transitional housing units are
residential uses subject only to those requirements and restrictions that apply
to other residential uses of the same type in the same zone.
   USE. The purpose for which land or premises or a building thereon is
designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or
maintained.
   YARD. An open space, other than a court, on the same lot with a building,
which open space is unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward, except
as otherwise permitted in this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of the lot between the inner
side yard lines and measured between the front lot line and the nearest line of
the main building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and measured
between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line or point of the main
building nearest the rear line of the lot.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard on each side of a building between the building and the
side line of the lot and extending from the front line to the rear yard.
   ZONE. A portion of the city within which certain uses of land and buildings
are permitted or prohibited and within which certain yards and other open
spaces are required and certain height limited are established for buildings,
all as set forth and specified in this chapter. ZONE shall mean and include the
word DISTRICT.
(‘61 Code, § 10-3.201) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 26 C.S., passed 4-
16-62; Am. Ord. 80 C.S., passed 8-5-65; Am. Ord. 452 C.S., passed 1-15-86; Am.
Ord. 652 C.S., passed 3-6-96; Am. Ord. 920 C.S., passed 5-20-15)
ZONES
§ 10-3.301 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   In order to classify, regulate, restrict, and segregate the uses of
land and buildings, to regulate and restrict the height and bulk of buildings,
and to regulate the area of yards and other open spaces about buildings, and to
promote the public health, safety, peace, comfort and general welfare, 13
classes of land use zones are established to be known as follows:
      (1)   PD. Planned Development Zones
      (2)   R. Residential Zones
      (3)   RCO. Resource Conservation and Open Space Zone
      (4)   PF. Public Facilities Zone
      (5)   PO. Public Office Zone
      (6)   C-1. Light Commercial Zone
      (7)   C-2 Heavy Commercial Zone
      (8)   C-R. Restricted Commercial Zone
      (9)   WY. West Yosemite Avenue Overlay Zone
      (10)   I. Industrial Zone
      (11)   UR. Urban Reserve Zone
      (12)   U. Unclassified Zone
      (13)   IP. Industrial Park Zone
      (14)   N-C. Neighborhood Commercial Zones
      (15)   H-C. Highway Commercial Zones
      (16)   SP. Specific Plan Zone
   (B)   An “S” subdesignation may be added to a zone classification applied to
a parcel or parcels of land when deemed appropriate by the City Council, upon
recommendation of the Planning Commission, for the purpose of setting forth
special provisions for the use of such land on an interim or transitional
basis. Such use may be one that would otherwise not be permitted by the regular
zoning classification. The “S” subdesignation shall be established by
ordinance, after due public hearing processes, and the ordinance shall set
forth the circumstances of the subdesignation, including but not limited to the
purpose and time period for the special provisions. Upon the termination of the
specified time period the special provisions shall automatically become null
and void and the subdesignation shall be duly deleted from the zoning map of
the city without further hearing.
(‘61 Code, § 10-3.301) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 26 C.S., passed 4-
16-62; Am. Ord. 105 C.S., passed 4-5-67; Am. Ord. 183 C.S., passed 5-31-72; Am.
Ord. 315 C.S., passed 6-6-79; Am. Ord. 326 C.S., passed 12-3-79; Am. Ord. 380
C.S., passed 9-21-81; Am. Ord. 392 C.S., passed 3-29-82; Am. Ord. 452 C.S.,
passed 1-15-86; Am. Ord. 485 C.S., passed 10-21-87; Am. Ord. 589 C.S., passed
11-18-92; Am. Ord. 992 C.S., passed 5-4-22)
§ 10-3.302 ZONING MAPS.
   (A)   Adoption. The boundaries of the various land use districts within the
City of Madera are shown upon the map designated as the "City of Madera Zoning
Map", sometimes referred to in this chapter as "zoning map," signed and on file
in the office of the City Clerk, which map is hereby adopted and made a part of
this chapter, and said map and all of the notations, references, and other
information shown thereon shall be as much a part of this chapter as if the
matters and information set forth by said map were all duly described in this
chapter.
   (B)   Amendments. If amendments are made in district boundaries or other
matter portrayed on the official zoning map, such changes shall be made on the
official zoning map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the City
Council. The revised zoning map, reflecting all amendments and changes, shall
then be refiled with the City Clerk within ten days after City Council
approval. No amendment to this title which involves matter portrayed on the
official zoning map shall become effective until after such change and entry
has been made on the zoning map.
   (C)   Format. The official zoning map shall be the printed and signed copy
on file in the office of the City Clerk, including any adopted amendments.
Electronic files used to create the map are not the official map. The official
zoning map shall be printed for viewing and interpretation at a scale of at
least one to twenty thousand (1:20,000).
('61 Code, § 10-3.302) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 332 N.S., passed -
-; Am. Ord. 706 C.S., passed 7-21-99; Am. Ord. 710 C.S., 10-20-99; Am. Ord. 876
C.S., passed 9-1-10)
§ 10-3.303 ANNEXATION POLICY.
   (A)   All territory to be annexed to the city shall, prior to being
considered by the Madera Local Agency Formation Commission, be prezoned by
amendment of the official zoning map and shall be automatically in effect upon
the certificate of completion for annexation of the area into the city being
recorded by the County Clerk.
   (B)   Prezoned land shall carry a "PZ" prefix before the zone classification
(s) and shall be so designated on the official zoning map. The zone(s)
established by prezoning shall become effective and the "PZ" prefix shall be
automatically removed when the property is annexed. Failure to complete the
annexation process for any reason shall render any prezoning zone
classification(s) on the official zoning map to be null and void, and the
zoning designation(s) shall be removed for the official zoning map. The subject
property will be considered to be not prezoned, not within the city limits of
the City of Madera, and instead subject to the zoning ordinance of the County
of Madera.
('61 Code, § 10-3.303) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 876 C.S., passed
9-1-10)
§ 10-3.304 ZONE BOUNDARIES.
   The designations, locations, and boundaries of the land use zones
established by §
10-3.301 of this subchapter are as set forth and indicated on City of Madera
Zoning Map which is on file in the office of the City Clerk. The zoning map
designations are intended to generally follow parcel lines. Interpretation may
be needed to determine the exact boundaries of a land use classification where
parcel lines are unclear, have been moved, have been deleted, or do not
correspond with a zone district boundary.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of any zone shown on the
zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Street, alley, or lot lines. Where zone boundaries are indicated as
approximately following street lines, alley lines, or lot lines, such lines
shall be construed to be such boundaries.
   (B)   Unsubdivided land. In unsubdivided property or where the zone boundary
line divides a lot, the location of such boundary, unless the same is indicated
by specific dimensions, shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on
the zoning map.
   (C)   Vacated street or alley.  Where any public street or alley or other
public right-of-way is officially vacated or abandoned, the land formerly in
such street, alley, or right-of-way shall be included within the zone of
adjoining property on either side thereof. In the event such street, alley, or
right-of-way was a zone boundary line between two or more different zones, the
new zone boundary line shall be the former center line of such vacated or
abandoned street, alley, or right-of-way.
   (D)   Determination. When a determination is requested due to an uncertainty
as to the location of a zone district boundary, the Planning Director shall
utilize the official zoning map to make a determination. Where a determination
of the Planning Director is contested, the contestant may make application for
a determination by the Planning Commission.
('61 Code, § 10-3.304) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 876 C.S., passed
9-1-10)
§ 10-3.305 CONFORMANCE TO ZONE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in this chapter:
      (1)   Use. No building shall be erected, reconstructed, or structurally
altered in any manner, nor shall any land, building, or premises be used,
designed, or intended to be used for any purpose or in any manner other than a
use listed in this chapter as permitted in the specific zone in which such
land, building, or premises are located, and then only after applying for, and
securing, all permits and licenses required by law.
      (2)   Height. No building shall be erected, reconstructed, or
structurally altered in any manner to exceed in height the limit established by
this chapter for the zone in which such building is located.
      (3)   Area. No building shall be erected, reconstructed, or structurally
altered in any manner, nor shall any open spaces surrounding any building be
encroached upon or reduced in any manner except in conformity with the building
site requirements and the area and yard regulations established by this chapter
for the zone in which such building is located.
   (B)   No required yard or other open space provided around any building for
the purpose of complying with the provisions of this chapter shall be
considered as providing a yard or open space for any other building or
structure; nor shall any required yard or other open space on an adjoining lot
be considered as providing a yard or open space on a lot whereon a building is
to be erected.
('61 Code, § 10-3.305) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 10-3.401 INTERPRETATION.
   When interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public
health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare. Except as
specifically herein provided, it is not intended by the adoption of this
chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul, or in any way to impair or interfere with
any existing provision of any law or ordinance, or any rules, regulations, or
permits previously adopted or issued, or which shall be adopted or issued
pursuant to law relating to the erection, construction, establishment, moving,
alteration, or enlargement of any building or improvement; nor is it intended
by this chapter to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any easement, covenant,
or other agreement between parties; provided, however, that in cases in which
this chapter imposes more stringent requirements, regulations, restrictions, or
limitations on the erection, construction, establishment, moving, alteration,
or enlargement of buildings or the use of any such buildings or premises in the
several zones or any of them than is imposed by or required by existing
provisions of law or ordinance or by such rules, regulations, or permits or by
such easements, covenants, or agreements, the provisions of this chapter shall
control.
('61 Code, § 10-3.401) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.402 LESS RESTRICTIVE USES PROHIBITED.
   The express enumeration and authorization in this chapter of a particular
class of building, structure, premises, or use in a designated zone shall be
deemed a prohibition of such building, structure, premises, or use in all zones
of a more restrictive classification, except as otherwise specified.
('61 Code, § 10-3.402) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.403 ADDITIONAL PERMITTED USES.
   Uses other than those specifically mentioned in this chapter as uses
permitted in each of the zones also may be allowed therein, provided such
additional uses are similar to those mentioned and are, in the opinion of the
Commission as evidenced by resolution of record, not more obnoxious or
detrimental to the welfare of the community than the permitted uses
specifically mentioned for the respective zones.
('61 Code, § 10-3.403) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.404 ADDITIONAL EXCLUDED USES.
   Uses other than those specifically mentioned in this chapter as uses
excluded from any zone also may be excluded therefrom, provided such additional
uses are, in the opinion of the Commission as evidenced by resolution of
record, equally or more obnoxious or detrimental to the welfare of the
community than the excluded uses specifically mentioned for the respective
zones.
('61 Code, § 10-3.404) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.405 USES.
   (A)   No circus, carnival, amusement park, open air theater, race track,
private recreation center, or similar establishment shall be established in any
zone unless and until a use permit is first secured for the establishment,
maintenance, and operation of such use.
   (B)   No dance hall, road house, nightclub, commercial club, or
establishment where liquor is served or sold for consumption on or off the
premises, or commercial place of amusement or recreation, or any such place or
any other place where entertainers are provided, whether as social companions
or otherwise, shall be established in any zone where such uses may be otherwise
allowed unless a use permit shall first have been secured for the
establishment, maintenance, and operation of such use.
   (C)   Accessory uses and buildings in any C or I zone may be permitted where
such uses or buildings are incidental to, and do not alter the character of,
the premises in respect to their use for purposes permitted in the zone. Such
accessory buildings shall be allowed only when constructed concurrent with or
subsequent to the main building.
   (D)   Public or private parking lots for automobiles may be permitted in any
R zone adjacent to any C or I zone provided a use permit shall first be
obtained in each case.
   (E)   Churches, schools, hospitals, parks, playgrounds, and public utility
and public and quasi-public buildings, except cemeteries and their appurtenant
uses, may be permitted in any R zone provided a use permit shall first be
obtained in each case.
   (F)   The removal of minerals, earth, and other natural materials may be
permitted in any zone provided a use permit shall first be obtained in each
case.
   (G)   The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to limit or
interfere with the installation, maintenance, and operation of public utility
pipelines and electric or telephone transmission lines or railroads when
located in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the Public
Utilities Commission of the state within rights-of-way, easements, franchises,
or ownerships of such public utilities.
   (H)   Home occupations shall be permitted in all R zones subject to the
determination by the Commission of what activities are within the definition of
home occupations as set forth in §
10-3.201 of this chapter. The determination of the Commission of what conduct
may be allowed under the definition of home occupation shall be set forth in a
resolution of the Commission on file in the office of the Planning Director. In
the event of a dispute regarding the issue of whether or not the use of any
property is or is not a home occupation, the Planning Director shall set the
matter for hearing by the Commission, and the Commission's determination of
such issue shall be final and conclusive. In conjunction with any such hearing,
the Commission may attach such conditions to the use of the property which may
be necessary to insure that the limitations set forth in this chapter and any
resolutions adopted by the Commission concerning the conduct of home
occupations are met. All home occupations shall be registered with the Planning
Director.
   (I)   Recycling facilities.
      (1)   Recycling facilities as hereinafter described are permitted as set
forth in this section. Recycling facilities are either collection facilities or
processing facilities. A COLLECTION FACILITY shall not complete any processing
except limited bailing, batching, and the sorting of materials and shall be
classified as either SMALL, which occupies an area of not more than 100 square
feet and includes bins, boxes, cans, kiosk-type units, bulk reverse vending
machines, and/or other containers or receptacles, or LARGE, which occupies an
area of more than 100 square feet and includes bins, boxes, cans, kiosktype
units, bulk reverse vending machines, and/or other containers or receptacles.
Any and all motorized vehicles and trailers except those used to transfer
recyclable materials to a collection or processing facility are deemed to be
large collection facilities. A processing facility is a building or space used
for the collection and processing of recyclable materials and processed by such
means as flattening, sorting, settling, compacting, bailing, shredding,
grinding, and crushing. Recyclable materials are reusable material including
aluminum, glass, plastic, paper, and used motor oil.
      (2)   Recycling facilities are permitted as follows:
         (a)   A small collection facility may be permitted in any C, I, IP, or
RCO zone and in an R zone when the site is the location of an appropriate non-
profit agency. In each case, approval must first be secured from the Planning
Director.
         (b)   A large collection facility may be permitted in any zone after
first securing a use permit.
         (c)   A processing facility may be permitted in a C-2, I, or IP use
zone after first securing a use permit.
      (3)   Applications for recycling facilities shall be evaluated for
propriety of location and consideration shall be given to the need for facility
screening, landscaping, circulation/parking, noise, odor, and sanitation
control to assure compatibility with surrounding land uses.
   (J)   Cardrooms.
      (1)   Cardrooms as hereinafter described and regulated are permitted as
set forth in this section. A cardroom is any room open to the public for the
lawful playing of cards, regardless of whether the tables, chairs and other
furniture and fixtures are temporary or permanent or at times used for other
purposes.
         (a)   It is the stated purpose of this division (J) to regulate
cardrooms in the city concurrently with the state, and to impose local controls
and regulations upon cardrooms as permitted in the "Gambling Control Act".
         (b)   Cardrooms, subject to the licensing requirements and limitation
in number cited at § 6-140 of this code are permitted in any C-1, C-2, CH, or I
zone except as otherwise prohibited. In each case, a Use Permit must be
approved by the Planning Commission. Application for a Use Permit shall be made
in accordance with §§
10-3.1301 et seq. of this code.
         (c)   Applications for establishment of cardrooms shall be evaluated
for propriety of location and consideration shall be given to the need for
landscaping, circulation/parking, noise, intrusive lighting and health and
safety considerations to ensure compatibility with surrounding land uses.
         (d)   The exterior wall structure of each business or premises
lawfully occupied by a cardroom shall be located not less than:
            1.   1,000 feet from the exterior property limits of any public or
private elementary school, junior high school or high school; and
            2.   1,000 feet from the exterior property limits of any church or
place of worship; and
            3.   1,000 feet from the exterior property limits of any zoning
district where residential use is the principal permitted use; and
            4.   1,000 feet from the exterior wall structure of each business
or premises lawfully occupied by another cardroom, a massage establishment,
adult entertainment establishment, or any other adult oriented business
establishment.
            5.   All distances referred to in division (J)(1)(d) of this
section shall be measured in a straight line without regard to intervening
structures, from the closest exterior structural wall of the cardroom. Said
distance standards shall be applied regardless of jurisdictional boundaries.
         (e)   Exempt organizations.
            1.   Exempt organizations may provide card tables and card games
for the exclusive use of their members and shall be exempted from obtaining a
cardroom license pursuant to this section, whether or not a fee or any other
charge is made to the players, as long as the exempt organization is not
required to register under the Gaming Registration Act, and providing that such
exempt organization complies with all of the subsections of this section.
            2.   An authorized representative of the exempt organization shall
file a Declaration of Exemption executed under penalty of perjury with the
Chief of Police that sets forth the name and address of the exempt
organization, the number of tables to be operated, and a declaration that the
exempt organization and its members qualify for exemption from the Gaming
Registration Act and from licensing hereunder; the Declaration of Exemption
shall be accompanied by proof of the valid and unrevoked tax exempt status of
the exempt organization granted by the Franchise Tax Board and/or the Internal
Revenue Service. No registration fees shall be required.
            3.   No exempt organization shall operate, conduct, or carry on
legal gaming as defined in this chapter more than one day of any calendar week.
            4.   No exempt organization shall operate, conduct, or carry on
legal gaming as defined in § 6-140 of this code within any building, structure,
lot, or premises within any calendar week, if any other exempt organization has
conducted, carried on, or operated legal gaming within such building,
structure, lot or premises during the same calendar week.
   (K)   Garage and yard sales.
      (1)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this subsection is to establish
land use standards that will protect the character of single-family residential
neighborhoods in order to preserve public safety and welfare. The intent is to
regulate those activities which in the most technical sense have business or
commercial characteristics, but which, because of the manner in which they are
conducted or the purposes for which they are being operated, are truly non-
commercial in nature. These regulations are intended to prevent the expansion
of such non-commercial operations into truly commercial operations and to
regulate the method of conducting the activity so that it will be confined to a
non-commercial type of operation. It is the purpose of this subsection to
prevent such activities from unfairly competing with permitted revenue-
producing commercial and business enterprises; to prevent the conduct of
commercial enterprises upon other than commercially zoned property; and to curb
the evasion of business permit fees and sales taxes.
      (2)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subsection, a GARAGE SALE or
YARD SALE is a sale conducted by an individual homeowner or occupant of a home,
or apartment owner, occupant of an apartment unit, or owner or occupant of any
other residential or dwelling unit. These sales are for the purpose of selling,
trading, bargaining, exchanging or otherwise disposing of unwanted or surplus
household furnishings or goods, or other tangible items. They are usually
conducted in a garage, on a patio or porch, upon a driveway or in a yard, and
are sales for which no inventory or permanent or detailed records are kept on
the transactions thus carried out. They may at times be conducted by a
combination of residential dwellers at a single location. All sales designated
"lawn sale", "attic sale", "rummage sale ", "moving sale", "estate sale" or
other terms of similar or like intent and having the foregoing characteristics
and purposes are hereby declared GARAGE or YARD SALES for the purpose of
regulation by this subsection.
      (3)   Time limits of sales. Sales events conducted at any residential
dwelling unit, apartment complex, or residentially zoned property may only be
held on the first Saturday and/or Sunday of each month. No event may be held
for more than two consecutive days. The time limit for conducting the sale
shall be between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., including the time for
set-up and takedown. The driveway, yard area, or other space used for the
purposes of the sale shall be restored to its normal residential character at
the conclusion of the sale.
      (4)   Limitations on items for sale. Goods offered for sale shall be the
personal property of the person conducting the sale, as well as persons
participating in the sale. All of the goods must be used or secondhand. Selling
goods which have been acquired specifically for the purpose of resale is
prohibited. The sale of the goods shall not violate any federal, state, or
local laws.
      (5)   Display of property. Except where a special events or encroachment
permit has been issued, the display of personal property offered for sale shall
not be displayed on any public right-of- way, including, but not limited to,
sidewalks, parkways, streets and/or alleys, or on any other residentially zoned
property other than that owned or rented by the person conducting the sale.
      (6)   Sign displays. A sign no larger than six square feet in area may be
displayed on the premises announcing the sale during the time period allowed
for such events. No sign shall be displayed at any location outside of, or off
the premises without the expressed written permission of the owner. Placing
signs in the public right-of-way is prohibited. No sign shall be placed any
earlier than 12:00 p.m. on the day before the sale starts and shall be removed
by 4:00 p.m. on the termination day of the sale.
      (7)   Violation - penalty. Violations of any provisions of this
subsection shall subject the violator to suit for civil remedy, criminal
penalty, administrative enforcement, or any combination thereof. The criminal
penalty for a first or second offense shall be punishable as an infraction. The
criminal penalty for a third offense or more shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor.
      (8)   Non-profit organizations shall be permitted to hold no more than
two garage or yard sales on non-residential property within a 12 month period.
Non-profits holding such garage or yard sales must obtain a permit from the
Neighborhood Revitalization Department prior to holding the event.
   (L)   No treatment center, counseling center, psychiatric facility, or other
clinic or business which primarily serves or treats sex offenders, including
those persons who are required to register pursuant to Cal. Penal Code § 290,
or any similar establishment shall be established in any zone unless and until
a use permit is first secured for the establishment, maintenance, and operation
of such use. Under no circumstances shall a permit issue or, any such facility
shall be permitted to locate or operate within 2,000 feet of any public or
private school or park, or any facility where children gather.
('61 Code, § 10-3.405) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 26 C.S., passed 4-
16-62; Am. Ord. 80 C.S., passed 8-5-65; Am. Ord. 99 C.S., passed 10-6-66; Am.
Ord. 149 C.S., passed 6-17-70; Am. Ord. 480 C.S., passed 8-19-87; Am. Ord. 652
C.S., passed 3-6-96; Am. Ord. 656 C.S., passed 6-5-96; Am. Ord. 657 C.S.,
passed 6-19-96; Am. Ord. 685 C.S., passed 6-3-98; Am. Ord. 766 C.S., passed 5-
5-04; Am. Ord. 860 C.S., passed 7-1-09; Am. Ord. 880 C.S., passed 12-15-10)
§ 10-3.406 NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES.
   The following regulations shall apply to all nonconforming buildings and
structures, or parts thereof, and uses existing on September 15, 1954:
   (A)   Land only. The lawful use of land only, existing on September 15,
1954, although such does not conform to the regulations specified in this
chapter for the zone in which such land is located, may be continued provided
no such use shall be enlarged or increased nor be extended to occupy a greater
area than that occupied by such use on September 15, 1954, and if any use
ceases, the subsequent use of such land shall be in conformity to the
regulations specified by this chapter for the zone in which such land is
located.
   (B)   Buildings or structures. A building or structure in existence, or a
use lawfully occupying a building or structure on September 15, 1954, or on the
effective date of an applicable amendment to this chapter, which building or
use does not conform to the regulations for the district in which the building
or use is located, shall be deemed to be a nonconforming building or use, and
may be continued as provided in this section:
      (1)   The lawful use of buildings or structures may be continued although
such building or use does not conform to the regulations specified for the zone
in which such building or structure is located.
      (2)   The nonconforming use of a portion of a building or structure may
be extended throughout the building provided in each case a use permit shall be
first approved by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The nonconforming use of a building or structure may be changed to
a use of the same or more restricted nature provided in each case a use permit
shall first be approved by the Planning Commission.
      (4)   If the nonconforming use of a building or structure ceases for a
continuous period of six months, it shall be considered abandoned and shall
thereafter be used only in accordance with the regulations for the zone in
which such building or structure is located and the nonconforming right shall
be lost. Provided, however, that if a use permit is approved by the Planning
Commission within an additional six months from the date of termination, the
use may be reestablished.
   (C)   Maintenance or repairs. Ordinary maintenance and repairs may be made
to any non- conforming building providing no structural alterations are made
and providing such work does not exceed 15% of the appraised value of the
building or structure in any one-year period. Other repairs or alterations may
be permitted provided a use permit shall first be secured in each case.
   (D)   Reconstruction of damaged nonconforming building. Nothing in this
chapter shall prevent the reconstruction, repair, or rebuilding and continued
use of any nonconforming building or structure partially damaged by fire,
collapse, explosion, or act of God, wherein the expense of such reconstruction,
repair, or rebuilding does not exceed 75% of the appraised value of the
building or structure according to an independent appraisal completed by an
appraiser certified by the state at the time such damage occurred. All such
reconstruction shall be performed under one building permit and started within
a period of one year from the date of damage and be diligently prosecuted to
completion. In the event the aforementioned damage is in excess of 75% of the
appraised value, the building or structure may be restored only if made to
conform to all the regulations of the zone in which it is located, or through
approval of a use permit by the Planning Commission.
   (E)   Changes to conforming use to be permanent. Any part of a building,
structure, or land occupied by such a nonconforming use which is changed to, or
replaced by, a use conforming to the provisions of this chapter, as they apply
to the particular zone, shall not thereafter be used or occupied by a
nonconforming use.
   (F)   Nonconforming uses resulting from amendments. The foregoing provisions
of this section shall apply also to buildings, structures, land, or uses which
hereafter become nonconforming by reason of any reclassifications of zones or
any subsequent changes to the provisions of this chapter as of the effective
date of such amendment.
   (G)   Exceptions; powers of eminent domain. No parcel of land in single
ownership on September 15, 1954, shall be considered non-conforming solely as
the result of the taking of a part of such land for street widening or public
utility purposes under the power of eminent domain.
   (H)   Billboards. All BILLBOARDS defined in §
10-3.201 of this chapter are declared to be non- conforming uses in any zone
and shall be prohibited, and such billboards shall be removed from the premises
where located on or before January 15, 1975, or within three calendar years
after the effective date of any ordinance annexing the territory upon which any
such sign is located, whichever is the latter; provided, however, the
provisions of this section shall not apply to official notices issued by any
court, public body, or officer in the performance of a public duty, or by any
person in giving any legal notice, or to any directional, warning, or
informational sign required by or authorized by law or by federal, state, or
local authority.
('61 Code, § 10-3.406) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 117 C.S., passed
1-17-68; Am. Ord. 173 C.S., passed 1-19-72; Am. Ord. 589 C.S., passed 11-18-92)
§ 10-3.407 LOCATION OF DWELLINGS.
   Except in multiple dwelling developments or where otherwise provided for in
this chapter, every dwelling shall face or front upon a street or permanent
means of access to a street.
('61 Code, § 10-3.407) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.408 HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS.
   Chimneys, cupolas, water tanks, ventilating fans, towers, steeples,
smokestacks, and similar structures and mechanical appurtenances may be
permitted in excess of height limits specified in the individual zones provided
a use permit is first obtained in each case. In order to encourage shared use
of telecommunication towers and the use of alternative tower structures or
stealth antennas, the Community Development Director/City Engineer and may
approve an exception to the height restrictions specified in the individual
zones by an amount not to exceed 20 feet.
('61 Code, § 10-3.408) (Ord 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 698 C.S., passed 3-
17-99)
§ 10-3.409 BUILDING SITE AREA.
   Any lot or parcel of land under one ownership and of record on September 15,
1954, where no adjoining land is owned by the same person may be used as a
building site even when of less area or width than that required by the
regulations for the zone in which it is located.
('61 Code, § 10-3.409) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.410 THROUGH LOTS.
   On through lots, either lot line separating such lot from a public
thoroughfare may be designated by the owner as the front line. In such cases,
the minimum rear yard shall be the average of the yards on lots next adjoining.
If such lots next adjoining are undeveloped, the minimum rear yard shall
conform to the front yard setback for the zone in which the property is
located.
('61 Code, § 10-3.410) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.411 YARD ENCROACHMENTS.
   Where yards are required by this chapter, they shall be not less in depth or
width than the minimum dimension specified for any yard, and they shall be at
every point open and unobstructed from the ground upward, except as follows:
   (A)   Architectural features. Fireplaces, bay windows, balconies, cornices,
canopies, and eaves, not providing additional floor space within the building,
may extend into a required front, side, or rear yards not to exceed two feet.
   (B)   Porches.
      (1)   Covered porches, landing spaces, or outside stairways, which do not
extend above the level of the entrance floor of the building may project into
any required side yard not more than three feet and not exceeding six feet into
any required front yard. An open work railing, not more than 30 inches in
height, may be installed or constructed on any such porch or landing space.
      (2)   Open porches, landing spaces, or outside stairways, if unroofed and
unenclosed, which do not extend above the level of the entrance floor of the
building to a maximum of 30 inches, is not limited as to its projection into
front and side yards, provided it is not more than 120 square feet in area.
Projections into a required rear yard are subject to the same limitations as a
deck.
   (C)   Decks. When larger than 120 square feet or when the deck is
constructed higher than 30 inches above finish grade, a wood deck may occupy up
to 30% of a required rear yard area, but may not extend any closer than three
feet to the rear or side property lines. Except as provided under open porches
above, such a deck may not be located in the front setback area.
   (D)   Accessory buildings and structures. Except as provided elsewhere in
this title, the following regulations shall apply to the location of accessory
buildings:
      (1)   Attached accessory building. Where an accessory building is
attached to and made a part of the main building, it shall be made structurally
an integral part of, and have a common wall with, the main building and shall
comply in all respects with the requirements of this chapter applicable to the
main building.
      (2)   Detached accessory buildings. A detached accessory building or
structure to be constructed in an R-1, R-2, R-3, or PD zone (unless otherwise
provided by an approved precise plan) shall be subject to the following
standards:
         (a)   Buildings designed for residential occupancy, or detached
accessory structures larger than 1,000 square feet in size or higher than 12
feet shall be located at least ten feet from any dwelling building existing or
under construction on the same lot or any adjacent lot. Such accessory building
shall conform to the setback requirements for the primary dwelling unit on the
lot.
         (b)   Structures not designed for residential occupancy, such as patio
covers, gazebos, cabanas, and pool shelters, less than 1,000 square feet in
area and less than 12 feet in height, shall be located as follows:
            1.   For structures with walls, at least a three-foot separation
from the walled side to any building on the same lot is required. A three-foot
separation from any side or rear lot line must be maintained.
            2.   For structures with wall surfaces of less than 10%, no
separation is required from other buildings on the same lot, except at windows
where three feet must be maintained. A three-foot separation from any side or
rear lot line must also be maintained.
            3.   In the case of a corner lot, such structure shall meet the
street side yard setback requirements for the primary dwelling unit on the lot.
('61 Code, § 10-3.411) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - -; Am. Ord. 601 C.S., passed 9-
7-93)
§ 10-3.412 FENCES, WALLS, AND HEDGES.
   (A)   No fence, wall, or screen planting of any kind shall be constructed or
grown to exceed a maximum of six feet in height between the rear property line
of a lot and the front line of the main building or along any rear property
line, nor to exceed three feet in height in any required front or street side
yard or within 25 feet of any street corner except as may otherwise be
permitted under this chapter.
   (B)   In R-1, R-2, and R-3 zones, or any Planned Development zone, no barbed
wire shall be used or maintained in or about the construction of a fence, wall,
hedge, or screen planting along the front, side or rear lines of any lot, or
within three feet of the lines, and no sharp wire or point shall project at the
top of any fence or wall.
   (C)   A fence may only be constructed of permanent building materials, such
as wood, chain link, stone, rock, concrete block, masonry brick, brick,
decorative wrought iron or other similar building materials approved by the
Planing Department. A fence may not be constructed of cast-off, secondhand, or
other material not originally intended to be used for constructing or
maintaining a fence, including, but not limited to plywood less than five-
eighths inches thick, particle board, cardboard, paper, visqueen plastic,
plastic tarp, scrap wood, scrap metal, or similar material.
   (D)   All fences shall be properly maintained so as not to create a hazard,
public nuisance or blight in the surrounding neighborhood.
   (E)   Any fence that is constructed, replaced or repaired in a manner that
is inconsistent with the provisions of this section as of the effective date of
Ordinance No. 809 C.S. shall constitute a violation of this section.
('61 Code, § 10-3.412) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 580 C.S., passed
12-18-91; Am. Ord. 809 C.S., passed 1-3-07)
§ 10-3.413 STORAGE OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   The storage or parking of commercial vehicles in the R-1, R-2, and R-
3 zones, except for loading and unloading purposes, or the storage of
materials, supplies, or equipment used for commercial purposes is prohibited.
('61 Code, § 10-3.413) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.414 AUTOMOTIVE STORAGE OR PARKING SPACE.
   For each main building erected or structurally altered in any R-1, R-2 or R-
3 zone there shall be provided and maintained minimum off-street parking
accommodations with adequate provisions for ingress and egress by standard size
automobiles as provided in the Off-Street Parking Regulations subchapter of
this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10-3.414) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 26 C.S., passed 4-
16-62)
§ 10-3.415 DWELLING ON FRONTS OF LOTS.
   Any lot upon which a dwelling has been constructed on the rear half thereof
prior to September 15, 1954, may have a second dwelling constructed on the
front half of the lot upon the issuance of a use permit.
('61 Code, § 10-3.415) (Ord. 231 N.S. passed - -; Am. Ord. 88 C.S., passed 1-5-
66; Am. Ord. 171 C.S., passed 1-19-72; Am. Ord. 287 C.S., passed 2-2-78; Am.
Ord. 322 C.S., passed 9-3-79; Am. Ord. 380 C.S., passed 9-21-81; Am. Ord. 483
C.S., passed 10-21-87; Am. Ord. 489 C.S., passed 12-2- 87; Am. Ord. 507 C.S.,
passed 10-19-88)
§ 10-3.415.1 (RESERVED).
§ 10-3.416 OUTDOOR RETAIL SALES.
   This section sets standards for the conduct of outdoor retail sales
activities, including but not limited to: farmer's market, home sales,
pushcarts or peddle carts, sales from vehicles, seasonal sales, and sidewalk
sales. The regulations provide for the pleasure and convenience of the
community while protecting the public health and safety. A needed service is
allowed through these provisions, as well as ensuring land use compatibility
and attractive facilities.
   (A)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply to this section:
   LUNCH WAGON. A motor vehicle from which beverages and/or ready-to-eat food
items are sold.
   MOBILE FOOD PREPARATION UNIT. Any vehicle or portable food service unit upon
which food is prepared for service, sale and distribution at retail, other than
a lunch wagon or unprepared food vending vehicle, bakery truck, or ice cream
product truck.
   MOBILE VENDOR. Any person not having an established location who is engaged
in transient business for the purpose of selling any type of merchandise or for
the purpose of taking orders, or providing a service.
   OPERATOR'S PERMIT. The permit issued to a mobile vendor, under the
provisions of §
6-1.53 of the Municipal Code, who sells products, provides services, operates a
lunch wagon, mobile food preparation unit, or pushcart on any sidewalk, street,
alley, or highway, or on public or private property for the purpose of vending
a product to the public.
   OUTDOOR RETAIL. The conducting of activities including but not limited to
sales, merchandising, display, exhibition, vending, demonstration or
distribution of any product or service outside of a fully enclosed structure
built in accordance with the provisions of the Madera Municipal Code.
   PUSHCART. Any wagon, cart, or similar wheeled container, which is not a
vehicle as defined in the State Vehicle Code, from which a product is offered
for sale to the public.
   SEMI-PERMANENT. The selling, giving away, displaying or offering for sale
any product or service from any location for a period of time in excess of 30
minutes.
   STAND. Any newsstand, table, bench, booth, rack or any other fixture or
device which is used for the display or storage of articles offered for sale by
a vendor.
   TEMPORARY USE PERMIT. The land use permit issued by the Planning Director to
a vendor authorizing the holder to engage in the business of vending a product
from a lunch wagon, stand,  mobile food preparation unit, pushcart, or any
other business at a fixed location on any sidewalk, street, alley, or highway,
or on public or private property, on a seasonal or temporary basis.
   USE PERMIT. The land use permit issued to a vendor by the Planning
Commission authorizing the holder to engage in the business of vending a
product from a lunch wagon, stand, mobile food preparation unit, pushcart, or
any other business at a fixed location on any sidewalk, street, alley, or
highway, or on public or private property, on a long term or permanent basis.
   VENDOR. A person who sells any type of merchandise at any fixed location
other than within a permanent building or structure.
   (B)   Exceptions. All merchandise or displays and all storage or sales areas
shall be within a permanent and completely enclosed building or structure,
except that the following may be conducted outdoors:
      (1)   Newspaper vending from coin operated machines.
      (2)   Flower stands, plants and floral displays, subject to the
requirements for a temporary use permit specified at division (F) (5) below and
the standards specified in division (C) (6) below.
      (3)   Those outdoor land uses and activities specifically allowed by
other sections of this code.
      (4)   Vehicular fuel sales in conjunction with approved service stations
and mini-market operations.
      (5)   Vending machines, subject to the standards specified in division
(F) (6) (a) below.
      (6)   Sales of Christmas trees and fireworks as further regulated by
division (C) (6) below.
      (7)   Garage or yard sales at single or multiple family residences.
      (8)   Special events and sales activities conducted at city-owned
facilities as may be authorized by the appropriate city department director.
      (9)   Outdoor fund-raising sales and activities conducted by schools,
charitable or non-profit organizations if the sale is carried on wholly by the
organization and it will derive, both directly and indirectly, any and all
profits from the sale, except that events held on private property shall be
subject to administrative approval by the Planning Director.
      (10)   Mobile vendors as authorized in this section.
   (C)   General provisions. The following regulations shall apply generally to
all outdoor retail sales activities authorized in this section.
      (1)   The sale of raw or processed foodstuffs is subject to applicable
regulations of the County Health Department, State Health Codes, and California
Food and Agriculture Codes, including but not limited to obtaining and
displaying a current proof of health inspection sticker.
      (2)   All food preparation and vending units shall be inspected at least
annually by the County Health Officer or designated representative and shall
display a current sticker issued by and as directed by that agency.
      (3)   Sale of food products or beverages from any portable box, bag or
similar container, other than a County Health Department approved container
shall be prohibited, except that food previously inspected by a duly appointed
government inspector, prepackaged in sealed containers may be displayed or
offered for sale if otherwise in compliance with all applicable health and
safety regulations.
      (4)   No vendor shall operate within 300 feet of any school ground prior
to 4:00 p.m. on any day school is in session.
      (5)   No more than two vendors shall assemble, gather, collect or
otherwise join for any purpose at any location except as otherwise authorized
by approved conditional use permit.
      (6)   In no case shall a vendor operate in the following described areas
except as permitted in writing by the City Council or it's authorized
representative:
         (a)   Within 15 feet of any crosswalk or fire hydrant:
         (b)   In marked diagonal parking spaces:
         (c)   On any sidewalk or street adjacent to a curb which has been
designated as a white, yellow, blue, green or red zone:
         (d)   Within 12 feet of the outer edge of any entrance way to any
building or facility used by the public measured in each direction parallel to
the building;
         (e)   At a location where pedestrian passage will be reduced to less
than six feet:
         (f)   At any location where such operation may create a traffic
hazard. For the purpose of this section, the judgment of a Madera police
officer shall be deemed conclusive as to whether the operation is creating a
hazard.
         (g)   Vendors shall not be permitted to operate at any publicly-owned
off-street location in the Downtown Business District, including but not
limited to parking lots and pocket parks. This section shall not be construed
to prohibit vendors from operating on privately-owned property in the Downtown
Business District pursuant to a valid use permit.
      (7)   Vendors shall be restricted from parking and or conducting business
at any location within the public right-of-way designated by the City Engineer
that represents a public peace, safety, health or welfare concern.
   (D)   The following additional regulations shall apply to pushcart, lunch
wagon and mobile food preparation units.
      (1)   Each unit shall have affixed to it in plain view or available for
immediate inspection a Madera City Business License, Health Certificate and any
other permit required by this or any other applicable code.
      (2)   The maximum dimensions of any pushcart shall be six feet in length
and four feet in width.
      (3)   The only signs used in conjunction with any unit shall be signs
affixed to or painted on the unit or its canopy, with a maximum area of eight
square feet.
      (4)   The operator of any unit, if such a person is an employee,
contractee, or lessee of an owner, shall carry his operator's permit upon his
person.
      (5)   No artificial lighting of any pushcart is permitted except as
required by the California Vehicle Code.
      (6)   A refuse bin of at least one cubic foot shall be provided in or on
the unit and shall be accessible by customers.
      (7)   No shouts, calls, horns or other noise nor amplified sound which
can be heard 50 or more feet from the unit shall be permitted.
      (8)   No person shall stop, park or cause any lunchwagon or mobile food
preparation unit or motor vehicle from which is offered food beverages, goods
or merchandise to remain stopped in any public right-of-way within 75 feet of
any street intersection.
      (9)   No person shall stop, park or cause any unit from which is offered
food, beverages, goods or merchandise to remain stopped in any public right-of-
way for more than 30 minutes except pursuant to the order of a lawful authority
or for the purpose of making emergency repairs to the vehicle. In no event
shall any person sell or give away any food or beverage product from a
lunchwagon, pushcart or mobile food preparation unit vehicle while on any other
public property including parking lots or pocket parks except as otherwise
allowed in this code.
      (10)   No person shall stop, park or cause a lunchwagon, pushcart or
mobile food preparation unit to remain on any private property for the purpose
of selling, giving away, displaying or offering for sale any food or beverage
product to any person other than the owner, his agents or employees without
first securing a use permit for such activity. Permission for sales only to the
owner, his agents or employees must be granted by the owner of such property
and must be in writing and shall be carried by the vendor and/or exhibited in
the unit and shall not exceed the time limits established by §
10-3.416(D)(17).
      (11)   All mobile food preparation units, lunchwagons or pushcarts shall
comply with all applicable regulations set forth in Articles 10 and 10.1 of
Title 17 of the California Administrative Code.
      (12)   Each mobile food preparation unit shall be equipped with a fully
charged fire extinguisher in good operating condition and with a current
inspection tag. The driver shall be advised of the location of the type of
extinguisher used and instructed in its operation.
      (13)   No cooking or food preparation shall be done while the mobile food
preparation unit is in motion.
      (14)   Waste water shall not be discharged from a unit except at an
approved disposal site.
      (15)   All units shall clearly exhibit the name of the owner of the unit,
business address and business phone number of the person, firm, association,
organization, company or corporation.
      (16)   Removal of trash. The operator of each unit shall be responsible
for collection and proper disposal of all trash and debris accumulated by
reason of any vending operation.
      (17)   Units may stop at sites or businesses (on-site) for no more than
30 minutes without moving to a new business location or site and may not return
to that location for a period of one hour.
   (E)   The following requirements and standards shall apply only to mobile
food preparation units, catering trucks and lunchwagons seeking to apply for a
conditional use permit to operate on private property on a semi-permanent
basis.
      (1)   Units proposing to operate on private property on a semi-permanent
basis in the city shall not be allowed in the Residential or Professional
Office Zones.
      (2)   No unit will be authorized to operate on private property on a
semi-permanent basis in any established shopping center in the city.
      (3)   A unit may be authorized to operate on a property occupied by
another land use, with the authorization of both the land-owner and the
operator of the primary business, and as accessory to the primary land use.
      (4)   Except for restroom facilities, a unit on private property must
operate as a separate and independent land use. The primary land use must
continue to function without infringement on its access, circulation and
parking requirements.
      (5)   The unit must comply with standard yard area and open space
requirements as required by the zone for the primary business operation.
      (6)   Minimum site area for a unit shall be based on the setback
requirements and on-site parking requirements for the operation and in no case
shall be less than 1,000 square feet.
      (7)   A minimum of three standard on-site parking spaces in conformance
with city standards shall be required in conjunction with the location of a
unit on private property on a semi-permanent basis.
      (8)   The site on which the unit shall be located must be paved with
asphalt concrete in accordance with city standards.
      (9)   A unit operating on private property on a semi-permanent basis
shall be limited in its operation to daylight hours only, except as otherwise
allowed by approved use permit.
   (F)   Permit requirements. The following permit procedures shall apply
generally to outdoor retail sales activities as specified:
      (1)   Business license. Every vendor shall obtain a business license in
accordance with the provisions of Title 6 of this Code.
      (2)   Use permit. No vendor may stop, stand or park at a fixed location
for the purpose of vending or exhibiting merchandise at or on any publicly or
privately-owned property or conduct sales activity outside a building or
structure without first securing a use permit in accordance with Article 13 of
this Code.
      (3)   Operators permit. No itinerant vendor shall operate without first
obtaining a license under the provisions of §
6-1.53 of this Code.
      (4)   No person except the holder of a business license pursuant to §
6-1.53 of this code may be issued a use permit. No person may be issued such
use permit unless he or she has obtained any required approvals from the County
Health Department.
      (5)   Temporary use permits. The temporary use of land for those
activities permitted in this section may be authorized for a limited and
specified period of time not to exceed one year in duration as set by the
Planning Director within the terms and conditions of each particular temporary
use of land permit. The Planning Director may consider and take appropriate
action on a request for extension of a temporary use of land permit for one
additional one-year period upon review of a written request to be submitted no
later than 30 days prior to the expiration of the approved temporary use of
land permit. Outside sales of seasonal merchandise (Christmas trees, fireworks,
pumpkins, produce stands, flower stands and the like) in one location may be
permitted up to a maximum cumulative total of 90 days within a calendar year on
a single property, with a limitation of no more than three non-consecutive
separate events of a maximum of 30 days per each event.
      (6)   For applications for temporary use of land permits which allow for
a vendor, the following minimum provisions and conditions shall also be
applicable:
         (a)   A vendor sales stand and/or use shall not be located upon the
paved or any unpaved portion of a public right-of-way nor impede the free and
unobstructed use of any sidewalk or right-of-way. Push carts may use the public
sidewalk as long as the cart does not impede the movement of pedestrians.
         (b)   The vendor sales activity, including the display of all related
merchandise or products for sale, shall be limited to the immediate confines of
the temporary street side stand, trailer, vehicle or other enclosure approved
as part of the permit.
         (c)   All uses shall be located in such a manner that will not impede
the normal use of driveways serving the property where the use is proposed nor
in such a manner that encourages customers to stop in the street or driveway to
obtain vendor service.
         (d)   Uses providing for temporary street side stands, trailers, or
vehicles shall comply with the setback/yard provisions of the specific
commercial or industrial zone the use is proposed to be located in. Temporary
outdoor promotional/sales event for a commercial business may be allowed by
conditional use permit.
      (7)   In authorizing an application for a temporary use of land permit,
the Planning Director shall include as conditions of approval the following
minimum provisions:
         (a)   The use will be limited to the dates and times (or period of
time), nature and extent prescribed by the Planning Director.
         (b)   All works including building, electrical, and plumbing will
conform to all requirements of applicable codes and regulations:
         (c)   Provisions for fire protection and fire vehicle access will be
made as prescribed by the Fire Chief:
         (d)   Signage will be limited to that approved by the Planning
Director;
         (e)   The site will be continuously maintained free of weeds, litter
and debris:
         (f)   Within three days after removal of the temporary use the site
will be completely cleaned: all trash debris signs and sign supports, and
temporary electrical service and other equipment will be removed:
         (g)   Any additional limitations or conditions as required by the
Planning Director as conditions of approval.
   (G)   Enforcement. Any person or business operating contrary to the
provisions of this section shall be, and the same is hereby declared to be,
unlawful and a public nuisance, and the city attorney may, in addition to or in
lieu of prosecuting a criminal action thereunder, commence an action or
actions, proceeding or proceedings, for the abatement, removal or enjoinment
thereof in the manner provided by law, and may take such other steps and may
apply to such court or courts as may have jurisdiction to grant such relief as
will abate or remove such establishment and restrain and enjoin any person from
selling products, providing services or operating a lunch wagon, mobile food
preparation unit or pushcart contrary to the provisions of this article.
   (H)   Application fees. Application fees for any permit required by any
provision of this section shall be as established by separate City Council
Resolution.
(Ord. 657 C.S., passed 6-19-96; Am. Ord. 849 C.S., passed 12-3-08)
§ 10-3.417 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Zoning Administrator created; authority.
      (1)   There is hereby created a Zoning Administrator for the city.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall be the Community Development
Director/City Engineer or his designated appointee.
      (3)   Any matter considered by the Zoning Administrator shall be subject
to such conditions as will assure that the adjustments or modifications thereby
authorized shall not constitute a grant of special privilege inconsistent with
the limitations upon other properties in the vicinity and Zone District in
which subject property is situated, and such other conditions as deemed
necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.
   (B)   Matters considered by Zoning Administrator.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall have and decide the following
matters:
         (a)   Applications for modifications pursuant to the provisions of
this section;
         (b)   Land use approvals as specified by this section and the
provisions of this Code pertaining to the various zoning districts;
         (c)   Minor modifications of lawfully issued and effective Use Permits
when no change in development conditions are necessary, i.e., adequate parking,
loading zone and landscaping conditions exist per this chapter;
         (d)   Appeal from administrative acts of Planning Division personnel
where it is alleged by the appellant that there is error in any order,
requirement, permit, decision or determination made by an administrative
official in the administration or enforcement of this chapter, in which matters
the Zoning Administrator shall have the authority.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator may grant modifications to certain
requirements specified in this chapter to the following extent, if the Zoning
Administrator's findings are as provided in this section.
         (a)   Front and rear yard setback modifications not exceeding five
feet.
         (b)   Side yard setback modifications not exceeding two feet.
         (c)   Building site coverage modifications not exceeding 10% of the
minimum open space requirements specified by the Municipal Code.
         (d)   Open space modifications not exceeding 10% of the minimum open
space requirements specified by the Municipal Code.
         (e)   Excessive building height adjustments not exceeding two feet.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator may grant land use approvals as specified
by the provisions of this Code pertaining to various zoning districts.
   (C)   Appeals from the Zoning Administrator's decision.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall render the decision in writing on
any matter properly presented, within 30 days following the date of
application. The granting of any matter when conforming to the provisions of
this division (C) is hereby declared to be an administrative function, the
authority and responsibility for performing such is imposed upon the Zoning
Administrator and the action thereon by the Administrator shall be deemed to be
final and conclusive except in the event of appeal that is herein provided.
      (2)   In case the applicant, or other interested parties are not
satisfied with the action of the Zoning Administrator, they may within ten days
appeal in writing to the Planning Commission for further action.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall consider such appeal at the next
regular meeting for which proper notification may be provided in accordance
with the provisions of this section.
      (4)   In case the applicant, or other interested parties are not
satisfied with the action of the Planning Commission, they may within ten days,
appeal in writing to the City Clerk for further action.
      (5)   The City Council shall consider such appeal at the next regular
meeting for which proper notification may be provided in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
   (D)   Rules and procedures.
      (1)   The general rules and procedures necessary or convenient for the
conduct of business of said Zoning Administrator shall be adopted by the City
Council.
   (E)   Application for and initiation of hearings.
      (1)   Hearings on minor Use Permit modifications or adjustments shall be
initiated in any of the following manners:
         (a)   By verified application of any interested person or persons;
         (b)   By resolution of the City Council or Planning Commission
requesting the Zoning Administrator to hear the same.
      (2)   Hearings on minor Use Permit modifications or adjustments shall be
noticed in the following manner:
         (a)   Not less than ten days before such public hearing, one
publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. Such notice
shall state the name of the applicant, nature of the request, location of the
property, the environmental determination, and the time and place of the
hearing.
         (b)   Direct mailing to the owners and occupants of the property
located within 300 feet of the boundaries of the project site, as shown on the
latest equalized assessment roll.
         (c)   In addition, notice shall also be given by first class mail to
any person who has filed a written request with the Community Development
Department. Such a request may be submitted at any time during the calendar
year and shall apply for the balance of such calendar year. The city may impose
a reasonable fee on persons requesting such notice for the purpose of
recovering the cost of such mailing.
         (d)   Substantial compliance with these provisions shall be sufficient
and a technical failure to comply shall not affect the validity of any action
taken pursuant to the procedures set forth in this section.
   (F)   Term of permit; expiration.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator may in the granting of any permit
modification or adjustment impose upon the permit a term of such period of time
as is found to be consistent with the proposed use and necessary to safeguard
the public safety, health and welfare.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator may in the granting of any permit
modification or adjustment specify the time within which the proposed use must
be undertaken and actively and continuously pursued.
      (3)   Any permit modification or adjustment shall become null and void at
the expiration of the term thereof, or if not undertaken and actively and
continuously pursued within the time specified in the permit or within one year
if no time be specified therein.
   (G)   When Zoning Administrator action is final.
      (1)   Upon expiration of the time within which an appeal therefrom may be
filed, and no appeal being filed within such time, the decision of the Zoning
Administrator shall be deemed final; but if an appeal is filed within such
time, the decision of the Zoning Administrator shall be stayed pending
determination of the appeal or its withdrawal by the appellant.
      (2)   Until the decision of the Zoning Administrator, Planning
Commission, or City Council has become final, as herein provided, no permit or
license shall be issued for any city dependent upon the granting of adjustment.
(Ord. 689 C.S., passed 8-5-98)
§ 10-3.418 RIGHT TO FARM.
   (A)   The City Council hereby finds that where nonagricultural land uses
extend into agricultural areas or exist side-by-side, agricultural operations
often become the subject of nuisance complaints. As a result, some agricultural
operations are forced to cease or curtail operations, others are discouraged
from making investments in farm improvements, and efficient agricultural
production is generally discouraged due to burdensome litigation against
farmers.
   (B)   It is the intent of the city to conserve, protect and encourage the
development, improvement and continued viability of its agricultural land and
industries for the long-term production of food and other agricultural
products, and for the economic well-being of the city's and county's residents.
It is also the intent of the city to balance the rights of farmers to produce
food and other agricultural products with the rights of non-farmers who own,
occupy or use land within or adjacent to agricultural areas. It is the intent
of this chapter to reduce the loss to the city's and county's agricultural
resources by limiting the circumstances under which agricultural operations may
be deemed to constitute a nuisance. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed
to limit the right of any owner of real property to request that the city
consider a change in the zoning classification of his property in accordance
with the procedures set forth in the Municipal Code.
   (C)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITY, OPERATION OR FACILITY, OR APPURTENANCES THERETO.
Includes, but is not limited to, the cultivation and tillage of the soil,
dairying, the production, cultivation, growing and harvesting of an
agricultural commodity, including timber, viticulture, apiculture or
horticulture, the raising of livestock, fur-bearing animals, fish or poultry,
and dairy practices performed by a farmer or on a farm as incident to or in
conjunction with such farming operations, including preparation for market,
delivery to storage or to market, or to carriers for transportation to market.
   (D)   Consistent with Cal. Civ. Code § 3482.5 (agricultural activity not a
nuisance), no agricultural activity, operation or facility, or appurtenances
thereof, conducted or maintained for commercial purposes, and in a manner
consistent with proper and accepted customs and standards, as established and
allowed by similar agricultural operations in the same locality, shall be or
become a nuisance, private or public, due to any changed condition in or about
the locality, after the same has been in operation for more than one year if it
was not a nuisance at the time it began.
   (E)   This section shall not invalidate any provision contained in the
Health and Safety Code, Fish and Game Code, Food and Agricultural Code, or
Division 7 (commencing with Section 13000) of the Water Code of the State of
California, if the agricultural activity, operation or facility, or
appurtenances thereof, constitutes a nuisance, public or private, as
specifically defined or described in any such provision.
   (F)   This section is not to be construed so as to modify or abridge the
state law set out in the California Civil Code relative to nuisances, but
rather it is only to be utilized in the interpretation, enforcement, and
implementation of the provisions of the Municipal Code.
   (G)   The Planning Director shall cause the following notice to be recorded
in the Office of the County Recorder for any prezoning application process
under §
10-3.1501 of this code, and may require such notice to be recorded for any
subdivision proposed under §
10-2.101 of this code for land within 300 feet of land zoned for agricultural
uses or in agricultural operation:
"The undersigned in consideration of the approval of a land use development
application by the City of Madera, do hereby covenant and agree with the City
of Madera's declared policy to preserve, protect, and encourage development and
continued operation of its agricultural lands consistent with California Civil
Code Section 3482.5 (agricultural activity not a nuisance). Said policy
provides that no agricultural activity, operation, or facility, or
appurtenances thereof, conducted or maintained for commercial purposes in the
City or the unincorporated area of the County, and in a manner consistent with
proper and accepted customs and standards, as established and followed by
similar agricultural operations in the same locality, shall be or become a
nuisance, private or public, due to any changed condition in or about the
locality, after the same has been in operation for more than one (1) year, if
it was not a nuisance at the time it began. The term "agricultural activity,
operation, or facility, or appurtenance thereof" includes, but is not limited
to, the cultivation and tillage of the soil, dairying, the production,
cultivation, growing, and harvesting of any agricultural commodity, including
timber, viticulture, apiculture, or horticulture, the raising of livestock,
fur-bearing animals, fish, or poultry, and any practices performed by a farmer
or on a farm as incident to or in conjunction with such farming operations,
including preparation for market, delivery to storage or to market, or to
carriers for transportation to market. Residents of property in or near
agricultural districts should be prepared to accept the inconveniences and
discomfort associated with normal farm activities. This covenant shall run with
the land and be binding upon all future owners, heirs, successors, and assigns
to such property."
   (H)   The city may cause to be mailed to all property owners of real
property within the city with the annual tax bill the following notice: "The
City of Madera has declared it a policy to protect and encourage agricultural
operations. If your property is located near an agricultural operation, you may
at some times be subject to inconvenience or discomfort arising from
agricultural operations. If conducted in a manner consistent with proper and
accepted standards, said inconveniences and discomforts are hereby deemed not
to constitute a nuisance for purposes of the Municipal Code."
   (I)   If any provision, clause, sentence or paragraph of this chapter or the
application thereof to any person or circumstances shall be held invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or applications of the
provisions of this chapter which can be given effect without the invalid
provision or application, and to this end, the provisions of this chapter are
declared severable.
(Ord. 691 C.S., passed 12-2-98)
§ 10-3.419 TELECOMMUNICATION TOWERS, ANTENNAS AND STRUCTURES. (REPEALED)
(Ord. 698 C.S., passed 3-17-99)
Editor’s note:
   This section, containing provisions regarding telecommunication towers,
antennas and structures, was repealed by Ord. 998 C.S., passed 4-19-23.
§ 10-3.420 DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT GUIDELINES.
   The city shall adopt, and amend as needed, by resolution of the Planning
Commission, Design and Development Guidelines consistent with the General Plan
and the stated purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 855 C.S., passed 3-4-09)
§ 10-3.421 INTERIM AGRICULTURAL.
   (A)   In all residential, commercial, and industrial zone districts in the
city, when various factors combine to make the development of a property
infeasible for a period of time anticipated to be in excess of five years, a
use permit may be granted by the Planning Commission to allow for agricultural
activities on an interim basis, until such time as development consistent with
the underlying zone district becomes viable.
   (B)   INTERIM AGRICULTURE shall be defined as the tilling of the soil for
the raising of grains, crops, orchards, horticulture and/or viticulture.
Interim agriculture shall not include small livestock farming, dairying and/or
animal husbandry, nor any other uses customarily incidental thereto such as
slaughter houses, fertilizer yards, or rendering plants.
   (C)   In order to approve a conditional use permit for interim agricultural
activities, the Planning Commission must make the following findings:
      (1)   The establishment, maintenance, or operation of the interim
agricultural use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be
detrimental to the health, safety, peace, morals, comfort and general welfare
of persons residing or working in the neighborhood of such proposed use or be
detrimental or injurious to property and improvements in the neighborhood or
general welfare of the city.
      (2)   The interim agricultural use will not be detrimental or injurious
to the infrastructure of the city. Interim agriculture shall use techniques to
maximize water efficiency and minimize erosion. All grading and/or excavation
shall be compatible with the city’s Storm Drain Master Plan.
   (D)   Applications for a conditional use permit for interim agricultural
uses of land shall include the following information:
      (1)   A justification of necessity for interim agricultural use;
      (2)   A total acreage calculation;
      (3)   A description of what crops will be grown and what their water
usage will be;
      (4)   A description of irrigation technique(s) to be implemented on the
subject property; and
      (5)   A plan for eventual conversion of the property to its planned use.
   (E)   The Planning Commission may apply conditions of approval whenever
necessary to ensure compatibility with surrounding land uses and compliance
with §
10-3.421(C).
   (F)   Approval of a conditional use permit for interim agricultural uses of
land shall be approved for an initial period of no more than five years.
Extension of interim agricultural uses after the initial approval period shall
require the approval of an application for amendment to the conditional use
permit from the Planning Commission. Each approved extension shall not exceed a
period of five years.
(Ord. 907 C.S., passed 9-4-13)
EMERGENCY SHELTERS
§ 10-3.422 STANDARDS.
   In additional to the development standards in the underlying zoning
district, the following standards apply to emergency shelters and each
emergency shelter shall comply with the standards set forth in this section. In
the event of conflict between these standards and the underlying zoning
district regulations, the provisions of this section shall apply. Nothing in
this section modifies the requirements for approval of a religious facility as
otherwise provided in this Code.
   (A)   Facility compliance with applicable state and local standards and
requirements.
      (1)   Federal, state and local licensing as required for any program
incidental to the emergency shelter.
   (B)   Physical characteristics.
      (1)   Compliance with applicable state and local uniform housing and
building code requirements.
      (2)   The facility shall have on-site security during all hours when the
shelter is open.
      (3)   Facilities shall provide exterior lighting on pedestrian pathways
and parking lot areas on the property. Lighting shall reflect away from
residential areas and public streets.
      (4)   Facilities shall provide secure areas for personal property.
   (C)   Limited number of beds per facility. Emergency shelters shall not
exceed 50 beds.
   (D)   Limited terms of stay. The maximum term of staying at an emergency
shelter is six months in a consecutive 12-month period.
   (E)   Parking. The emergency shelter shall provide on-site parking at a rate
of two spaces per facility for staff plus one space per six occupants allowed
at the maximum capacity.
   (F)   Emergency shelter management. A management plan is required for all
emergency shelters to address management experience, good neighbor issues,
transportation, client supervision, client services, and food services. Such
plan shall be submitted to and approval by the planning, inspections, and
permitting department prior to operation of the emergency shelter. The plan
shall include a floor plan that demonstrate compliance with the physical
standards of this chapter. The operator of each emergency shelter shall
annually submit the management plan to the planning, inspections and permitting
department with updated information for review of the required management plan.
The City Council may establish a fee by resolution, to cover the administrative
cost of review of the required management plan.
(Ord. 920 C.S., passed 5-20-15)
SITE PLAN REVIEW
§ 10-3.4.0101 PURPOSES.
   The City Council declares that in order to insure that use and development
of property in the city is in conformity with the intent and provisions of the
zoning regulations of the city and other applicable provisions of the City
Municipal Code and ordinances codified therein, review of proposed site plan
developments by the Community Development Director or, as may be applicable,
the Planning Commission, is necessary and desirable. More specifically, site
plan review is necessary to insure that new, expanded, or changed uses of
property are regulated to insure that structures, parking areas, walks,
landscaping, street improvements, and other forms of development are properly
related to the proposed sites and surrounding sites and structures, to prevent
excessive grading of land and creation of drainage hazards, to prevent
indiscriminate clearing of property and destruction of trees and shrubs of
ornamental value, to avoid unsightly or hazardous site development and to
encourage originality in site design and development in a manner which will
enhance the physical appearance and attractiveness of the community. The site
plan review process is intended to provide for expeditious review of
environmental impact assessments as may be required by official policy of the
city. The Community Development Director will be responsible for the
coordination of the site plan review process with input from city department
heads. It is the intent that the site plan review process be implemented with a
cooperative spirit between project proponents and the city. Further, it is
recognized that the size or nature of a project may necessitate a meeting of
the project proponent, affected city department heads, and applicable review
agencies to review the proposal. Where such a meeting would aid in the
implementation of the process, the Community Development Director shall
schedule the meeting and inform the affected parties at the earliest possible
time. A project proponent may request such a meeting when it can be shown to
benefit the expeditious processing of the project.
('61 Code, § 10-3.4.0101) (Ord. 507 C.S., passed 10-19-88)
§ 10-3.4.0102 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all new, expanded, or
changed uses of property which involve the construction or placement of new
structures or buildings on the site, new uses which necessitate on-site
improvements to comply with the provisions of the City Municipal Code, uses
subject to a use permit, precise plans, variance, or any other particular
zoning permits applicable to the proposed development.
('61 Code, § 10-3.4.0102) (Ord. 507 C.S., passed 10-19-88)
§ 10-3.4.0103 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Site plan review shall be required of all new, expanded, or changed uses of
property which involve construction or placement of new structures or building
additions on the site or new uses which necessitate on-site improvements,
including uses subject to a use permit, precise plan, or application for
variances. Single-family and duplex structures and additions thereto not
exceeding two units per parcel in R zones, minor accessory additions and
structures and other uses for which administrative approval is authorized under
the provisions of the City Municipal Code, provided the structures and uses
meet all of the requirements of the City Municipal Code, are specifically
exempt from site plan review. However, issuance of a building permit for
single-family and duplex structures in residential and planned development
zones, including, but not limited to additions which expand or intensify the
residential use, such as secondary or second dwelling units, shall be subject
to the standard street dedication and improvement requirements specified
herein.
('61 Code, § 10-3.4.0103) (Ord. 507 C.S., passed 10-19-88; Am. Ord. 678 C.S.,
passed 7-2-97)
§ 10-3.4.0104 DRAWINGS TO BE SUBMITTED.
   (A)   The applicant shall submit sets of prints to the Planning Division of
the Community Development Department as prescribed below. The applicant is
encouraged to submit two sets of preliminary site plans for Planning Division
review for completeness and accuracy prior to making formal application. For
purposes of this chapter, site plan shall mean all plans pertinent to the
development as prescribed below including but not limited to site plan,
generalized landscape plan, and building elevations. Applicants will be
notified of the status of the application at the earliest possible time to
facilitate timely processing.
   (B)   A submittal shall consist of the application form, filing fee, and
eight complete sets of plans. Two additional sets of plans are required for
projects which require review by the Planning Commission. A complete
application shall consist of plans with all information required in this
section, a completed application form and the filing fee. Incomplete
applications will be returned to the applicant and will not be acted upon.
   (C)   Plans shall be drawn to scale and shall indicate clearly and with full
dimensions, the following information:
      (1)   Project information.
         (a)   Project name; street address; Assessor's parcel number;
         (b)   Name, address, phone number of applicant, property owner, and
contact person;
         (c)   Vicinity map;
         (d)   North arrow and scale;
      (2)   Lot or site dimensions;
      (3)   All existing and proposed buildings and structures, including
location, size, lot coverage, height, proposed use;
      (4)   Location of all existing facilities, including pavement, curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, utility lines, and existing street lights and fire hydrants
within 100 feet of site;
      (5)   Yards and space between buildings;
      (6)   Walls and fences, including location, height, and materials;
      (7)   Trash receptacles and enclosures, including location, height, and
materials;
      (8)   Off-street parking and off-street loading, including location,
dimensions of parking and loading areas, internal circulation pattern, plus a
notation of the number of required and proposed spaces, including compact and
handicapped parking spaces;
      (9)   Pedestrian, vehicular, and service ingress and egress to site and
structures;
      (10)   Generalized indication of size, height, and location of all signs;
      (11)   Location and general nature and hooding devices of on-site
lighting;
      (12)   Street dedications and improvements on adjacent streets and alleys
(detailed improvement plans shall be required at the building permit stage);
      (13)   Proposed on-site fire protection requirements, including stand
pipes, hydrants, turnarounds, and the like;
      (14)   Location and size of landscaping areas with notations on use of
mounds, berms, retention walls, and general type of plant materials to be used
(a detailed landscape and irrigation plan shall be required at the building
permit stage of the project);
      (15)   General indication of grades, direction of drainage flow, and
drainage facilities (a detailed site grading and drainage plan shall be
required at the building permit safe of the project);
      (16)   Elevations of all sides of structure(s), notation of building and
roofing materials, building heights;
      (17)   Such other data pertaining to site development as may be required
by the Community Development Director to make the required findings.
('61 Code, § 10-3.4.0104) (Ord. 507 C.S., passed 10-19-88)
§ 10-3.4.0105 REVIEW AND ACTION.
   (A)   Applications for site plan review which do not require action by the
Planning Commission will be processed on a weekly basis. Complete applications
received by 10:00 a.m. on Mondays will be processed and acted upon within eight
working days. When the Monday is a holiday, submittals received by 10:00 a.m.
on the preceding Friday will be processed in the stated time frame. The
Community Development Director shall disperse plans to affected city
departments and review agencies and coordinate the review process. On the
eighth working day the Community Development Director shall notify the
applicant in writing of approval, conditional approval, or disapproval of the
application. The action of the Director shall be final unless appealed to the
Planning Commission. The approved site plan, with any conditions shown thereon,
or attached thereto, shall be dated and signed by the Director, with one copy
mailed to the applicant and one copy filed with the Buildings Official.
   (B)   Applications for which Planning Commission approval is required or for
which a negative declaration is mandatory, shall be submitted no later than 10:
00 a.m. 29 calendar days prior to a regularly scheduled meeting. Applicants
must be present at the Planning Commission meeting unless other arrangements
are made. Written notification of the action of the Planning Commission will be
mailed to the applicant within three working days following the meeting.
   (C)   Whenever required by the provisions of this chapter, or whenever
deemed advisable by the Planning Commission or Community Development Director,
a public hearing shall be held on an application. Public notice procedures
shall be as follows:
      (1)   By one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city. Such notice shall state the name of the applicant, nature of the request,
location of the property, the environmental determination, and the time and
place of the action or hearing.
      (2)   Direct mailing to the owners and occupants of property located
within 300 feet of the boundaries of the project site, as shown on the latest
equalized assessment roll.
      (3)   In addition, notice shall also be given by first class mail to any
person who has filed a written request with the Community Development
Department. Such a request may be submitted at any time during, the calendar
year and shall apply for the balance of such calendar year. The city may impose
a reasonable fee on persons requesting such notice for the purpose of
recovering the cost of such mailing.
      (4)   The public review period for the environmental determination
(negative declaration) shall not be less than 21 calendar days (30 days if
State Clearinghouse review is required).
      (5)   Substantial compliance with these provisions shall be sufficient
and a technical failure to comply shall not affect the validity of any action
taken pursuant to the procedures set forth in this chapter.
   (D)   While coordination of the review process is the responsibility of the
Community Development Director, there may be circumstances, in the interest of
expeditious review, where another department head may be requested to contact
the project proponent regarding details of the site plan.
('61 Code, § 10-3.4.0105) (Ord. 507 C.S., passed 10-19-88; Am. Ord. 618 C.S.,
passed 3-16-94)
§ 10-3.4.0106 APPROVAL DETERMINATIONS.
   Before approving a proposed site plan, the Director shall determine that the
proposed action is in compliance with all applicable provisions of the City
Municipal Code, City General Plan, any applicable specific plans, all rules and
regulations applicable to the proposed development, that facilities and
improvements, vehicular and pedestrian ingress, egress, and internal
circulation, location of structures, services, walls, landscaping, and drainage
of the site are so arranged that traffic congestion is avoided, that pedestrian
and vehicular safety and welfare are protected, that there will not be adverse
effects on surrounding property, that proposed lighting is so arranged as to
deflect the light away from adjoining properties or public streets and that
adequate provision is made to reduce adverse or potentially adverse
environmental impacts to acceptable levels. In making such determination the
Director shall establish that approvals are consistent with established
legislative policies relating to traffic safety, street dedications, street
improvements, and environmental quality. In situations where a project could
have adverse impacts on traffic or circulation outside the immediate project
area, the Director, with input from City Department Heads, may find that
additional improvements are required.
('61 Code, § 10-3.4.0106) (Ord. 507 C.S., passed 10-19-88)
§ 10-3.4.0107 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   In approving a site plan, the Director or Planning Commission shall state
those conditions of approval necessary to protect the public health, safety,
and general welfare. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to,
consideration of the following:
   (A)   Special yards, spaces, and buffers;
   (B)   Fences and walls;
   (C)   Surfacing of parking areas and provisions for water drainage subject
to city specifications;
   (D)   Street dedications and improvements, subject to the provisions of §
10-3.4.0108 including service roads or alleys where applicable;
   (E)   Regulation of points of vehicular ingress and egress;
   (F)   Regulation of signs, in accordance with the standards prescribed under
Chapter 6 of this title;
   (G)   Maintenance of grounds;
   (H)   Landscaping and maintenance thereof;
   (I)   Regulation of noise, vibration, odors, and other similar
characteristics;
   (J)   Measures necessary to eliminate or to effect mitigation to acceptable
levels of adverse environmental impacts;
   (K)   Regulation of time for certain activities to be conducted on the site;
   (L)   Time period within which the proposed use and/or improvement shall be
completed;
   (M)   A bond, deposit of money, recorded lien secured by deed of trust, or
letter of credit for the completion of street improvements and other
facilities, or for the removal of such use within a specified period of time,
to assure conformance with the intent and purposes set forth in this title;
   (N)   Periodic formal review of the project.
('61 Code, § 10-3.4.0107) (Ord. 507 C.S., passed 10-19-88)
§ 10-3.4.0108 STREET DEDICATIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS.
   Because of changes which may occur in the local neighborhood as the result
of development requiring a site plan review and/or issuance of a building
permit for single-family and duplex structures and additions not exceeding two
units per parcel in residential and planned development zones, including, but
not limited to additions which expand or intensify the residential use, such
secondary or second dwelling units authorized under the provisions of the
municipal code, including but not necessarily limited to increases in vehicular
or pedestrian traffic generated by the development, changes in drainage
conditions, utility service requirements, and other impacts that are determined
by the Director to be the result of the project under consideration, the
following dedications and improvements may be deemed necessary by the Director
and may be required as a condition to the approval of any site plan and the
issuance of any building permit for any building projects subject to site plan
review and/or issuance of a building permit for single-family and duplex
structures and additions not exceeding two units per parcel in residential and
planned development zones, including, but not limited to additions which expand
or intensify the residential use, such as secondary or second dwelling units
authorized under the provisions of the municipal code.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure to be
erected, altered, expanded, or enlarged on any lot to the extent that the cost
of such work exceeds 50% of the estimated current cost as determined by the
Director to replace the present building or structure in kind, unless half of
any right-of-way contiguous thereto has been dedicated and improvements to city
standard specifications thereon have been provided for as provided in
subsection §
10-3.4.0108(D) below.
   (B)   Plan lines.
      (1)   Right-of-way dedications shall be made of all land necessary to
widen an existing street or alley or create a new street made necessary by a
development and shall be granted in accordance with adopted general, specific,
or precise plans, plan lines, and the city's standard specifications for
rights- of-way. If a conflict exists among plans, the adopted specific plan or
plan line shall take precedence.
      (2)   In the event official plan lines have not been established, the
Director shall determine all street widths for dedication to protect the public
interest, safety, and general welfare, provided, however, the applicant for the
permit may appeal the determination of the Director in the manner provided in
this subchapter.
   (C)   Improvements.
      (1)   Street and alley right-of-way improvements adjacent to, or
traversing, a development shall be improved to city standards including but not
limited to pavement, curb, gutter, parkstrip, street trees and landscaping,
sidewalk, street lights, fire hydrants, street signs, water, sewer, storm
drainage and other utility lines and related appurtenances, driveway
approaches, and handicap ramps. Such improvements are required on the principle
that they are necessary because of the traffic, utility and other demands
generated by the proposed development and the orderly development of the area.
      (2)   Where it is found to be essential to the accommodation of storm
drainage runoff and/or traffic generated by the project, improvement of all or
part of rights-of-way abutting adjacent properties may be required in
conjunction with the subject project with reimbursement provisions incorporated
in conditions imposed.
   (D)   Improvement criteria.
      (1)   Projects which abut on an existing or new street where development
is anticipated to occur on both sides of the street shall be required to
provide all improvements for a ½ right-of-way width on the project's respective
frontages. In the event that it is found by the Director or Planning Commission
that the standard improvements do not provide sufficient pavement width for two
travel lanes and a parking lane, the review body may require additional
pavement width or posting for no on-street parking. This determination shall be
based on the adequacy of on-site parking and adjacent land uses both existing
and planned.
      (2)   Projects which encompass an existing or new street shall be
required to provide all right- of-way improvements.
      (3)   Projects abutting a frontage street shall be required to provide
all right-of-way improvements provided that some adjustment from standard
improvements may be permitted when such improvements will compliment the
overall development of the area and provide for safe vehicular and pedestrian
circulation. Where median or parkstrips are required, the property owner shall
be responsible for the maintenance thereof subject to provisions of a
maintenance agreement.
      (4)   Projects which abut upon or encompass major arterial streets shall
be required to provide pavement improvements equivalent to a collector street
as specified in subsections §
10-3.4.0108(D)(1), (D)(2), and (D)(3) above.
      (5)   Projects which abut upon or encompass an alley shall be required to
provide all alley improvements to full width adjacent to the project site.
   (E)   All improvements shall be constructed to city standards existing at
the time of the approval of the development plan and shall be installed at the
time of the proposed development based upon improvement plans approved and
encroachments permits obtained in connection with the issuance of a building
permit. Where it is determined by the Director that it is impractical to put in
any or all improvements at the time of the development, an agreement to defer
such improvements may be entered into in lieu thereof where it is found that
the improvements are not immediately essential to the circulation pattern of
the area, safe movement of vehicular and pedestrian traffic, drainage area
runoff or other factors. When the deferral is granted the applicant shall enter
into an agreement with the city which shall become a matter of record in a form
approved by the City Attorney and which agreement shall constitute a lien on
the property for the cost of the improvements. A deposit in the form of cash or
letter of credit or performance bond in an amount equal to 100% of the
estimated cost of improvements, as determined by the City Engineer may be
required as a guarantee to the making of such improvements when necessary.
('61 Code, § 10-3.4.0108) (Ord. 507 C.S., passed 10-19-88; Am. Ord. 678 C.S.,
passed 7-2-97)
§ 10-3.4.0109 REIMBURSEMENT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Each developer of property has the responsibility for improvement of
not less than ½ of the right-of-way including city utility lines that abut a
parcel. In the event the development necessitates extension of service lines or
other right-of-way improvements beyond those immediately abutting the
developing parcel, the cost of such improvements shall be reimbursable at the
time of development of benefitting parcels which abut such improvements. An
agreement for reimbursement must have been entered into with the city prior to
occupancy of the structure(s) or use of the property unless written exception
is given by the City Engineer.
   (B)   Property owners whose properties benefit from extension of city
utility lines and other right-of- way improvements by other developers will be
required to reimburse the cost of the improvements that have been installed
along their right-of-way frontages at time of development of their property as
determined by the City Engineer.
('61 Code, § 10-3.4.0109) (Ord. 507 C.S., passed 10-19-88)
§ 10-3.4.0110 RELATIONSHIP TO ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A site plan approved pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall
be considered in relation to requirements of city policy governing the
preparation of environmental impact assessments. It is the intent of this
subchapter that an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) be made concurrently
with, and as part of, the site plan review process, and that a site plan may be
approved with conditions that will permit the applicable review body to find
that the proposed project will not have a significant effect on the environment
and that a negative declaration should be prepared.
   (B)   Where it is determined that an Environmental Impact Report (EIR) is
required for a proposed project, action on a proposed site plan shall be
deferred until such time as the EIR has been prepared and reviewed pursuant to
provisions of the city's guidelines and state law. The Planning Commission and
City Council shall, at the completion of the EIR review, attach such conditions
to the approval of the site plan as in their judgment will mitigate or reduce
to acceptable levels any of the environmental impacts identified during review
of the EIR. The Planning Commission or City Council may deny a plan if it is
found that such mitigation or reduction of environmental impacts is not
feasible.
('61 Code, § 10-3.4.0110) (Ord. 507 C.S., passed 10-19-88)
§ 10-3.4.0111 REVISIONS OF APPROVED PLANS.
   Revisions by the applicant of an approved plan shall be presented to the
Director in the manner required for drawings first submitted. Resubmittals
shall be accompanied by the prescribed filing fee unless the revisions are
determined by the Director to be of a minor nature.
('61 Code, § 10-3.4.0111) (Ord. 507 C.S., passed 10-19-88)
§ 10-3.4.0112 ACKNOWLEDGMENT AND ACCEPTANCE OF CONDITIONS.
   Upon receipt of the approved copy of a site plan and prior to applications
for a building permit, the applicant/owner shall execute an acknowledgment and
acceptance of the terms and conditions of the site plan and an agreement with
the city certifying such acceptance and agreement to be bound thereby.
('61 Code, § 10-3.4.0112) (Ord. 507 C.S., passed 10-19-88)
§ 10-3.4.0113 BUILDING PERMIT.
   In addition to such other matters required by law, applications for a
building permit shall include three sets of plans including building, site,
landscaping, irrigation, right-of-way improvements, grading, and drainage, as
applicable, along with other information as may be required by the Building
Official. Plans must reflect the conditions of site plan approval. Before a
building permit shall be issued for any building, structure, or sign proposed
as part of an approved site plan, the Director shall determine that the
proposed building location, facilities, and improvements are in conformity with
the approved site plan and all required dedications and agreements have been
recorded.
('61 Code, § 10-3.4.0113) (Ord. 507 C.S., passed 10-19-88)
§ 10-3.4.0114 LAPSE OF SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
   A site plan approval shall be void one year following the date on which
approval by the Community Development Director, Planning Commission, or City
Council became effective unless, prior to the expiration of one year, a
building permit is issued by the Building Official and construction is
commenced and diligently pursued toward completion of the site or structures
which were the subject of the site plan. Approval may be extended for one year
periods of time, upon written application to the Director before expiration of
the approval.
('61 Code, § 10-3.4.0114) (Ord. 507 C.S., passed 10-19-88)
§ 10-3.4.0115. OCCUPANCY.
   Before any building, structure, or use that is subject to site plan review
may be occupied, both the Building Official (for on-site improvements) and the
City Engineer (for off-site improvements) shall have certified that all
required improvements have been completed. Under special circumstances of
hardship or conditions beyond the control of the applicant/developer,
additional time may be granted by the applicable official for completion of
required improvements provided that the following provisions are met:
   (A)   The time extension does not exceed six months.
   (B)   The site, use, and circulation system, both on and off-site are
functional, and the temporary lack of such improvements is not detrimental to
the health and safety of occupants, the general public, or the surrounding
area.
   (C)   An agreement is entered into with the city and if deemed necessary,
recorded.
   (D)   The agreement is secured by either cash deposited with the city, cash
deposited in irrevocable escrow approved by the City Attorney, or other
financial security approved by the City Attorney as the equivalent thereof.
Such security shall be in the amount of 100% of the estimated cost of
completion as determined by the Building Official in the case of on-site
improvements and the City Engineer in the case of off-site improvements. In the
event such work is not completed within the period provided, the city shall be
authorized to take all necessary action to enforce the agreement, including the
use of the security to cause the completion of all required improvements.
Monies deposited with the city or in escrow may be partially released to the
depositor by the Building Official in the case of on-site improvements and the
City Engineer in the case of off-site improvements during the progress of the
work, so long as the same ratio of security is maintained on the deposit to
secure all uncompleted work.
('61 Code, § 10-3.4.0115) (Ord. 507 C.S., passed 10-19-88)
§ 10-3.4.0116 APPEAL TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Within ten calendar days following the date of a decision by the
Community Development Director, the decision may be appealed in writing to the
Planning Commission by the applicant or any other interested party. Such an
appeal shall be filed with the Director and shall state specifically wherein it
is claimed that there was an error or abuse of discretion by the Director or
wherein the decision is not supported by evidence in the record. Appeals shall
be accompanied by an appeal fee as prescribed by Resolution of the City
Council. The appeal fee shall be refunded if the appeal is granted by the
Planning Commission. Additional copies of the plans may be required by the
Director.
   (B)   The Community Development Director shall give notice to the applicant
and to the appellant (if the appellant is not the applicant) of the date, time,
and place the appeal will be considered by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall hear the appeal at its next regular
meeting to be held not earlier than 14 calendar days after the filing of the
appeal. The Commission may affirm, modify, or reverse a decision of the
Director, provided that if the decision is modified or reversed, the Commission
shall, on the basis of the record and such additional evidence as may be
submitted, make the applicable findings prerequisite to the approval of a site
plan as prescribed in §
10-3.4.0106 of this subchapter. The decision of the Commission shall be final
unless appealed to the City Council.
('61 Code, § 10-3.4.0116) (Ord. 507 C.S., passed 10-19-88)
§ 10-3.4.0117 APPEAL TO THE CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Within ten calendar days following the date of a decision of the
Planning Commission on a site plan application, the decision may be appealed to
the City Council by the applicant or any other interested party. Such an appeal
shall be filed with the City Clerk and shall state specifically wherein it is
claimed that there was an error or abuse of discretion by the Commission or
wherein its decision is not supported by evidence in the record and shall be
accompanied by the appeal fee as prescribed by Resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   Within five days of the filing of an appeal, the Director shall
transmit to the City Clerk the drawings of the site plan and all other data
filed therewith, the findings of the Planning Commission, and its decision on
the application for review and action. The Director may require submittal of
additional copies of the plans by the applicant.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall give notice to the applicant and to the appellant
(if the applicant is not the appellant) of the time, date, and place when the
appeal will be considered by the City Council.
   (D)   The City Council shall hear the appeal at its next regular meeting
held not less than seven calendar days after the filing of the appeal. The City
Council may affirm, reverse, or modify a decision of the Planning Commission,
provided that if a decision is modified or reversed, the City Council shall, on
the basis of the record transmitted and such additional evidence as may be
submitted, make the applicable findings prerequisite to the approval of a site
plan as prescribed in §
10-3.4.0106 of this subchapter.
   (E)   A site plan which has been the subject of an appeal to the City
Council shall become effective immediately following the date on which the site
plan is affirmed or modified by the City Council.
('61 Code, § 10-3.4.0117) (Ord. 507 C.S., passed 10-19-88)
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT ZONES
§ 10-3-4.101 P-D ZONES.
   (A)   The purpose of the P-D zones is to authorize and regulate density of
condominiums, cooperatives, planned developments, and other residential
subdivisions. The district is intended to allow use of special design criteria
for maximum utility of the site and to allow maximum design flexibility within
the density limitations provided in §
10-3-4.102 of the subchapter.
   (B)   Special residential developments such as clustering and density
transfers are encouraged, and variations from normal zoning standards may be
considered, such as zero side yard and common wall developments. Through the
Planned Development process, special residential design standards may be
established which regulate the subdivision rather than the typical residential
standards of the Municipal Code.
   (C)   All developments in P-D zones are subject to the provisions of
Chapters 2 and 3 of Title 10 of the City Municipal Code. As such, any
subdivision in the P-D zone requiring public maintenance shall also be subject
to the City's Standard Specifications, with modifications to be approved only
by action of the City Council.
('61 Code, § 10-3-4.101) (Ord. 326 C.S., passed 12-3-79; Am. Ord. 601 C.S.,
passed 9-7-93)
§ 10-3-4.102 DENSITY.
   The maximum density shall be determined by a sub-designation permitting one
residential unit per square footage of site area exclusive of streets and
public and private rights-of-way as determined by the Planning Director as
follows:
Density
Density
P-D (1500) One unit for each 1,500 square feet of site area.
P-D (2000) One unit for each 2,000 square feet of site area.
P-D (3000) One unit for each 3,000 square feet of site area.
P-D (4500) One unit for each 4,500 square feet of site area.
P-D (6000) One unit for each 6,000 square feet of site area.
P-D (8000) One unit for each 8,000 square feet of site area.
P-D(12000) One unit for each 12,000 square feet of site area.
 
('61 Code, § 10-3-4.102) (Ord. 326 C.S., passed 12-3-79; Am. Ord. 438, C.S.,
passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 487 C.S., passed 11-8-87)
§ 10-3-4.103 PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL.
   (A)   No construction, grading, or new development activity shall commence
in any P-D Zone prior to the approval of a precise plan of the development by
the Planning Commission. The precise plan shall be processed under the
provisions for use permits as set forth in MMC § 10-3.13.
   (B)   Any precise plan approved in conjunction with a residential
subdivision shall remain valid only while the approved tentative map remains
valid. Once the subdivision map is recorded, the precise plan shall remain
valid until such time that it is amended or repealed.
   (C)   All other precise plans approved by the Planning Commission as
provided herein shall be utilized within 12 months after the effective date of
its approval. Failure to utilize such approval within such 12-month period
shall render the permit null and void unless a written request for extension is
submitted to the Planning Commission prior to the expiration of the permit. The
Planning Commission shall review the request, and may grant or conditionally
grant an extension as it deems appropriate.
('61 Code, § 10-3-4.103) (Ord. 326 C.S., passed 12-3-79; Ord. 589, passed 11-
18-92)
§ 10-3-4.104 PRECISE PLAN APPLICATION.
   A precise plan application for development in a P-D district shall include:
   (A)   A boundary map and complete legal description of the property.
   (B)   The gross land area of the development and the location of all
existing easements, structures, and improvements on the property.
   (C)   A plot plan showing to scale the following details:
      (1)   Location and use proposed for each existing and proposed structure
in the development, the number of stories, gross building area, and approximate
location of entrances.
      (2)   All existing and proposed driveway approaches, driving lanes,
parking areas, and loading and service areas.
      (3)   All pedestrian walks and open areas for the use of the occupants of
the proposed development.
      (4)   A detailed plan for the landscaping of the development including
the location and height of all proposed walls, fences, and screen planting and
a statement setting forth the method by which they will be preserved and
maintained.
      (5)   The location of hydrants, utilities, drainage facilities, and
recreation facilities.
      (6)   All existing and proposed easements.
      (7)   Elevations or architectural renderings of the project to indicate
architecture and materials of construction.
   (D)   Such additional data as may be required by the Director of Planning.
('61 Code, § 10-3-4.104) (Ord. 326 C.S., passed 12-3-79)
§ 10-3-4.105 (RESERVED)
§ 10-3-4.106 OPEN SPACE.
   For each residential unit in a planned residential development there shall
be provided a minimum 750 square feet of open space exclusive of drives and
off-street parking areas.
('61 Code, § 10-3-4.106) (Ord. 326, C.S., passed 12-3-79; Am. Ord. 452 C.S.,
passed 1-15-86)
§ 10-3-4.107 YARD ENCROACHMENTS.
   Unless special standards are established through approval of the Precise
Plan, the provision of §
10-3.411, Yard Encroachments, shall apply to all residential projects
containing single family dwellings on individual lots.
(Ord. 601 C.S., passed 9-7-93)
RESIDENTIAL ZONES
§ 10-3.501 R; PURPOSE AND APPLICATION.
   To provide specific areas in the city where residential developments of
varying densities may be developed as specified in the land use element of the
General Plan. To promote and encourage a suitable living environment; to
provide space for community facilities needed to complement urban residential
areas and for institutions compatible with a residential environment; to
promote the orderly flow of residential traffic and restrict commercial and
industrial traffic in residential areas; to provide the opportunity for
suitable housing at affordable prices for all segments of the community.
('61 Code, 10-3.501) (Ord. 380 C.S., passed 9-21-81)
§ 10-3.502 R; PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   The following uses shall be permitted in the Residential Zone.
      (1)   Residential uses together with the accessory buildings customary to
such use, including garages, carports, and storage sheds.
      (2)   Flower and vegetable gardens, orchards, the raising of tree crops,
berry, or bush crops for the purpose of prolongation and culture, including
wholesaling crops raised on the premises; provided, no signs, displays, or
stands are used in conjunction therewith.
      (3)   Swimming pools for either individual, family, or communal use on an
exclusive non- commercial basis.
('61 Code, § 10-3.502) (Ord. 380 C.S., passed 9-21-81; Am. Ord. 607 C.S.,
passed
12-15-93; Am. Ord. 690 C.S., passed 8-5-98)
§ 10-3.503 R; DENSITY.
   The maximum density shall be fixed by a sub-designation as follows:
   (A)   R(A). One unit for each 12,000 square feet of site area.
   (B)   R(1). One unit for each 6,000 square feet of site area.
   (C)   R(2). One unit for each 3,000 square feet of site area.
   (D)   R(3). One unit for each 1,800 square feet of site area.
('61 Code, § 10-3.503) (Ord. 380 C.S., passed 9-21-81; Am. Ord. 607 C.S.,
passed 12-15-93)
§ 10-3.504 R; PERMITTED USES; ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL.
   (A)   Subject to obtaining an administrative approval thereof, the following
uses shall also be permitted:
      (1)   Enclosed, temporary construction materials storage yards required
in connection with the development of a subdivision, and temporary subdivision
sales offices and signs and model home display areas.
      (2)   Home occupations.
      (3)   Foster homes, rehabilitation facilities, day care centers, and
other related facilities which provide housing for six or fewer unrelated
persons.
      (4)   Accessory uses and buildings normally incidental to any of the
permitted or conditionally permitted uses. This provision shall not be
construed as permitting any commercial use or occupation other than those
specifically listed.
      (5)   Guest units, studios, caretakers quarters, and similar detached
dwelling units having no kitchen or cooking facilities.
('61 Code, § 10-3.504) (Ord. 380 C.S., passed 9-21-81; Am. Ord. 589, passed 11-
18-92; Am. Ord. 607 C.S., passed 12-15-93; Am. Ord. 690 C.S., passed 8-5-98)
§ 10-3.504.1 R; USES ALLOWED WITH ZONING ADMINISTRATOR'S PERMIT.
   (A)   The following uses shall be permitted subject to the approval by the
Zoning Administrator:
      (1)   Accessory dwelling units and junior accessory dwelling units
subject to the standards contained in §
10-3.513.
      (2)   Manufactured housing.
      (3)   Home occupations (appealed).
      (4)   Gas and electric transmission lines, electrical transmission and
distribution substations, gas regulator stations, communications equipment
buildings, public service pumping stations, and elevated pressure tanks.
   (B)   Other approvals as per Zoning Administrative Code Section.
(Ord. 690 C.S., passed 8-5-98; Am. Ord. 949 C.S., passed 12-6-17)
§ 10-3.505 R; CONDITIONAL USES; COMMISSION APPROVAL.
   (A)   The following uses are allowed subject to obtaining approval of a Use
Permit from the Planning Commission:
      (1)   Private non-profit schools and colleges; churches, parsonages, and
other religious institutions.
      (2)   Foster homes, rehabilitation facilities, and other related
facilities which provide housing for more than six unrelated persons.
      (3)   Private clubs and lodges.
      (4)   On-site parking for commercial vehicles exceeding two-ton capacity.
      (5)   Multiple single family dwelling units on the same R-1 zoned lot
subject to the standards contained in §
10-3.512.
      (6)   Large family day care homes as defined in and subject to the
standards contained in §
10-3.1312.
   (B)   The following uses are permitted only in the R-3 zone and are subject
to first securing a use permit in each case:
      (1)   Hotels, motels, rooming or boarding houses, bungalow courts, and
dwelling groups.
      (2)   Professional offices.
      (3)   Community centers, social halls, lodges, clubs, cemeteries, and
their appurtenant uses.
      (4)   Rest homes and convalescent hospitals.
('61 Code, § 10-3.505) (Ord. 380 C.S., passed 9-21-81; Am. Ord. 452 C.S.,
passed 1-15-86; Am. Ord. 607 C.S., passed 12-15-93; Am. Ord. 690 C.S., passed
8-5-98; Am. Ord. 852 C.S., passed 1-7-09)
§ 10-3.506 R; FENCES, WALLS, AND HEDGES.
   Fences, walls, and continuous hedges will be limited as follows:
   (A)   A maximum height of six (6') feet in any rear or interior side yard
exclusive of the front setback area.
   (B)   A maximum height of three (3') feet in any front or street side yard
setback area, except that, subject to the approval of the Community Development
Director/City Engineer, a six (6') foot fence may be erected on the street side
yard property line of any fifty (50') foot wide corner lot located in the R.
Residential Zone, which is situated adjacent to an eighty (80') foot City
right-of-way designated as a Local Street on the General Plan. These approvals
shall take into consideration site distance requirements adjacent to alleys and
where driveways cross the street side yard property line.
   (C)   A maximum height of six (6') feet to within ten (10') feet of any
exterior side property line, exclusive of the front setback. The Community
Development Director/City Engineer may grant approval of an encroachment permit
for construction of a fence higher than three (3') feet within the required
street side yard setback area subject to the following standards:
      (1)   The maximum height shall not exceed six (6') feet in any street
side yard area to within twenty-five (25) feet of the front property line, or
projection thereof.
      (2)   No encroachment permit shall be approved for corner lots with an
alley along the rear property line (ten (10') foot setback required).
      (3)   No encroachment permit shall be approved for corner lots adjacent
to a street along the rear property line (ten (10') foot setback required).
      (4)   Encroachment permits shall take into account sight distance
requirements in reverse corner lot situations, where driveway approaches on
adjacent lots may be near the rear property line.
      (5)   Fences along a residential access street (fifty (50') foot right-
of-way) shall be set back a minimum of five (5') feet from the exterior side
property line.
      (6)   Design criteria for fences constructed along street side yard
property lines shall be as follows (not applicable for fences constructed in
accordance with building setback standards except as required in §
10-3.506(C)(5)(d)):
         (a)   All fences shall be masonry, wrought iron, solid wood, or a
combination thereof.
         (b)   Wood shall be of cedar quality or better and all wood surfaces
are to be treated with waterproofing. All posts shall be set in concrete.
         (c)   Unless the standard setback of ten (10') feet is utilized, all
fences along collector streets shall be masonry.
         (d)   All fences constructed along arterial streets, regardless of
setbacks, shall be masonry.
         (e)   Fence construction along any rear property line adjacent to a
Collector or Arterial Street shall be masonry.
         (f)   Construction of fencing along all designated Collector and
Arterial Streets is mandatory. Installation shall be required in conjunction
with building permits issued for adjoining lots, and completion required prior
to the granting of final occupancy on the permit.
         (g)   The design criteria for construction of fences along Collector
and Arterial Streets shall not apply to any subdivision recorded prior to
December 18, 1991, the effective date of Ordinance 580 C.S.
         (h)   The Planning Commission may grant exceptions on a subdivision-
wide basis to the masonry wall requirements along Collector and Arterial
Streets specified in this section.
   (D)   The Planning Commission may approve encroachments into the ten foot
(10') street side yard setback not authorized by the Community Development
Director/City Engineer, subject to the provisions of the Building Code and City
Standards. The Planning Commission may permit a greater height not to exceed a
maximum height of eight feet (8') for that portion of a yard to the rear of the
front forty feet (40') upon a determination that a greater height will not be
detrimental to the public welfare or to abutting property. The Planning
Commission may also require the installation of masonry block walls higher than
eight feet (8') for the purpose of mitigating noise impacts in conjunction with
new residential development. The requirements shall be established as a
condition of approval for Tentative Subdivision Maps in conjunction with an
acoustical analysis prepared by a qualified independent consultant.
('61 Code, § 10-3.506) (Ord. 380 C.S., passed 9-21-81; Am. Ord. 494, C.S.,
passed 1-20-88; Am. Ord. 580 C.S., passed 12-18-91; Am. Ord. 652 C.S., passed
3-6-96; Am. Ord. 679 C.S., passed 7-2-97; Am. Ord. 719 C.S., passed 7-19-00)
§ 10-3.507 R; MINIMUM SITE AREA AND DIMENSIONS.
   Each lot shall be no less than 80 feet in depth. Each interior lot shall
have a minimum width of 50 feet. Each corner lot shall have a minimum width of
60 feet. The width of any lot fronting on a cul-de-sac on the radius of a curve
shall be measured at the building setback line. The minimum site area for
creation of new lots in a Residential Zone shall be 6,000 square feet for
interior lots, and 6,500 square feet for corner lots.
('61 Code, § 10-3.507) (Ord. 380 C.S., passed 9-21-81; Am. Ord. 589, passed 9-
18-92)
§ 10-3.508 R; YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   Except as provided for in subsection §
10-3.508(E) below, the following yard requirements shall be met:
   (A)   Front yards. No building shall be constructed nearer than 15 feet to
the front property line, however in no case shall garages with doors facing the
street or carports be set back less than 20 feet.
   (B)   Interior side yards. The minimum setback for any required interior
side yard shall be not less than five feet provided the Planning Commission may
approve encroachment into the five foot setback subject to the provisions of
the Building Code.
   (C)   Exterior side yards. The required exterior side yard shall be not less
than ten feet. Garages or carports facing an exterior side yard shall be not
less than 20 feet from the property line.
   (D)   Rear yards. Rear yards shall be provided as follows:
      (1)   Fifteen feet where windows face the rear property line plus five
feet per story for each story over two stories.
      (2)   Ten feet where no windows face the rear property line.
      (3)   In R-3 zones, the rear yard need not exceed ten feet except where
the rear property line abuts an R or PD zone, in which case subsections §
10-3.508(D)(1) and (2) above shall apply.
      (4)   Where the rear property line abuts an alley, the setback shall be
measured to the centerline of the alley. Parking spaces which utilize the alley
for access must be set back seven feet to provide a 27-foot backup distance.
   (E)   Within multiple family projects of three or more units, the setback
for any two-story building or structure from any property line immediately
adjacent to an existing or planned single-family dwelling or low density
project or any R-1 zone shall be 15 feet. The setback for any three-story
structure shall be 25 feet plus five feet for each additional story over three.
The Site Plan Review process shall also take the following factors into
consideration:
      (1)   The relationship of second-story windows, doors, exterior
stairways, exterior balconies, sun decks, and the like, with the privacy of the
adjoining property.
      (2)   The relationship of building mass with the neighbors use and
enjoyment of their yard areas.
      (3)   The relationship of building mass with the neighbor's accessories
such as solar collectors and satellite antennas.
   (F)   Units on the same lot.
      (1)   Distances between dwelling units on the same lot shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Units side to side shall be 10 feet.
         (b) Units front to back shall be 25 feet.
         (c)   Units back to back shall be 20 feet.
         (d) Units front to side shall be 20 feet.
      (2)   Exceptions to this setback requirement may be granted through a use
permit approved by the Planning Commission.
('61 Code, § 10-3.508) (Ord. 380 C.S., passed 9-21-81; Am. Ord. 452 C.S.,
passed 1-15-86; Am. Ord. 589 C.S., passed 11-18-92; Am. Ord. 607 C.S., passed
12-15-93)
§ 10-3.509 R; MINIMUM OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   R; minimum open space.
      (1)   Minimum useable open space for each individual unit shall be
provided for each dwelling unit as follows:
 
R-Minimum Open Space
R(A) 2,000 square feet
R(1) 1,000 square feet
R(2) 750 square feet
R(3) 500 square feet
 
      (2)   To qualify as useable private open space the minimum dimension must
be ten feet, provided, however, that balconies can qualify when the minimum
dimension is five feet. Required off- street parking areas (spaces and
driveways) may not be used in calculating required open space, and only a
maximum of 50% of required yard areas under §
10-3.508 (A), (B), (C), and (D) may be used in calculating required open space.
   (B)   Projects of 50 or more units shall provide one or more amenities as a
part of the main recreation area, including, but not limited to, the following:
swimming pool, tennis court, putting green, lawn bowling, tot lot, or outdoor
cooking facilities or barbecues.
   (C)   All outdoor common recreational areas, except community gardens, shall
be landscaped with lawn, trees, shrubs, or other plant materials and shall be
permanently maintained in a neat and orderly manner.
   (D)   Floor area.
      (1)   In addition to the minimum open space requirements above, buildings
located on a lot in an R-1 Zone shall not exceed a cumulative floor area of
1,400 square feet plus 20% of the site area on which those building are
located.
      (2)   For the purpose of the section, FLOOR AREA shall mean the area of
all floors and levels enclosed by exterior walls by more than 50% and that part
of any upper level separated from the lower level by a floor/ceiling assemble,
but shall not include basements, and up to 400 square feet of garage area.
('61 Code, § 10-3.509) (Ord. 380 C.S., passed 9-21-81; Am. Ord. 452 C.S.,
passed 1-15-86; Am. Ord. 589 C.S., passed 11-18-92; Am. Ord. 607 C.S., passed
12-15-93)
§ 10-3.510 R; BUILDING HEIGHT.
   (A)   Maximum height of buildings shall be as follows:
   R(A), R(1), R(2)   35 feet
   R(3)         50 feet
   Accessory buildings   15 feet
   (B)   To conform zoning with General Plan policies a zoning designation a
(HL) may be placed on any R designated district indicating a height limitation
of 20 feet.
('61 Code, § 10-3.510) (Ord. 380 C.S., passed 9-21-81)
§ 10-3.511 PARKING ON UNPAVED SURFACES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall keep, store or park any trailer, boat, motorcycle or
motor vehicle on any portion of a front yard or corner lot side yard of a
property designed or used as a residence, except on an area that is paved with
either asphalt, concrete, gravel or similar substance.
   (B)   No owner, tenant, manager, or occupant of property designed or used as
a residence shall allow or suffer another person to keep, store or park any
trailer, boat or motor vehicle on any portion of a front yard or corner lot
side yard of a property, except on an area that is paved with either asphalt,
concrete, gravel, or similar substance.
   (C)   Parking upon the lawn area or area intended for landscaping is
prohibited.
   (D)   The first violation of any provision of this section is an infraction
and is punishable by a fine not exceeding $75. A second violation within one
calendar year of the first shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $200. A
third and each subsequent violation within one calendar year of the first,
shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 789 C.S., passed 10-19-05)
§ 10-3.512 MULTIPLE SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING UNITS.
   Multiple single family dwelling units on the same R-1 zoned lot may be
allowed through approval of a use permit subject to the following standards:
   (A)   All dwelling units shall conform to the parking, height, open space,
lot coverage, and setback requirements of the R-1 zone, along with other
requirements of the zoning code and other applicable city codes.
   (B)   In addition to the 6,000 square foot minimum site area for the primary
residence, an extra 8,000 square feet shall be required for each subsequent
single-family residence.
   (C)   Multiple single-family dwelling units shall be subject to the
additional setback/height restriction of five extra feet of rear and side yard
area for each story over one.
   (D)   The remaining single-family unit(s) may be for rental purposes, but no
unit may be sold separately.
   (E)   The single-family dwelling units shall provide separate, independent
living quarters for only one family.
   (F)   Utilities.
      (1)   All units shall have completely separate utilities, such as sewer,
water, gas, and garbage.
      (2)   All utilities shall be adequate to serve all residential units.
      (3)   No unit shall be located over underground utilities serving any
other unit.
(Ord. 607 C.S., passed 12-15-93)
§ 10-3.513 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS.
   Accessory dwelling units shall comply with the requirements of this section.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply:
      ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. An attached or detached dwelling unit that
provides complete independent living facilities on the same parcel as a legal
single family residence, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking and sanitation. An accessory dwelling unit may be located
within the living space of an existing primary single-family residence, may be
an efficiency dwelling as defined in § 17958.1 of the Cal. Health and Safety
Code, and may be a manufactured home, as defined in § 18007 of the Cal. Health
and Safety Code. Accessory dwelling units are not accessory uses as defined in
this section.
      JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. A unit that is no more than 500 square
feet in size and contained entirely within an existing single-family structure,
and utilizing an existing bedroom, and containing an efficiency kitchen. A
JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT may include separate sanitation facilities, or
may share sanitation facilities with the existing structure.
   (B)   Purpose. The provisions of this section are intended to set standards,
in compliance with Cal. Gov’t Code §§ 65582.1, 65852.2, and 65852.22, for the
development of accessory dwelling units so as to increase the supply of smaller
and affordable housing while ensuring that such housing remains compatible with
the existing neighborhood. It is not the intent of this chapter to override
lawful use restrictions as set forth in Conditions, Covenants and Restrictions.
   (C)   General requirements. An accessory dwelling unit:
      (1)   May be located on any R (Residential) Zone District lot that allows
single-family or multifamily dwellings and that contains only one single-family
detached dwelling;
      (2)   May be located on any PD (Planned Development) Zone District lot
wherein a Precise Plan allowing for the construction of accessory dwelling
units has been approved. In all cases, the Precise Plan shall provide that only
one accessory dwelling unit shall be permitted per parcel;
      (3)   Is not subject to the density requirements of the General Plan, but
shall otherwise be consistent with the General Plan's principles, goals and
policies.
      (4)   Shall not be allowed on, or adjacent to, real property that is
listed in the California Register of Historic Places.
      (5)   Shall not be used for rentals with terms of less than 30 days.
      (6)   Shall not be sold separate from the primary residence.
   (D)   Permit requirements. An application for an accessory dwelling unit
that complies with all applicable requirements of this section shall be
approved ministerially.
   (E)    Application and processing requirements.
      (1)   Step one-submittal. An application for a Zoning Administrator
Permit to allow for an accessory dwelling unit shall be submitted to the
Planning Department concurrent with an application for a building permit. In
addition to the standard submittal requirements for a building permit, an
application for a Zoning Administrator Permit to allow for an accessory
dwelling unit shall include all of the following (except as noted in subsection
(1)(i) below):
         (a)   Plot plan. A plot plan, drawn to scale, showing the dimensions
of the perimeter of the parcel proposed for the accessory dwelling unit; the
location and dimensioned setbacks of all existing and proposed structures on
the site and structures located within 50 feet of the site; all easements,
building envelopes, and special requirements of the subdivision as shown on the
Final Map and improvement plans, if any; and average slope calculations for the
site.
         (b)   Floor plan. A floor plan, drawn to scale, showing the dimensions
of each room, and the resulting floor area. The use of each room shall be
identified, and the size and location of all windows and doors shall be clearly
shown.
         (c)   Elevations. Architectural elevations of each side of the
proposed structure showing all openings, exterior finishes, original and finish
grades, stepped footing outline, and roof pitch.
         (d)   Materials and color board. A materials and color board for the
existing residence and the proposed second dwelling unit.
         (e)   Cross sections. Building cross sections including structural
wall elements, roof, foundation, fireplace and any other sections necessary to
illustrate earth-to-wood clearances and floor to ceiling heights.
         (f)   Photographs. Color photographs of the site and adjacent
properties, taken from each property line of the site, to show the project site
and adjacent sites. Label each photograph and reference to a separate site plan
indicating the location and direction of each photograph.
         (g)   Deed restrictions.  Deed restrictions completed, signed and
ready for recordation.
         (h)   Fee.  A fee corresponding to the fee for a Zoning Administrator
Permit shall be paid at time of submittal.
         (i)   Applications for accessory dwelling units which do not modify a
building's exterior are not required to submit (c), (d), or (f) above.
      (2)   Step two-decision. The Department shall act on the application for
Zoning Administrator Permit to allow for an accessory dwelling unit within 120
days of submittal of a complete application. The Zoning Administrator Permit
shall be issued only if the proposed accessory dwelling unit complies with all
applicable standards in this section.
      (3)   Utility connection fees.
         (a)   Except as provided in subsection (3)(b), a separate new utility
connection and payment of a connection fee or capacity charge pursuant to state
law and city fee schedule will be required for any new accessory dwelling unit.
         (b)   No new or separate utility connection or related connection fee
or capacity charge will be required for accessory dwelling units that are
internal conversions of existing space within a single family residence or
permitted accessory structure constructed as habitable space.
   (F)   Development standards. A Zoning Administrator Permit to allow for an
accessory dwelling unit shall be issued only if the unit complies with the
following development standards:
      (1)   Setbacks.
         (a)   R (Residential) Zone District. An accessory dwelling unit shall
comply with the setback requirements of the applicable residential zoning
district for the primary dwelling, except as follows:
            1.   A new detached single-story accessory dwelling unit shall
observe a front setback of 20 feet, a rear setback of five feet, an interior
side setback of five feet, and a corner side setback of 15 feet.
            2.   A new detached two-story accessory dwelling unit shall observe
a front setback of 20 feet, a rear setback of 15 feet, an interior side yard
setback of five feet for a one-story portion, and ten feet for a two-story
portion, and a corner side yard setback of 15 feet.
            3.   An accessory dwelling unit that is fully contained within the
existing space of a single-family residence or within an approved accessory
structure and has independent exterior access from the existing residence or
structure shall adhere to the setback requirements of the residential zone it
is located within.
            4.   No portion of an attached or detached accessory dwelling unit
shall be closer than ten feet to a primary dwelling on an adjacent lot.
            5.   A setback of no less than five feet from the side and rear
property lines is required for any accessory dwelling unit. No existing
nonconforming structures built within less than five feet of any property line
may be converted to an accessory dwelling unit.
            6.   A detached accessory dwelling unit shall always be located
within 100 feet of the primary dwelling, but never closer to the primary
dwelling than permitted by the California Building Code.
         (b)   PD (Planned Development) Zone District. An accessory dwelling
unit shall comply with the setback requirements as defined within the approved
Precise Plan applicable to the primary dwelling.
      (2)   Maximum floor area.
         (a)   New detached unit. No newly constructed detached accessory
dwelling unit may contain floor area in excess of 1,200 square feet.
         (b)   New attached unit. No newly constructed attached accessory
dwelling unit may contain floor area in excess of 50% of the existing
residential square footage or 1,200 square feet, whichever is less.
         (c)   Internal conversion. An accessory dwelling unit created entirely
by the internal conversion of an existing single family dwelling shall not
occupy more than 45% of the existing floor area of the residence, excluding the
garage, nor shall it exceed 1,200 square feet, or a maximum of 1,200 square
feet for detached accessory structures.
      (3)   Height limit. A one-story accessory dwelling unit shall not exceed
a maximum height of 16 feet. A two-story accessory dwelling unit shall not
exceed a maximum height of 27 feet.
      (4)   Open space. An accessory dwelling unit shall provide an additional
500 square feet of open space, in addition to the open space requirements of
the primary residential dwelling on the parcel.
      (5)   Architectural compatibility. If visible from a public street, an
accessory dwelling unit shall incorporate the same or substantially similar
architectural features, building materials and colors as the main dwelling unit
and/or compatible dwellings located on adjacent properties.
      (6)   Privacy. A balcony, window or door of a second story accessory
dwelling unit shall be designed to lessen privacy impacts to adjacent
properties. Appropriate design techniques may include obscured glazing, window
placement above eye level, screening treatments, or locating balconies, windows
and doors toward the existing on-site residence.
      (7)   Existing development. A single-family dwelling must already exist
on the lot or shall be constructed on the lot in conjunction with the
construction of the accessory dwelling unit.
      (8)   Number per lot. A maximum of one accessory dwelling unit and one
junior accessory dwelling unit shall be permitted on any lot.
      (9)   Parking. One off-street parking space is required for an accessory
dwelling unit, except as set forth below. The off-street parking shall be
permitted uncovered, compact, tandem and in setback areas, unless the review
authority determines that tandem parking or parking within a setback is not
feasible due to specific site or topographical or fire and life safety
conditions. No off-street parking shall be required if one or more of the
following circumstances exist:
         (a)   The accessory dwelling unit is 750 square feet or less in area.
         (b)   The accessory dwelling unit is located within one-half mile of
public transit.
         (c)   The accessory dwelling unit is located within a historic
preservation district.
         (d)   The accessory dwelling unit is part of the existing primary
residence or an existing accessory structure.
         (e)   When on-street parking permits are required but not offered to
the occupant of an accessory dwelling unit.
         (f)   When there is a car share vehicle located within one block of
the accessory dwelling unit.
         (g)   To qualify for an exception, the applicant must provide
supporting evidence, such as a map illustrating the location of the accessory
dwelling unit and its proximity to a public transit stop or car share vehicle
or its location within a historic preservation district, or proof of local
parking permit requirements.
         (h)   If a garage, carport, or covered parking is demolished or
converted in conjunction with the construction of an accessory dwelling unit,
replacement parking spaces must be provided in any configuration on the lot,
including as uncovered, compact, tandem parking and within a setback area.
      (10)   Deed restrictions. Prior to occupancy of an accessory dwelling
unit, the property owner shall file with the County Recorder a deed restriction
containing a reference to the deed under which the property was acquired by the
owner and stating that:
         (a)   The accessory dwelling unit shall not be sold separately from
the single family residence;
         (b)   The accessory dwelling unit shall not exceed 1200 square feet
and shall comply with the development standards in subsection (E);
         (c)   The accessory dwelling unit shall be considered legal only so
long as either the primary residence or the accessory dwelling unit is occupied
by the owner of record of the property. Such owner-occupancy, however, shall
not be required if the property owner is a governmental agency, land trust or
non-profit housing organization; and
         (d)   The restrictions shall run with the land and be binding upon any
successor in ownership of the property. Lack of compliance shall void the
approval of the accessory dwelling unit and may result in legal action against
the property owner.
         (e)   The developer of a subdivision that includes accessory dwelling
units shall record the deed restrictions required by this subsection prior to
the recordation of the Final Map or Parcel Map. Each lot with an accessory
dwelling unit shall remain unoccupied until the property transfers ownership,
allowing for compliance with the recorded owner-occupancy restriction.
   (G)   Junior accessory unit. The following provisions are intended to set
standards, in compliance with Cal. Gov’t Code § 65852.22, for the development
of junior accessory dwelling units so as to increase the supply of smaller and
affordable housing while ensuring that such housing remains compatible with the
existing neighborhood. It is not the intent of this section to override lawful
use restrictions as set forth in Conditions, Covenants and Restrictions.
      (1)   General requirements. A junior accessory dwelling unit:
         (a)   May be located on any R (Residential) Zone District lot that
allows single-family or multi-family dwellings and that contains only one
single-family detached dwelling. Only one junior accessory dwelling unit and
one standard accessory dwelling unit shall be permitted per parcel;
         (b)   May be located on any PD (Planned Development) Zone District lot
wherein a Precise Plan allowing for the construction of junior accessory
dwelling units has been approved. In all cases, the Precise Plan shall provide
that only one junior accessory dwelling unit shall be permitted per parcel;
         (c)   Is not subject to the density requirements of the General Plan,
but shall otherwise be consistent with the General Plan's principles, goals and
policies.
         (d)   Shall not be allowed on, or adjacent to, real property that is
listed in the California Register of Historic Places.
         (e)   Shall not be used for rentals with terms of less than 30 days.
         (f)   Shall not be sold separate from the primary residence.
      (2)   Permit requirements. An application for a Zoning Administrator
Permit to allow for a junior accessory dwelling unit that complies with all
applicable requirements of this section shall be approved ministerially.
      (3)   Application and processing requirements.
         (a)   Step one-submittal. The application for a Zoning Administrator
Permit to allow for a junior accessory dwelling unit shall be submitted to the
Planning Department concurrent with an application for a building permit. In
addition to the standard submittal requirements for a building permit, an
application for a Zoning Administrator Permit to allow for a junior accessory
dwelling unit shall include all of the following:
            1.   Plot plan. A plot plan, drawn to scale, showing the dimensions
of the perimeter of the parcel proposed for the junior accessory dwelling unit;
the location and dimensioned setbacks of all existing and proposed structures
on the site and structures located within 50 feet of the site; all easements,
building envelopes, and special requirements of the subdivision as shown on the
Final Map and improvement plans, if any; and average slope calculations for the
site.
            2.   Floor plan. A floor plan, drawn to scale, showing the
dimensions of each room, the area devoted to the junior accessory dwelling
unit, and the resulting floor areas of the junior accessory dwelling unit and
of the primary residence. The use of each room shall be identified, and the
size and location of all windows and doors shall be clearly shown. The plan
shall identify whether separate or shared sanitation facilities are proposed.
            3.   Deed restrictions. Deed restrictions completed, signed and
ready for recordation.
            4.   Fee.  A fee corresponding to the fee for a Zoning
Administrator Permit shall be paid at time of submittal.
         (b)   Step two-decision. The Department shall act on an application
for a Zoning Administrator Permit to allow for a junior accessory dwelling unit
within 120 days of submittal of a complete application. A Zoning Administrator
Permit to allow for a junior accessory dwelling unit shall be issued only if
the proposed junior accessory dwelling unit complies with all applicable
standards in this section.
         (c)   Utility connection fees. No new or separate utility connection
and no connection fee for water, sewer, or power is required for a junior
accessory dwelling unit.
      (4)   Development standards. A Zoning Administrator Permit to allow for a
junior accessory dwelling unit shall be issued only if the unit complies with
the following development standards:
         (a)   Maximum floor area. The junior accessory dwelling unit shall not
exceed 500 square feet in area.
         (b)   Existing development. The junior accessory dwelling unit shall
be contained entirely within the existing walls of an existing single-family
dwelling and shall utilize one of the existing bedrooms.
         (c)   Kitchen. The junior accessory dwelling unit must contain an
efficiency kitchen with the minimum criteria:
   
            1.   A sink with a maximum waste line diameter of 1.5 inches.
            2.   A cooking facility with appliances that do not require
electrical service greater than 120 volts, or natural or propane gas.
            3.   A food preparation counter and storage cabinets that are of
reasonable size in relation to the size of the junior accessory dwelling unit.
         (d)   Sanitation.  Bathroom facilities may be separate from or shared
with the single-family dwelling.
         (e)   Entrance. The junior accessory dwelling unit shall include an
exterior entrance separate from the main entrance to the single-family
dwelling, and an interior entry into the main living area. The junior accessory
dwelling unit may include a second interior doorway for sound attenuation.
         (f)   Parking. Off-street parking shall not be required for junior
accessory dwelling units that meet the development standards.
      (5)   Deed restrictions. Prior to occupancy of a junior accessory
dwelling unit, the property owner shall file with the County Recorder a deed
restriction containing a reference to the deed under which the property was
acquired by the owner and stating that:
         (a)   The junior accessory dwelling unit shall not be sold separately
from the single-family residence;
         (b)   The junior accessory dwelling unit shall not exceed 500 square
feet and shall comply with the development standards in subsection (F);
         (c)   The junior accessory dwelling unit shall be considered legal
only so long as either the primary residence or the junior accessory dwelling
unit is occupied by the owner of record of the property. Such owner-occupancy,
however, shall not be required if the property owner is a governmental agency,
land trust or non-profit housing organization; and
         (d)   The restrictions shall run with the land and be binding upon any
successor in ownership of the property. Lack of compliance shall void the
approval of the junior accessory dwelling unit and may result in legal action
against the property owner.
         (e)   The developer of a subdivision that includes junior accessory
dwelling units shall record the deed restrictions required by this subsection
prior to the recordation of the Final Map or Parcel Map. Each lot with a junior
accessory dwelling unit shall remain unoccupied until the property transfers
ownership, allowing for compliance with the recorded owner-occupancy
restriction.
(Ord. 607 C.S., passed 12-15-93; Am. Ord. 752 C.S., passed 5-21-03; Am. Ord.
949, C.S., passed 12-6-17)
AFFORDABLE HOUSING DENSITY BONUS
§ 10-3-5.101 PURPOSE.
   As required by Cal. Gov’t Code § 65915, this subchapter offers density
bonuses, and incentives or concessions for the development of housing that is
affordable to the types of households and qualifying residents identified in §
10-3-5.102 below. This chapter is intended to implement the requirements of
Cal. Gov’t Code § 65915 et seq., and the Housing Element of the General Plan.
(Ord. 920 C.S., passed 5-20-15)
§ 10-3-5.102 ELIGIBILITY FOR BONUS, INCENTIVES, OR CONCESSIONS.
   In order to be eligible for a density bonus and other incentives or
concessions as provided by this subchapter, a proposed housing development
shall comply with the following requirements and shall satisfy all other
applicable provisions of this Zoning Ordinance, except as provided by §
10-3-5.104.
   (A)   Resident requirements. A housing development proposed to qualify for a
density bonus shall be designed and constructed so that it includes at least
any one of the following:
      (1)   Ten percent (10%) of the total number of proposed units are for
lower income households, as defined in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 50079.5;
      (2)   Five percent (5%) of the total number of proposed units are for
very low income households, as defined in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 50105;
      (3)   The project is a senior citizen housing development as defined in
Cal. Civil Code §§ 51.3 and 51.12, or is a mobile home park that limits
residency based on age requirements for housing older persons in compliance
with Cal. Civil Code §§ 798.76 or 799.5; or
      (4)   Ten percent (10%) of the total dwelling units in a common interest
development as defined in Cal. Civil Code § 1351 are for persons and families
of moderate income, as defined in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 50093, provided
that all units in the development are offered to the public for purchase.
   (B)   Applicant selection of basis for bonus. For purposes of calculating
the amount of the density bonus in compliance with §
10-3-5.103, below, the applicant who requests a density bonus shall elect
whether the bonus shall be awarded on the basis of subsections (A)(1), (2),
(3), or (4), above.
   (C)   Bonus units shall not qualify a project. A density bonus granted in
compliance with §
10-3-5.103, below, shall not be included when determining the number of housing
units that is equal to the percentages required by subsection (A), above.
   (D)   Minimum project size to qualify for density bonus. The density bonus
provided by this subchapter shall be available only to a housing development of
five or more dwelling units.
   (E)   Condominium conversion projects. A condominium conversion project for
which a density bonus is requested shall comply with the eligibility and other
requirements specified in Cal. Gov’t Code § 65915.5.
(Ord. 920 C.S., passed 5-20-15)
§ 10-3-5.103 ALLOWED DENSITY BONUSES.
   The review authority shall determine the amount of a density bonus allowed
in a housing development in compliance with this section. For the purposes of
this subchapter, DENSITY BONUS means a density increase over the otherwise
maximum allowable residential density under the applicable General Plan Land
Use designation and zone as of the date of application by the applicant to the
city.
   (A)   Density bonus.  A housing development that complies with the
eligibility requirements specified in §
10-3-5.102(A) above, shall be entitled to density bonuses as follows, unless a
lesser percentage is proposed by the applicant.
      (1)   Bonus for units for lower income households.  A housing development
that is eligible for a bonus in compliance with the criteria specified in §
10-3-5.102(A)(1), (10% of units for lower income households) shall be entitled
to a density bonus calculated as follows:
   TABLE 103.1 - BONUS FOR LOWER INCOME HOUSEHOLDS
Percentage of Low-Income Units Proposed Percentage of Density Bonus
Percentage of Low-Income Units Proposed Percentage of Density Bonus
10                                      20
11                                      21.5
12                                      23
13                                      24.5
14                                      26
15                                      27.5
16                                      29
17                                      30.5
18                                      32
19                                      33.5
20                                      35
 
      (2)   Bonus for units for very low-income households. A housing
development that is eligible for a bonus in compliance with the criteria
specified in §
10-3-5.102(A)(2), 5% of units for very low-income households) shall be entitled
to a density bonus calculated as follows:
   TABLE 103.2 - BONUS FOR VERY LOW-INCOME HOUSEHOLDS
Percentage of Very Low-Income Units Proposed Percentage of Density Bonus
Percentage of Very Low-Income Units Proposed Percentage of Density Bonus
5                                            20
6                                            22.5
7                                            25
8                                            27.5
9                                            30
10                                           32.5
11                                           35
 
      (3)   Bonus for senior citizen development. A housing development that is
eligible for a bonus in compliance with the criteria in §
10-3-5.102(A)(3), (senior citizen development or mobile home park) shall be
entitled to a density bonus of 20%.
      (4)   Bonus for moderate income units in common interest development. A
housing development that is eligible for a bonus in compliance with the
criteria specified in §
10-3-5.102(A)(4), (10% of units in a common interest development for persons
and families of moderate income) shall be entitled to a density bonus
calculated as follows:
   TABLE 103.3 - BONUS FOR MODERATE INCOME HOUSEHOLDS
Percentage of Moderate-Income Units Proposed Percentage of Density Bonus
Percentage of Moderate-Income Units Proposed Percentage of Density Bonus
10                                           5
11                                           6
12                                           7
13                                           8
14                                           9
15                                           10
16                                           11
17                                           12
18                                           13
19                                           14
20                                           15
21                                           16
22                                           17
23                                           18
24                                           19
25                                           20
26                                           21
27                                           22
28                                           23
29                                           24
30                                           25
31                                           26
32                                           27
33                                           28
34                                           29
35                                           30
36                                           31
37                                           32
38                                           33
39                                           34
40                                           35
 
      (5)   Density bonus for land donation. When an applicant for a tentative
map, parcel map, or other residential development approval donates land to the
city in compliance with this subsection, the applicant shall be entitled to a
density bonus for the entire development as follows; provided, that nothing in
this subsection shall be construed to affect the authority of the city to
require a developer to donate land as a condition of development.
         (a)   Basic bonus. The applicant shall be entitled to a 15% increase
above the otherwise maximum allowable residential density under the applicable
Land Use Plan designation and zone for the entire development, and an
additional increase as follows.
   TABLE 103.4 - BASIC BONUSES
Percentage of Very Low-Income Units Proposed Percentage of Density Bonus
Percentage of Very Low-Income Units Proposed Percentage of Density Bonus
10                                           15
11                                           16
12                                           17
13                                           18
14                                           19
15                                           20
16                                           21
17                                           22
18                                           23
19                                           24
20                                           25
21                                           26
22                                           27
23                                           28
24                                           29
25                                           30
26                                           31
27                                           32
28                                           33
29                                           34
30                                           35
 
         (b)   Increased bonus.  The increase identified in Table 103.4 above
shall be in addition to any increase in density required by subsections (A)(1)
through (A)(4), up to a maximum combined mandated density increase of 35% if an
applicant seeks both the increase required in compliance with this subsection
(A)(5), as well as the bonuses provided by subsections (A)(1) through (A)(4).
         (c)   Eligibility for increased bonus. An applicant shall be eligible
for the increased density bonus provided by this subsection if all of the
following conditions are met:
            1.   The applicant donates and transfers the land no later than the
date of approval of the final map, parcel map, or residential development
application.
            2.   The developable acreage and zoning classification of the land
being transferred are sufficient to allow construction of units affordable to
very low income households in an amount not less than 10% of the number of
residential units of the proposed development.
            3.   The transferred land is at least one acre in size, or of
sufficient size to allow development of at least 40 units; has the appropriate
Land Use Plan designation; is appropriately zoned for development as affordable
housing; and is or will be served by adequate public facilities and
infrastructure. The land shall have appropriate zoning and development
standards to make the development of the affordable units feasible.
            4.   No later than the date of approval of the final map, parcel
map, or of the residential development, the transferred land shall have all of
the permits and approvals, other than Building Permits, necessary for the
development of the very low income housing units on the transferred
land, except that the city may subject the proposed development to subsequent
design review to the extent authorized by Cal. Gov’t Code § 65583.2(i) if the
design is not reviewed by the city before the time of transfer.
            5.   The transferred land and the affordable units shall be subject
to a deed restriction ensuring continued affordability of the units consistent
with §
10-3-5.107, which shall be recorded on the property at the time of dedication.
            6.   The land is transferred to the city or to a housing developer
approved by the city. The city may require the applicant to identify and
transfer the land to the approved housing developer.
            7.   The transferred land shall be within the boundary of the
proposed development or, if the city agrees, within one-quarter mile of the
boundary of the proposed development.
   (B)   Greater or lesser bonuses.  The city may choose to grant a density
bonus greater than provided by this section for a development that meets the
requirements of this section, or grant a proportionately lower density bonus
than required by this section for a development that does not fully comply with
the requirements of this section.
   (C)   Density bonus calculations.  The calculation of a density bonus in
compliance with this section that results in fractional units shall be rounded
up to the next whole number, as required by state law. For the purpose of
calculating a density bonus, the residential units do not have to be based upon
individual subdivision maps or parcels.
   (D)   Requirements for amendments or discretionary approval. The granting of
a density bonus shall not be interpreted, in and of itself, to require a
General Plan amendment, Zoning Map amendment, or other discretionary approval.
   (E)   Location of bonus units. The developer may locate density bonus units
in the housing project in areas other than where the units for the lower income
households are located.
(Ord. 920 C.S., passed 5-20-15)
§ 10-3-5.104 ALLOWED INCENTIVES OR CONCESSIONS.
   (A)   Applicant request and city approval.
      (1)   An applicant for a density bonus in compliance with this subchapter
may submit to the city a proposal for the specific incentives or concessions
listed in subsection (C), below, that the applicant requests in compliance with
this section, and may request a meeting with the Director. The applicant may
file a request either before filing an application for city approval of a
proposed project or concurrently with an application for project approval. The
review authority shall grant an incentive or concession request that complies
with this section unless the review authority makes either of the following
findings in writing, based upon substantial evidence:
         (a)   The incentive or concession is not required to provide for
affordable housing costs, as defined in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 50052.5,
or for rents for the targeted units to be set as specified in §
10-3-5.107(B); or
         (b)   The incentive or concession would have a specific adverse
impact, as defined in Cal. Gov’t Code § 65589.5(d)(2), upon public health and
safety or the physical environment, or on any real property listed in the
California Register of Historical Resources and for which there is no feasible
method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific adverse impact without
rendering the development unaffordable to low- and moderate-income households.
      (2)   The applicant shall show that a waiver or modification of
development standards is necessary to make the housing units economically
feasible.
   (B)   Number of incentives. The applicant shall receive the following number
of incentives or concessions.
      (1)   One incentive or concession. One incentive or concession for a
project that includes at least 10% of the total units for lower income
households, at least 5% for very low income households, or at least 10% for
persons and families of moderate income in a common interest development.
      (2)   Two incentives or concessions. Two incentives or concessions for a
project that includes at least 20% of the total units for lower income
households, at least 10% for very low income households, or at least 20% for
persons and families of moderate income in a common interest development.
      (3)   Three incentives or concessions. Three incentives or concessions
for a project that includes at least 30% of the total units for lower income
households, at least 15% for very low income households, or at least 30% for
persons and families of moderate income in a common interest development.
   (C)   Type of incentives. For the purposes of this chapter, concession or
incentive means any of the following:
      (1)   A reduction in the site development standards of this Zoning
Ordinance (e.g., site coverage limitations, setbacks, reduced parcel sizes,
and/or parking requirements) (see also §
10-3-5.105), or a modification of architectural design requirements that exceed
the minimum building standards approved by the California Building Standards
Commission in compliance with Cal. Health and Safety Code § 18901 et seq., that
would otherwise be required, that results in identifiable, financially
sufficient, and actual cost reductions;
      (2)   Approval of mixed-use land uses not otherwise allowed by this
Zoning Ordinance in conjunction with the housing development, if nonresidential
land uses will reduce the cost of the housing development, and the
nonresidential land uses are compatible with the housing project and the
existing or planned development in the area where the project will be located;
      (3)   Other regulatory incentives proposed by the applicant or the city
that will result in identifiable, financially sufficient, and actual cost
reductions; and/or
      (4)   In its sole and absolute discretion, a direct financial
contribution granted by the review authority, including writing-down land
costs, subsidizing the cost of construction, or participating in the cost of
infrastructure.
   (D)   Effect of incentive or concession. The granting of a concession or
incentive shall not be interpreted, in and of itself, to require a General Plan
amendment, Zoning Map amendment, or other discretionary approval.
(Ord. 920 C.S., passed 5-20-15)
§ 10-3-5.105 PARKING REQUIREMENTS IN DENSITY BONUS PROJECTS.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to a development that meets the
requirements of §
10-3-5.102, above, but only at the request of the applicant. An applicant may
request additional parking incentives or concessions beyond those provided in
this section in compliance with §
10-3-5.104, above.
   (B)   Number of parking spaces required.
      (1)   At the request of the applicant, the city shall require the
following vehicular parking ratios for a project that complies with the
requirements of §
10-3-5.102, above, inclusive of handicapped and guest parking.
         (a)   Zero to one bedroom: One on-site parking space.
         (b)   Two to three bedrooms: Two on-site parking spaces.
         (c)   Four and more bedrooms: Two and one half on-site parking spaces.
      (2)   If the total number of parking spaces required for a development is
other than a whole number, the number shall be rounded up to the next whole
number.
   (C)   Location of parking. For purposes of this section, a development may
provide on-site parking through uncovered parking, but not through on-street
parking.
(Ord. 920 C.S., passed 5-20-15)
§ 10-3-5.106 BONUS AND INCENTIVES FOR DEVELOPMENTS WITH CHILD CARE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Housing developments.  A housing development that complies with the
resident and project size requirements of §
10-3-5.102(A) and (B), above, and also includes as part of that development a
child care facility other than a large or small family day care home, that will
be located on the site of, as part of, or adjacent to the development, shall be
subject to the following additional bonus, incentives, and requirements.
      (1)   Additional bonus and incentives. The city shall grant a housing
development that includes a child care facility in compliance with this section
either of the following:
         (a)   An additional density bonus that is an amount of floor area in
square feet of residential space that is equal to or greater than the floor
area of the child care facility; or
         (b)   An additional incentive that contributes significantly to the
economic feasibility of the construction of the child care facility.
      (2)   Requirements to qualify for additional bonus and incentives.
         (a)   The city shall require, as a condition of approving the housing
development, that:
            1.   The child care facility shall remain in operation for a period
of time that is as long as or longer than the period of time during which the
density bonus units are required to remain affordable in compliance with §
10-3-5.107, below; and
            2.   Of the children who attend the child care facility, the
children of very low income households, lower income households, or families of
moderate income shall equal a percentage that is equal to or greater than the
percentage of dwelling units that are required for very low income households,
lower income households, or families of moderate income in compliance with §
10-3-5.102(A), above.
         (b)   The city shall not be required to provide a density bonus for a
child care facility in compliance with this section if it finds, based upon
substantial evidence, that the community has adequate child care facilities.
   (B)   Commercial and industrial developments. A developer of a commercial or
industrial development project, containing at least 50,000 square feet of floor
area, may be granted a density bonus when that developer agrees to set aside at
least 2,000 square feet of interior floor area and 3,000 outdoor square footage
to be used for a child care facility, other than a large or small family day
care home, in compliance with Cal. Gov’t Code § 65917.5.
      (1)   Allowable density bonuses. The allowable density bonus may be one
of the following:
         (a)   A maximum of five square feet of floor area for each one square
foot of floor area contained in the child care facility located in an existing
child care facility; or
         (b)   A maximum of ten square feet of floor area for each one square
foot of floor area contained in the child care facility located in a new child
care facility.
      (2)   Requirements.  Requirements to qualify for the additional density
bonus shall include all of the following:
         (a)   For purposes of calculating the allowable density bonus under
this subsection, both the total area contained within the exterior walls of the
child care facility and all outdoor areas devoted to the use of the facility in
compliance with applicable state child care licensing requirements shall be
considered.
         (b)   The child care facility shall be of a sufficient size to comply
with all applicable state licensing requirements in order to accommodate at
least 40 children.
         (c)   This facility may be located either on the project site or may
be located off-site as agreed upon by the developer and the city.
         (d)   If the child care facility is not located on the site of the
development project, the city shall determine whether the location of the child
care facility is appropriate and whether it complies with the purpose and
intent of this section.
         (e)   The granting of a density bonus shall not preclude the city from
imposing necessary conditions on the development project or on the additional
square footage in compliance with Cal. Gov’t Code § 65917.5.
(Ord. 920 C.S., passed 5-20-15)
§ 10-3-5.107 CONTINUED AVAILABILITY.
   The units that qualified the housing development for a density bonus and
other incentives and concessions shall continue to be available as affordable
units in compliance with the following requirements, as required by Cal. Gov’t
Code § 65915(c). See also §
10-3-5.110.
   (A)   Duration of affordability. The applicant shall agree to, and the city
shall ensure, the continued availability of the units that qualified the
housing development for a density bonus and other incentives and concessions,
as follows.
      (1)   Low- and very low-income units. The continued affordability of all
low- and very low-income qualifying units shall be maintained for 30 years, or
a longer time if required by the construction or mortgage financing assistance
program, mortgage insurance program, rental subsidy program, or by city policy
or ordinance.
      (2)   Moderate income units in common interest development. The continued
availability of moderate-income units in a common interest development shall be
maintained for a minimum of 10 years, or a longer time if required by city
policy or ordinance.
   (B)   Unit cost requirements. The rents and owner-occupied costs charged for
the housing units in the development that qualify the project for a density
bonus and other incentives and concessions, shall not exceed the following
amounts during the period of continued availability required by this section:
      (1)   Lower income units. Rents for the lower income density bonus units
shall be set at an affordable rent as defined in Cal. Health and Safety Code §
50053; and
      (2)   Owner-occupied units. Owner-occupied units shall be available at an
affordable housing cost as defined in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 50052.5.
   (C)   Occupancy and resale of moderate-income common interest development
units.  An applicant shall agree to, and the city shall ensure that the initial
occupant of moderate income units that are directly related to the receipt of
the density bonus in a common interest development as defined in Cal. Civil
Code § 1351, are persons and families of moderate income, as defined in Cal.
Health and Safety Code § 50093, and that the units are offered at an affordable
housing cost, as defined in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 50052.5. The city
shall enforce an equity sharing agreement unless it is in conflict with the
requirements of another public funding source or law. The following
requirements apply to the equity sharing agreement.
      (1)   Upon resale, the seller of the unit shall retain the value of any
improvements, the down payment, and the seller's proportionate share of
appreciation.
      (2)   The city shall recapture any initial subsidy and its proportionate
share of appreciation, which shall then be used within three years for any of
the purposes described in Cal. Health and Safety Code § 33334.2(e) that promote
home ownership. For the purposes of this section:
         (a)   The city's initial subsidy shall be equal to the fair market
value of the home at the time of initial sale, minus the initial sale price to
the moderate-income household, plus the amount of any down payment assistance
or mortgage assistance. If upon resale the market value is lower than the
initial market value, then the value at the time of the resale shall be used as
the initial market value; and
         (b)   The city's proportionate share of appreciation shall be equal to
the ratio of the initial subsidy to the fair market value of the home at the
time of initial sale.
(Ord. 920 C.S., passed 5-20-15)
§ 10-3-5.108 LOCATION AND TYPE OF DESIGNATED UNITS.
   (A)   Location/dispersal of units. Designated units shall be reasonably
dispersed throughout the project where feasible, shall contain on average the
same number of bedrooms as the non-designated units in the project, and shall
be compatible with the design or use of remaining units in terms of appearance,
materials, and finish quality.
   (B)   Phasing. If a project is to be phased, the density bonus units shall
be phased in the same proportion as the non-density bonus units, or phased in
another sequence acceptable to the city.
(Ord. 920 C.S., passed 5-20-15)
§ 10-3-5.109 DENSITY BONUS AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Agreement required.  An applicant requesting a density bonus shall
agree to enter into a density bonus agreement (referred to as the "agreement")
with the city in the city's standard form of agreement. The applicant shall
prepare the draft agreement for submission to the city for review.
   (B)   Agreement provisions.
      (1)   Project information. The agreement shall include at least the
following information about the project:
         (a)   The total number of units approved for the housing development,
including the number of designated dwelling units;
         (b)   A description of the household income group to be accommodated
by the housing development, and the standards and methodology for determining
the corresponding affordable rent or affordable sales price and housing cost
consistent with the California Department of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD) Guidelines;
         (c)   The marketing plan for the affordable units;
         (d)   The location, unit sizes (square feet), and number of bedrooms
of the designated dwelling units;
         (e)   Tenure of the use restrictions for designated dwelling units of
the time periods required by §
10-3-5.107;
         (f)   A schedule for completion and occupancy of the designated
dwelling units;
         (g)   A description of the additional incentives and concessions being
provided by the city;
         (h)   A description of the remedies for breach of the agreement by the
owners, developers, and/or successors-in-interest of the project; and
         (i)   Other provisions to ensure successful implementation and
compliance with this chapter.
      (2)   Minimum requirements. The agreement shall provide, at minimum,
that:
         (a)   The developer shall give the city the continuing right-of-first-
refusal to lease or purchase any or all of the designated dwelling units at the
appraised value;
         (b)   The deeds to the designated dwelling units shall contain a
covenant stating that the developer or successors-in-interest shall not assign,
lease, rent, sell, sublet, or otherwise transfer any interests for designated
units without the written approval of the city;
         (c)   When providing the written approval, the city shall confirm that
the price (rent or sale) of the designated dwelling unit is consistent with the
limits established for low and very low-income households, as published by HUD;
         (d)   The city shall have the authority to enter into other agreements
with the developer, or purchasers of the designated dwelling units, to ensure
that the required dwelling units are continuously occupied by eligible
households;
         (e)   Applicable deed restrictions, in a form satisfactory to the City
Attorney, shall contain provisions for the enforcement of owner or developer
compliance. Any default or failure to comply may result in foreclosure,
specific performance, or withdrawal of the Certificate of Occupancy;
         (f)   In any action taken to enforce compliance with the deed
restrictions, the City Attorney shall, if compliance is ordered by a court of
competent jurisdiction, take all action that may be allowed by law to recover
all of the city's costs of action including legal services; and
         (g)   Compliance with the agreement will be monitored and enforced in
compliance with the measures included in the agreement.
      (3)   For-sale housing conditions. In the case of a for-sale housing
development, the agreement shall provide for the following conditions governing
the initial sale and use of designated dwelling units during the applicable
restriction period:
         (a)   Designated dwelling units shall be owner-occupied by eligible
households, or by qualified residents in the case of senior housing; and
         (b)   The initial purchaser of each designated dwelling unit shall
execute an instrument or agreement approved by the city which:
            1.   Restricts the sale of the unit in compliance with this
chapter, or other applicable city policy or ordinance, during the applicable
use restriction period;
            2.   Contains provisions as the city may require to ensure
continued compliance with this chapter and state law; and
            3.   Shall be recorded against the parcel containing the designated
dwelling unit.
      (4)   Rental housing conditions. In the case of a rental housing
development, the agreement shall provide for the following conditions governing
the use of designated dwelling units during the applicable restriction period:
         (a)   The rules and procedures for qualifying tenants, establishing
affordable rent, filling vacancies, and maintaining the designated dwelling
units for qualified tenants;
         (b)   Provisions requiring owners to annually verify tenant incomes
and maintain books and records to demonstrate compliance with this chapter;
         (c)   Provisions requiring owners to submit an annual report to the
city, which includes the name, address, and income of each person occupying the
designated dwelling units, and which identifies the bedroom size and monthly
rent or cost of each unit; and
         (d)   The applicable use restriction period shall comply with the time
limits for continued availability in §
10-3-5.107, above.
   (C)   Execution of agreement.
      (1)   Following approval of the agreement, and execution of the agreement
by all parties, the city shall record the completed agreement on the parcels
designated for the construction of designated dwelling units, at the County
Recorder's Office.
      (2)   The approval and recordation shall take place at the same time as
the final map or, where a map is not being processed, before issuance of
Building Permits for the designated dwelling units.
      (3)   The agreement shall be binding on all future owners, developers,
and/or successors-in-interest.
(Ord. 920 C.S., passed 5-20-15)
§ 10-3-5.110 CONTROL OF RESALE.
   In order to maintain the availability of for-sale affordable housing units
constructed in compliance with this chapter, the following resale conditions
shall apply.
   (A)   Limits on resale price. The price received by the seller of an
affordable unit shall be limited to the purchase price plus an increase based
on the local consumer price index, an amount consistent with the increase in
the median income since the date of purchase, or the fair market value,
whichever is less. Before offering an affordable housing unit for sale, the
seller shall provide written notice to the city of their intent to sell. The
notice shall be provided by certified mail to the Community Development
Director, or his or her designee.
   (B)   Units to be offered to the city. Home ownership affordable units
constructed, offered for sale, or sold under the requirements of this section
shall be offered to the city or its assignee for a period of at least 90 days
from the date of the notice of intent to sell is delivered to the city by the
first purchaser or subsequent purchasers. Home ownership affordable units shall
be sold and resold from the date of the original sale only to households as
determined to be eligible for affordable units by the city in compliance with
this section. The seller shall not levy or charge any additional fees nor shall
any "finder's fee" or other monetary consideration be allowed other than
customary real estate commissions and closing costs.
   (C)   Declaration of restrictions. The owners of any affordable unit shall
attach and legally reference in the grant deed conveying title of the
affordable ownership unit a declaration of restrictions provided by the city,
stating the restrictions imposed in compliance with this section. The grant
deed shall afford the grantor and the city the right to enforce the declaration
of restrictions. The declaration of restrictions shall include all applicable
resale controls, occupancy restrictions, and prohibitions required by this
section.
   (D)   City to monitor resale of units. The city shall monitor the resale of
ownership affordable units. The city or its designee shall have a 90-day option
to commence purchase of ownership affordable units after the owner gives
notification of intent to sell. Any abuse in the resale provisions shall be
referred to the city for appropriate action.
(Ord. 920 C.S., passed 5-20-15)
§ 10-3-5.111 JUDICIAL RELIEF, WAIVER OF STANDARDS.
   (A)   Judicial relief. As provided by Cal. Gov’t Code § 65915(d)(3), the
applicant may initiate judicial proceedings if the city refuses to grant a
requested density bonus, incentive, or concession.
   (B)   Waiver of standards preventing the use of bonuses, incentives, or
concessions.
      (1)   As required by Cal. Gov’t Code § 65915(e), the city shall not apply
a development standard that will have the effect of precluding the construction
of a development meeting the criteria of §
10-3-5.102(A), above, at the densities or with the concessions or incentives
allowed by this chapter.
      (2)   An applicant may submit to the city a proposal for the waiver or
reduction of development and zoning standards that would otherwise inhibit the
utilization of a density bonus on a specific site, including minimum parcel
size, side setbacks, and placement of public works improvements.
      (3)   The applicant shall show that the waiver or modification is
necessary to make the housing units economically feasible.
   (C)   City exemption. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (A) and
(B), above, nothing in this section shall be interpreted to require the city
to:
      (1)   Grant a density bonus, incentive, or concession, or waive or reduce
development standards, if the bonus, incentive, concession, waiver, or
reduction would have a specific, adverse impact, as defined in Cal. Gov’t Code
§ 65589.5(d)(2), upon health, safety, or the physical environment, and for
which there is no feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the
specific adverse impact; or
      (2)   Grant a density bonus, incentive, or concession, or waive or reduce
development standards, if the bonus, incentive, concession, waiver, or
reduction would have an adverse impact on any real property that is listed in
the California Register of Historical Resources.
(Ord. 920 C.S., passed 5-20-15)
REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION
§ 10-3-5.201 PURPOSE.
   This purpose of this chapter is to provide a procedure for individuals with
disabilities to request reasonable accommodation in seeking equal access to
housing under the federal Fair Housing Act and the California Fair Employment
and Housing Act (hereafter "Acts") in the application of zoning laws and other
land use regulations, policies, and procedures.
(Ord. 920 C.S., passed 5-20-15)
§ 10-3-5.202 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   A request for reasonable accommodation may be made by any person with
a disability or their representative, when the application of a requirement of
this zoning code or other city requirement, policy, or practice acts as a
barrier to fair housing opportunities. For the purposes of this chapter, a
"person with a disability" is any person who has a physical or mental
impairment that limits or substantially limits one or more major life
activities, anyone who is regarded as having such impairment or anyone who has
a record of such impairment. This chapter is intended to apply to those persons
who are defined as disabled under the Acts.
   (B)   A request for reasonable accommodation may include a modification or
exception to the rules, standards, and practices for the siting, development,
and use of housing or housing-related facilities that would eliminate
regulatory barriers and provide a person with a disability equal opportunity to
housing of their choice.
   (C)   A reasonable accommodation is granted only to the household that needs
the accommodation and does not apply to successors in interest to the site.
   (D)   A reasonable accommodation may be granted in compliance with this
chapter without the need for the approval of a variance.
(Ord. 920 C.S., passed 5-20-15)
§ 10-3-5.203 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A request for reasonable accommodation shall be submitted on an
application form provided by the Community Development Department or in the
form of a letter to the Director of Community Development Department, and shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   The applicant's name, address, and telephone number;
      (2)   Address of the property for which the request is being made;
      (3)   The current use of the property;
      (4)   The basis for the claim that the individual is considered disabled
under the Acts, including verification of such claim;
      (5)   The zoning code provision, regulation, or policy from which
reasonable accommodation is being requested; and
      (6)   Why the reasonable accommodation is necessary to make the specific
property accessible to the individual.
   (B)   If the project for which the request for reasonable accommodation is
being made requires some other discretionary approval (including use permit,
design review, etc.), then the applicant shall file the information required by
subsection (A) of this section for concurrent review with the application for
discretionary approval.
   (C)   A request for reasonable accommodation shall be reviewed by the
Director of Community Development Department or his or her designee, if no
approval is sought other than the request for reasonable accommodation. The
Director or his or her designee shall make a written determination within 45
days of the application being deemed complete and either grant, grant with
modifications, or deny a request for reasonable accommodation.
   (D)   A request for reasonable accommodation submitted for concurrent review
with another discretionary land use application shall be reviewed by the
Planning Commission. The written determination on whether to grant or deny the
request for reasonable accommodation shall be made by the Planning Commission
in compliance with the applicable review procedure for the discretionary
review.
(Ord. 920 C.S., passed 5-20-15)
§ 10-3-5.204 APPROVAL FINDINGS.
   The written decision to grant or deny a request for reasonable accommodation
will be consistent with the Acts and shall be based on consideration of the
following factors:
   (A)    Whether the housing in the request will be used by a person with a
disability under the Acts;
   (B)    Whether the request for reasonable accommodation is necessary to make
specific housing available to a person with a disability under the Acts;
   (C)   Whether the requested reasonable accommodation would impose an undue
financial, administrative or enforcement burden on the city;
   (D)   Whether the requested reasonable accommodation would require a
fundamental alteration in the nature of a city program or law, including but
not limited to land use and zoning;
   (E)   Potential impact on surrounding uses;
   (F)   Physical attributes of the property and structures; and
   (G)   Other reasonable accommodations that may provide an equivalent level
of benefit.
(Ord. 920 C.S., passed 5-20-15)
§ 10-3-5.205 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   In granting a request for reasonable accommodation, the Director of
Community Development Department or his or her designee, or the Planning
Commission as the case might be, may impose any conditions of approval deemed
reasonable and necessary to ensure that the reasonable accommodation would
comply with the findings. The conditions shall also state whether the
accommodation granted shall be removed in the event that the person for whom
the accommodation was requested no longer resides on the site.
(Ord. 920 C.S., passed 5-20-15)
§ 10-3-5.206 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person dissatisfied with any action of the Director of the
Community Development Department pertaining to this chapter may appeal to the
Planning Commission within ten days after written notice of the Director's
decision is sent to the applicant. The appeal is taken by filing a written
notice of appeal with the Director of Community Development Department and
shall specify the reasons for the appeal and the grounds asserted for relief.
   (B)   Any person dissatisfied with any action of the Planning Commission
pertaining to this chapter may appeal to the City Council within ten days after
the rendition of the decision of the Planning Commission. The appeal is taken
by filing a written notice of appeal with the Director of Community Development
Department and shall specify the reasons for the appeal and the grounds
asserted for relief.
   (C)   The City Council shall, by resolution, adopt and from time to time
amend a fee for the filing of appeals. Such fee shall be for the sole purpose
of defraying costs incurred for the administration of appeals. The fee for an
appeal shall be paid at the time of and with the filing of an appeal. No appeal
shall be deemed valid unless the prescribed has been paid.
   (D)   If an appeal is not filed within the time or in the manner prescribed
in this section, the right to review of the action against which the complaint
is made shall be deemed to have been waived.
   (E)   After filing an appeal, the appropriate hearing body shall conduct a
public hearing for the purpose of determining whether the appeal should be
granted. Written notice of the time, date and place of hearing shall be given
to the appellant, and to any other persons who have filed a written request for
notice. Such notices shall be mailed to the appellant and the applicant at
least ten days prior to the hearing.
   (F)   The Planning Commission or City Council shall review de novo the
entire proceeding or proceedings relating to the decision, and may make any
order it deems just and equitable, including the approval of the application.
Any hearing may be continued from time to time.
   (G)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing body shall prepare a
written decision which either grants or denies the appeal and contains findings
of fact and conclusions. The written decision, including a copy thereof shall
be provided to the appellant and the project applicant.
(Ord. 920 C.S., passed 5-20-15)
RCO; RESOURCE CONSERVATION AND OPEN SPACE ZONING
§ 10-3.601 RCO; PURPOSES AND APPLICATION.
   This zoning is intended to provide for permanent open spaces in areas of the
community which exhibit significant vegetation, scenic qualities, wildlife, or
recreational potential, including areas designated as open space on the General
Plan, drainage ponds for recreational use, and areas reserved to reduce
conflicts between land uses.
('61 Code, § 10-3.601) (Ord. 380 C.S., passed 9-21-81)
§ 10-3.602 RCO; PERMITTED USES.
   The land uses permitted within the RCO zone are herein defined and
delineated by location within the RCO zone and the required permit approval
procedure.
   (A)   P. Permitted use.
   (B)   CUP. Conditional use permit required.
   (C)   AA. Administrative approval required.
   (D)   NP. Not permitted.
 
LOCATION WITHIN RCO ZONE
                       Airport Clear Zone Airport Approach Zone Other RCO Areas
Raising of field crops P                  P                     P
Orchard and vineyards  NP                 CUP                   P
Raising of livestock   NP                 CUP                   P
and rangeland
Flood control
channels, water        CUP                CUP                   P
pumping station,
ditches, and canals
LOCATION WITHIN RCO ZONE
 Airport Clear Zone Airport Approach Zone Other RCO Areas
LOCATION WITHIN RCO ZONE
                       Airport Clear Zone Airport Approach Zone Other RCO Areas
Reservoirs, settling,
and water conservation NP                 CUP                   P
recharge basins
Streets and roads      CUP                CUP                   P
Off-street parking and NP                 CUP                   AA
landscaping
Bikeways and           NP                 CUP                   AA
pedestrian trails
Drainage ponds         NP                 CUP                   AA
Recreation areas,
parks, playgrounds,
wildlife preserves,    NP                 CUP                   CUP
and related buildings,
structures, and
facilities
One-family dwelling
related to             NP                 CUP                   CUP
agricultural and
recreational uses
Incidental and
accessory structures   NP                 CUP                   CUP
and uses on site of a
conditional use
Cemeteries             NP                 CUP                   CUP
Gas and electric
transmission lines,
electrical
transmission and
distribution
substations, gas
regulator stations,    NP                 CUP                   CUP
communication
equipment and
facilities, public
service pumping
stations, and elevated
pressure tanks
 
('61 Code, § 10-3.602) (Ord. 380 C.S., passed 9-21-81; Am. Ord. 525 C.S.,
passed 8-4-89; Am. Ord. 698 C.S., passed 3-17-99)
§ 10-3.603 RCO-PERMITTED USES; ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL (REPEALED).
§ 10-3.604 RCO-CONDITIONAL USES; COMMISSION APPROVAL (REPEALED).
§ 10-3.605 RCO; DISTANCES BETWEEN STRUCTURES.
   The minimum distance between a one-family dwelling and another structure
shall be ten feet, provided, however, that no structure housing animals shall
be closer than 25 feet to any dwelling on the site or to any side yard property
line.
('61 Code, § 10-3.605) (Ord. 280 C.S., passed 9-21-81)
§ 10-3.606 RCO; BUILDING HEIGHT.
   No building or structure shall have a height greater than 65 feet, provided
that additional height may be permitted if a use permit is first secured.
('61 Code, § 10-3.606) (Ord. 380 C.S., passed 9-21-81; Am. Ord. 698 C.S.,
passed 3-17-99)
PF; PUBLIC FACILITIES ZONE
§ 10-3-6.501 PF; PURPOSE AND APPLICATION.
   This zone is designed to retain and provide land areas for public use and to
place the public and all elected officials and public agencies on notice of
proposed changes in the use of such land.
('61 Code, § 10-3-6.501) (Ord. 380 C.S., passed 9-21-81)
§ 10-3-6.502 PF; PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   All city, county, state, and federal offices or facilities, including,
but not limited to civic centers, fire and police stations, libraries, and post
offices.
   (B)   All city, county, state, and federal offices or facilities leased from
private individuals or other government agencies for a period of more than five
years.
   (C)   All city, county, state, or federally owned or operated parks,
playgrounds, recreation areas, open spaces, sumps, and landfills.
   (D)   All offices and facilities owned or operated by public school
districts including state colleges and junior colleges.
   (E)   The offices and facilities owned or operated by any public
governmental agency, or any body of persons charged with the responsibility of
administering publicly owned or operated property including, but not limited to
redevelopment agencies, water districts, school districts, and recreation
districts.
('61 Code, § 10-3-6.502) (Ord. 380 C.S., passed 9-21-81)
§ 10-3-6.503 PF; CONDITIONAL USES; COMMISSION APPROVAL.
   Property located in the PF zone may be used for private purposes when a
conditional use permit has been granted in accordance with the provisions of
the Interpretation, Enforcement, Violations, and Penalty subchapter. In no case
shall a conditional use permit be issued for a period exceeding five years from
the date of issuance.
   Property located in the PF, Public Facility Zone, may also be used for gas
and electric transmission lines, electrical transmission and distribution
substations, gas regulator stations, communication equipment and facilities,
public service pumping stations, and elevated pressure tanks provided a use
permit is first secured.
('61 Code, § 10-3-6.503) (Ord. 380 C.S., passed 9-21-81; Am. Ord. 698, passed
3-17-99)
§ 10-3-6.504 PF; REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   A conditional use permit shall not be granted unless the Planning Commission
makes the following determinations:
   (A)   The use is compatible with, and will not adversely affect, the
adjacent uses.
   (B)   That no permanent structure shall be provided with such use.
   (C)   That adequate landscaping, fencing, paving, and other improvements be
provided to protect and/or enhance the overall appearance of the area in which
such uses are situated.
('61 Code, § 10-3-6.504) (Ord. 380 C.S., passed 9-21-81)
§ 10-3-6.505 PF; BUILDING HEIGHT.
   No building or structure shall have a height greater than 65 feet, provided
that additional height may be permitted if a use permit is first secured.
(Ord. 698 C.S., passed 3-17-99)
PROFESSIONAL OFFICE ZONES
§ 10-3.751 PROFESSIONAL OFFICE ZONES.
   The Professional Office zone is intended to provide opportunities for the
location of professional and commercial offices and their related uses in close
relationship to one another outside of commercial districts; to provide
adequate space to meet the needs of such offices for off-street parking and
loading space; and to protect such offices from noise, disturbances, traffic
hazards, and other objectionable influences incidental to commercial and
industrial uses. The Professional Office zone is also intended for application
to those areas of the city where it is necessary and desirable to encourage the
full development of properties which lie between residential and nonresidential
districts and which, because of neighborhood conditions, amount of vehicular
traffic, and location factors, cannot be practically included within
residential districts as provided by this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10-3.751) (Ord. 310 C.S., passed 12-20-78)
§ 10-3.752 USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   The following uses shall be permitted in the Professional Office zone:
      (1)   Offices which deal primarily in professional services in which
goods, wares, and merchandise are not commercially created, sold, or exchanged;
      (2)   Administrative and business offices;
      (3)   Medical and dental buildings;
      (4)   Existing residential buildings;
      (5)   Accessory structures and uses, not including warehouses, on the
same site as a permitted use; and
      (6)   Signs subject to the provisions of Chapter 6 of this title.
   (B)   The following uses shall be allowed with approval by the Zoning
Administrator;
      (1)   The office use of buildings once used for residential purposes.
      (2)   Mortuaries.
      (3)   Art galleries.
      (4)   Gas and electric transmission lines, electrical transmission and
distribution substations, gas regulator stations, communications equipment
buildings, public service pumping stations, and elevated pressure tanks.
   (C)   A use permit shall be secured for each of the following:
      (1)   New residential uses and the expansion of existing residential
uses, if such expansion results in new family dwelling units or increases the
capacity in a boardinghouse or similar quarters;
      (2)   Public and private charitable institutions, general hospitals,
sanitariums, and nursing and convalescent homes;
      (3)   Public parks, playgrounds, and other public recreation facilities;
      (4)   Private clubs and lodges;
      (5)   Churches and other religious institutions;
      (6)   Public and private libraries and museums; and
      (7)   Accessory structures and uses located on the same site as a
conditional use, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Enclosed restaurants (no drive-through restaurants);
         (b)   Tobacco, candy, newspaper, and magazine counters; and
         (c)   Prescription pharmacies;
      (8)   Dance studios;
      (9)    Banks, savings and loans, credit unions, and other financial
institutions; and
      (10)   Beauty shops and barbershops, including a minor amount of retail
sales activity associated with the operation of the shop, and which is
accessory and incidental to, and does not alter the nature or character of the
primary use. Accessory retail sales shall not exceed 30% of the total revenues
for the business in any period.
('61 Code, § 10-3.752) (Ord. 310 C.S., passed 12-20-78; Am. Ord. 48 C.S.,
passed 2-18-88; Am. Ord. 577 C.S., passed 11-20-91; Am. Ord. 690 C.S., passed
8-5-98; Am. Ord. 767 C.S., passed 5-19-04)
§ 10-3.753 SITE AREA.
   The minimum lot area for interior lots shall be 5,000 square feet for each
building or group of buildings with a minimum lot width of 50 feet. The minimum
lot area for corner lots shall be 6,000 square feet.
('61 Code, § 10-3.753) (Ord. 310 C.S., passed 12-20-78)
§ 10-3.754 HEIGHT OF STRUCTURES.
   Structures shall be limited to a single story not to exceed 35 feet, unless
otherwise authorized by the Commission. The maximum height for accessory
buildings shall be 15 feet.
('61 Code, § 10-3.754) (Ord. 310 C.S., passed 12-20-78)
§ 10-3.755 LOT COVERAGE.
   A maximum of 75% of the lot area shall be permitted for aggregate building
coverage, including both main and accessory buildings.
('61 Code, § 10-3.755) (Ord. 310 C.S., passed 12-20-78)
§ 10-3.756 YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yard. Where all the frontage between two intersecting streets is
located in a Professional Office zone, there shall be a front yard of not less
than ten feet. Where the frontage is located partially in any R zone block, the
front yard requirement of the R zone shall apply to the Professional Office
zone; provided, however, where two or more lots in a block have been improved
with buildings, the minimum required front yard setback shall be the average of
all improved lots.
   (B)   Side yards. The minimum interior side yard setback shall be five feet
except that a zero setback shall be permitted along the common interior lot
line of structures which are developed as a unit. The minimum street side yard
on corner lots shall be ten feet except that the street side yard on the rear ½
of a corner lot shall not be less than the front yard required on the adjacent
lot where such lot fronts onto the adjacent street.
   (C)   Rear yard. The minimum rear yard space required shall be five feet
except that the Community Development Director may approve an encroachment into
the setback with such conditions as the Director may deem appropriate when the
adjacent property is located in any PO, C, or I zone.
('61 Code, § 10-3.756) (Ord. 310 C.S., passed 12-20-78; Am. Ord. 532 C.S.,
passed 11-1-89)
LIGHT COMMERCIAL ZONES
§ 10-3.801 C-1 ZONES.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter shall apply in the C-1 Light
Commercial zone, unless otherwise provided in this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10-3.801) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.802 USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   The following retail stores selling new merchandise exclusively and
personal service establishments within a building, including:
      (1)   Appliance stores, sales and repair;
      (2)   Bakeries, limited to retail sales on the same premises;
      (3)   Banks;
      (4)   Barber shops;
      (5)   Beauty parlors;
      (6)   Bicycle repair and sales;
      (7)   Book stores;
      (8)   Candy stores;
      (9)   Department stores;
      (10)   Dressmaking or millinery shops;
      (11)   Drug stores;
      (12)   Dry goods or notions stores;
      (13)   Florist shops;
      (14)   Food stores (groceries, fruits, and vegetables);
      (15)   Hardware stores;
      (16)   Insurance offices;
      (17)   Jewelry stores;
      (18)   Meat markets or delicatessens;
      (19)   Nurseries (plant material and supplies);
      (20)   Offices, business or professional;
      (21)   Service stations, but not including auto engine and transmission
overhauling, tire rebuilding, or battery manufacture;
      (22)   Restaurants and cafes;
      (23)   Shoe shops, sales and repair;
      (24)   Stationery stores;
      (25)   Studios, photographic;
      (26)   Tailor shops;
      (27)   Single bay, fully automatic car wash accessory to a permitted use;
and
      (28)   Apparel stores and boutiques;
      (29)   Art galleries;
      (30)   Arts and craft studios;
      (31)   Automobile parts and supply stores;
      (32)   Clinics (medical and dental);
      (33)   Electrical appliance repair shop (small appliances only);
      (34)   Hobby supplies and craft sales;
      (35)   Laundries;
      (36)   Laundromat, self serve;
      (37)   Locksmith and key shops;
      (38)   Newspaper and magazine stands;
      (39)   Pet shops;
      (40)   Pharmacies;
      (41)   Video arcades of five or fewer games;
      (42)   Cannabis and cannabis product retail sales as authorized under the
Cannabis Permit Ordinance of the City of Madera in
Chapter 5 of Title VI of the Madera Municipal Code.
      (43) Other retail businesses or retail commercial enterprises which are
similar in character or rendering neighborhood commercial services and are not
more detrimental to the welfare of the neighborhood in which located than any
use listed in this subsection, unless such business or enterprise is hereafter
in this chapter specifically listed in another classification.
   (B)   The following uses shall be permitted subject to approval by the
Zoning Administrator:
      (1)   Gas and electric transmission lines, electrical transmission and
distribution substations, gas regulator stations, communications equipment
buildings, public service pumping stations, and elevated pressure tanks.
      (2)   Mortuaries;
      (3)   Secondhand sales;
      (4)   Temporary outdoor display of merchandise and sales activities.
   (C)   A use permit shall be secured for each of the following:
      (1)   Animal hospitals;
      (2)   Automobile repair shops;
      (3)   Bakeries, wholesale;
      (4)   Drive-thru restaurants;
      (5)   Drive-thru banks;
      (6)   Major cleaning and dyeing centers (does not include local drop-off
establishments);
      (7)   Creameries;
      (8)   Outdoor markets;
      (9)   Outdoor sales establishments;
      (10)   Public garages;
      (11)   Theaters;
      (12)   Used car sales lots;
      (13)   Full-service car washes as independent and primary land uses; and
      (14)   Billiard parlors;
      (15)   Bowling lanes;
      (16)   Liquor stores (packaged);
      (17)   Martial arts studios;
      (18)   New car sales;
      (19)   Video arcades of more than five games; and
      (20)   Other uses which, in the opinion of the Commission, are of a
similar nature;
      (21)   Any use permitted in any R zone.
   (D)   The stores, shops, and businesses specified in this section shall be
retail establishments selling merchandise exclusively and shall be permitted
only under the following conditions:
      (1)   Products made incidental to a permitted use shall be sold at retail
on the premises; and
      (2)   All public entrances to such stores, shops, or businesses shall be
from the principal street upon which the property abuts or within 50 feet
thereof, except that a rear or side entrance from the building to a public
parking area may be provided; and
   (E)   Signs appurtenant to any permitted use may be erected in the C-1 zone
subject to all the laws, rules, and regulations of the city pertaining to
signs.
('61 Code, § 10-3.802) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 332 N.S., passed -
- ; Am. Ord. 88 C.S., passed 1-5-66; Am. Ord. 173 C.S., passed 1-19-72; Am.
Ord. 315 C.S., passed 6-6-79; Am. Ord. 663 C.S., passed 9-4-96; Am. Ord. 690
C.S., passed 8-5-98; Am. Ord. 976 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 10-3.803 SITE AREA.
   The minimum lot area for each main building shall be 2,000 square feet.
('61 Code, § 10-3.803) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.804 HEIGHT OF STRUCTURES.
   The maximum height of any building shall be 50 feet.
('61 Code, § 10-3.804) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.805 YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yards. There shall be no requirements for front yards, except
where the frontage in a block is partially in an zone, in which case the front
yard shall be the same as required in such R zone.
   (B)   Side yards. There shall be no requirements for side yards, except
where the side of a lot abuts upon the side of a lot in a R zone, in which case
the side yard shall be not less than ten feet.
   (C)   Rear yards. There shall be no requirements for rear yards, except
where the rear of a lot abuts on a R zone, in which case the rear yard shall be
not less than ten feet.
('61 Code, § 10-3.805) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
HEAVY COMMERCIAL ZONES
§ 10-3.901 C-2 ZONES.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter shall apply in the C-2 Heavy
Commercial zone, unless otherwise provided in this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10-3.901) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.902 USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   The following uses shall be permitted in the C-2 zone:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the C-1 zone.
      (2)   Wholesale stores and storage within buildings.
      (3)   Building material yards.
      (4)   Lumber yards.
      (5)   Used secondhand merchandise within enclosed buildings.
      (6)   Emergency shelter as provided in §
10-3.422.
      (7)   Cannabis and Cannabis Product Retail Sales as authorized under the
Cannabis Permit Ordinance of the City of Madera in
Chapter 5 of Title VI of the Madera Municipal Code.
   (B)   The following uses shall be permitted subject to approval by the
Zoning Administrator:
      (1)   Temporary outdoor display of merchandise and sales activities.
      (2)   Gas and electric transmission lines, electrical transmission and
distribution substations, gas regulator stations, communications equipment
buildings, public service pumping stations, and elevated pressure tanks.
   (C)   The following uses subject to first securing a Use Permit in each
case:
      (1)   Auto wrecking;
      (2)   Bottling works;
      (3)   Contractor's yards;
      (4)   Farm supply store;
      (5)   Junk yards;
      (6)   Machine shops;
      (7)   Planing mills;
      (8)   Outdoor storage of goods and materials;
      (9)   Trailer coach camps;
      (10)   Auction facilities;
      (11)   Self-service car washes as either a primary or accessory use;
      (12)   Any use permitted in any R zone;
      (13)   Adult oriented businesses as provided in §
10-7.01 of this title; and
      (14)   Other uses, which in the opinion of the Commission are of a
similar nature.
   (D)   Light manufacturing, including the manufacture of clothing, novelties,
and toys, and uses which in the opinion of the Commission are of a similar
nature, and all subject to first securing a use permit in each case; and
   (E)   Signs appurtenant to any permitted use may be erected in the C-2 zone
subject to all the laws, rules, and regulations of the city pertaining to
signs.
('61 Code, § 10-3.902) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 88 C.S., passed 1-
5-66; Am. Ord. 117 C.S., passed 1-17-68; Am. Ord. 173 C.S., passed 1-19-72; Am.
Ord. 315 C.S., passed 6-6-79; Am. Ord. 484 C.S., passed 10-21-87; Am. Ord. 663
C.S., passed 9-4-96; Am. Ord. 690 C.S., passed 8-5-98; Am. Ord. 697 C.S.,
passed 3-17-99; Am. Ord. 920 C.S., passed 5-20-15; Am. Ord. 976 C.S., passed 6-
16-21)
§ 10-3.903 SITE AREA.
   The minimum lot area for each main building shall be 2,000 square feet.
('61 Code, § 10-3.903) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.904 HEIGHT OF STRUCTURES.
   The maximum height of any building shall be 65 feet, provided that
additional height may be permitted if a use permit is first secured.
('61 Code, § 10-3.904) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.905 YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   The requirements for front, side, and rear yards shall be the same as apply
in C-1 zones.
('61 Code, § 10-3.905) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.906 TRAILER CAMP SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   No trailer coach shall be used as a place of habitation upon any premises
other than a site capable of serving at least ten trailer coaches. The site
shall provide for each of the trailer coaches an unoccupied rectangular space
of not less than 25 × 25 feet, or its equivalent of 500 square feet when
arranged in rows abutting or facing upon a driveway or clear unoccupied space
of not less than 20 feet in width, which driveway or space shall have an
unobstructed access to a public street or alley. When so arranged, no trailer
coach shall be within 25 feet of any public street, alley, or exterior boundary
of any campground area.
('61 Code, § 10-3.906) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL ZONE
§ 10-3-9.101 C-R ZONE; PURPOSE AND APPLICATION.
   This zone is designed to provide limited commercial development
complimentary to, and compatible with, residential neighborhoods. Uses are
limited and standards are provided to encourage commercial uses beneficial to
the immediate neighborhood. It is generally intended that this zone be applied
to properties along collector streets on a limited basis.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.101) (Ord. 392 C.S., passed 3-29-82; Am. Ord. 511 C.S.,
passed 12-21-89)
§ 10-3-9.102 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Residential structures as provided for in the R-1 zone along with
customary accessory buildings;
   (B)   Professional offices;
   (C)   Retail sales of new merchandise exclusively and personal service
establishments within a building, wherein the floor area of an individual
business does not exceed 3,000 square feet and the total floor area of a
structure(s) does not exceed 8,000 square feet per parcel and including the
following uses:
      (1)   Bakeries, limited to retail sales on the same premises;
      (2)   Barber shops;
      (3)   Beauty salons;
      (4)   Bicycle repair and sales;
      (5)   Book and video rental stores;
      (6)   Clothing stores and boutiques;
      (7)   Candy stores;
      (8)   Dressmaking, tailor, and millinery shops;
      (9)   Dry cleaners and laundries, non-industrial;
      (10)   Florist shops;
      (11)   Food stores;
      (12)   Home occupations pursuant to §
10-3.405(H);
      (13)   Laundromats;
      (14)   Locksmiths;
      (15)   Pharmacies;
      (16)   Small appliance repair;
      (17)   Art galleries;
      (18)   Hobby, craft, and ceramic shops in which items are sold on the
premises;
      (19)   Shoe sale and repair shops; and
      (20)   Other retail businesses or retail commercial enterprises which are
similar in character or render neighborhood commercial services, and are not
more detrimental to the welfare of the neighborhood in which located than any
use listed in this subsection, unless such business or enterprise is hereafter
in this chapter specifically listed in another classification.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.102) (Ord. 392 C.S., passed 3-29-82; Am. Ord. 511 C.S.,
passed 12-21-89; Am. Ord. 690 C.S., passed 8-5-98)
§ 10-3-9.102.1 USES ALLOWED WITH ZONING ADMINISTRATOR'S PERMIT.
   (A)   The following uses shall be permitted subject to approval by the
Zoning Administrator:
      (1)   Commercial use of buildings once used for residential purposes.
      (2)   Gas and electric transmission lines, electrical transmission and
distribution substations, gas regular stations, communications equipment
buildings, public service pumping stations, and elevated pressure tanks.
      (3)   Temporary outdoor display of merchandise and outdoor sales
activities.
(Ord. 690 C.S., passed 8-5-98)
§ 10-3-9.103 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The following uses shall be permitted in the Restricted Commercial
Zone with a Use Permit:
      (1)   Residential structures as provided for in the R-2 zone along with
customary accessory buildings;
      (2)   Day care and child care centers;
      (3)   Liquor stores;
      (4)   Restaurants and cafes; sales of alcoholic beverages permitted only
with the service of food;
      (5)   Sale of fuel, only in conjunction with food stores;
      (6)   Structure(s) in excess of 8,000 square feet of floor area but no
greater than 12,000 square feet per parcel;
      (7)   Businesses with floor area in excess of 3,000 square feet.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.103) (Ord. 392 C.S., passed 3-29-82; Am. Ord. 511 C.S.,
passed 12-21-89; Am. Ord. 690 C.S., passed 8-5-98)
§ 10-3-9.104 SITE AREA.
   The minimum lot area for interior lots shall be 5,000 square feet for each
building or group of buildings with a minimum lot width of 50 feet. The minimum
lot area of corner lots shall be 6,000 square feet.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.104) (Ord. 392 C.S., passed 3-29-82; Am. Ord. 511 C.S.,
passed 12-21-89)
§ 10-3-9.105 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   No building or structure shall have a height greater than 24 feet.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.105) (Ord. 392 C.S., passed 3-29-82; Am. Ord. 511 C.S.,
passed 12-21-89)
§ 10-3-9.106 YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yard. Ten feet;
   (B)   Street side yard. Ten feet;
   (C)   Interior side yard. None except when adjacent to an R or PD zone or
adjacent to a residential use in which case the setback shall be five feet;
   (D)   Rear yard. There shall be no minimum rear yard provided, however, that
when a C-R zone abuts an R or PD zone, a rear yard shall be provided as
specified in §
10-3.508.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.106) (Ord. 392 C.S., passed 3-29-82; Am. Ord. 511 C.S.,
passed 12-21-89)
§ 10-3-9.107 OUTSIDE EQUIPMENT.
   All roof and wall appurtenances, such as ducts and vents, all mechanical
equipment, electrical boxes, meters, pipes, transformers, air conditioners, and
all other equipment on the roof or walls of any building shall be completely
screened from view with materials compatible with the main buildings on the
subject property. Such equipment shall be constructed in such a manner that
noise emanating from them shall not be discernible beyond the property lines of
the subject property.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.107) (Ord. 392 C.S., passed 3-29-82; Am. Ord. 511 C.S.,
passed 12-21-89)
§ 10-3-9.108 ENCLOSURE OF TRASH AND STORAGE AREAS.
   All trash and storage areas shall be screened from view by a decorative
masonry block wall or other materials architecturally compatible with the main
buildings of the development. Access to such areas shall be closed at all times
except during loading and unloading.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.108) (Ord. 392 C.S., passed 3-29-82; Am. Ord. 511 C.S.,
passed 12-21-89)
§ 10-3-9.109 TIME FOR PICK-UP AND DELIVERY.
   Pick-ups, deliveries, and parking lot sweeping shall be allowed only between
7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. where residential uses abut the property.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.109) (Ord. 392 C.S., passed 3-29-82; Am. Ord. 511 C.S.,
passed 12-21-89)
§ 10-3-9.110 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   In addition to parkstrips in the public right-of-way, perimeter
landscaping shall be provided in front and street-side yards at an average
width of eight feet along street frontages, exclusive of driveways and
walkways, but in no case may the landscape area width be less than four feet.
   (B)   In addition to perimeter landscape areas, 5% of all parking areas
shall be landscaped.
   (C)   The provisions of the City's Approved Street Tree List for tree types
and spacing shall be followed for tree planting in parkstrips and perimeter
landscape areas unless an alternate plan, consistent with the intent of this
provision, is approved by the Community Development Director.
   (D)   All landscape areas shall be planted so as to have at least 75%
vegetative coverage within three years of planting.
   (E)   All landscape areas shall be fitted with an automatic irrigation
system.
   (F)   All landscape areas shall be maintained.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.110) (Ord. 511 C.S., passed 12-21-89)
NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL ZONES
§ 10-3-9.201 C-N ZONES; PURPOSE AND APPLICATION.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter shall apply in the C-N,
Neighborhood Commercial zone, unless otherwise provided in the chapter.
Neighborhood commercial centers are intended primarily to meet the everyday
convenience needs of people residing within surrounding residential
neighborhoods for retail convenience goods and personal services. A
NEIGHBORHOOD CENTER would typically be anchored by a supermarket, with other
stores and shops for drugs, liquor, deli, bakery goods, ice cream shop, gift
shop, coffee shop, café, fast food, sandwich shop, or hardware. Services might
include small appliance repair, barber, beauty salon, self-service laundry, dry
cleaning, shoe repair, and exercise and diet centers. Office services might
include medical, dental, accounting, insurance, and a variety of other business
and professional services oriented toward household needs. Public and semi-
public uses might include a branch library, senior center, day care, lodges,
churches, and small education and training centers.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.201) (Ord. 589 C.S., passed 11-18-92)
§ 10-3-9.202 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   The following retail stores of less than 10,000 square feet gross
floor area, offices, and services:
      (1)   Apparel stores and boutiques;
      (2)   Art galleries;
      (3)   Arts and crafts studios;
      (4)   Automobile parts and supply stores;
      (5)   Bakeries (retail sales on premises);
      (6)   Barber shops and beauty salons;
      (7)   Bicycle sales and repair shops;
      (8)   Book stores;
      (9)   Candy stores;
      (10)   Clothes cleaning establishments (pickup and delivery only);
      (11)   Clinics (medical and dental);
      (12)   Electrical appliance repair shops (small appliances only);
      (13)   Florists;
      (14)   Food stores and delicatessens;
      (15)   Garden supplies and plant nurseries;
      (16)   Hardware stores;
      (17)   Hobby supplies and crafts stores;
      (18)   Locksmith and key shops;
      (19)   Newspaper and magazine stands;
      (20)   Pharmacies;
      (21)   Photography studios;
      (22)   Professional offices;
      (23)   Restaurants and cafes;
      (24)   Self-service laundry establishments;
      (25)   Shoe sales and repair shops;
      (26)   Tailoring and dressmaking shops;
      (27)   Video tape rentals and sales stores;
      (28)   Variety stores;
      (29)   Video arcades of five or fewer games.
      (30)   Residential uses on the same site as a permitted commercial use,
consisting of a one-family dwelling above the first floor or on the rear half
of the same lot;
      (31)   Other retail businesses or retail commercial enterprises or
services which are similar in character or meet the intent of the zone, and are
not more detrimental to the welfare of the neighborhood in which they are
located than any use listed in this subsection, unless such business or
enterprise is hereafter in this chapter specifically listed in another
classification.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.202) (Ord. 589 C.S., passed 11-18-92; Am. Ord. 690 C.S.,
passed 8-5-98)
§ 10-3-9.202.1 USES ALLOWED WITH A ZONING ADMINISTRATOR'S PERMIT.
   (A)   The following uses shall be permitted subject to approval by the
Zoning Administrator.
      (1)   Detached single-family dwelling in conjunction with a principle
permitted use.
      (2)   Gas and electric transmission lines, electrical transmission and
distribution substations, communications equipment buildings, public service
pumping stations, and elevated pressure tanks.
      (3)   Temporary outdoor display of merchandise and outdoor sales
activities.
(Ord. 690 C.S., passed 8-5-98)
§ 10-3-9.203 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The following uses shall be permitted in the Neighborhood Commercial
Zone with a Use Permit:
      (1)   Retail stores listed above containing more than 10,000 square feet
of gross floor area;
      (2)   Local governmental offices;
      (3)   One single-family dwelling not in conjunction with a principal
permitted use;
      (4)   Service stations (no engine repair);
      (5)   Parks, playgrounds, schools;
      (6)   Bowling lanes;
      (7)   Churches;
      (8)   Private clubs and lodges;
      (9)   Fast food restaurants with drive-through facilities;
      (10)   Liquor stores (packaged);
      (11)   Video arcades of more than five games; and
      (12)   Other retail businesses or retail commercial enterprises or
services determined by the Planning Commission to be similar in character or
meet the intent of the zone, and are not more detrimental to the welfare of the
neighborhood in which they are located than any use listed in this subsection,
unless such business or enterprise is hereafter in this chapter specifically
listed in another classification.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.203) (Ord. 589 C.S., passed 11-18-92; Am. Ord. 690 C.S.,
passed 8-5-98)
§ 10-3-9.204 LIMITATIONS ON USE.
   (A)   No businesses dealing in wholesale or used goods or commodities shall
be permitted, except in the case of articles taken in trade on sale of new
merchandise on the same premises.
   (B)   All business shall be conducted entirely within a wholly enclosed
building, excepting uses customarily conducted in the open.
   (C)   No products shall be made on site unless incidental to a permitted use
and sold at retail on the same premises.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.204) (Ord. 589 C.S., passed 11-18-92)
§ 10-3-9.205 SITE AREA.
   The minimum lot area for interior lots shall be 5,000 square feet for each
building or group of buildings with a minimum lot width of 50 feet. The minimum
lot area for corner lots shall be 6,000 square feet.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.205) (Ord. 589 C.S., passed 11-18-92)
§ 10-3-9.206 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   No building structure shall have a height greater than 35 feet.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.206) (Ord. 589 C.S., passed 11-18-92)
§ 10-3-9.207 YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yard. Ten feet, except when adjacent to an R or PD zone or
adjacent to a residential use, in which case the setback shall be 15 feet.
   (B)   Street-side yard. Ten feet, except when adjacent to the front yard of
a residential use or a property in an R or PD zone, in which case the setback
shall be 15 feet.
   (C)   Interior side yard. None, except when adjacent to an R or PD zone, in
which case the setback shall be five feet.
   (D)   Rear yard. None, except when immediately adjacent to an R or PD zone,
in which case a rear yard shall be provided as specified in §
10-3.508(D).
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.207) (Ord. 589 C.S., passed 11-18-92)
§ 10-3-9.208 OUTSIDE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   All roof and wall appurtenances, such as mechanical equipment,
electrical transformers, air conditioners, and all other equipment on the roof
or walls of any building shall be completely screened from view from public
streets with materials compatible with the main buildings on the subject
property. Such equipment shall be constructed in such a manner that noise
emanating from them shall not be discernible beyond the property lines of the
subject property.
   (B)   All trash and storage areas shall be screened from view from public
streets by a decorative masonry block wall or other materials architecturally
compatible with the main buildings of the development. Access to such areas
shall be closed at all times, except during loading and unloading.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.208) (Ord. 589 C.S., passed 11-18-92)
§ 10-3-9.209 LANDSCAPING AND FENCING.
   (A)   In addition to any landscaping in the public right-of-way, perimeter
landscaping shall be provided in front and street side yards at an average
width of eight feet along the street frontages, exclusive of driveways and
walkways, but in no case may the landscape area width be less than four feet.
   (B)   In addition to perimeter landscape areas, 5% of all parking areas
shall be landscaped.
   (C)   The provisions of the City's Approved Street Tree List for tree types
and spaces shall be followed for tree planting in parkstrips and perimeter
landscape areas unless an alternative plan is approved by the Community
Development Director.
   (D)   All landscape areas shall be planted so as to have at least 75%
coverage within three years of planting.
   (E)   All landscape areas shall be fitted with an automatic irrigation
system.
   (F)   Perimeter masonry fencing with a minimum height of eight feet shall be
required adjacent to any R or PD zone in accordance with §
10-3.412.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.209) (Ord. 589 C.S., passed 11-18-92)
HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL ZONES
§ 10-3-9.301 C-H ZONES; PURPOSE AND APPLICATION.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter shall apply in the C-H, Highway
Commercial zone, unless otherwise provided in the chapter. This zone is
designed to provide for businesses or services which rely on visibility from
highways and/or serve the needs of the traveling public. It is intended to
encourage development of open, uncrowded, and attractive projects that will
enhance the major thoroughfares on which they are located. Small scale
businesses and general commercial uses that do not fit this criteria would not
be allowed. Uses that generally are dependent on a regional as well as the
local population for their support are allowed. It is intended that areas with
this designation would have good highway access and would not be developed
until all urban services are available.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.301) (Ord. 589 C.S., passed 11-18-92)
§ 10-3-9.302 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   The following uses shall be permitted in the Highway Commercial Zone:
      (1)   Hotels, motels;
      (2)   Restaurants, coffee shops;
      (3)   Motorcycle sales and service shops;
      (4)   Auto service stations with accessory repair and maintenance;
      (5)   Bus depots and transit stations;
      (6)   Automotive sales new and used;
      (7)   RV sales and service facilities;
      (8)   Mini-storage facilities;
      (9)   Utility trailer sales establishments;
      (10)   Boat sales and service centers;
      (11)   Furniture and large appliance stores;
      (12)   Factory outlet shopping centers;
      (13)   Mobile homes sale establishments (new only);
      (14)   Government or other public services establishments that require
convenient freeway access:
      (15)   Single bay, fully automatic car wash accessory to a permitted use;
      (16)   Full-service car washes as independent and primary land uses; and
      (17)   Other retail businesses or retail commercial enterprises or
services which are similar in character and are not more detrimental to the
welfare of the neighborhood in which they are located than any use listed in
this subsection, unless such business or enterprise is hereafter in this
chapter specifically listed in another classification.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.302) (Ord. 589 C.S., passed 11-18-92; Am. Ord. 663 C.S.,
passed 9-4-96; Am. Ord. 690 C.S., passed 8-5-98)
§ 10-3-9.302.1 USES ALLOWED WITH ZONING ADMINISTRATOR PERMIT.
   (A)   The following uses shall be permitted subject to approval by the
Zoning Administrator:
      (1)   Gas and electric transmission lines, electrical transmission and
distribution substations, gas regulator stations, communications equipment
buildings, public service pumping stations, and elevated pressure tanks.
(Ord. 690 C.S., passed 8-5-98)
§ 10-3-9.303 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The following uses shall be permitted with a Use Permit:
      (1)   Drive-in theaters;
      (2)   Overnight RV and travel trailer parks;
      (3)   Truck stops and terminals;
      (4)   Truck sales and services establishments;
      (5)   Auto repair garages and car washes;
      (6)   Bowling lanes;
      (7)   Fuel storage and distribution facilities;
      (8)   Farm machinery sales and services establishments;
      (9)   Fast food restaurants with drive-through facilities;
      (10)   Self-service car wash facilities as either primary or accessory
uses; and
      (11)   Other retail businesses or retail commercial enterprises or
services determined by the Planning Commission to be similar in character and
are not more detrimental to the welfare of the neighborhood in which they are
located than any use listed in this subsection, unless such business or
enterprise is hereafter in this chapter specifically listed in another
classification.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.303) (Ord. 589 C.S., passed 11-18-92; Am. Ord. 663 C.S.,
passed 9-4-96; Am. Ord. 690 C.S., passed 8-5-98)
§ 10-3-9.304 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following structures and uses shall be permitted in Highway Commercial
zones when accessory to a use permitted by the provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   Incidental sales in connection with a permitted use;
   (B)   Accessory uses and structures customarily appurtenant to a permitted
use; and
   (C)   Recreational facilities for employees and guests.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.304) (Ord. 589 C.S., passed 11-18-92)
§ 10-3-9.305 LIMITATIONS ON USE.
   (A)   No uses shall be permitted in a C-H zone which may be obnoxious or
offensive by reason of odor, dust, gas, smoke, noise, vibration, heat, glare,
or hazards of similar nature.
   (B)   All sales activities, other than vehicular related businesses, shall
be conducted entirely within a wholly enclosed building.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.305) (Ord. 589 C.S., passed 11-18-92)
§ 10-3-9.306 SITE AREA.
   The minimum lot area for interior lots shall be 5,000 square feet for each
building or group of buildings with a minimum lot width of 50 feet. The minimum
lot area for corner lots shall be 6,000 square feet.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.306) (Ord. 589 C.S., passed 11-18-92)
§ 10-3-9.307 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   No building or structure shall have a height greater than 50 feet, provided
that additional height may be permitted if a use permit is first approved.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.307) (Ord. 589 C.S., passed 11-18-92)
§ 10-3-9.308 YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yard. Ten feet, except when adjacent to an R or PD zone or
adjacent to a residential use, in which case the setback shall be 15 feet.
   (B)   Street side yard. Ten feet, except when adjacent to the front yard of
a residential use or a property in an R or PD zone, in which case the setback
shall be 15 feet.
   (C)   Interior side yard. None, except when adjacent to an R or PD zone or
adjacent to a residential use, in which case the setbacks hall be five feet.
   (D)   Rear yard. None, except when immediately adjacent to an R or PD zone,
in which case a rear yard shall be provided as specified in §
10-3.508(D).
   (E)   Whenever the side rear of a lot is adjacent to the right-of-way of
Highway 99, the appearance of proposed uses must be considered relative to
their orientation, architecture, building heights, lighting provisions, and
sign programs. Such yard area shall be a minimum of 40 feet.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.309) (Ord. 589 C.S., passed 11-18-92)
§ 10-3-9.309 OUTSIDE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   All roof and wall appurtenances, such as mechanical equipment,
electrical transformers, air conditioners, and all other equipment on the roof
or walls of any building shall be completely screened from view from public
streets with materials compatible with the main buildings on the subject
property. Such equipment shall be constructed in such a manner that noise
emanating from them shall not be discernible beyond the property lines of the
subject property.
   (B)   All trash and storage areas, except from vehicular sales display
areas, shall be screened from view from public streets by a decorative masonry
block wall or other materials architecturally compatible with the main
buildings of the development. Access to such areas shall be closed at all
times, except during loading and unloading.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.309) (Ord. 589 C.S., passed 11-18-92)
§ 10-3-9.310 LANDSCAPING AND FENCING.
   (A)   In addition to any landscaping in the public right-of-way, perimeter
landscaping shall be provided in front and street side yards at an average
width of eight feet along the street frontages, exclusive of driveways and
walkways, but in no case may the landscape area width be less than four feet.
   (B)   In addition to perimeter landscape areas, 5% of all parking areas
shall be landscaped.
   (C)   The provisions of the City's Approved Street Tree List for tree types
and spacing shall be followed for tree planting in parkstrips and perimeter
landscape areas unless an alternate plan is approved by the Community
Development Director.
   (D)   All landscape areas shall be planted so as to have at least 75%
coverage within three years of planting.
   (E)   All landscape areas shall be fitted with an automatic irrigation
system.
   (F)   Perimeter masonry fencing with a minimum height of eight feet shall be
required adjacent to any R or PD zone in accordance with §
10-3.412.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.310) (Ord. 589 C.S., passed 11-18-92)
WEST YOSEMITE AVENUE OVERLAY ZONE (WY)
§ 10-3-9.401 PURPOSE.
   The purpose and intent of this WY Overlay zone is:
   (A)   To provide for the orderly transition of the West Yosemite Avenue area
from residential to nonresidential uses consistent with the General Plan;
   (B)   To recognize, maintain, and enhance the West Yosemite Avenue
streetscape and architectural character of the neighborhood;
   (C)   To maximize the compatibility of uses and maintain the value of
property during the transition period through the establishment of development
standards and review procedures.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.401) (Ord. 426 C.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3-9.402 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This zone is intended to be applied to all properties adjacent to West
Yosemite Avenue between J and Q Streets for a lot depth not to exceed 175 feet.
   (B)   To accomplish the stated purpose and intent, this overlay zone shall
be combined with all zones except the R-1 zone. It is to be applied in
conjunction with any zone change in the applicable area.
   (C)   Any property rezoned from R-1 prior to the effective date of the
subchapter shall not be further rezoned nor shall a new use be made of the
property until the WY Zone is applied.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.402) (Ord. 426 C.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3-9.403 USE PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   In addition to uses which require a use permit in the underlying zone,
all new construction, major exterior change, alteration, or addition shall be
subject to a use permit. Applications for use permits shall be accompanied by
detailed site and landscape plans. Building elevation and a list of exterior
building materials will be required for new construction, exterior remodeling,
and building additions.
   (B)   The Planning Commission will review applications for their compliance
with the purpose and development standards of the zone.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.403) (Ord. 426 C.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3-9.404 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The following development standards apply to all properties in the WY
Overlay zone and shall supersede the requirements of the underlying zone.
   (A)   Setbacks.
      (1)   Front yard. 15 feet.
      (2)   Side yard.
         (a)   Interior five feet, exterior street side yard ten feet.
         (b)   Except in no event may any structure or parking area be placed
within 15 feet of the West Yosemite right-of-way.
      (3)   Rear yard. Ten feet with no windows or two feet per vertical foot
of building height measured at the top of highest window, whichever is greater.
   (B)   Parking.
      (1)   Off-street parking space requirements shall be those set forth in
the Off-Street Parking Regulations subchapter of this chapter, however, in no
case shall there be less than five off-street spaces provided for
nonresidential uses.
      (2)   No parking shall be provided in the required front yard or within
the West Yosemite Avenue setback.
      (3)   No parking shall be permitted within the required landscape areas
except as provided in subsection §
10-3-9.404(C) below.
      (4)   Parking areas shall be constructed to city standards.
      (5)   Access shall be provided between parking areas and business entries
by means of a walkway of not less than three feet in width.
      (6)   Lighting shall be arranged to reflect away from premises on which
any dwelling unit is located.
   (C)   Landscaping. The following minimum standards shall apply to properties
in this zone:
      (1)   All required front yards and street-side yard setback areas,
exclusive of walkways and driveways, shall be landscaped except that parking
may encroach five feet into a required street side yard setback.
      (2)   A landscaped area of not less than four feet in width shall be
provided along all interior side and rear property lines except where this
requirement conflicts with an access driveway leading to the rear of the lot,
such landscaping requirement may be reduced to assure adequate access with
Planning Commission approval; or when adjacent parcels share driveways and or
parking areas, the landscaping along affected portions of common lot lines may
be waived.
      (3)   Screen planting and a six-foot solid fence or wall shall be
provided along all interior side and rear property lines abutting an R zone.
Shrubs and fences may not exceed three feet in the required front or street-
side-yard.
      (4)   In addition to landscaping required in paragraphs §
10-3-9.404(C)(1) and (2) above, 5% of the parking area shall be landscaped.
      (5)   Shade trees shall be planted within the parking area to provide 40%
shade at high noon with full foliage within five years of planting.
      (6)   Trees shall be a minimum size of five gallons at planting; shrubs
shall be a minimum of one gallon.
      (7)   Retention and maintenance of existing trees is encouraged. No tree,
located in the street right-of-way nor in a required front yard, which exceeds
four feet in circumference at a height of three feet in height shall be removed
without first obtaining the approval of the Planning Commission. In the event
of an emergency, where the tree poses a threat to persons or property, the
Planning Director may authorize the immediate removal of the tree.
      (8)   Vegetative matter shall cover 75% of the landscaped areas.
      (9)   All landscaping areas shall be fitted with an irrigation system and
shall be maintained in accordance with the approved plan.
      (10)   All trash areas shall be enclosed utilizing materials compatible
with the structure.
   (D)   Architectural character. Structural style, scale, and quality of
design shall be such that it blends with and is complementary to adjacent
structures and the character of the area. Building colors and materials; roof
pitch height and materials; screening of exterior appurtenances; lighting; and
window placement will be factors considered in the architectural review element
of the use permit. It is not the intent of this zone to control architecture
style so rigidly that individual initiative is hindered, but rather it is the
intent that any control exercised be the minimum necessary to achieve the
purpose and intent of this zone.
   (E)   Signs.
      (1)   The protection of the character of the streetscape is a stated
purpose of this subchapter. Signage is to be kept to a minimum to protect the
streetscape while allowing for adequate identification.
      (2)   Placement of signs if governed under § 10-6.05 (A) of this chapter
except as otherwise specified in this section.
      (3)   The following sign criteria is established:
         (a)   Ground signs. One non-illuminated double-face ground sign for
each parcel subject to the following provisions:
            1.   Maximum sign area and dimensions. Ground signs may not exceed
eight square feet in area. The message area, including background area, shall
not exceed a vertical height of two feet. The maximum sign height shall not
exceed four feet above average ground level.
            2.   Sign placement. Perpendicular to the street; a minimum of
three feet behind sidewalk.
            3.   Street number. Every ground sign must incorporate the street
number into the message area. Such numbers may not be less than four inches in
height and must be compatible with the style of the sign message.
            4.   Letters. Routed or raised-wood letters; color is at the option
of the applicant/owner.
         (b)   Wall/window sign. One wall or window sign not exceeding three
square feet in area for each business at each major business entrance door.
         (c)   Directional sign. To encourage maximum use of the off-street
parking located at the rear of a parcel, a directional sign not exceeding two
square feet shall be provided adjacent to the driveway or in conjunction with
the ground sign. The materials shall be compatible with those of the ground
sign and the sign height shall not exceed four feet.
         (d)   Nonconforming signs. Signs which became nonconforming upon
application of the West Yosemite zone shall be brought into compliance at the
time of any change to the sign other than routine maintenance.
('61 Code, § 10-3-9.404) (Ord. 426 C.S., passed - - )
INDUSTRIAL ZONES
§ 10-3.1001 I ZONES.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter shall apply in all I industrial
zones unless otherwise provided in this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1001) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.1002 USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   The following uses shall be permitted in I zones:
      (1)   Animal hospitals, kennels and veterinarians;
      (2)   Automobile dismantling and use parts storage, provided such must be
conducted wholly within a building;
      (3)   Boat-building works;
      (4)   Building materials, sales and storage;
      (5)   Dairy products processing;
      (6)   Dwelling for a caretaker or security guard and his immediate
family, necessary and incidental to a use located in such zone;
      (7)   Electrical and electronic instruments, devices and appliances,
manufacture and assembly;
      (8)   Garment manufacture;
      (9)   Ice and cold storage plants;
      (10)    Laboratory, experimental and testing;
      (11)    Machine shops;
      (12)    Pharmaceuticals and drugs, manufacture;
      (13)    Prefabrication of buildings;
      (14)    Stone monument works;
      (15)    Textile manufacturing;
      (16)    Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to any of the
above uses;
      (17)    Cultivation, distribution, manufacturing, testing labs as
authorized under the Cannabis Permit Ordinance of the City of Madera in
Chapter 5 of Title VI of the Madera Municipal Code.
      (18)   Retail only in conjunction with vertical integration business as
authorized under the Cannabis Permit Ordinance of the City of Madera in
Chapter 5 of Title VI of the Madera Municipal Code.
      (19) Other retail and wholesale stores or storage and service
establishments, light industrial and manufacturing uses determined by the
Planning Commission to be similar in character and are not more detrimental to
the welfare of the neighborhood in which they are located than any use listed
in this subsection, unless such business or enterprise is hereafter in this
chapter specifically listed in another classification.
   (B)   Uses permitted with a Zoning Administrator's permit:
      (1)   Gas and electric transmission lines, electrical transmission and
distribution substations, gas regulator stations, communications equipment
buildings, public service pumping stations, and elevated pressure tanks.
      (2)   Food products manufacturing;
      (3)   Frozen food processing and storage;
      (4)   Fruit and vegetable canning, packing and processing;
      (5)   Furniture manufacture;
      (6)   Hatcheries;
      (7)   Wood products manufacturing, and;
   (C)   Any of the following industrial or manufacturing uses provided that
those uses which in the opinion of the Commission may be of objectionable
nature by reason of production of offensive odor, dust, smoke, fumes, noise,
bright light, vibration, or involving the storage or handling of explosive or
dangerous materials, and all the uses listed in this subsection, may be
permitted only if a use permit is first secured in each case:
      (1)   All uses permitted in any R zone;
      (2)   Drilling for and/or removal of oil, gas, or other hydrocarbon
substances;
      (3)   Commercial excavations of building or construction materials;
      (4)   Manufacture or storage of acid, cement, gas, inflammable fluids,
glue, gypsum, lime or plaster of paris, refining of petroleum or its products,
smelting of iron, tin, zinc, or other ores;
      (5)   Junk yards;
      (6)   Brewery;
      (7)   Poultry and rabbit processing;
      (8)   Automobile dismantling and use parts storage; and
      (9)   Nurseries (plant materials and supplies);
      (10)   Adult oriented businesses as provided in §
10-7.01 of this title;
   (D)   Any type of dwelling subject to first securing a use permit in each
case; and
   (E)   Signs appurtenant to any permitted use may be erected in I zones
subject to all the laws, rules, and regulations of the city pertaining to
signs, including, but not necessarily limited to, the terms and provisions of §
10-3.415 of the General Provisions subchapter of this chapter pertaining to
architectural control.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1002) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 173 C.S., passed
1-19-72; Am. Ord. 690 C.S., passed 8-5-98; Am. Ord. 697 C.S., passed 3-17-99;
Am. Ord. 740 C.S., passed 9-18-02; Am. Ord. 976 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 10-3.1003 HEIGHT OF STRUCTURES.
   The maximum height of any building shall be 65 feet; provided, however,
additional height may be permitted if a use permit is first secured.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1003) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.1004 YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yards. There shall be no requirements for front yards except
where the frontage in a block is partially in a R zone in which case the front
yard shall be the same as required in such R zone.
   (B)   Side yards. There shall be no requirements for side yards except where
the side of a lot abuts upon the side of a lot in a R zone in which case the
side yard shall not be less than ten feet.
   (C)   Rear yard. There shall be no requirements for rear yards except where
the rear of a lot abuts on an R zone in which case the rear yard shall be not
less than ten feet.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1004) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
URBAN RESERVE ZONES (UR)
§ 10-3.10.501 UR ZONES.
   The regulations in this subchapter shall apply in all Urban Reserve (UR)
zones unless otherwise provided in this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10-3.10.501) (Ord. 105 C.S., passed 4-5-67)
§ 10-3.10.502 USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   The following uses shall be permitted in UR zones:
      (1)   Grazing and the raising of field crops, fruit and nut trees, vines,
vegetables, horticultural specialties, and livestock;
      (2)   The curing, processing, packaging, and shipping of agricultural
products produced upon the premises where such activity is carried on in
conjunction with, or as part of, a bona fide agricultural operation;
      (3)   Single-family residences and farm employee housing which are
incidental to a permitted use or conditional use;
      (4)   Incidental and accessory structures and uses located on the same
site with a permitted use, including barns, stables, coops, tank houses,
storage tanks, wind machines, windmills, silos, and other farm outbuildings;
private garages and carports; one guest house or accessory living quarters
without a kitchen for each residence on the site; and storehouses, garden
structures, greenhouses, and the storage of petroleum products for the use of
persons residing on the site;
      (5)   Irrigation and flood control facilities; and
      (6)   Home occupations.
   (B)   The following uses may be permitted by the Commission by the issuance
of a conditional use permit:
      (1)   Agricultural service establishments primarily engaged in performing
animal husbandry or horticultural services on a fee or contract basis,
including plant nurseries and landscape gardening; landscape contracting;
offices of veterinarians; animal hospitals; poultry farms; boarding and
training horses; feed lots; and hog farms;
      (2)   Public and private charitable institutions, hospitals, sanitariums,
rest homes, nursing homes, and cemeteries;
      (3)   Commercial stables and riding academies;
      (4)   Public and quasi-public uses of an educational, administrative,
recreational, public service, cultural, or religious type;
      (5)   Private and noncommercial clubs and lodges;
      (6)   Sewage treatment plants;
      (7)   Signs appurtenant to any permitted use may be erected in UR zones
subject to all the laws, rules, and regulations of the city pertaining to
signs, including, but not necessarily limited to, the terms and provisions of §
10-3.415 of the General Provisions subchapter of this chapter pertaining to
architectural control; and
      (8)   Trailer parks, subject to the limitations of §
10-3.906 of the Heavy Commercial zones of this chapter, providing public water
and sewer systems are utilized.
('61 Code, § 10-3.10.502) (Ord. 105 C.S., passed 4-5-67; Am. Ord. 173 C.S.,
passed 1-19-72)
§ 10-3.10.503 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Any use involving a business, service, or process not completely
enclosed in a structure shall be screened by a solid fence or masonry wall or a
compact growth of natural plant materials six feet in height if the Commission
finds such use to be unsightly.
   (B)   No conditional use shall be permitted and no process, equipment, or
materials shall be used which are found by the Commission to be objectionable
or injurious to property, crops, or livestock in the vicinity by reason of
odor, fumes, dust, smoke, cinders, dirt, refuse, water-carried wastes, noise,
vibration, illumination, glare, or unsightliness, or to involve any hazard of
fire or explosion.
('61 Code, § 10-3.10.503) (Ord. 105 C.S., passed 4-5-67)
§ 10-3.10.504 SITE AREA.
   (A)   The minimum site area shall be 20 acres for permitted uses.
   (B)   On conditional uses the minimum site area shall be specifically stated
on the use permit.
   (C)   Each site shall have not less than five acres of lot area for each
dwelling unit located on the site. This shall not be construed to disallow the
placing of the permitted dwelling units all in one area of the site.
('61 Code, § 10-3.10.504) (Ord. 105 C.S., passed 4-5-67)
§ 10-3.10.505 YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yard. The minimum front yard shall be 50 feet.
   (B)   Side yard. The minimum side yard shall be five feet except that on the
street side of a corner lot the yard shall be not less than 40 feet.
   (C)   Rear yard. The minimum rear yard shall be 20 feet.
('61 Code, § 10-3.10.505) (Ord. 105 C.S., passed 4-5-67)
§ 10-3.10.506 HEIGHT OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The maximum height of a building or structure for a permitted use
shall be 35 feet subject to the exception that barns, tank houses, storage
tanks, windmills, and silos may exceed 35 feet in height.
   (B)   The maximum height of a structure occupied by a conditional use and
its accessory structures shall be determined by the provisions of the use
permit.
('61 Code, § 10-3.10.506) (Ord. 105 C.S., passed 4-3-67)
§ 10-3.10.507 DISTANCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS.
   The minimum distance between dwellings or dwellings and accessory structures
shall be ten feet. The minimum distance between dwellings and accessory
structures in which livestock or poultry is kept shall be 50 feet.
('61 Code, § 10-3.10.507) (Ord. 105 C.S., passed 4-5-67)
UNCLASSIFIED ZONES (U)
§ 10-3.1101 U ZONES.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter shall apply in all Unclassified
(U) zones unless otherwise provided in this chapter. (Any land within the city
and not designated or indicated on the zoning maps shall be in the U zone.)
('61 Code, § 10-3.1101) (Ord 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.1102 USES PERMITTED.
   All uses not otherwise prohibited by law shall be permitted provided that a
use permit shall first be secured for any use to be established in any U zone.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1102) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.1103 SITE AREA; HEIGHT OF STRUCTURES; YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   Building site area requirements, building height limits, and yard
requirements shall be as specified in the use permit.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1103) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
INDUSTRIAL PARK ZONES (IP)
§ 10-3.11.501 IP ZONES.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter shall apply in all Industrial
Park (IP) zones unless otherwise provided in this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10-3.11.501) (Ord. 183 C.S., passed 5-31-72)
§ 10-3.11.502 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the regulations set forth in this subchapter is to provide a
set of regulations which will insure the creation of an environment exclusively
for, and conducive to, the development and protection of modern, large-scale
administrative facilities, research institutions, specialized manufacturing
organizations, and distributions centers for major retail outlets, all of a
type in which the architecture, landscaping, and operations of the uses are
such that each is a credit to the other, and investments in well-designed and
maintained plants and grounds are secured by the maintenance of the highest
standards throughout the district.
('61 Code, 10-3.11.502) (Ord. 183 C.S., passed 5-31-72; Am. Ord. 598 C.S.,
passed 5-17-93; Am. Ord. 602 C.S., passed 9-20-93)
§ 10-3.11.503 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   The following uses shall be permitted in IP zones:
      (1)    Apparel and other finished products made from fabrics and similar
materials;
      (2)   Books, newspaper and magazine printing and publishing and allied
industries;
      (3)   Electrical and electronic instruments, machinery, equipment and
supplies manufacturing;
      (4)   Furniture and fixture manufacturing;
      (5)   Fabricated metal products manufacturing, except ordnance machinery
and transportation equipment;
      (6)   Leather and leather products;
      (7)   Textile mill products;
      (8)   Professional, scientific, and controlling instruments;
      (9)   Photographic and optical goods;
      (10)   Watches and clocks.
      (11)   Cultivation, distribution, manufacturing, testing labs as
authorized under the Cannabis Permit Ordinance of the City of Madera in
Chapter 5 of Title VI of the Madera Municipal Code.
      (12)   Retail only in conjunction with vertical integration business as
authorized under the Cannabis Permit Ordinance of the City of Madera in
Chapter 5 of Title VI of the Madera Municipal Code.
('61 Code, 10-3.11.503) (Ord. 183 C.S., passed 5-31-72; Am. Ord. 598 C.S.,
passed 5-17-93; Am. Ord. 602 C.S., passed 9-20-93; Am. Ord. 690 C.S., passed 8-
5-98; Am. Ord. 976 C.S., passed 6-16-21)
§ 10-3.11.503.1 USES REQUIRING A ZONING PERMIT.
   (A)   Uses permitted with a Zoning Administrator's permit:
      (1)   Gas and electric transmission lines, electrical transmission and
distribution substations, gas regulator stations, communications equipment
buildings, public service pumping stations, and elevated pressure tanks;
      (2)   Chemicals and allied product manufacturing;
      (3)   Rubber and miscellaneous plastics manufacturing;
      (4)   Processing, warehousing and wholesale distribution of food and
kindred products manufacture.
(Ord. 690 C.S., passed 8-5-98)
§ 10-3.11.504 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following structures and uses shall be permitted in IP zones when
accessory to a use permitted by the provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   Incidental sales in connection with a permitted use;
   (B)   Accessory uses and structures customarily appurtenant to a permitted
use; and
   (C)   Recreational facilities for employees and guests.
('61 Code, § 10-3.11.504) (Ord. 183 C.S., passed 5-31-72)
§ 10-3.11.505 USES REQUIRING USE PERMITS.
   (A)   The following uses shall be permitted with a Use Permit:
      (1)   Warehousing and wholesale distribution of manufactured or assembled
products; and
      (2)   Any research or light manufacturing use which is determined by the
Commission to be consistent with the purposes of this subchapter, which will
not impair the present or potential uses or values of adjacent parties nor be
detrimental to the public health, safety, peace, morals, comfort, or general
welfare of the community, and which conforms to the performance standards set
forth in this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 10-3.11.505) (Ord. 183 CS., passed 5-31-72; Am. Ord. 690 C.S.,
passed 8-5-98)
§ 10-3.11.506 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   All uses in IP zones shall meet the following performance standards.
   (A)   Noise. The maximum sound pressure level of activities other than
street or highway transportation, temporary construction work, or temporary oil
or gas drilling or exploration operations, as determined by the City Engineer,
shall not exceed the standards for octave bands within the frequency limits
given below after applying the correction factors:
      (1)   Noise at zone boundaries. At no point on the boundary of an IP zone
shall the sound pressure level of any individual operation, use, or plant
exceed the decibel levels in the designated octave bands set forth below:
Octave Band       Maximum Permitted Sound Level in Decibels (.0002 Dynes/cm2 )
Cycles Per Second
Octave Band       Maximum Permitted Sound Level in Decibels (.0002 Dynes/cm2 )
Cycles Per Second
0 - 75            72
75 - 150          67
150 - 300         59
300 - 600         52
600 - 1,200       46
1,200 - 2,400     40
2,400 - 4,800     34
Above 4,800       32
 
         (2)   Noise at property lines. At no point on the lot lines of any
property shall the sound pressure level of any individual operation, use or
plant exceed the decibel levels in the designated octave bands shown below:
Octave Band       Maximum Permitted Sound Level in Decibels (.0002 Dynes/cm2 )
Cycles Per Second
Octave Band       Maximum Permitted Sound Level in Decibels (.0002 Dynes/cm2 )
Cycles Per Second
0 - 75            80
75 - 150          75
150 - 300         70
300 - 600         64
600 - 1,200       58
1,200 - 2,400     53
2,400 - 4,800     49
Above 4,800       46
 
      (3)   Corrective factors in noise measurement. To any irregular or
impulsive noise, one or more of the following corrective factors shall be added
to the values permitted sound level:
 
Character of Noise                                       Correction in Decibels
Occurs between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.                  Minus 10
Noise source operates less than a total of 30 minutes in Plus 10
any day
Noise of impulsive character, such as hammering          Minus 5
 
   (B)   Air pollution. There shall be no discharge into the atmosphere, from
any source, of particulate matter in excess of 0.3 grams per cubic foot of gas
at standard conditions. There shall be no emission of gas, smoke, particulate
material, dust, or other air contaminants for a period or periods aggregating
more than three minutes in any one hour which contaminants are:
      (1)   As dark or darker in shade as that designated as No. 2 on the
Ringelmann Chart as published by the US Bureau of Mines; or
      (2)   Of such opacity as to obscure an observer's view to a degree equal
to or greater than does smoke described in subsection §
10-3.11.506(B)(1) of this subsection.
   (C)   Odor. Odors from gases shall not be in such quantity as to be
offensive beyond the lot lines of the use.
   (D)   Vibration. Vibration from any machine, operation, or process shall not
cause a perceptible motion at the lot lines.
   (E)   Glare and heat. Glare and heat from any source shall not be produced
beyond the lot lines.
   (F)   Radioactivity and electrical disturbances. The use of radioactive
materials within IP zones shall be limited to measuring, gauging, and
calibration devices, such as tracer elements in X-ray and like apparatus, and
in connection with the processing and preservation of foods. All electrical and
electronic devices and equipment shall be suitably wired, shielded, and
controlled so that in operation they shall not, beyond the lot lines, emit any
electrical impulses or waves which will adversely affect the operation and
control of any other electrical or electronic devices and equipment.
('61 Code, § 10-3.11.506) (Ord. 183 C.S., passed 5-31-72)
§ 10-3.11.507 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No structure in the IP zones shall exceed 50 feet in height except upon
approval of a conditional use permit by the Planning Commission.
('61 Code, § 10-3.11.506) (Ord. 183 C.S., passed 5-31-72; Am. Ord. 421 C.S.,
passed 3-19-84; Am. Ord. 494 C.S., passed 1-20-88)
§ 10-3.11.508 LOT AREA.
   The minimum building site area in IP zones shall be one acre.
('61 Code, § 10-3.11.508) (Ord. 183 C.S., passed 5-31-72)
§ 10-3.11.509 LOT WIDTH.
   The minimum lot width in IP zones shall be 150 feet.
('61 Code, § 10-3.11.509) (Ord. 183 C.S., passed 5-31-72)
§ 10-3.11.510 LOT DEPTH.
   The minimum average lot depth in IP zones shall be 150 feet.
('61 Code, § 10-3.11.510) (Ord. 183 C.S., passed 5-31-72)
§ 10-3.11.511 LOT COVERAGE.
   Not more than 50% of the lot area in IP zones shall be covered with
buildings.
('61 Code, § 10-3.11.511) (Ord. 183 C.S., passed 5-31-72)
§ 10-3.11.512 YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   The following yards shall be required in IP zones:
   (A)   Front yards. Front yards shall have a minimum depth of 50 feet.
   (B)   Side yards. There shall be a minimum combined side yard width of 40
feet for both sides, and no one side yard shall have a width of less than ten
feet. For every one foot the building exceeds 30 feet in height, one additional
foot of side yard shall be required on each side. Side yards on the street side
of corner lots shall be equal in depth to the front yard requirements set forth
in subsection §
10-3.11.512(A) of this section.
   (C)   Rear yards. Rear yards shall have a minimum depth of 20 feet.
('61 Code, § 10-3.11.512) (Ord. 183 C.S., passed 5-31-72)
§ 10-3.11.513 USES IN BUILDINGS.
   All uses in IP zones shall be conducted wholly within a completely enclosed
building, except for off- street parking and loading, store age, and the
disposal of trash and refuse.
('61 Code, § 10-3.11.513) (Ord. 183 C.S., passed 5-31-72)
§ 10-3.11.514 DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   Trash and refuse collection and disposal facilities in IP zones shall be
enclosed by a solid fence or hedge no lower in height than the facilities
themselves.
('61 Code, § 10-3.11.514) (Ord. 183 C.S., passed 5-31-72)
§ 10-3.11.515 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   All vehicle parking, including trucks, trailers, and employee and visitor
parking, in IP zones shall be provided on the premises. All parking areas shall
be paved. Parking shall not be located in the required front yard or street
side yard of a corner lot, except that a visitor parking area shall be
permitted in the required front yard.
('61 Code, § 10-3.11.515) (Ord. 183 C.S., passed 5-31-72)
§ 10-3.11.516 STORAGE.
   Outside storage in IP zones shall not be permitted unless concealed from the
view from a public street by a solid fence or hedge.
('61 Code, § 10-3.11.516) (Ord. 183 C.S., passed 5-31-72)
§ 10-3.11.517 FENCES.
   No fence shall be permitted in the required front yard or in the required
side yard for the street side of corner lots in IP zones.
('61 Code, § 10-3.11.517) (Ord. 183 C.S., passed 5-31-72)
§ 10-3.11.518 OFF-STREET LOADING.
   Off-street loading in IP zones shall be within the building or in side or
rear yards separated and protected from any traveled way by a fence or hedge
not less than six feet in height.
('61 Code, § 10-3.11.518) (Ord. 183 C.S., passed 5-31-72)
§ 10-3.11.519 LANDSCAPING.
   A minimum of 15 feet of front and street side yards in IP zones shall be
permanently landscaped.
('61 Code, § 10-3.11.519) (Ord. 183 C.S., passed 5-31-72)
§ 10-3.11.520 TYPE OF FUEL.
   Manufacturing and industrial processes in IP zones shall use only natural
gas or electricity as fuel unless otherwise authorized by a use permit.
('61 Code, § 10-3.11.520) (Ord. 183 C.S., passed 5-31-72)
§ 10-3.11.521 BUILDINGS.
   (A)   All buildings, except as noted in subsection §
10-3.11.521(B), (C), and (D) below, shall be subject to review and shall be
approved by the Development Review Committee.
   (B)   Temporary buildings for temporary construction purposes are a
permitted use.
   (C)   Temporary or portable-type buildings for uses other than that
specified in subsection §
10-3.11.521(B) may be permitted subject to approval of a use permit by the
Planning Commission. The use permit review shall consider the need for the
building, the time frame for its use, the location of the building, its
compatibility with surrounding uses, and provision of skirting and screening of
axles and mechanical equipment.
   (D)   Notwithstanding subsection §
10-3.11.521(C), temporary buildings for a short-term use, not to exceed a total
of nine months, may be permitted with approval from the Planning Director
subject to the review considerations set forth in subsection §
10-3.11.521(C) above.
('61 Code, § 10-3.11.521) (Ord. 183 C.S., passed 5-31-72; Am. Ord. 477 C.S.,
passed 8-5-87)
§ 10-3.11.522 SIGNS.
   Each parcel of land in IP zones shall be permitted a maximum of two signs,
with a total aggregate surface area of 250 square feet but not to exceed 150
square feet per sign. The sign height shall be 15 feet. Signs shall only
identify the on-site operation and products. All signs shall be subject to
review and shall be approved by the Development Review Committee. All signs
shall be subject to review and approval as required by Chapter 6 of this title.
('61 Code, § 10-3.11.522) (Ord. 183 C.S., passed 5-31-72; Am. Ord. 515 C.S.,
passed 2-7-89)
SPECIFIC PLAN ZONES (SP)
§ 10-3.11.601 PURPOSE AND APPLICATION.
   The purpose of the SP zone is to accomplish the following:
   (A)   To provide a framework for how to analyze project level development
standards and permitted uses in the SP zone district; and
   (B)   To provide a framework and requirements for approving specific plans
proposed in the city by establishing a development review framework for
comprehensibly planned communities pursuant to Cal. Gov't Code §§ 65450 to
65457 for the preparation of specific plans.
(Ord. 992 C.S., passed 5-4-22)
§ 10-3.11.602 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   For properties already zoned SP, the allowed uses, allowed density,
and required property development standards shall be as outlined in the
applicable specific plan. Where the regulations of a specific plan are silent
or not specifically referenced, the comparable regulations of these zoning
regulations and all adopted ordinances, regulations, standards, and guidelines
of the city shall apply, subject to the Planning Director's discretion, unless
otherwise declared by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   For properties proposed to be rezoned to the SP zone, a specific plan
meeting the requirements outlined below is required and must be submitted
concurrently with the rezone request. The SP zone, including all standards and
processes, is available to all new development proposals within the city,
except those areas within the city limits already regulated by an existing
adopted specific plan and approved prior to the adoption of this subchapter.
Those areas shall be exempt from this chapter, and all activities within such
areas shall be subject to the existing standards and procedures of the
applicable specific plan.
   (C)   All new SP zones must encompass an area of no less than five acres of
contiguous property.
(Ord. 992 C.S., passed 5-4-22)
§ 10-3.11.603 SPECIFIC PLAN REQUIRED ELEMENTS.
   A specific plan shall provide regulations and design standards governing the
minimum and maximum development parameters of all real property within the
proposed SP zone district. All specific plans prepared and adopted under §§
10-3.11.601 et seq. shall be consistent with the requirements of Cal. Gov't
Code § 65450 as amended, and shall include, at a minimum, the following:
   (A)   Purpose. State the relationship to the goals and policies of the
General Plan.
   (B)   Setting. State the existing and regional setting to establish the
conditions and reasons for the project.
   (C)   Proposed land uses. Establish the distribution, type, definitions of,
and regulations for all proposed land uses. The uses described within the
specific plan shall be designed and developed in a manner consistent with the
General Plan and § 10-3.11.604 below.
   (D)   Development standards. Establish all regulating policies and include
all of the following for all building types:
      (1)   Building height, setbacks, massing, and design standards;
      (2)   Lot area, width, depth, and structural limitations;
      (3)   Maximum number of dwelling units and the maximum residential
density (of the Specific Plan area and any individual site or portion);
      (4)   Usable open space provisions and requirements within the
development;
      (5)   Off-street parking and loading facilities;
      (6)   Design and development standards (architectural, landscape,
streetscape, street furniture, utilities, fence/wall types, and the like),
which may include design themes or similar architectural treatments to control
future construction of buildings on parcels covered by the Specific Plan. Site
planning at the perimeter of the zone boundaries shall provide for the mutual
protection of the zone and the surrounding property;
      (7)   Signage requirements shall be addressed, either through
Chapter 6 of Title 10 (Sign Regulations) or by a unique sign program codified
in the specific plan; and
      (8)   All areas for storage of vehicles, maintenance equipment, refuse
and collection facilities, manufactured products, or other similar materials
used by or in a manufacturing/fabricating process on-site shall be prohibited
or shall be enclosed by a decorative, block, or brick wall and/or landscape
screening in combination.
   (E)   Site planning. Establish a comprehensive map of all major streets,
open spaces, private and public property, and land uses for all affected
property, consistent with the intent of the General Plan.
      (1)   Consider and preserve environmentally sensitive resources (water
courses, view sheds, drainage areas, wooded areas, rough terrain [canyons,
ravines, steep slopes, ridges, knolls, promontories], and other similar natural
features) and make provisions to retain natural features and amenities found
on-site.
      (2)   Provide landscape architectural concept plans and standards,
including project entries, streetscapes, fencing details, lighting, signage,
utility, and street furniture.
   (F)   Infrastructure. Identify the proposed distribution, extent, intensity,
and location of major components of public and private circulation/
transportation, drainage, energy, sewers, solid waste disposal, water, and
other essential facilities proposed.
      (1)   Include written analysis detailing plans for the construction,
improvement, or extension of transportation facilities, public utilities, and
all other public facilities/services required to serve the properties.
      (2)   Dedicate all public right-of-ways and public park spaces within or
abutting the development to applicable city specifications.
      (3)   Private streets and alleys shall be designed to public street
standards (where applicable), or propose modifications, and be privately owned
and maintained for their intended purpose without public cost or maintenance
responsibility.
      (4)   Consideration of other forms of access, such as pedestrian ways,
paseos, courts, plazas, driveways, horse trails, bike trails, or open public
parking areas, may be made at the time of specific plan consideration by the
city.
   (G)   Maintenance. Provisions assuring the continued maintenance of private
property, grounds, and all common areas shall be required.
   (H)   Phasing. Specific plans developed in phases or neighborhoods over a
period of time, not developed in a consecutive and uninterrupted manner, shall
be required to process each phase or neighborhood through separate entitlement
processes.
(Ord. 992 C.S., passed 5-4-22)
§ 10-3.11.604 ALLOWED LAND USES.
   (A)   All use of lands within the SP zones shall be compatible with the
purpose and intent of these zoning regulations.
   (B)   All use of lands within the SP zones shall be consistent or made
consistent with the General Plan Land Use Map, which may include varying
densities of residential, commercial, and/or industrial development.
   (C)   A new specific plan shall be processed using the same procedure as a
General Plan amendment as well as a change of zone boundaries per §§
10-3.1501 et seq.
(Ord. 992 C.S., passed 5-4-22)
OFF-STREET PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 10-3.1201 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this section to allow evaluation of off-street
parking requirements for vehicles to prevent or lessen the traffic congestion
and parking problems on public streets and to leave street parking available to
persons making short-term visits for shopping, personal business and related
activities. Off-street parking and off-street loading facilities shall be
provided incidental to new land uses and major alterations and enlargements of
existing land uses. Major land use development proposals will be expected to
meet on-site parking requirements and, for customer satisfaction, should want
to provide parking for their convenience. On-site parking is a normal part of
land use development and satisfying Code requirement will be the rule and not
the exception. Allowing large scale or high intensity land uses an exception to
Code requirements, or to pay in-lieu fees, may have a tendency to over-load the
city's existing parking inventory on at least a short-term basis, and in the
case of some areas, exceed the city's ability to satisfy long-term needs. The
number of parking spaces and the number of loading berths prescribed in this
subchapter, or to be prescribed by the Planning Commission, shall be
proportional to the need for such facilities created by the particular type of
land use. Off-street parking and loading areas shall be laid out in a manner
that will ensure their usefulness, protect the public safety, and, where
appropriate, insulate surrounding land uses from their impact. The provisions
of this subchapter are intended to:
      (1)   Provide clear standards for parking requirements;
      (2)   Provide parking requirements that are appropriate for specified
land uses;
      (3)   Provide for flexibility in meeting parking requirements;
      (4)   Ensure that parking requirements are consistent with the land use
goals of the community; and
      (5)   Discourage unnecessary curb cuts and the loss of on-street parking
spaces through the construction of driveways downtown.
   The provisions of this subchapter are also intended to deal with major
problems, conditions, and needs which are apparent in attempting to provide
sufficient off-street parking facilities in areas of intense commercial
development, including:
      (1)   The difficulty in assembling land by private means;
      (2)   The often excessive time required in assembling land by private
means;
      (3)   The varying financial capabilities and traffic generating
characteristics among the various types of commercial enterprises;
      (4)   The importance of avoiding the development of a fragmented pattern
of off-street parking facilities which may bear little relation to the needs of
a commercial area as a whole;
      (5)   The importance of prescribing regulations which will not
inadvertently discourage private investment within the community while
alleviating or preventing traffic congestion; and
      (6)   The importance of achieving a reasonable distribution of burden
among private interests and the public at large consistent with their
individual and collective responsibilities to provide off-street parking and
loading facilities.
   (B)   Every building hereafter erected in the city shall be provided with
parking spaces as provided in §
10-3.1202 of this subchapter, subject to the other provisions of this
subchapter. Such parking spaces shall be made available and shall be maintained
for parking purposes according to the required use of the building.
   (C)   Every building hereafter reconstructed, remodeled, or structurally
altered shall be provided with parking spaces as required by the new use of the
building. The parking spaces required by this subsection shall be determined by
subtracting the number of parking spaces required by the provisions of §
10-3.1202 of this subchapter for the building as used prior to its
reconstruction, remodeling, or structural alteration from the number of spaces
required by §
10-3.1202 for the building for its proposed use after its reconstruction,
remodeling, or structural alteration. Such parking spaces shall be made
available and shall be maintained for parking purposes according to the
required use of the building. For buildings other than dwellings, if the number
of parking spaces thus determined does not exceed the number of spaces required
by the provisions of §
10-3.1202 for the building as used prior to its reconstruction, remodeling, or
structural alteration by at least 10% or by five spaces, whichever is greater,
no additional parking space need be provided by reason of the reconstruction,
remodeling, or structural alteration of the building. In the event it is not
possible to determine the number of parking spaces required for a particular
building in the manner set forth in this subsection, the Commission shall
determine an adequate number of parking spaces for such a building based on
standards comparable to those set forth in §
10-3.1202.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1201) (Ord. 26 C.S., passed 4-16-62; Am. Ord. 721 C.S.,
passed 9-20-00)
§ 10-3.1202 PARKING SPACES REQUIRED.
   Except as provided in §
10-3.1205 of this subchapter, the number of off-street parking spaces required
shall be as follows:
 
                                                                                                                                                          Downtown
Use                                                                          Parking Spaces Required                                                      Parking
                                                                                                                                                          District
                                                                                                                                                          Standards
Residential uses
                                                                             1½ spaces for each bachelor or one bedroom dwelling unit and two spaces for
Residential dwellings                                                        dwelling unit having more than one bedroom. In each instance one space per   Same
                                                                             unit must be covered.
                                                                             In addition to parking spaces required in residential dwellings above, all
                                                                             projects with six or more units shall also provide off-street parking for
Multi-family housing projects                                                visitors at locations reasonably central to the units to be served at a rate Same
                                                                             of one space for the first four units and one space for each four units
                                                                             thereafter.
                                                                             One cover parking space for each unit, plus one guest parking space provided
                                                                             at the rate of one space for every four units, which shall be located in     Same
                                                                             close proximity and easily accessible to the units they are designated to
                                                                             serve.
Senior citizen housing projects under § 10-3.5.1 Affordable Housing Density Employee parking shall be provided at a rate of one space per every two
Bonus                                                                        employees. Parking for a manager's quarters shall be required at the
                                                                             standard residential rate.
                                                                             Sufficient additional open space area shall be provided to allow for
                                                                             compliance with standard residential rates should the project be converted
                                                                             in whole, or in part, for occupancy by other than senior citizens.
 
Use Parking Spaces Required Downtown Parking
                            District Standards
Use                       Parking Spaces Required    Downtown Parking
                                                     District Standards
Rooming and lodging
houses, fraternity and    One space for each
sorority houses, and      sleeping room.             Same
private clubs having
sleeping rooms
                          One space for each
Motels                    sleeping room, plus one    Same
                          space for each two
                          employees.
Hotels                    One space for each three   Same
                          beds.
Commercial and industrial
uses
                          One space for each 250
Banks                     square feet of gross floor Same
                          area.
Business and professional One space for each 300     One space for each 450
offices                   square feet of gross floor square feet of gross floor
                          area.                      area
                          One space for each 250     One space for each 375
Retail food stores        square feet of gross floor square feet of gross floor
                          area                       area
All other retail stores
and personal service      One space for each 300     One space for each 450
establishments, such as   square feet of gross floor square feet of gross floor
barber, beauty, and       area                       area
repair shops
Retail stores which
handle only bulky         One space for each 400     One space for each 600
merchandise, such as      square feet of gross floor square feet of gross floor
furniture, appliances,    area, plus one space for   area
hardware, and similar     each two employees.
establishments
Motor vehicle sales,      One space for each 400     One space for each 600
machinery sales, and auto square feet of gross floor square feet of gross floor
repair garages            area, plus one space for   area
                          each two employees.
Use Parking Spaces Required Downtown Parking
                            District Standards
Use                       Parking Spaces Required    Downtown Parking
                                                     District Standards
                          One space for each two     One space for each two
                          employees, plus one space  employees, plus one space
Manufacturing,            for each 300 square feet   for each 450 square feet
warehouses, storage uses, of office space and        of office space and
and wholesale houses      customer net floor area,   customer net floor area,
                          plus one loading space for plus one loading space for
                          each 10,000 square feet of each 10,000 square feet of
                          gross floor area.          gross floor area.
Places of assembly
                          One space for each three
Establishments for the    seats of a fixed nature,
sale and consumption of   plus one space for each 50 Same
food and beverages on the square feet of net floor
premises                  area available for non-
                          fixed seating.
Drive-in restaurants      One space for each three   Same
                          seats.
Auditoriums               One space for each three   Same
                          seats.
Theaters                  One space for each five    Same
                          seats.
Churches                  One space for each four    Same
                          seats.
                          One space for each 50
                          square feet of net floor
Skating rinks, dance      area used for dancing or
halls, and similar        skating or one space for   Same
establishments            each 200 square feet of
                          gross floor area,
                          whichever is greater.
                          One space for each 400     One space for each 600
Libraries and museums     square feet of gross floor square feet of gross floor
                          area, plus one space for   area, plus one space for
                          each two employees.        each two employees.
                          One space for each vehicle
                          used in conjunction with
Mortuaries and funeral    the establishment, plus
homes                     one space for each two     Same
                          employees, plus one space
                          for each four seats in the
                          main chapel.
 
Use Parking Spaces Required Downtown Parking
                            District Standards
Use                          Parking Spaces Required        Downtown Parking
                                                            District Standards
All places of assembly
without fixed seating, other One space for each 25 square
than those uses set forth in feet of gross floor area used  Same
establishments for the sale  for assembly.
and consumption of food and
beverages on the premises
Educational uses
Elementary and junior high   One space for each faculty     Same
schools                      member and employee.
                             One space for each individual
High schools                 employed on the campus, plus   Same
                             one space for each five
                             students.
                             One space for each individual
Junior colleges, colleges,   employed on the campus, plus
universities, and trade and  one space for each two         Same
draft schools                students not residing on the
                             premises.
Day care and nursery schools One space for each employee    Same
                             One space for each three seats
                             if such number will provide a
School auditoriums, assembly greater number of spaces than
halls, stadiums, and         set forth in elementary and    Same
gymnasiums                   junior high schools, high
                             schools, and junior colleges,
                             colleges, universities, and
                             trade and draft schools.
Health
                             Four spaces for each doctor,
Medical and dental offices   plus one space for each
and clinics                  employee or one space for each Same
                             250 square feet of gross floor
                             area, whichever is greater.
Use Parking Spaces Required Downtown Parking
                            District Standards
Use                           Parking Spaces Required       Downtown Parking
                                                            District Standards
Asylums, sanitariums, old-age One space for each three beds
homes, orphanages,            plus one space for each two   Same
convalescent homes, nursing   employees on the largest
homes, and children's homes   shift.
                              One space for each two
                              employees, plus one space for
                              each doctor, plus one space
Hospitals                     for each three beds or one    Same
                              space for each 1,000 square
                              feet of gross floor area,
                              whichever is greater.
Animal veterinary hospitals   Four spaces for each doctor,
and clinics                   plus one space for each two   Same
                              employees.
Public uses
                              One space for each two
City, county, special         employees, plus one space for
districts, state, and federal each vehicle used in
administrative offices,       conjunction with the          Same
excluding places of assembly  establishment, and one space
                              for each 300 square feet of
                              gross floor area.
                              One space for each two
Public buildings and grounds, employees on the maximum work
other than administrative     shift, plus the number of     Same
offices and educational uses  additional spaces prescribed
                              by the Commission.
Utility uses
 
Electric distribution and            One space for each two employees on
transmission substations, gas        the maximum work shift, plus one
regulator stations, sewage treatment space for each 300 square feet of net Same
plants, and other utility buildings  floor open to the public.
and uses
 
 
Use                            Parking Spaces Required       Downtown Parking
                                                             District Standards
Transportation facilities
                               One space for each two
Airports, heliports, bus       employees on the maximum work
stations, truck terminals, and shift, plus the number of     Same
railroad stations and yards    additional spaces prescribed
                               by the Commission.
 
('61 Code, § 10-3.1202) (Ord. 26 C.S., passed 4-16-62; Am. Ord. 301 C.S.,
passed 8-4-78; Am. Ord. 452 C.S., passed 1-15-86; Am. Ord. 571 C.S., passed 9-
18-91; Am. Ord. 589 C.S., passed 11-18-92; Am. Ord. 721 C.S., passed 9-20-00)
§ 10-3.1203 PARKING REQUIREMENTS FOR USES NOT SPECIFIED.
   Where the parking requirements for a use are not specifically defined by
this subchapter, the parking requirements for such use shall be determined by
the Commission, and such determination shall be based upon the requirements for
the comparable use specified in this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1203) (Ord. 26 C.S., passed 4-16-62; Am. Ord. 721 C.S.,
passed 9-20-00)
§ 10-3.1204 IN LIEU PAYMENTS.
   Within any parking district created under the Parking District Act of 1951
or any other Parking District Act approved by the City Council, in lieu of
furnishing the parking spaces required by the provisions of this subchapter in
case of the reconstruction, remodeling, or structural alteration of an existing
building which has no existing off-street parking facilities or insufficient
off-street parking facilities for its existing use, the parking requirements
for such new, different, or expanded use may be satisfied by the payment to the
city, prior to the issuance of a building permit, of the sum of $4,500 per
parking space for each parking space required by the provisions of this
subchapter. Such funds shall be deposited with the city in a special fund and
shall be used and expended exclusively for the purpose of acquiring and
developing off-street parking facilities located, insofar as practical, in the
general vicinity of the buildings for which the in lieu payments were made.
Said parking fee shall be adjusted as required by the City Council based on the
yearly increase in the Federal Consumers Price Index, or to more accurately
reflect the cost of constructing off-street public parking facilities. Funds
paid to the city for in-lieu parking shall not be refundable, in case of
destruction or removal of the structure or land use for which the funds were
paid. All in-lieu parking fees shall be paid prior to issuance of the first
permit (any business license or building permit) for which the in-lieu fees are
required.
   (A)   Downtown parking district.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/caa15145c45f5c21dbe689a7aab4fe2c8bbd5078/
IMAGES/0-0-0-14.gif]
 
   (B)   The determination for allowing payment of in-lieu fees for all or a
part of the on-site parking otherwise required by the provisions of this
subchapter shall be made by the Planning Commission on an individual basis in
response to a request for exception filed by the applicant for the proposed
new, different or expanded use. Parking adjustments provided under these
provisions shall not decease the number of parking spaces otherwise required by
this subchapter.
   (C)   Payment of in-lieu fees will generally be allowed only as a special
exception, or applicable only under special circumstances.
   (D)   The Planning Commission will utilize the followings guidelines when
evaluating a request for on-site parking exceptions:
      (1)   Payment of in-lieu fees may be considered for additions,
expansions, or intensification.
      (2)   Payment of in-lieu fees may be considered when parcel size, shape,
location, or limitations on access prevent development of on-site parking that
would meet the design standards of this subchapter.
      (3)   If it is determined that providing parking on some sites will
result in the loss of existing or potential on-street parking spaces due to the
location of driveways or other improvements, the Planning Commission will
consider the cumulative effect of providing off-street parking relative to the
net gain in total parking spaces.
      (4)   Requests for exceptions involving properties that would otherwise
be able to provide on-site parking meeting the requirements of this subchapter
may be approved subject to meeting specific conditions, including but not
limited to:
         (a)   Providing sufficient on-site parking to meet employee demands
based on the maximum number on a peak shift or peak hour;
         (b)   Providing sufficient on-site handicapped parking spaces to meet
standard requirements based on the number of spaces which would otherwise be
required by this subchapter without consideration of in-lieu fees;
         (c)   Provide loading spaces that would otherwise be required for the
proposed use based on the provisions of this subchapter.
      (5)   The following uses shall be excluded from requesting an exception
to the parking provisions of this subchapter:
         (a)   All residential uses;
         (b)   All places of assembly (theaters, churches, lodges, etc.);
         (c)   All educational uses;
         (d)   All public uses.
   (E)   In granting an exception from the parking requirements of this
subchapter and authorizing the payment of in-lieu fees, the Planning Commission
must make at least one or more of the following findings:
      (1)   The project site for which the parking requirement applies is 5,000
square feet or less in size and has less than fifty feet (50') of street
frontage.
      (2)   The construction of required driveway(s) for on-site parking would
result in the excessive loss of curb parking on street.
      (3)   Because of special circumstances applicable to the property,
including size, shape, location, or surroundings, the proposed use cannot
conform with the strict application of the parking regulations and the property
would be deprived of privileges enjoyed by other property in the vicinity.
      (4)   The applicant, as determined by the Planning Commission, has
diligently pursued meeting the parking requirements both on-site and off-site,
but has been unsuccessful in meeting the requirements.
      (5)   Exceptions shall be granted only when the establishment,
maintenance, or operation of the use or building applied for will not, under
the circumstances of the particular case, be detrimental to the health, safety,
and general welfare of persons residing or working in the neighborhood of such
proposed use or be detrimental or injurious to property and improvements in the
neighborhood or general welfare of the city.
      (6)   Any exception granted may be subject to such conditions as will
assure that the adjustment thereby authorized shall not constitute a grant of
special privileges inconsistent with the limitations upon other properties in
the vicinity and zone in which such property is located.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1204)(Ord. 26 C.S., passed 4-16-62; Am. Ord. 301 C.S., passed
8-4-78; Am. Ord. 721 C.S., passed 9-20-00)
§ 10-3.1205 EXEMPTIONS FROM PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Existing buildings and uses. None of the requirements of this
subchapter for off-street parking spaces shall apply to the use of a building
in existence on August 1, 1978. No building, as it is used on August 1, 1978,
shall be deemed to be nonconforming solely by reason of the lack of off-street
parking spaces, provided that any portion of the premises available for off-
street parking in connection with such building shall not be utilized for any
purpose other than off-street parking if necessary to meet the requirements of
this subchapter.
   (B)   Parking districts. None of the provisions of this subchapter which
require the provisions of off- street parking spaces in connection with the use
of property for commercial or industrial purposes shall apply to any parcel of
existing improved property which is located within any parking district formed
and existing under the Parking District Act of 1951 or any other parking
district act approved by the Council, except any area within any such district
which is available for off-street parking shall not be improved or changed
without payment of the in lieu fees provided in §
10-3.1204. Determination of an area available for parking shall be made by the
Planning Director whose determination shall be subject to review by the
Planning Commission.
   (C)   Vacant parcels demolition and new facilities. None of the exemptions
provided for in this section apply to vacant parcels of property or on parcels
where existing buildings are demolished and a new facility is constructed,
either in or out of a parking district.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1205) (Ord. 26 C.S., passed 4-16-62; Am. Ord. 301 C.S.,
passed 8-4-78; Am. Ord. 468 C.S., passed 12-31-86)
§ 10-3.1206 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF PARKING AREA.
   Every lot used as a public or private parking area and having a capacity of
five or more vehicles shall be developed and maintained in the following
manner:
   (A)   Surface of parking area. Off-street parking areas shall be paved or
otherwise surfaced and maintained so as to eliminate dust or mud and shall be
so graded and drained as to dispose of all surface water. In no case shall such
drainage be allowed to cross sidewalks, unless approved by the City Engineer.
   (B)   Border barricades, screening, and landscaping.
      (1)   Every parking area not separated by a fence from any street or
alley property line upon which it abuts shall be provided with a suitable
concrete curb or timber barrier not less than six inches in height, located not
less than two feet from such street or alley property lines, and such curb or
barrier shall be securely installed and maintained; provided, however, no such
curb or barrier shall be required across any driveway or entrance to such
parking area.
      (2)   Every parking area abutting property located in any R or PD zone
shall be separated from such property by a solid wall, view-obscuring fence, or
compact evergreen hedge a maximum of eight feet in height measured from the
grade of the finished surface of such parking lot closest to the contiguous R
or PD zone property, and a minimum of six feet in height as measured from the
finished grade of the adjacent residential property; provided, however, no
fence over three feet in height shall be constructed or grown to the front of
any adjacent dwelling or within 25 feet of the street corner of any corner lot.
      (3)   The lights provided to illuminate any parking area or used car
sales area permitted by this subchapter shall be arranged so as to reflect the
light away from any premises upon which a dwelling unit is located.
   (C)   Entrances and exits. The location and design of all entrances and
exits shall be subject to the approval of the City Engineer.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1206) (Ord. 26 C.S., passed 4-16-62; Am. Ord. 580 C.S.,
passed 12-18-91; Am. Ord. 652 C.S., passed 3-6-96)
§ 10-3.1207 GENERAL REGULATIONS AND CONDITIONS.
   The following regulations and conditions shall apply to all off-street
parking facilities:
   (A)   Size and access. Each off-street parking space shall have a width of
not less than nine feet and a length of not less than 19 feet except that up to
25% of the required parking spaces may be designated for compact car use in
parking lots provided for uses other than residential dwelling units and having
at least ten spaces. Compact car spaces shall have a minimum width of eight
feet and a minimum length of 16 feet. Every space designated to accommodate
compact cars shall be clearly marked as a compact space. Each space shall have
adequate ingress and egress. Parking lot dimensions shall be set forth in the
city standard specifications. When the required covered parking space for a
dwelling unit is converted into a different use and occupancy, such required
car space shall be relocated and covered by a garage or carport in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Location. Off-street parking facilities shall be located as follows
(where a distance is specified, such distance shall be the walking distance
measured from the nearest point of the parking facility to the nearest point of
the building such facility is required to serve):
      (1)   For single or multiple-family dwellings, parking facilities shall
be located on the same lot or building site as the buildings they are required
to serve;
      (2)   For hospitals, sanitariums, rest homes, asylums, orphanages,
rooming houses, lodging houses, club rooms, and fraternity and sorority houses,
not more than 150 feet from the buildings they are required to serve; and
      (3)   For uses other than those set forth in subsections §
10-3.1207(B)(1) and (2) of this subsection, not over 300 feet from the building
they are required to serve.
   (C)   Mixed occupancies in a building. In the case of mixed uses in a
building or on a lot, the total requirements for off-street parking facilities
shall be the sum of the requirements for the various uses computed separately.
The off-street parking facilities for one use shall not be considered as
providing the required parking facilities for any other use, except as set
forth in subsection §
10-3.1207(D) of this section for joint use.
   (D)   Joint use. The Building Department, upon an application by the owner
or lessee of any property, may authorize the joint use of parking facilities by
the following uses or activities under the conditions set forth:
      (1)   Up to 50% of the parking facilities required by this subchapter for
a use considered to be primarily a daytime use may be provided by the parking
facilities of a use considered to be primarily a nighttime use; up to 50% of
the parking facilities required by this subchapter for a use considered to be
primarily a nighttime use may be provided by the parking facilities of a use
considered to be primarily a daytime use, provided such reciprocal parking area
shall be subject to the conditions set forth in subsection §
10-3.1207(D)(4) of this section.
      (2)   Up to 100% of the parking facilities required by this subchapter
for a church or for an auditorium incidental to a public or parochial school
may be supplied by parking facilities of a use considered to be primarily a
daytime use, provided such reciprocal parking area shall be subject to the
conditions set forth in subsection §
10-3.1207(D)(4) of this section.
      (3)   The following uses are typical daytime uses: banks, business
offices, retail stores, personal service shops, clothing or shoe repair or
service shops, manufacturing or wholesale buildings and similar uses. The
following uses are typical of nighttime and/or Sunday uses: auditoriums
incidental to a public or parochial school, churches, dance halls, theaters,
and bars.
      (4)   Conditions required for joint use:
         (a)   The building or use for which application is being made for
authority to utilize the existing off-street parking facilities provided by
another building or use shall be located within 150 feet of such parking
facility;
         (b)   The applicant shall show that there is no substantial conflict
in the principal operating hours of the building or uses for which the joint
use of off-street parking facilities is proposed; and
         (c)   If the building, structure, or improvement requiring parking
space is in one ownership, and the required parking space provided in another
ownership, partially or wholly, there shall be a recording in the office of the
County Recorder of a covenant by such owner for the benefit of the city in the
form first approved by the city that such owner will continue to maintain such
parking space so long as the building, structure, or improvement is maintained
within the city. The covenant herein provided shall stipulate that the title to
and right to use the lots upon which the parking space is to be provided will
be subservient to the title to the premises upon which the building is to be
erected and that it is warranted that such lots are not and will not be made
subject to any other covenant or contract for use without the prior written
consent of the city as authorized by the Council.
   (E)   Common facilities. Common parking facilities may be provided in lieu
of the individual requirements contained herein, but such facilities shall be
approved by the Building Department as to size, shape, and relationship to
business sites to be served, provided the total of such off-street parking
spaces, when used together, shall not be less than the sum of the various uses
computed separately.
   (F)   Plans. Plans of the proposed parking area shall be submitted to the
Building Department at the time of an application for a building permit for any
building to which the parking area is accessory. The plans shall clearly
indicate the proposed development, including the location, size, shape, design,
curb cuts, lighting, landscaping, and other features and appurtenances of the
proposed parking lot.
   (G)   Accessibility. Parking spaces shall be easily accessible by standard-
size automobiles, shall be so designed as to be accessible from a public street
or alley, and shall be located so that sufficient area is available for
maneuvering purposes.
   (H)   Stalls. No parking space shall be so located as to require the moving
of any vehicle on the premises in order to enter into or proceed out of any
other stall; provided, however, this provision need not apply in the event the
parking facility has an attendant at all times during the use of such facility.
   (I)   Backing onto streets. Automobile parking so arranged as to require the
backing of motor vehicles from a parking space, garage, or other structure onto
a major street, as designated by the Council, shall be prohibited when either
or both of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   The property is adjacent to, and contiguous to, a public alley; or
      (2)   The width of the lot and/or the nature of the design of the
existing and/or proposed structures is such that vehicles leaving the property
may do so by moving in a forward direction with relation to the street.
   (J)   Fractional spaces. When units of measurements determining the number
of required parking spaces result in a requirement of a fractional space, any
fraction of ½ or greater shall require one parking space.
   (K)   Waiting areas. Adequate ingress, egress, and waiting areas for such
uses as drive-in movies, banks, and restaurants shall be provided on the
subject lot as required by the City Traffic Engineer.
   (L)   Loading spaces.
      (1)   In any zone, in connection with every building, or part thereof,
erected on, or after, August 4, 1978, having a floor area of 5,000 square feet
or more, which building is to be occupied by manufacturing, storage, warehouse,
goods display, retail store, wholesale storage, market, hotel, hospital,
mortuary, laundry, dry cleaning, or other uses similarly requiring the receipt
or distribution by vehicles of material or merchandise, there shall be provided
and maintained on the same parcel with such building at least one off-street
loading space, plus one additional loading space for each additional 20,000
square feet, or fraction thereof, of gross floor area.
      (2)   Each loading space shall be not less than ten feet in width, 35
feet in length, and 14 feet in height.
      (3)   No such space shall be located closer than 50 feet to any parcel in
any R zone, unless wholly within a completely enclosed building, or unless
screened by a solid wall not less than eight feet in height.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1207) (Ord. 26 C.S., passed 4-16-62; Am. Ord. 301 C.S.,
passed 8-4-78; Am. Ord. 452 C.S., passed 1-15-86)
§ 10-3.1208 PARKING IN THE R ZONES.
   Every parking area located in an R zone shall be governed by the following
provisions in addition to those required by §
10-3.1206 of this subchapter:
   (A)   Such parking area shall be incidental to, and accessory to, a use
permitted in the zone in which the property is located or shall be incidental
to, and accessory to, a commercial or industrial use located in a commercial or
industrial zone immediately adjacent to the zone in which the property is
located.
   (B)   Such parking area shall be so located that its boundary shall be
adjacent to the site of the establishment to which it is accessory, except that
the parking area may be separated from such site by an alley.
   (C)   Such parking area shall be used solely for the parking of private
passenger vehicles.
   (D)   No sign of any kind, other than one designating entrances, exits, or
conditions of use, shall be maintained on any such parking lot. Any such sign
shall not exceed eight square feet in area.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1208) (Ord. 26 C.S., passed 4-16-62)
USE PERMITS
§ 10-3.1301 USE PERMIT PREREQUISITE TO BUILDING PERMIT.
   No building permit shall be issued in any case where a use permit is
required by the terms of this chapter unless and until such permit has been
granted by the Commission or Council and then only in accordance with the terms
and conditions of the use permit granted. Use permits, revocable, conditional,
or valid for a term period, may be issued for any of the uses or purposes for
which such permits are required or permitted by the provisions of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1301) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.1302 APPLICATION.
   Applications for use permits shall be made in writing to the Commission on a
form prescribed by the Commission. The applications shall be filed with the
Planning Director. The Planning Division shall provide forms for such purposes
and may prescribe the information to be provided in such application. Such
applications shall be numbered consecutively in the order of their filing and
become a part of the permanent official records of the city.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1302) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 652 C.S., passed
3-6-96)
§ 10-3.1303 FILING FEE.
   Each application for a use permit shall be accompanied by a fee as
established by resolution of the City Council; provided, however, public
agencies shall not be required to pay such fee.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1303) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 94 C.S., passed
7-5-66; Am. Ord. 323 C.S., passed 9-17-79)
§ 10-3.1304 INFORMATION REQUIRED WITH APPLICATION.
   The application for a use permit shall set forth in detail such facts as may
be required by the Commission.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1304) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.1305 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATION.
   The Commission shall cause to be made by its own members, or members of its
staff, such investigation of facts bearing upon the application as will serve
to provide all necessary information to assure that the action on each
application is consistent with the intent and purposes of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1305) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.1306 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   Whenever required by the provisions of this subchapter, or whenever
deemed advisable by the Planning Commission, a public hearing shall be held on
an application for a use permit. Not less than ten days before such public
hearing, notice shall be given of such hearing in the following manner:
      (1)   By one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city. Such notice shall state the name of the applicant, nature of the request,
location of the property, the environmental determination, and the time and
place of the action or hearing.
      (2)   Direct mailing to the owners and occupants of property located
within 300 feet of the boundaries of the project site, as shown on the latest
equalized assessment roll.
      (3)   In addition, for new commercial uses to be located in an existing
tenant space in any commercial area, a notice shall also be conspicuously
posted on the window or door of the establishment. The notice shall be a
minimum of 11 × 17 inches, contain the information specified in §
10-3.1306(A) above, and shall be brightly colored as a means of attracting
attention to its content.
      (4)   Notice shall also be given by first class mail to any person who
has filed a written request with the Community Development Department. Such a
request may be submitted at any time during the calendar year and shall apply
for the balance of such calendar year. The city may impose a reasonable fee on
persons requesting such notice for the purpose of recovering the cost of such
mailing.
      (5)   The public review period for the environmental determination
(negative declaration) shall not be less than 21 calendar days (30 days if
State Clearinghouse review is required).
      (6)   Substantial compliance with these provisions shall be sufficient
and a technical failure to comply shall not affect the validity of any action
taken pursuant to the procedures set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   The hearing shall be held pursuant to the rules for conduct
established by the Planning Commission.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1306) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 618 C.S., passed
3-16-94)
§ 10-3.1307 ACTION BY COMMISSION.
   (A)   The action by the Commission upon the application for a use permit
shall be by a majority of the members of the Commission present at the meeting
where such application is considered.
   (B)   In order to grant any use permit, the findings of the Commission shall
be that the establishment, maintenance, or operation of the use or building
applied for will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be
detrimental to the health, safety, peace, morals, comfort, and general welfare
of persons residing or working in the neighborhood of such proposed use or be
detrimental or injurious to property and improvements in the neighborhood or
general welfare of the city. For the purposes of this section the
establishment, maintenance or operation of the use or building shall be deemed
to be detrimental to the health, safety, peace, morals, comfort, and general
welfare of persons residing or working in the neighborhood of such proposed use
or be detrimental or injurious to property and improvements in the neighborhood
or general welfare of the city if any of the following conditions can be found
or can be reasonably expected to exist after establishment:
      (1)   The commission of three or more violent felonies (crimes against
the person) and/or narcotic or dangerous drug sales within the subject premises
or in the area immediately adjacent thereto.
      (2)   The arrest of the owner and/or an employee for violations occurring
within the subject premises, or in the area immediately adjacent thereto, which
violations can be found to be reasonably related to the operation of the
business.
      (3)   The sustaining by the subject premises of an administrative
suspension or revocation or other such sanction as may be imposed by the
California State Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, including payment in
lieu of such suspension or revocation.
      (4)   The failure by the owner or other person responsible for the
operation of the premises to take reasonable steps to correct objectionable
conditions after having been placed on notice by the official of the city that
such conditions exist. Such official may include, but not be limited to the:
Code Enforcement Officer, Police Chief, Fire Marshall or City Attorney.
Objectionable conditions may include, but not be limited to, disturbance of the
peace, public drunkenness, drinking in public, harassment of passers by,
gambling, prostitution, loitering, public urination, lewd conduct, drug
trafficking or excessive loud noise. Such conduct shall be attributable to the
subject premises whether occurring within the subject premises or in the area
immediately adjacent thereto.
   (C)   The Commission may designate such conditions in connection with the
use permit as it deems necessary to secure the purpose of this chapter and may
require such guarantees and evidence that such conditions are being or will be
complied with.
   (D)   Use permits issued authorizing the sale of alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises shall include a requirement that such permits shall
be subject to annual review by the Planning Commission for determination of
compliance with the terms and conditions of the issuance of such permits and
for termination thereof, as more particularly provided in §
10-3.1311 of this code.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1307) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 332 N.S., passed
- - ; Am. Ord. 560 C.S., passed 11-14-90; Am. Ord. 656 C.S., passed 6-5-96)
§ 10-3.1308 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   No use permit granted by the Commission shall become effective until after
an elapsed period of 15 days from the date of the action by the Commission.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1308) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.1309 APPEALS.
   During the period of 15 days referred to in §
10-3.1308 of this subchapter, written appeal from the action of the Commission
may be taken to the Council by any person aggrieved or affected by any
determination by the Commission in connection with any application for a use
permit or upon failure of the Commission to make its determination on any
application within 30 days from the date of receipt by the Commission from the
Planning Director of the application. Such appeal shall be filed in triplicate
with the City Clerk and shall state the grounds therefor and wherein the
Commission failed to conform to the requirements of this chapter. The City
Clerk shall forthwith transmit one copy of the appeal to the Planning Director.
The appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from until the determination of the appeal, and the use permit shall not become
effective until the determination of the appeal.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1309) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 652 C.S., passed
3-6-96)
§ 10-3.1310 ACTION ON APPEALS BY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Council, at its next duly held meeting, shall set a date and time
for a public hearing on the appeal and shall cause notice of such hearing to be
posted in the vicinity of the property described in the application.
   (B)   The Commission shall submit to the Council a report setting forth the
reasons for the action taken by the Commission, or a member of the Commission
shall be present at such public hearing to represent the Commission.
   (C)   The Council shall render its decision within 60 days after the filing
of such appeal.
   (D)   The Council may, by resolution, affirm, reverse, or modify, in whole
or in part, any decision, determination, or requirement of the Commission but
before granting any appealed petition which was denied by the Commission, or
before changing any of the conditions imposed by the Commission in a use permit
granted by the Commission, the Council shall make a written finding of fact
setting forth wherein the Commission's findings were in error.
   (E)   A five-sevenths vote of the whole of the Council shall be required to
grant, in whole or in part, any appealed application denied by the Commission.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1310) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 931 C.S., passed
3-2-16)
§ 10-3.1311 TERMINATION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Any use permit granted by the city as herein provided shall be
conditioned upon the privileges granted therein being utilized within 12 months
after the effective date thereof. Failure to utilize such permit within such
12-month period shall render the permit null and void unless a written request
for extension is submitted to the Planning Commission prior to the expiration
of the permit. The Planning Commission shall review the request at its next
regular meeting and may grant or conditionally grant an extension as it deems
appropriate. Use permits utilized but later abandoned for a period of 12
consecutive months shall automatically terminate unless a written request for
extension is submitted and approved as described in this section.
   (B)   All use permits which have been granted as provided in this chapter
may be revoked by the Commission after a hearing as set forth below in the
event the user of such permit, or his or its successor in interest to the real
property in favor of which the permit was granted, breaches or fails to abide
by any of the conditions designated in such permit, or conducts any use or
activity on such property contrary to the provisions of this code, provided,
however, special rules and regulations apply to use permits issued authorizing
the sale of alcoholic beverages. Use permits which have been granted as
provided in this chapter authorizing the sale of alcoholic beverages for
consumption on [or off] the premises shall be subject to annual review for a
determination of compliance with all of the terms and conditions of the
issuance of the permit and to determine the existence of conditions or
occurrences that are or may contribute to the detriment of the health, safety,
peace, morals, comfort and general welfare of the persons residing or working
in the neighborhood of the use or detrimental or injurious to property and
improvements in the neighborhood or general welfare of the city. For the
purposes of this section the establishment, maintenance or operation of the use
or building shall be deemed to be detrimental to the health, safety, peace,
morals, comfort, and general welfare of persons residing or working in the
neighborhood of such proposed use or be detrimental or injurious to property
and improvements in the neighborhood or general welfare of the city if any of
the following conditions can be found to exist:
      (1)   The commission of three or more violent felonies (crimes against
the person) and/or narcotic or dangerous drug sales within the subject premises
or in the area immediately adjacent thereto.
      (2)   The arrest of the owner and/or an employee for violations occurring
within the subject premises, or in the area immediately adjacent thereto, which
violations can be found to be reasonably related to the operation of the
business.
      (3)   The sustaining by the subject premises of an administrative
suspension or revocation or other such sanctions as may be imposed by the
California State Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, including payment in
lieu of such suspension or revocation or other sanction.
      (4)   The failure by the owner or other person responsible for the
operation of the premises to take reasonable steps to correct objectionable
conditions after having been placed on notice by the official of the city that
such conditions exist. Such official may include, but not be limited to the:
Code Enforcement Officer, Police Chief, Fire Marshall or City Attorney.
Objectionable conditions may include, but not be limited to, disturbance of the
peace, public drunkenness, drinking in public, harassment of passers by,
gambling, prostitution, loitering, public urination, lewd conduct, drug
trafficking or excessive loud noise. Such conduct shall be attributable to the
subject premises whether occurring within the subject premises or in the area
immediately adjacent thereto.
   If at such annual review the Planning Commission finds based on the evidence
presented that there have been three or more incidents as described above, the
use permit issued for such premises may be revoked.
   (C)   No use permit shall be revoked without the Commission's having first
held a hearing thereon after having delivered written notice of such hearing at
least five days prior thereto to the permittee at the address of the property
which is the subject of such permit, or, if the property is unimproved, to the
address of the owner thereof as shown on the last equalized assessment roll in
the office of the Assessor of the county.
   (D)   The City Staff is hereby authorized and directed to monitor the uses
of property where alcoholic beverages are sold for consumption on or off the
premises for which a use permit has not been issued because of their existence
before use permits were required but which uses have been continued as legal
non-conforming uses. Such monitoring shall include an annual review of such
operations as required by Section
10-3.1311 of the Municipal Code. If the Planning Commission finds the existence
of the matters set forth in Section
10-3.1311 of the Municipal Code, such findings shall constitute a determination
that such use of the property is detrimental to the health, safety, peace,
morals, comfort and general welfare of persons residing or working in the
neighborhood of such use and is detrimental or injurious to property and
improvements in the neighborhood and general welfare of the city, and the
Commission shall, at their discretion, refer the matter to the Code Enforcement
Officer for abatement, submit a letter to the State Alcoholic Beverage
Commission for initiation and/or inclusion in a nuisance file for the subject
property, or submit to the Council the Commission's recommendation for
abatement of such use as a public nuisance. For the purposes of this section
the establishment, maintenance or operation of the use or building shall be
deemed to be detrimental to the health, safety, peace, morals, comfort, and
general welfare of persons residing or working in the neighborhood of such
proposed use or be detrimental or injurious to property and improvements in the
neighborhood or general welfare of the city if any of the following conditions
can be found or can be reasonably expected to exist after establishment:
      (1)   The commission of three or more violent felonies (crimes against
the person) and/or narcotic or dangerous drug sales within the subject premises
or in the area immediately adjacent thereto.
      (2)   The arrest of the owner and/or an employee for violations occurring
within the subject premises, or in the area immediately adjacent thereto, which
violations can be found to be reasonably related to the operation of the
business.
      (3)   The sustaining by the subject premises of an administrative
suspension or revocation or other such sanctions as may be imposed by the
California State Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, including payment in
lieu of such suspension or revocation.
      (4)   The failure by the owner or other person responsible for the
operation of the premises to take reasonable steps to correct objectionable
conditions after having been placed on notice by an official of the city that
such conditions exist. Such official may include, but not be limited to the
Code Enforcement Officer, Police Chief, Fire Marshall or City Attorney.
Objectionable conditions may include, but not be limited to, disturbance of the
peace, public drunkenness, drinking in public, harassment of passers by,
gambling, prostitution, loitering, public urination, lewd conduct, drug
trafficking or excessive loud noise. Such conduct shall be attributable to the
subject premises whether occurring within the subject premises or in the area
immediately adjacent thereto.
   (E)   The City Council shall, upon receipt of a recommendation for action on
or against an establishment from the Planning Commission, set the item for a
public hearing at the earliest opportunity. Such action on or against an
establishment may include, but not be limited to, the endorsement and
forwarding of a letter addressed to the local field office of the State
Alcoholic Beverage Commission, outlining a specific complaint or complaints
against an establishment, or direction to staff to commence abatement of the
establishment as a public nuisance, or referral of the matter to the Code
Enforcement Division. Commencement of such action shall not prevent the City
Council from ordering the City Attorney to commence civil action to abate a
nuisance in addition to, or in conjunction with, the proceedings set forth
above; nor shall anything in this chapter prevent the city from commencing a
criminal action with respect to the nuisance in addition to, or in conjunction
with the proceedings set forth in this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1311) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 69 C.S., passed
1-20-65; Am. Ord. 464 C.S., passed 9-17-86; Am. Ord. 495 C.S., passed 12-7-87;
Am. Ord. 560 C.S., passed 11-14-90; Am. Ord. 571 C.S., passed 9-18-91; Am. Ord.
656 C.S., passed 6-5-96)
§ 10-3.1312 USE PERMIT - LARGE FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES.
   (A)   Application procedure.
      (1)   Applications for large family day care homes shall be processed in
accordance with the provisions of this section. For the purposes of this
section, LARGE FAMILY DAY CARE HOME(S) shall mean a day care home which
provides care consistent with Cal. Health and Safety Code § 1596.78(b).
      (2)   The applicant shall pay a fee as set forth in the Madera Planning
Processing Fee Schedule as set by resolution of the City Council.
      (3)   Application for a large family day care home use permit shall be
filed with the Planning Department in accordance with the requirements of §
10-3.1302.
      (4)   No less than ten days prior to the date on which the decision will
be made on the application, the Planning Director, or his or her designee,
shall give notice of the proposed use by mail to all owners shown on the last
equalized assessment roll as owning real property within 100 feet of the
exterior boundaries of the site of the proposed use.
      (5)   If no hearing is requested by the applicant, or other affected
person, the Planning Director shall approve, approve in modified form, or deny
the application. The Planning Director shall grant the use permit if the
proposed large family day care home, as applied for or as conditioned, complies
with the standards set forth in this section.
      (6)   If a hearing is requested by the applicant, or other affected
person, a public hearing shall be held before the Planning Commission prior to
a decision being made. No public hearing shall be held unless such a hearing is
requested.
      (7)   Upon close of the public hearing, if a hearing has been requested,
the Planning Commission shall approve, approve in modified form, or deny the
application. The Planning Commission shall grant the use permit if the proposed
large family day care home, as applied for or as conditioned, complies with the
standards set forth in this section.
      (8)   Any action of the Planning Director on the application of a use
permit for a large family day care home may be appealed to the Planning
Commission. Any action on the application of a use permit for a large family
day care home of the Planning Commission may be appealed to the City Council.
      (9)   No person shall operate a large family day care home in any single-
family residential zone without first obtaining a use permit in compliance with
the standards as set forth in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Large family day care standards. The Planning Director or Planning
Commission shall grant an application for a use permit to operate a large
family day care home if it finds that all of the following standards have been
met, and shall require that such standards be met at all times and maintained
throughout the use of the permit by the proposed operator:
      (1)   The operator shall reside in the home, and the home shall be the
operator's legal principal residence. The operator shall provide adequate
written evidence of its residency.
      (2)   The use of the home as a large family day care home shall be
clearly incidental and secondary to the primary residential use of the home and
property.
      (3)   The property and home shall not have been altered or structurally
changed in a way which is adverse to the character or appearance of the
neighborhood or residential zone.
      (4)   One off-street parking space shall be provided for each non-
resident employee. Such parking space shall be in addition to the minimum
parking requirements applicable to the property consistent with the provisions
of this chapter, including, but not limited to, provisions applicable to legal,
non-conforming residential buildings. The residential driveway is acceptable so
long as the parking space does not conflict with any required child drop-off/
pickup area and does not block the public sidewalk or right-of-way.
      (5)   The garage shall not be used for any purpose relating to the care
giving of the children unless it has been converted in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. Replacement parking (if needed) shall be sufficient
to comply with the requirements of this chapter, including the provisions of
this section.
      (6)   Sufficient procedures for the loading and unloading of children
from vehicles shall have been submitted by applicant. If there is not
sufficient on-street parking to allow for the safe loading and unloading of
children from vehicles, the driveway shall be used for this purpose. The public
sidewalk and/or right-of-way shall not be blocked while completing the loading
and unloading process. Double parking in the street is prohibited. The
applicant shall be responsible for the safe loading and unloading of children
and shall distribute a notice of loading and unloading procedures to all
persons that utilize services of the large family day care home. The day care
provider is responsible for adherence to these rules.
      (7)   If the residence is located on a major arterial street, there must
be a drop-off/pickup area designed to prevent vehicles from backing onto the
major arterial roadway.
      (8)   No signs or other indicia may be used to identify the residence as
a large family day care home, and no such signs or indicia may be visible from
the right-of-way.
      (9)   There shall be a minimum distance of 300 feet between the parcel on
which the large family day care home is located and the nearest parcel
containing a licensed large family day care home.
      (10)   No more than one large family day care home shall be permitted
within a 500 foot radius of any child day care facility or elementary school.
      (11)   The applicant shall be in compliance with all applicable
regulations of the Fire Department and the Building Official regarding health
and safety requirements.
      (12)   The applicant shall have applied for a large family day care home
license from the State of California, Department of Social Services.
      (13)   The applicant shall not allow smoking within the residence when
any of the children being cared for are present in the residence.
      (14)   Large family day care homes shall not create noise levels in
excess of those allowed in single-family residential areas in the noise element
of the General Plan. The Planning Commission may impose reasonable limits on
the hours of operation of the large family day care home in order to ensure
that these limits are met.
(Ord. 852 C.S., passed 1-7-09)
VARIANCES
§ 10-3.1401 NECESSITY.
   (A)   Where practical difficulties, unnecessary hardships, or results
inconsistent with the general purposes of this chapter may result from the
strict and literal application of any of the provisions of this chapter, a
variance may be granted as provided in this subchapter. All acts of the
Commission and Council under the provisions of this subchapter shall be
construed as administrative acts performed for the purpose of assuring that the
intent and purposes of this chapter shall apply in special cases, as provided
in this subchapter, and shall not be construed as amendments to the provisions
of this chapter or the zoning maps.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted to authorize the use of land which is not
in conformity with the use regulations specified for the district in which the
land is located.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1401) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 69 C.S., passed
1-20-65)
§ 10-3.1402 NECESSARY CONDITIONS.
   Variances shall be granted only when, because of special circumstances
applicable to the property, including size, shape, topography, location, or
surroundings, the strict application of the zoning regulations deprives such
property of privileges enjoyed by other property in the vicinity under
identical zoning classifications. Any variance granted shall be subject to such
conditions as will assure that the adjustment thereby authorized shall not
constitute a grant of special privileges inconsistent with the limitations upon
other properties in the vicinity and zone in which such property is located.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1402) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 103 C.S., passed
3-1-67)
§ 10-3.1403 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for variances shall be made in writing to the Commission on
forms prescribed by the Commission. The application shall be filed with the
Planning Director. The Planning Division shall provide forms for such purposes
and may prescribe the information to be provided in such application. Such
applications shall be numbered consecutively in the order of their filing and
shall become a part of the permanent official records of the city. Copies of
all notices, reports, and actions pertaining to the application shall be
attached.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1403) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 652 C.S., passed
3-6-96)
§ 10-3.1404 FILING FEE.
   Each application for a variance shall be accompanied by a fee in an amount
as established by resolution of the City Council. The requirement of the filing
fee shall not apply to public agencies.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1404) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 94 C.S., passed
7-5-66; Am. Ord. 323 C.S., passed 9-17-79)
§ 10-3.1405 INFORMATION REQUIRED WITH APPLICATION.
   The application for a variance shall set forth in detail such facts as may
be required by the Commission and as may relate to the conditions specified in
§
10-3.1402 of this subchapter and shall be accompanied by:
   (A)   A legal description of the property involved and the proposed use,
with plot plans showing locations of all proposed buildings or facilities as
well as existing buildings and a description of the proposed use;
   (B)   A reference to the specific provisions of this chapter from which such
property is sought to be excepted; and
   (C)   Evidence of the ability and intention of the applicant to proceed with
actual construction work in accordance with such plans within 90 days from the
date of granting the application.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1405) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.1406 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATIONS.
   The Commission shall cause to be made by its own members, or members of its
staff, such investigation of facts bearing upon such application as will serve
to provide all necessary information to assure that the action on each such
application is consistent with the intent and purposes of this chapter and with
previous amendments, variances, or modifications.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1406) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.1407 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever required by the provisions of this subchapter, or whenever
deemed advisable by the Planning Commission, a public hearing shall be held on
an application for a variance. Not less than ten days before such public
hearing, notice shall be given of such hearing in the following manner:
      (1)   By one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city. Such notice shall state the name of the applicant, nature of the request,
location of the property, the environmental determination, and the time and
place of the action or hearing.
      (2)   Direct mailing to the owners and occupants of property located
within 300 feet of the boundaries of the project site, as shown on the latest
equalized assessment roll.
      (3)   In addition, notice shall also be given by first class mail to any
person who has filed a written request with the Community Development
Department. Such a request may be submitted at any time during the calendar
year and shall apply for the balance of such calendar year. The city may impose
a reasonable fee on persons requesting such notice for the purpose of
recovering the cost of such mailing.
      (4)   Substantial compliance with these provisions shall be sufficient
and a technical failure to comply shall not affect the validity of any action
taken pursuant to the procedures set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   The hearing shall be held pursuant to the rules for conduct
established by the Planning Commission.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1407) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 618 C.S., passed
3-16-94)
§ 10-3.1408 PUBLIC HEARING.
   Public hearings for variance applications shall be held before the
Commission at the time and place for which public notice has been given. The
Commission may establish its own rules for the conduct of such hearing. Any
such hearings may be continued, provided, prior to the adjournment or recess
thereof, the presiding officer at such hearing announces the time and place to
which such hearing will be continued.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1408) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.1409 ACTION BY THE COMMISSION.
   Within 30 days after the conclusion of the public hearing thereon, the
Commission shall grant the variance with such conditions as it deems necessary
or shall deny the variance. In the event of the granting of a variance, the
Planning Director shall notify the applicant therefor of such granting in
writing, and such variance shall be effective upon execution by the applicant
of an acceptance thereof and agreement to abide by all the conditions attached
thereto.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1409) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 103 C.S., passed
3-1-67)
§ 10-3.1410 APPEALS TO THE COUNCIL.
   Any applicant for a variance aggrieved by the action of the Commission upon
such application may appeal the decision of the Commission to the Council. Such
appeal shall be made within ten calendar days after receipt of notice of the
action of the Commission and shall be submitted in writing to the City Clerk.
Thereafter, the Council may affirm, modify, or reverse the decision of the
Commission as it deems fit. Failure of the Council to take action upon such
appeal within 30 days after consideration of any such appeal at a Council
meeting shall constitute an affirmance of the action of the Commission unless
specifically otherwise stated by minute order of the Council before the
expiration of such 30-day period.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1410) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 103 C.S., passed
3-1-67)
§ 10-3.1411 TERMINATION.
   If the use authorized by any variance is or has been unused, abandoned, or
discontinued for a period of six months, or if the conditions of the variance
have not been complied with, the variance shall become null and void and of no
effect; excepting that where construction of buildings, structures, and/or
facilities is necessary, work on such construction shall be actually commenced
within the aforesaid six-month period and shall be diligently prosecuted to
completion; otherwise the variance shall be automatically null and void and of
no effect.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1411) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
AMENDMENTS
§ 10-3.1501 NECESSITY.
   Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare, or good zoning
practices require, this chapter may be amended by changing the zone boundaries
or by changing any other provisions hereof.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1501) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.1502 INITIATION OF PROCEDURE.
   An amendment may be initiated by:
   (A)   Resolution of intention of the Council;
   (B)   Resolution of intention of the Commission; or
   (C)   The verified application of one or more of the owners of the property
within the area proposed to be changed.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1502) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.1503 APPLICATION FOR CHANGE.
   Applications for any change of zone boundaries or reclassification of zones
or change of any other provision of this chapter shall be filed with the
Planning Director. Such applications shall be upon forms and accompanied by
such data and information as may be prescribed for that purpose by the
Commission so as to assure the fullest practicable presentation of facts for
the permanent record.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1503) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 652 C.S., passed
3-6-96)
§ 10-3.1504 FILING FEE.
   Each application for any change of zone boundaries shall be accompanied by a
fee as established by resolution of the City Council, no part of which shall be
returnable to the applicant.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1504) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - -; Am. Ord. 94 C.S., passed 7-
5-66; Am. Ord. 483 C.S., passed 10-21-87)
§ 10-3.1505 INVESTIGATION.
   The Commission shall cause to be made by its own members, or members of its
staff, such investigation of facts bearing upon such application as will serve
to provide all necessary information to assure that the action on each such
application is consistent with the intent and purposes of this chapter. Any
failure to conduct an investigation will not invalidate any proceedings for
amendment of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1505) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.1506 NOTICES.
   (A)   Any amendment to this title, other than an amendment which changes any
property from one zone to another, or which imposes any regulation relating to
the use of buildings, structures, and land, or the location, height, sizes of
buildings, or sizes of yards, courts, and open spaces, or which establishes
building setback lines along any street, road, or alley, shall be considered by
the Planning Commission at a public hearing for the purpose of providing a
recommendation to the City Council. Not less than ten days before such public
hearing, notice shall be given of such hearing in the following manner: by one
publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. Such notice
shall state the name of the applicant, nature of the request, location of the
property, the environmental determination, and the time and place of the action
or hearing.
   (B)   In the event a proposed amendment changes any property form one zone
to another, or imposes any regulation relating to the use of buildings,
structures, and land, or the location, height, sizes of buildings, or sizes of
yards, courts, and open spaces, or which establishes building setback lines
along any street, road, or alley, the following additional notice shall be
provided for a public hearing:
      (1)   Direct mailing to the owners and occupants of property located
within 300 feet of the boundaries of the project site, as shown on the latest
equalized assessment roll.
      (2)   In addition, notice shall also be given by first class mail to any
person who has filed a written request with the Community Development
Department. Such a request may be submitted at any time during the calendar
year and shall apply for the balance of such calendar year. The city may impose
a reasonable fee on persons requesting such notice for the purpose of
recovering the cost of such mailing.
      (3)   The public review period for the environmental determination
(negative declaration) shall not be less than 21 calendar days (30 days if
State Clearinghouse review is required).
      (4)   Substantial compliance with these provisions shall be sufficient
and a technical failure to comply shall not affect the validity of any action
taken pursuant to the procedures set forth in this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1506) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 332 N.S., passed
- - ; Am. 618 C.S., passed 3-16-94)
§ 10-3.1507 PUBLIC HEARING.
   Public hearings, as required by the provisions of this subchapter, shall be
held before the Commission which may establish its own rules for the conduct
thereof. Any such hearing may be continued by oral pronouncement prior to its
close and such pronouncement shall serve as sufficient notice of such
continuance and without recourse to the form and manner of public notice as
provided for in this subchapter.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1507) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.1508 FINDINGS OF THE COMMISSION.
   After the conclusion of the public hearings, the Commission shall render a
report and recommendation to the Council within 90 days after the notice of the
first of such hearings provided that such time limit may be extended upon the
mutual agreement of the parties having an interest in the proceedings. Failure
of the Commission so to report within 90 days without the aforesaid agreement
shall be deemed to constitute an approval of the proposed amendment by the
Commission.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1508) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.1509 ACTION BY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Upon receipt of such report from the Commission or upon the expiration
of 90 days, the Council shall set the matter for public hearing, notice of
which shall be given by one publication not less than ten days before the date
of the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the city; provided,
however, if the matter under consideration concerns the change of property from
one zone to another, and the Commission has recommended against the adoption of
such amendment, the Council need not take any further action thereon unless the
Council so desires or unless an interested party shall request a hearing
thereon by filing a written request with the City Clerk within five days after
the Commission files its recommendations with the Council.
   (B)   After the conclusion of such hearing, the Council may adopt the
amendment, or any part thereof, set forth in the petition in such form as the
Council may deem to be advisable.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1509) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 77 C.S., passed
6-2-65; Am. Ord. 103 C.S., passed 3-1-67)
§ 10-3.1510 USE PERMITS REQUIRED.
   From and after the date of adoption of the Resolution of Intention by the
Council or the Commission, or on the date of filing of the verified application
with the Commission for a proposed change of zone or zone boundaries, all uses
within the area proposed to be changed shall be permitted only upon first
securing in each case a use permit from the Commission. All uses permitted
pursuant to such use permits shall be limited to the uses allowable within the
existing zone of such area. In the event the proposal to change the zone is for
a more restricted zone, the Commission may restrict the uses within such area
to the more restricted proposed zone.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1510) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 282 N.S., passed
- - )
§ 10-3.1511 SPECIAL ZONING EXCEPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, if an application for
a change of zone boundaries or reclassification of zones is filed with the
Commission, accompanied by a proposal for the use of such property as
hereinafter set forth, the Commission may recommend that the Council, instead
of granting or denying such application, authorize the issuance of a special
zoning exception which will permit the development or use of such property in
accordance with such proposed development Before consideration by the
Commission or Council of the granting of a special zoning exception, an
applicant shall submit all of the following information:
   (A)   Three prints of a site plan drawn to scale which shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   Lot dimensions;
      (2)   Location, elevations, size, height, and the proposed use of all
buildings and structures;
      (3)   Location and dimensions of yards and spaces between buildings;
      (4)   Location, height, and type of construction of walls and fences;
      (5)   Location of off-street parking facilities, including the number of
spaces, the dimensions of the parking area, and the internal circulation
pattern;
      (6)   Access points for pedestrians, vehicular and service traffic, and
internal circulation;
      (7)   Location, size, and height of any proposed signs;
      (8)   Loading areas, including the dimensions, the number of spaces, and
the internal circulation;
      (9)   Location and general nature and hooding devices for lighting;
      (10)   Dedications for public use and proposed improvements; and
      (11)   Landscaping and such other data as may be required by the Planning
Engineer or the Commission; and
   (B)   Facts which will enable the Commission to find all of the following:
      (1)   That if a special zoning exception is granted, there will be
compliance with all the applicable provisions of this code; and
      (2)   That the public health, safety, and welfare will not be affected or
that damage or prejudice to other property or improvements in the vicinity will
not result if a special zoning exception is allowed.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1511) (Ord. 77 C.S., passed 6-2-65)
§ 10-3.1512 EXCEPTIONS PROCEDURE.
   If an application is submitted to the Planning Engineer in accordance with
the provisions of §
10-3.1511 of this subchapter, all other provisions of this subchapter shall
apply to the processing of the application for the proposed change in zone
boundaries; provided, however, if a special zoning exception is authorized by
the Council, after the conclusion of the public hearing upon the application
for the change in zone boundaries, no action shall be taken by the Council to
effectuate any such change until it has been determined that all of the
conditions of the granting of the special exception have been met. Each special
zoning exception shall specify a certain date on, or before, which work upon
the proposed use of the land shall have been commenced to the satisfaction of
the Planning Engineer. The failure of an applicant or his or her successor in
interest to the property involved to commence such work within such time shall
nullify the special zoning exception, and the application for the change of
zone shall be deemed denied.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1512) (Ord. 77 C.S., passed 6-2-65)
§ 10-3.1513 CONDITIONS.
   Special zoning exceptions may be granted in accordance with this subchapter
subject to any or all of the conditions hereinafter set forth by way of example
only and not by way of limitation:
   (A)   Construction of special yards, spaces, and buffers;
   (B)   Construction of fences and walls;
   (C)   Surfacing of parking areas to city specifications;
   (D)   Dedication of property for public use and completion of improvements,
including service roads or alleys;
   (E)   Regulation of points of vehicular ingress and egress;
   (F)   Regulation of signs;
   (G)   Completion of landscaping and provisions for the maintenance thereof;
   (H)   The establishment of restrictions to control noise, vibration, odors,
and other similar characteristics;
   (I)   The posting of faithful performance and labor and materials' bonds in
amounts recommended by the City Engineer to insure completion of any public
improvements which are required to be made as a condition of the granting of
the zoning exception. Such work shall be completed within the time specified by
the Council; provided, however, if no time is specified by the Council, such
work shall be completed in one year from the date the special zoning exception
is approved; and
   (J)   Such other conditions as will make possible the development of the
city in an orderly and efficient manner in conformity with the intent and
purposes set forth in this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1513) (Ord. 77 C.S., passed 6-2-65)
§ 10-3.1514 BUILDING PERMITS.
   Before any building permit shall be issued for any building or structure
proposed as part of the approved site plan referred to in §
10-3.1511 of this subchapter, the Building Inspector shall secure written
approval from the Planning Engineer that the proposed building location is in
conformity with the site plan and conditions approved by the Council. Before a
building may be occupied, the Building Inspector shall certify to the Planning
Engineer that the site has been developed in conformity with the site plan and
conditions approved by the Council.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1514) (Ord. 77 C.S., passed 6-2-65)
§ 10-3.1515 REZONING UPON COMPLETION OF WORK.
   Upon the development and use of property in accordance with the provisions
of §
10-3.1513 of this subchapter, the district, or part thereof, for which the
special zoning exception was granted shall be thereupon rezoned, altered,
amended, and established in accordance with the original application, or as set
forth in the order of the Council made at the time such zoning exception was
granted.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1515) (Ord. 77 C.S., passed 6-2-65)
INTERPRETATION, ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS, AND PENALTIES
§ 10-3.1601 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The Commission shall have the power to hear and decide appeals based
on the enforcement or interpretation of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   In the event an applicant is not satisfied with the action of the
Commission on any particular matter, he or she may, within 15 days from the
date of such action, appeal in writing to the Council.
   (C)   The appeal to the Council shall set forth specifically wherein the
Commission's findings were in error and wherein the public necessity,
convenience, and welfare or good zoning practices require such change.
   (D)   Notice shall be given to the Commission of such appeal, and a report
shall be submitted by the Commission to the Council setting forth the reasons
for action taken by the Commission, or the Commission shall be represented at
the Council meeting.
   (E)   The Council shall render its decision within 30 days following the
filing of such appeal.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1601) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - )
§ 10-3.1602 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Issuance of permits and licenses. All departments, officials, and
public employees of the city vested with the duty or authority to issue permits
and licenses shall conform to the provisions of this chapter. No permit or
license for uses, buildings, or purposes in conflict with the provisions of
this chapter shall be issued. Any permit or license issued in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter shall be null and void. It shall be the duty of the
Planning Director to enforce the provisions of this chapter pertaining to the
erection, construction, reconstruction, moving, conversion, alteration, or
addition to any building by structure.
   (B)   Approval of Planning Director. Before issuing a business license for
any new business, or before issuing a business license for a new location of
any existing business activity, the Finance Department shall obtain the
approval of the Planning Director respecting compliance with the provisions of
this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1602) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - - ; Am. Ord. 652 C.S., passed
3-6-96)
§ 10-3.1603 VIOLATIONS OF CHAPTER; DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Any person, whether as principal, agent, employee, owner, occupant,
tenant, lessee or otherwise, violating or causing the violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, except §§
10-3.1603(B)(12), (B)(13) or (B)(17) is specifically declared to be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Any person, whether as principal, agent, employee, owner,
occupant, tenant, lessee or otherwise, violating or causing the violation of
any of the provisions of §§
10-3.1603(B)(12), (B)(13) or (B)(17) of this chapter is specifically declared
to be guilty of an infraction. Any building or structure set up, erected,
constructed, operated, or maintained contrary to the provisions of this
chapter, and any use of any land, building or premises established, conducted,
operated, or maintained contrary to the provisions of this chapter and any uses
of real property as hereinafter set forth shall be and are declared unlawful
and a public nuisance.
   (B)   In addition and supplemental to the terms and provisions of this
chapter, the hereinafter activities of any person owning, leasing, occupying,
or having charge or possession of real property in this city are declared a
public nuisance and shall be abated as hereinafter set forth. The conduct
consists of the following:
      (1)   The maintenance of any building or property in such a manner as to
constitute a fire hazard or danger to human life or the maintenance or failure
to maintain the property so as to constitute a fire hazard or a likely habitat
for vermin or to maintain property, the topography or configuration of which,
whether a natural state or as a result of grading operations, causes or will
cause erosion, subsidence, or surface water run-off problems which will or may
be injurious to the public health, safety, and welfare to adjacent or nearby
properties;
      (2)   To maintain or fail to maintain property or any building or
structure thereon, so that it is found, as provided in this chapter, to be
defective, unsightly, defaced, or in such condition of deterioration or
disrepair that it causes or will cause an ascertainable diminishment of the
property values of surrounding properties or is otherwise materially
detrimental to adjacent and nearby properties and improvements. The term
DEFACED as used herein includes, but is not limited to, writings, inscriptions,
figures, scratches, or other markings commonly referred to as GRAFFITI;
      (3)   To abandon or vacate any structure so that it becomes readily
available to unauthorized persons, including, but not limited to, juveniles and
vagrants. Such abandonment or vacation shall be presumed when a building or
structure which is uninhabited or unused is unsecured and when the public can
gain entry without consent of the owner or is a partially constructed,
reconstructed, or demolished building or structure upon which work is
abandoned, such abandonment being deemed to exist when there is no valid and
current building or demolition permit or where there has not been any
substantial work on the project for a period of six months or more;
      (4)   The maintenance or the failure to maintain any real property,
structures, or uses or activities thereon in violation of any of the provisions
of titles 3, 4, 5, 7, 9 and 10 of the City Municipal Code, or as specified in
Cal. Health & Safety Code §§ 17920.3 et seq., or of the State Housing Law or §
104 of the Uniform Code for Building Conservation or the storage, discharge,
holding, handling, maintaining, using, or otherwise dealing with hazardous
substances as defined by the State Health and Safety Codes or the Superfund
Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, Title 3 or other federal laws
relating thereto in violation of such regulations;
      (5)   The maintenance of or allowing to be maintained on any real
property, any labor supply camp, labor camp, or temporary labor camp as defined
in the Health and Safety Code of the State unless specifically authorized in
the zoning district in which the property is located;
      (6)   The keeping or maintaining of any animal, reptile, fowl, insect, or
other living thing in such a manner as to pose a threat, disturbance, danger,
or menace to persons or property of another, including public property;
      (7)   The maintenance or operation of any machinery which by reason of
dust, exhaust, or fumes creates a health or safety hazard;
      (8)   The parking, storage, or maintenance of any of the following items
in residential areas except as otherwise allowed in this code;
         (a)   Any airplane or other aircraft or parts thereof in any front or
side yard;
         (b)   Any construction or commercial equipment, machinery, vehicles,
or material except such equipment or material temporarily located on the
property as may be required for construction or installation of improvements or
facilities on the property;
         (c)   Special mobile equipment as defined in Cal. Veh. Code § 575 or
other sections for any period in excess of 72 consecutive hours in a front or
side yard unless such items are either in an accessory building constructed in
accordance with the provisions of the City Municipal Code or in any area which
provides for a five foot set-back from any property lines. In no event shall
any such equipment be parked, stored, or kept within five feet of any exit,
including exit windows.
      (9)   The keeping, operating, or maintaining any motor vehicle which has
been wrecked, dismantled, or disassembled or any part thereof on any property
in a residential zone in excess of 72 consecutive hours unless the same is
either in an accessory building constructed in accordance with the provisions
of the City Municipal Code or completely concealed from public view behind a
solid fence or wall constructed in accordance with the provisions of the
Municipal Code;
      (10)   The keeping, maintenance, or storage of any refrigerator, washing
machine, sink, stove, heater, boiler, tank, or any other household equipment,
machinery, or furniture other than furniture designed for use in outdoor
activities for a period in excess of 72 consecutive hours, on any property,
provided, however, this prohibition shall not preclude the maintenance of
machinery installed in the rear set-back area of property for household or
recreational use, furniture designed and used for outdoor activities, and items
stored or kept within an enclosed storage structure or unit;
      (11)   The wrecking, dismantling, disassembling, manufacturing,
fabricating, building, remodeling, assembling, repairing, painting, washing,
cleaning, or servicing in any set-back area of any airplane, aircraft, motor
vehicle, boat, trailer, machinery, equipment, appliance or appliances,
furniture, or other personal property;
      (12)   The use of any trailer, camper, recreational vehicle, or motor
vehicle for living or sleeping quarters in any place in the city outside of a
lawfully operated mobile home park or travel trailer park. This shall not
prevent bona fide guests of a city resident from occupying a trailer, camper,
or recreation vehicle on residential premises with the consent of the resident
or land-owner for a period not to exceed 72 hours. Any such trailer, camper, or
recreational vehicle so used shall not discharge any waste or sewerage into the
city sewer system except through the residential discharge connection of the
residential premises on which such trailer, camper, or recreation vehicle may
be parked. No such trailer, camper, or recreation vehicle shall be stored in
such a way as to encroach upon, extend over, or remain in any public right-of-
way or in any area so as to cause an impedance to passage or traffic hazard, or
be allowed to remain in any place or in such a way that it will or may be
injurious to the public health, safety, or welfare. No person shall park or
leave standing a recreational vehicle trailer, including but not limited to any
camp trailer, vehicle transportation trailer, trailer coach or boat trailer,
regardless of width, on any street, alley or public right-of-way in the city
for a period exceeding 72 hours.
      (13)   The placing, hanging, affixing, maintaining or otherwise
displaying upon any fence, wall, tree, bush, plant, or any other structure or
portion thereof, any clothes, linens, rugs, fabrics, carpets, rags, or any
other similar item except upon a clothesline apparatus constructed and
maintained for the purpose of placing such items outside for drying. The
placement of such clothesline(s) shall be prohibited within any required front
yard or street side yard setback area;
      (14)   The maintaining of any condition, instrumentality or machine
located outside of any structure on any premises, which is or may be unsafe or
dangerous to children by reason of their inability to appreciate the peril
therein, and which may reasonably be expected to attract children to the
premises and risk injury by playing with, in, or on it, including but not
limited to abandoned, broken or neglected equipment, machinery, appliances,
refrigerators and freezers, hazardous pools or ponds, uncapped or otherwise
dangerous wells, and excavations. This subsection shall not apply to equipment
or machinery which is being temporarily used for repair or maintenance of a
structure or premises, and which is under the direct supervision of the person
(s) performing such maintenance or repair. This subsection shall not apply to
swimming pools which are properly constructed and maintained in conformance
with applicable regulations, laws and ordinances;
      (15)   The maintaining of unpainted buildings and those having dry rot,
warping or termite infestation or the maintaining of any building on which the
condition of the paint has become so deteriorated as to permit decay, excessive
checking, cracking peeling, chalking, dry rot, warping or termite infestation
as to render the building unsafe or in a state of disrepair inconsistent with
the condition of the surrounding neighborhood;
      (16)   The maintaining of buildings with windows containing broken glass
or no glass at all, where the window is of a type which normally contains
glass;
      (17)   The maintaining of trees, weeds, or other types of vegetation that
are dead, decayed, infested, diseased, overgrown, likely to harbor rats, vermin
or other nuisances or which obstruct the view of drivers on public streets or
private driveways, or which impede, obstruct or deny pedestrian or other lawful
travel on sidewalks, walkways, or other public rights-of-way. The following
conditions of vegetation shall be deemed to be a non-exclusive list of
nuisances:
            (a)   A tree with limbs overhanging a street or sidewalk where such
limbs are less than ten feet above such street or sidewalk;
            (b)   A hedge, bush or shrub overhanging a street or sidewalk;
            (c)   A hedge, bush or shrub on a corner lot within the triangular
area formed by a line connecting points 20 feet from the intersection of
projected street property lines with the point of the intersection of street
property lines if such hedge, bush or shrub is more than 30 inches high from
the surface of the ground;
            (d)   The limb of a tree or a hedge, bush or shrub which is so
situated in or above the space between a sidewalk and the curb, as to obscure
and impair the reading by motorists in the abutting portion of the street, of
stop signs or other traffic signs or control devices;
            (e)   Turf in excess of eight inches in height. For purposes of
this section, the term TURF shall mean a thick-matted groundcover material
consisting of one or several types of grasses, which is grown on open space
areas.
('61 Code, § 10-3.1603) (Ord. 231 N.S., passed - -; Am. Ord. 596 C.S., passed
4-5-93; Am. Ord. 808 C.S., passed 1-3-07)
§ 10-3.1604 ABATEMENT.
   Any public nuisance found, as provided in this chapter, to exist on or be
associated with any real property, shall be abated by the procedures set forth
in this chapter.
(Ord. 596 C.S., passed 4-5-93)
§ 10-3.1605 COMMENCEMENT OF PROCEEDINGS.
   Whenever the Director or Chief, as appropriate, of a responsible department
(hereinafter DIRECTOR) reasonably believes a nuisance exists, he or she shall
commence abatement proceedings. The Director of Community Development shall
have responsibility for abating nuisance pertaining to  the building and zoning
ordinances of the City, Titles 9 and 10, respectively, of the City Municipal
Code; and the Director of Public Works, City Engineer, Fire Chief, or Police
Chief shall have responsibility for abating all other nuisances under code
sections for which they are directly responsible.
(Ord. 596 C.S., passed 4-5-93)
§ 10-3.1606 HEARING; NOTICE.
   (A)   Where the Director finds that the nuisance exists, he or she shall
give not less than seven days written notice of a hearing to determine whether
a nuisance exists to the owners of affected properties as shown on the latest
equalized tax assessment roll by mailing the same to the owner's address as
indicated thereon by certified letter, and further, by conspicuously posting on
the affected premises a copy of the notice.
   (B)   The notice shall indicate the nature of the alleged nuisance, the
description of the property involved, and the designation of the time and place
of the hearing to determine whether the same constitutes a nuisance, and the
manner of its proposed abatement if the same is found to be a nuisance.
   (C)   The failure of any person to receive the notice shall not affect the
validity of any proceedings under this subchapter.
(Ord. 596 C.S., passed 4-5-93)
§ 10-3.1607 HEARING CONDUCT.
   The hearing to determine whether a nuisance exists shall be conducted by the
City Administrator or a duly authorized representative, who shall act as the
Hearing Officer. At the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall consider all
relevant evidence, including but not limited to applicable staff reports. He or
she shall give any interested person a reasonable opportunity to be heard in
conjunction therewith. Based upon the evidence so presented, the Hearing
Officer shall determine whether a nuisance within the meaning of this chapter
exists.
(Ord. 596 C.S., passed 4-5-93)
§ 10-3.1608 ORDER OF ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The decision of the Hearing Officer shall be final and conclusive in
the absence of an appeal as provided in the Municipal Code.
   (B)   The Hearing Officer shall, within five working days, give written
notice of his or her decision to the owner and to any other person requesting
the same. The notice shall contain an order of abatement, if a nuisance is
determined to exist, directed to the owner of the affected property or the
person in control and/or in charge of the property, and shall set forth the
nature of the nuisance, its location and the time and manner for its abatement.
   (C)   Where an appeal is filed as provided in this code, the order of
abatement shall be suspended pending the review of the determination in the
manner set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 596 C.S., passed 4-5-93)
§ 10-3.1609 APPEAL.
   (A)   The owner of the property or any other person in possession or
claiming any legal or equitable interest therein shall have the right of appeal
to the City Council.
   (B)   The appeal shall be filed with the City Clerk within five working days
following the decision of the Hearing Officer. The appeal shall be in writing
and shall state the grounds for the appeal.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall set the matter for a public hearing before the
Council at a date and time not less than ten nor more than 35 days following
the filing of the appeal. The City Clerk shall then notify the appellant, by
mail, of the date and time of the hearing. The City Council may continue the
hearing date where necessary.
   (D)   The Council may, by resolution, establish a fee for the processing of
an appeal.
(Ord. 596 C.S., passed 4-5-93)
§ 10-3.1610 COUNCIL ACTION.
   (A)   At the time and place set for such hearing, the City Council shall
review the decision of the Hearing Officer and shall afford the appellant a
reasonable opportunity to be heard in connection therewith.
   (B)   If the City Council finds from the relevant evidence presented at the
hearing that the action taken was in conformity with the provisions of the
code, it shall require compliance with the order of abatement within 30 days
after the mailing of a copy of its order to the affected property owner unless
a period of time in excess of 30 days is specifically authorized within which
to abate the nuisance.
   (C)   If the nuisance is not abated within the 30-day period or within such
longer period as the Council may provide, the Director of the responsible
Department is expressly authorized and directed to enter upon the premises for
the purpose of abating the nuisance after obtaining the permission of the owner
of the equitable interest therein, or after obtaining a warrant or court order
specifically authorizing entrance upon the premises for the express purpose of
abating the nuisance.
(Ord. 596 C.S., passed 4-5-93)
§ 10-3.1611 NOTICE OF COUNCIL DECISION.
   A copy of the Council's order shall be mailed to the owner, and to any other
person requesting the same, by the City Clerk within five working days after
the adoption thereof. The Council's decision shall be final and conclusive.
Pursuant to Code of Cal. Civ. Proc. § 1094.6, any action to review the decision
of the Council shall be commenced not later than 19 days after the date the
Council's order is adopted.
(Ord. 596 C.S., passed 4-5-93)
§ 10-3.1612 COST OF ABATEMENT.
   Where the Director is required to cause the abatement of a public nuisance
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, he or she shall keep an accounting
of the cost thereof, including incidental expenses for the abatement. The term
INCIDENTAL EXPENSES includes but is not limited to the actual expenses and
costs of the city in the preparation of notices, specifications, and contracts,
inspection of the work, and the costs of printing and mailings required under
this chapter. Upon conclusion of the abatement, he or she shall submit an
itemized statement of costs to the city and set the same for a hearing before
the Hearing Officer. The Director shall cause notice of the time and place of
the hearing to be given to the owners of the property to which the same relate,
and to any other interested person requesting the same, by US mail, postage
prepaid, addressed to the person at his or her last known address at least five
days in advance of the hearing.
(Ord. 596 C.S., passed 4-5-93)
§ 10-3.1613 REPORT; HEARING AND PROCEEDINGS.
   At the time and place fixed for receiving and considering the report, the
Hearing Officer shall hear and pass upon the report of the Director together
with any objections or protests raised by any of the persons liable to be
assessed for the cost of abating the nuisance. Thereupon, the City Manager
shall make such revision, correction, and modification to the report, as he or
she may deem just, after which the report is submitted, or as revised,
corrected, or modified, shall be confirmed. The hearing may be continued from
time to time. The decision of the Hearing Officer shall be subject to an appeal
to the City Council in the time and manner set forth in §§
10-3.1707 and
10-3.1708.
(Ord. 596 C.S., passed 4-5-93)
§ 10-3.1614 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS AGAINST PROPERTY.
   The confirmed cost of abatement of a nuisance upon any lot or parcel of land
shall constitute a special assessment against the respective lot or parcel of
land to which it relates; and, after due notice and recordation, as thus made
and confirmed, the same shall constitute a lien on the property in the amount
of the assessment. After the confirmation of the report, a copy thereof shall
be transmitted to the Tax Collector for the county, whereupon it shall be the
duty of the Tax Collector to add the amounts of the assessment, or assessments,
to the next regular bills of taxes levied against the respective lots and
parcels of land for municipal purposes; and thereafter the amounts shall be
collected at the same time and in the same manner as ordinary municipal taxes
are collected, and shall be subject to the same penalties and the same
procedure for foreclosure and sale in case of delinquency as provided for
ordinary municipal taxes.
(Ord. 596 C.S., passed 4-5-93)
§ 10-3.1615 ALTERNATIVES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the City Attorney from
commencing a civil action to abate a nuisance, including bringing an action to
enjoin the nuisance, in addition to, alternatively to, or in conjunction with
the proceedings set forth in this chapter; nor shall anything in this chapter
be deemed to prevent the city from commencing a criminal action with respect to
the nuisance in addition to, alternatively to, or in conjunction with the
proceedings set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 596 C.S., passed 4-5-93; Am. Ord. 841 C.S., passed 7-2-08)
§ 10-3.1616 EMERGENCY ABATEMENT.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter with reference to the
abatement of public nuisance, whenever the Director of a responsible department
determines that property, a building, or structure is structurally unsafe, or
constitutes a fire hazard, or is otherwise dangerous to human life, and such
condition constitutes an immediate hazard or danger, he or she shall, without
observing the provisions of this chapter with reference to abatement
procedures, immediately and forthwith abate the existing public nuisance.
(Ord. 596 C.S., passed 4-5-93)
§ 10-3.1617 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (A)   The owner or other person having charge or control of any such
buildings or premises who maintains any public nuisance defined in this
subchapter, or who violates an order of abatement made pursuant to §
10-3.1706 is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any occupant or lessee in possession of any building or structure in
violation of an order given as provided in this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   (C)   No person shall obstruct, impede, or interfere with any representative
of the City Council or with any representative of a city department or with any
person who owns or holds any estate or interest in a building which has been
ordered to be vacated, repaired, rehabilitated, or demolished and removed, or
with any person to whom any such building has been lawfully sold pursuant to
the provisions of this code whenever any such representative of the City
Council, representative of the city, purchaser, or person having any interest
or estate in the building is engaged in vacating, repairing, rehabilitating, or
demolishing and removing any such building pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, or in performing any necessary act preliminary to or incidental to
such work as authorized or directed pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. 596 C.S., passed 4-5-93)
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
§ 10-3.1701 AUTHORITY FOR ADOPTION.
   These regulations are adopted under the authority of Cal. Gov’t Code §§
65864 through 65869.5. All development agreements entered into pursuant to this
subchapter shall be approved by ordinance of the City Council.
(Ord. 817 C.S., passed 6-20-07)
§ 10-3.1702 FORMS AND INFORMATION.
   The Community Development Director shall prescribe the form for each
application, notice and documents provided for or required under these
regulations for the preparation and implementation of development agreements.
The Community Development Director may require an applicant to submit such
information and supporting data as the Community Development Director considers
necessary to process the application. An applicant requesting consideration and
adoption of a development agreement shall at a minimum include the following
information:
   (A)   The nature of the applicant's legal or equitable interest in the
subject real property and a legal description of the property sufficient for
recordation;
   (B)   A description of the development project sufficient to enable the
Community Development Department and other departments and agencies to review
the application for legality, compliance with standards, consistency with
applicable plans, and environmental assessment requirements. The Planning
Division may require the description to include site and building plans,
architectural elevations, a description of the project's relationship to
adjacent properties and land uses;
   (C)   A listing of each discretionary or ministerial action, permit and/or
entitlement necessary for, or previously obtained with respect to, the project,
including actions, permits, and/or entitlements issued by, or to be obtained
from agencies other than the city. The listing will describe and distinguish
between those elements of the development project which are proposed to be
fixed by the development agreement and those which may be subject to further
review;
   (D)   The proposed duration of the development agreement;
   (E)   The density and or intensity of the uses to be permitted;
   (F)   The maximum height and size of the proposed buildings;
   (G)   Provisions for reservation or dedication of land for public purposes,
as applicable;
   (H)   Any proposed conditions, terms, restrictions or requirements to be
applicable to subsequent discretionary actions, provided that the proposed
conditions, terms, restrictions or requirements shall not be construed to
prevent development of the land for the uses and to the density or intensity of
development set forth in the development agreement, unless specifically and
expressly provided in the development agreement;
   (I)   A date by which construction shall have been commenced;
   (J)   Proposed phasing of the development project and of the construction of
public facilities, including estimated and mandatory completion dates, interim
progress milestones, and performance standards for periodic review of the
development agreement;
   (K)   The manner in which the applicant proposes to finance and provide
security for the construction of public facilities, and provisions for
reimbursement, if any;
   (L)   A provision including as terms of the development agreement all
mitigation measures previously adopted pursuant to the California Environmental
Quality Act with respect to discretionary actions, permits and/or entitlements
for the project granted by the city or other agencies, and a provision
committing the applicant to incorporate as terms of the development agreement,
to the extent required by the California Environmental Quality Act, all future
mitigation measures necessary to avoid or substantially lessen significant
environmental effects which can be feasibly mitigated, provided that nothing in
this subchapter shall preclude the preparation of statements of overriding
considerations when deemed appropriate and lawful by the city or other
agencies;
   (M)   A clause requiring the applicant to indemnify the city against claims
arising out of the development process and to provide insurance in an amount
and form acceptable to the city attorney to assure the applicant's ability to
satisfy its indemnification duty.
(Ord. 817 C.S., passed 6-20-07)
§ 10-3.1703 QUALIFICATION AS AN APPLICANT.
   Only a qualified applicant may file an application to enter into a
development agreement. A qualified applicant is a person who has legal or
equitable interest in the real property which is the subject of the development
agreement. Applicant includes an authorized agent. The Community Development
Director may require an applicant to submit proof (including but not limited to
a title report) of his/her interest in the real property and of the authority
of the agent to act for the applicant. Before processing the application, the
Community Development Director shall obtain the opinion of the City Attorney as
to the sufficiency of the applicant's interest in the real property to enter
into the agreement.
(Ord. 817 C.S., passed 6-20-07)
§ 10-3.1704 PROPOSED FORM OF AGREEMENT.
   Each application shall be accompanied by the form of development agreement
proposed by the applicant. This requirement may be met by utilizing the city's
standard form of development agreement adopted by the Community Development
Director, and including specific proposals for changes in, or additions to the
language of the standard form.
(Ord. 817 C.S., passed 6-20-07)
§ 10-3.1705 FEES.
   Fees to be imposed for the filing and processing of each application,
required consideration, and adoption of a development agreement shall be as
prescribed by resolution adopted by the City Council. No such application shall
be deemed complete unless it is accompanied by the current filing and
processing fee. The filing and processing fee shall be in addition to any other
required fees for permits or capital improvements relating to the development
project, and shall be for the purpose of defraying the costs incurred by the
city during review and action upon the development agreement application and
during periodic review thereof.
(Ord. 817 C.S., passed 6-20-07)
§ 10-3.1706 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   The Community Development Director shall endorse the application on
the date it is received. He or she shall review the application and may reject
it if it is incomplete or inaccurate for processing. If he or she finds that
the application is complete, he or she shall accept it for filing. The Director
shall review the application and determine the additional requirements
necessary to complete the agreement.
   (B)   Upon acceptance of a complete application, the development agreement
and supporting information shall be circulated to each city department or local
agency having an interest in the project. Each such department or agency shall
review, comment upon, and recommend such changes to the proposed development
agreement as may be necessary or desirable.
   (C)   After receiving responses from other departments or agencies, the
Director shall prepare a staff report and recommendation and shall state
whether or not the agreement proposed, or in an amended form, would be
consistent with the general plan and any applicable specific plan.
(Ord. 817 C.S., passed 6-20-07)
§ 10-3.1707 COORDINATION OF APPLICATIONS.
   To the extent practicable, applications requesting consideration and
adoption of development agreements will be made and considered concurrently
with the review of other discretionary permit applications within the city's
control. It is the city's intent to avoid duplicative hearings and the
repetition of information and effort. The development agreement shall not
constitute a substitute for, or an alternative to, any other required permit or
approval, and the applicant must comply with all other procedures required for
development approval.
(Ord. 817 C.S., passed 6-20-07)
§ 10-3.1708 HEARING NOTICE.
   (A)   The Community Development Director shall give notice of the city's
intention to consider adoption of the development agreement and of any other
public hearing required by law or the municipal code.
   (B)   The form of the notice of intention to consider adoption of
development agreement shall contain:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The identity of the hearing body;
      (3)   A general explanation of the matter to be considered including a
general description and location of the area affected; and
      (4)   Other information required by specific provision of these
regulations or which the Community Development Director considers necessary or
desirable.
   (C)   The time and manner of giving notice is by both of the following:
      (1)   Publication at least once in a newspaper of general circulation,
published and circulated in the city, not less than ten days prior to the date
of the hearing.
      (2)   Mailing of the notice to all persons shown on the last equalized
assessment roll as owning real property within 300 feet of the property which
is the subject of the proposed development agreement, not less than ten days
prior to the date of the hearing.
   (D)   The Planning Commission or City Council, as the case may be, may
direct that notice of the public hearing to be held before it, shall be given
in a manner that exceeds the notice requirements prescribed by state law or
this article.
   (E)   The failure of any person, entitled to notice as required by law or
this chapter , to receive such notice does not affect the authority of the city
to enter into a development agreement or the validity thereof.
(Ord. 817 C.S., passed 6-20-07)
§ 10-3.1709 RULES GOVERNING CONDUCT OF HEARING.
   The public hearing shall be conducted as nearly as may be in accordance with
the procedural standards adopted for the conduct of zoning hearings. Each
person interested in the matter shall be given an opportunity to be heard. The
applicant has the burden of proof at the public hearing on the proposed
development agreement.
(Ord. 817 C.S., passed 6-20-07)
§ 10-3.1710 IRREGULARITY IN PROCEEDINGS.
   No action, inaction or recommendation regarding the proposed development
agreement shall be held void or invalid or be set aside by a court by reason of
any error, irregularity, informality, neglect or omission ("error") as to any
matter pertaining to a petition, application, notice, finding, record, hearing,
report, recommendation, or any matters of procedure whatsoever unless after an
examination of the entire case, including the evidence, the court is of the
opinion that the error complained of was prejudicial and that by reason of the
error the complaining party sustained and suffered substantial injury, and that
a different result would have been probable if the error had not occurred or
existed. There is no presumption that error is prejudicial or that injury was
done if error is shown.
(Ord. 817 C.S., passed 6-20-07)
§ 10-3.1711 DETERMINATION BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall conduct a public hearing on the proposed
development agreement, which may be continued from time to time. The Commission
shall consider the staff report, as well as comments from the applicant and
members of the public. Upon conclusion of the hearing, the Commission shall
report its recommendation to the City Council in the form of a resolution. The
Commission may recommend that the development agreement be adopted as proposed,
or with such amendments as the Commission deems to be necessary or desirable to
further the purposes of the municipal code, or otherwise in the public
interest; or the Commission may recommend that the development agreement be
rejected. The recommendation shall include the Planning Commission's
determination whether or not the development agreement proposed:
      (1)   Is consistent with the objectives, policies, general land uses and
programs specified in the general plan and any applicable specific plan;
      (2)   Is compatible with the uses authorized in, and the regulations
prescribed for, the land use district in which the real property is located;
      (3)   Is in conformity with public convenience, general welfare and good
land use practice;
      (4)   Will not be detrimental to the health, safety and general welfare;
and
      (5)   Will not adversely affect the orderly development of property or
the preservation of property values.
   The recommendation shall also include the reasons for the recommendation.
   (B)   Upon action by the Planning Commission, the proposed development
agreement, shall be forwarded to the City Clerk for scheduling as the
introduction of an ordinance at the next available meeting of the City Council.
(Ord. 817 C.S., passed 6-20-07)
§ 10-3.1712 DECISION BY CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the Planning Commission's recommendation, the City
Clerk shall schedule the proposed development agreement on the next available
meeting of the City Council as the introduction and first reading of an
ordinance.
   (B)   Not less than five days after the successful introduction of the
ordinance, a public hearing and second reading of the proposed development
agreement shall be held. Notice of the public hearing shall be provided in
accordance with §
10-3.1708.
   (C)   After the City Council completes the public hearing, which may be
continued from time to time, it may accept, modify or disapprove the
recommendation of the Planning Commission. It may, but need not, refer matters
not previously considered by the Planning Commission during its hearing, back
to the Planning Commission for report and recommendation. The Planning
Commission may, but need not, hold a public hearing on matters referred back to
it by the City Council.
   (D)   The City Council shall not approve the development agreement unless it
finds that the provisions of the agreement are consistent with the general plan
and any applicable specific plan.
   (E)   The City Council has sole discretion to either approve or not approve
a development agreement, and there is no right to have such an agreement
approved even if the City Council determines that it is in the best interests
of the city.
   (F)   Approval of a development agreement by the City Council shall be by
the adoption of an ordinance which shall be effective 31 days after adoption.
(Ord. 817 C.S., passed 6-20-07)
§ 10-3.1713 RECORDATION OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Within ten days after the city enters into a development agreement,
the City Clerk shall have the agreement recorded with the County Recorder. Upon
the effective date of the ordinance adopting the development agreement, the
agreement shall be effective and binding upon, and the benefits of the
agreement shall inure to, the parties and all successors in interest to the
parties to the agreement.
   (B)   If the parties to the development agreement or their successors in
interest amend or cancel the development agreement as provided above, or if the
city terminates or modifies the agreement for failure of the applicant to
comply in good faith with the terms or conditions of the agreement, the City
Clerk shall cause notice of such action to be recorded with the County
Recorder.
(Ord. 817 C.S., passed 6-20-07)
§ 10-3.1714 AMENDMENT AND CANCELLATION OF AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Either party may propose an amendment to or cancellation in whole or
in part of the development agreement previously entered into.
   (B)   The procedure for proposing and adoption of an amendment to or
cancellation in whole or in part of the development agreement is the same as
the procedure for entering into a development agreement. However, where the
city initiates the proposed amendment to or cancellation in whole or in part of
the development agreement based on its annual review thereof, it shall first
give notice to the property owner at least 30 days prior to the hearing by the
City Council to consider such amendment or cancellation.
(Ord. 817 C.S., passed 6-20-07)
§ 10-3.1715 PERIODIC REVIEW.
   (A)   The city shall review each development agreement every 12 months from
the date the agreement is entered into. The time for review may be modified to
be more frequent either by agreement between the parties or by initiation in
one or more of the following ways:
      (1)   Affirmative vote of at least four members of the Planning
Commission; or,
      (2)   Affirmative vote of at least three members of the City Council.
   (B)   The Community Development Director shall begin the review proceeding
by giving notice that the city intends to undertake a periodic review of the
development agreement to the property owner. Notice shall be provided at least
ten days in advance of the time at which the matter will be considered by the
Planning Commission.
   (C)   Annual review of development agreements shall be conducted by the
Planning Commission at a public hearing at which the property owner shall
demonstrate good faith compliance with the terms of development agreement. The
burden of proof on this issue is upon the property owner.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall determine upon the basis of substantial
evidence whether or not the property owner has, for the period under review,
complied in good faith with the terms and conditions of the development
agreement.
   (E)   If the Planning Commission finds and determines on the basis of
substantial evidence that the property owner has complied in good faith with
the terms and conditions of the agreement during the period under review, the
Commission shall by resolution adopt a statement of compliance certifying such
compliance in a form suitable for recording in the County Recorder's Office.
Upon recording of a statement of compliance, the review for that period is
concluded. A resolution adopting a statement of compliance shall be final ten
days after the Planning Commission decision, unless a notice of appeal has been
filed pursuant to the provisions of the municipal code.
   (F)   If the Planning Commission finds and determines on the basis of
substantial evidence that the property owner has not complied in good faith
with the terms and conditions of the agreement during the period under review,
the Planning Commission may recommend to the City Council that the development
agreement be modified or terminated.
   (G)   The procedure for modifying or terminating a development agreement
shall be the same as the procedure for entering into a development agreement,
except that the owner shall be given at least 30
(Ord. 817 C.S., passed 6-20-07)
§ 10-3.1716 STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE APPEALS.
   (A)   The applicant, City Council, or any affected person may appeal the
Planning Commission's resolution adopting a statement of compliance in
accordance with the provisions of the municipal code. The appellant shall bear
the burden of demonstrating, on the basis of substantial evidence, that the
applicant or successor in interest has not complied with the terms and
conditions of the adopted development agreement.
   (B)   The City Council may uphold the statement of compliance, amend and
approve the Planning Commission recommendation or statement of compliance, or
reject it. The City Council may unilaterally terminate or modify the
development agreement upon a determination based upon substantial evidence that
the applicant or successor in interest has not complied with the terms and
conditions of the agreement. Such determination shall be final and conclusive.
(Ord. 817 C.S., passed 6-20-07)
§ 10-3.1717 PROCEDURES FOR MODIFICATION OR TERMINATION.
   (A)   If, upon a finding under §
10-3.1715, the city determines to proceed with modification or termination of
the development agreement, the city shall give notice to the property owner of
its intention so to do. The notice shall contain:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   A statement as to whether or not the city proposes to terminate or
to modify the development agreement; and
      (3)   Other information which the city considers necessary to inform the
property owner of the nature of the proceeding.
   (B)   At the time and place set for the hearing on modification or
termination, the property owner shall be given an opportunity to be heard. The
City Council may refer the matter back to the Planning Commission for further
proceedings or for report and recommendation. The City Council may impose those
conditions to the action it takes as it considers necessary to protect the
interests of the city. The decision of the City Council is final.
(Ord. 817 C.S., passed 6-20-07)
§ 10-3.1718 CERTAINTY OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   An adopted development agreement and any terms, conditions, maps,
notes, references, or regulations which are a part of the agreement shall be
considered enforceable elements of the city's municipal code. In the event of
an explicit conflict with any other provisions of the municipal code, the
development agreement shall take precedence. Unless otherwise provided by the
development agreement, the city's ordinances, resolutions, rules and
regulations, and official policies governing permitted land uses, density,
design, improvement and construction standards shall be those city's
ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations, and official policies in force
at the time of final approval of the development agreement.
   (B)   All development agreements shall be subject to the laws, statutes,
regulations or court decisions of the state and federal government. In the
event any such laws, statutes, regulations or court decisions made or enacted
after a development agreement has been entered into prevents or precludes
compliance with one or more provisions of the development agreement, such
provisions of the development agreement shall be modified or suspended as may
be necessary to assure compliance by the city, applicant or successor in
interest with such laws, statutes, regulations or court decisions. Nothing in
this section shall be deemed to affect the validity of fees, conditions, or
other exactions imposed and confirmed by the terms of the agreement.
(Ord. 817 C.S., passed 6-20-07)
CHAPTER 4: BUILDING LINE SETBACKS
Section
Purpose and Scope
   
10-4.101   Purpose of setbacks
   
10-4.102   Definition
Procedure for the Creation of Building Line Setbacks
   
10-4.201   Establishment of building line setbacks on lake street from Central
Avenue to Ellis Street
   
10-4.202   Council resolution
Regulations, Permits, and Variances
   
10-4.301   Permits
   
10-4.302   Variances
   
10-4.303   Requirements for variances
   
10-4.304   Conditions
   
10-4.305   Action of the Planning Commission
   
10-4.306   Action by the Council
   
10-4.307   Time limit
   
10-4.308   Fee
PURPOSE AND SCOPE
§ 10-4.101 PURPOSE OF SETBACKS.
   The Council finds and determines that the city is engaged in developing a
General Plan within the city, including a street or circulation element, for
the purposes of assuring ample transportation facilities, proper relationship
of property to thoroughfares, dilution of gases which are the product of
combustion in engines, distances between buildings on opposite sides of streets
for the present and future, adequate access for fire-fighting equipment,
traffic safety, and adequate light and air in and along the thoroughfares of
the city; that to conserve the public interest and to assure the public safety
and welfare it is imperative that certain streets and highways within the city
be protected against encroachment by permanent physical improvements, the
existence of which would make unnecessarily difficult or impractical the
operation, retention, or creation of thoroughfares adequate in alignment,
dimensions, and vision clearance to serve the public needs, safety, and
welfare; and that to deal effectively with the practical problem thus
presented, it is necessary to establish certain minimum building line setbacks
on certain streets in the city.
('61 Code, § 10-4.101) (Ord. 84 C.S., passed 11-3-65)
§ 10-4.102 DEFINITION.
   BUILDING LINE SETBACK. The space between the established center line of a
street and a line parallel thereto and from which any setback area required to
be provided by the zoning regulations of the city shall be measured.
('61 Code, § 10-4.102) (Ord. 84 C.S., passed 11-3-65)
PROCEDURE FOR THE CREATION OF BUILDING LINE SETBACKS
§ 10-4.201 ESTABLISHMENT OF BUILDING LINE SETBACKS ON LAKE STREET FROM CENTRAL
AVENUE TO ELLIS STREET.
   A building line setback is established along each side of Lake Street
between Central Avenue and Ellis Street 55 feet on each side of the established
center line of Lake Street.
('61 Code, § 10-4.201) (Ord. 84 C.S., passed 11-3-65)
§ 10-4.202 COUNCIL RESOLUTION.
   Excepting those building line setbacks established by the adoption of the
circulation element or any other element of the General Plan for the Physical
Development of the city, or any other procedure authorized by the laws of the
state, or established by amendments to such adoptions, on, and after, November
3, 1965, additional line setbacks shall be established by resolution of the
Council. Before the adoption of a resolution establishing any building line
setback, the Planning Commission shall hold at least one public hearing thereon
after a notice of such hearing has been published once in a newspaper of
general circulation published in the city at least ten calendar days before the
hearing. The Planning Commission shall forward its recommendation concerning
the establishment of any building line setbacks to the Council by resolution,
adopted by not less than a majority of its total voting members if such
resolution recommends the creation of a building line setback, along with a
copy of a plan of the proposed building line setback and a statement of the
Planning Commission's reasons for such recommendation. Upon the receipt of the
Planning Commission's recommendation, the Council may adopt a resolution
establishing a building line setback after at least one public hearing thereon,
notice of which has been given in the time and manner provided in this section
for the hearing by the Planning Commission. The establishment of building line
setbacks may be initiated by either the Council or the Planning Commission.
('61 Code, § 10-4.202) (Ord. 84 C.S., passed 11-3-65; Am. Ord. 201 C.S., passed
5-16-73)
REGULATIONS, PERMITS, AND VARIANCES
§ 10-4.301 PERMITS.
   (A)   No building, structure, or other improvement, whether publicly or
privately owned, shall hereafter be erected, altered in any manner, moved in,
or placed within the official building line setbacks on streets and highways
established by, or pursuant to, this subchapter, and no permit or approval
therefor shall be issued by any official or employee of the city, except that
alterations to existing structures which do not enlarge the structure by adding
to, or extending, such structure into the area lying between the existing
street property line and the official building line setbacks may be approved in
the following manner and in conformance with the following conditions:
      (1)   The owner of the property shall execute an instrument relieving the
city from any liability in the event of acquisition by the city of such
property, or any portion thereof. Such instrument shall state that in the event
of the purchase of the property, or any portion thereof, by the city, or in the
event eminent domain proceedings are maintained by the city for the acquisition
of such property, or any part thereof, the depreciated amount expended for
building construction as granted by a permit under this section shall be
deducted from the determined price at the time of acquisition by the city, and
such reduced price shall be deemed the actual cost of acquisition of the
property by the city; and
      (2)   The terms and provisions of the instrument set forth in subsection
§
10-4.301(A)(1) of this subsection shall run with the land, and such instrument
shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to gardens or to other
ordinary front yard uses or to front yard fences or other nonpermanent
structures otherwise permitted under this code.
('61 Code, § 10-4.301) (Ord. 84 C.S., passed 11-3-65)
§ 10-4.302 VARIANCES.
   (A)   When practical difficulties, unnecessary hardships, or results
inconsistent with the general purpose of this subchapter occur through a strict
interpretation of the provisions hereof, the Planning Commission may, in the
manner provided in this section, upon the application of any property owner,
recommend to the City Council the granting of a variance from the terms of this
subchapter as it deems to be necessary to assure that its spirit and purpose
will be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice
done.
   (B)   Whenever required by the provisions of this subchapter, or whenever
deemed advisable by the Planning Commission or the City Council, a public
hearing shall be held on an application for a variance. Not less than ten days
before such public hearing, notice shall be given of such hearing in the
following manner:
      (1)   By one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city. Such notice shall state the name of the applicant, nature of the request,
location of the property, the environmental determination, and the time and
place of the action or hearing.
      (2)   Direct mailing to the owners and occupants of property located
within 300 feet of the boundaries of the project site, as shown on the latest
equalized assessment roll.
      (3)   In addition, notice shall also be given by first class mail to any
person who has filed a written request with the Community Development
Department. Such a request may be submitted at any time during the calendar
year and shall apply for the balance of such calendar year. The city may impose
a reasonable fee on persons requesting such notice for the purpose of
recovering the cost of such mailing.
      (4)   Substantial compliance with these provisions shall be sufficient
and a technical failure to comply shall not affect the validity of any action
taken pursuant to the procedures set forth in this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10-4.302) (Ord. 84 C.S., passed 11-3-65; Am. Ord. 618 C.S., passed
3-16-94)
§ 10-4.303 REQUIREMENTS FOR VARIANCES.
   Before any variance may be granted, the Planning Commission shall find:
   (A)   That there are special circumstances or conditions attached to the
property upon which the proposed building, structure, or other improvement is
sought to be erected or placed;
   (B)   That the granting of the application is necessary for the preservation
and enjoyment of substantial property rights; and
   (C)   That the granting of the variance will not adversely affect the
General Plan of the city or result in material damage or prejudice to other
property in the same vicinity.
('61 Code, § 10-4.303) (Ord. 84 C.S., passed 11-3-65)
§ 10-4.304 CONDITIONS.
   In recommending the granting of any variance under the provisions of this
subchapter, the Planning Commission shall designate such conditions in
connection therewith as will, in its opinion, cause the minimum possible
interference with the purpose of this subchapter, and with the ultimate
accomplishment of the objectives thereof, and shall report its findings with
respect thereto and all facts in connection therewith to the Council.
('61 Code, § 10-4.304) (Ord. 84 C.S., passed 11-3-65)
§ 10-4.305 ACTION OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   Within 30 days after the closing of the public hearing, the Planning
Commission shall render its decision on the application by resolution and
report to the Council. Failure of the Planning Commission to so act within such
30 days shall serve to automatically refer the matter to the Council for such
action as it deems warranted.
('61 Code, § 10-4.305) (Ord. 84 C.S., passed 11-3-65)
§ 10-4.306 ACTION BY THE COUNCIL.
   Upon receipt of the Planning Commission's report, or the end of the 30-day
period, the Council shall, by resolution, make its decision, either approving
or rejecting the application. If such decision shall approve the granting of
the variance, the permit applied for shall be issued subject to the conditions
designated by the Planning Commission or such modifications thereof as the
Council shall approve.
('61 Code, § 10-4.306) (Ord. 84 C.S., passed 11-3-65)
§ 10-4.307 TIME LIMIT.
   Any variance granted shall be null and void and of no effect six months
after its effective date unless the use or construction permitted by it is
actually commenced within such time.
('61 Code, § 10-4.307) (Ord. 84 C.S., passed 11-3-65)
§ 10-4.308 FEE.
   A fee in an amount as is established by resolution of the City Council shall
be paid to the city upon the filing of each application for the purpose of
defraying the expense investigations, posting, and other costs incidental to
the proceedings prescribed in this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10-4.308) (Ord. 84 C.S., passed 11-3-65; Am. Ord. 483 C.S., passed
10-21-87)
CHAPTER 5: AIRPORT APPROACH ZONING
Section
Purposes and Definitions
   
10-5.101   Purposes
   
10-5.102   Definitions
Establishment of Zones, Height, and Use Limitations
   
10-5.201   Establishment of airport reference point
   
10-5.202   Establishment of airport approach zones
   
10-5.203   Height limitations
   
10-5.204   Use restrictions
Nonconforming Uses and Variances
   
10-5.301   Nonconforming uses
   
10-5.302   Variances
Airport Zoning Officer; Appeals
   
10-5.401   Airport Zoning Officer
   
10-5.402   Appeals
Designation of Zone Boundaries and Prezoning of Unincorporated Territory
   
10-5.501   Boundaries
   
10-5.502   Prezoning
PURPOSES AND DEFINITIONS
§ 10-5.101 PURPOSES.
   The purposes of this chapter are to establish regulations to prevent the
creation or establishment of airport hazards, as hereinafter defined, and to
provide for the elimination, removal, alteration, mitigation, or marking and
lighting of existing airport hazards at, and in the vicinity of, the City
Municipal Airport.
('61 Code, § 10-5.101) (Ord. 106 C.S., passed 4-5-67)
§ 10-5.102 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words wherever used in this chapter shall be construed and
defined as stated in this section as follows:
   AIRPORT. The City Municipal Airport.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION. The established elevation of the highest point on the
usable paved runway. The airport elevation at the City Municipal Airport has
been established at 253 feet MSL.
   AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure, tree, or use of land which obstructs the
airspace required for, or is otherwise hazardous to, the flight of aircraft in
landing or taking off at the airport.
   AIRPORT REFERENCE POINT. The geographic center of the City Municipal Airport
runway as hereinafter provided and established and as shown on the hereinafter
referred to map.
   AIRPORT ZONING OFFICER. The Director of Planning of the city or his or her
authorized representative.
   ELEVATION. Height above mean sea level.
   HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this chapter and shown on the zoning map, height shall mean distance
above ground level.
   LANDING AREA. The area of the airport used for the landing, takeoff, or
taxiing of aircraft.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any structure, tree, or use of land which is lawfully in
existence on April 1, 1967, but which does not meet the requirements of this
chapter.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association, or body politic and shall include a trustee, receiver,
assignee, administrator, executor, guardian, or other representative.
   RUNWAY. The paved surface of the airport landing strip.
   STRUCTURE. An object constructed or installed by man, including, but without
limitation to, buildings, towers, smokestacks, and overhead transmission lines.
   TREE. Any object of natural growth.
('61 Code, § 10-5.102) (Ord. 106 C.S., passed 4-5-67)
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES, HEIGHT, AND USE LIMITATIONS
§ 10-5.201 ESTABLISHMENT OF AIRPORT REFERENCE POINT.
   There is created and established an Airport Reference Point, being the
geographic center of the City Municipal Airport paved NW-SE Runway (30-12)
located as shown on that certain map entitled "Airport Approach Zones" as more
particularly set forth in §
10-5.501 of Designation of Zone Boundaries and Prezoning of Unincorporated
Territory of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10-5.201) (Ord. 106 C.S., passed 4-5-67)
§ 10-5.202 ESTABLISHMENT OF AIRPORT APPROACH ZONES.
   There are established Airport Approach Zones at the City Municipal Airport,
the zones being as follows:
   (A)   HORIZONTAL SURFACE ZONE. Consisting of all that certain surface within
that certain circular plane located 150 feet above the established Airport
Reference Point with a radius from the Airport Reference Point of 7,000 feet;
   (B)   CONICAL SURFACE ZONE. Consisting of all that certain surface extending
from the periphery of the horizontal surface outward and upward at a 20:1 slope
for the horizontal distance of 5,000 feet and to a height above the airport
elevation of 400 feet;
   (C)   PRIMARY SURFACE ZONE. Consisting of a surface longitudinally centered
on the NW- SE Runway at the airport (30-12) 400 feet in width and extending 200
feet beyond both ends of the runway. The elevation of any point on the
longitudinal profile within the PRIMARY SURFACE ZONE coincides with the
elevation of the runway center line;
   (D)   APPROACH SURFACE ZONE. Consisting of a surface which is longitudinally
centered on the extended surface of the NW-SE Runway beginning at the end of
the PRIMARY SURFACE ZONE and extending upward and outward at a slope of 40:
1 and expanding to a width of 2,400 feet at a horizontal distance of 10,000
feet; and
   (E)   TRANSITIONAL SURFACE ZONE. Consisting of a surface extending outward
and upward at right angles to the runway center line at a slope of 7:1 from the
edges of the PRIMARY and APPROACH SURFACE ZONES until they intersect the
HORIZONTAL or CONICAL SURFACE ZONES.
('61 Code, § 10-5.202) (Ord. 106 C.S., passed 4-5-67)
§ 10-5.203 HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure or tree shall be
erected, altered, or allowed to grow or be maintained in any zone created by
this chapter to an elevation in excess of the height of the surfaces designated
in the Airport Approach Zones established by this chapter. Nothing herein,
however, shall be construed to prohibit the installation and maintenance of
those structures necessary and incidental to airport operations as determined
by the Airport Zoning Officer.
('61 Code, § 10-5.203) (Ord. 106 C.S., passed 4-5-67)
§ 10-5.204 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, no use may be made of
land within any zone established by this chapter which, in the determination of
the Airport Zoning Officer, creates electrical interference with radio
communication between the airport and aircraft, makes it difficult for flyers
to distinguish between airport lights and others, results in glare in the eyes
of flyers using the airport, impairs visibility in the vicinity of the airport,
or otherwise endangers the landing, taking-off, or maneuvering of aircraft.
('61 Code, § 10-5.204) (Ord. 106 C.S., passed 4-5-67)
NONCONFORMING USES AND VARIANCES
§ 10-5.301 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   The regulations prescribed by this chapter shall not be construed to
require the removal, lowering, or other change or alteration of any structure
or tree not conforming to the regulations as of April 1, 1967, or otherwise
interfere with the continuance of any nonconforming use. Nothing herein
contained shall require any change in the construction, alteration, or intended
use of any structure, the construction or alteration of which was begun prior
to April 5, 1967, and which is diligently prosecuted.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the preceding provision of this section, the owner of
any nonconforming structure or tree is required to permit the installation,
operation, and maintenance thereon of such markers and lights as shall be
deemed necessary by the Airport Zoning Officer to indicate to the operators of
aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the presence of such airport hazards.
Such markers and lights shall be installed, operated, and maintained at the
expense of the city.
   (C)   Whenever the Airport Zoning Officer determines that a nonconforming
structure or tree has been abandoned or more than 50% torn down, physically
deteriorated, or decayed, no such structure or tree shall be rebuilt or allowed
to grow so as to exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from
the zoning regulations.
('61 Code, § 10-5.301) (Ord. 106 C.S., passed 4-5-67)
§ 10-5.302 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any structure,
or permit the growth of any tree, or use his or her property not in accordance
with the regulations prescribed in this chapter may apply to the Airport Zoning
Officer for a variance from such regulations. Such variances shall be allowed
where it is duly found that a literal application or enforcement of such
regulations would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship and
the relief granted would not be contrary to the public interest but will do
substantial justice and be in accordance with the spirit of the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Any permit or variance granted may, if such action is deemed advisable
to effectuate the purposes of this chapter and be reasonable in the
circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the owner of the structure or
tree in question to install, operate, and maintain thereon, at the owner's
expense, such markers and lights as may be necessary to indicate to flyers the
presence of an airport hazard.
('61 Code, § 10-5.302) (Ord. 106 C.S., passed 4-5-67)
AIRPORT ZONING OFFICER; APPEALS
§ 10-5.401 AIRPORT ZONING OFFICER.
   There is created the office of Airport Zoning Officer. The Airport Zoning
Officer shall have the duty to hear and decide all applications, permits, and
variances issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10-5.401) (Ord. 106 C.S., passed 4-5-67)
§ 10-5.402 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Airport Zoning Officer made in
his or her administration of the provisions of this chapter may appeal to the
Airport Zoning Commission by filing with the Commission a notice of appeal,
specifying the grounds thereof, within ten days after receiving written notice
of the action of the Airport Zoning Officer. The Airport Zoning Commission
shall fix a reasonable time for hearing any such appeals, give due notice to
the parties in interest, and within 30 days after the close of any hearing
thereon, affirm, reject, or modify in whole or in part the decision or
determination appealed from or make such order, requirement, or determination
as appropriate under the circumstances.
('61 Code, § 10-5.402) (Ord. 106 C.S., passed 4-5-67)
DESIGNATION OF ZONE BOUNDARIES AND PREZONING OF UNINCORPORATED TERRITORY
§ 10-5.501 BOUNDARIES.
   The designation, location, and boundaries of the Airport Approach Zones
established by §
10-5.202 of Establishment of Zones, Height, and Use Limits of this chapter are
as set forth and indicated on that certain key map entitled "Airport Approach
Zones" incorporated in and made a part of this chapter, three copies of which
are on file in the office of the City Clerk. No person shall use any land,
building, structure, or tree, nor shall any building, structure, or tree be
erected, enlarged, or allowed to grow higher in such zones shown on the map
except in accordance with the regulations established by this chapter.
('61 Code, § 10-5.501) (Ord. 106 C.S., passed 4-5-67)
§ 10-5.502 PREZONING.
   All of the unincorporated territory shown on the Airport Approach Zones map
is zoned as hereinabove stated as authorized by Cal. Gov't Code § 65859 and
shall have such zoning attached to it in the event of annexation of any or all
of such territory to the city.
('61 Code, § 10-5.502) (Ord. 106 C.S., passed 4-5-67)
CHAPTER 6: SIGN REGULATIONS
Section
   
10-6.01   Purpose and intent
   
10-6.02   Definitions
   
10-6.03   Standard provisions for permitted signs
   
10-6.04   Exempt signs
   
10-6.05   Prohibited signs
   
10-6.06   Abandoned or dilapidated signs, frames, structural members and
supporting poles
   
10-6.07   Residential districts
   
10-6.08   Professional office districts
   
10-6.09   Commercial/business districts
   
10-6.10   Industrial districts
   
10-6.11   Reserve districts
   
10-6.12   Design districts
   
10-6.13   Special use signs
   
10-6.14   Subdivision signs, temporary
   
10-6.15   Sign permit application
   
10-6.16   Master sign programs
   
10-6.17   (Reserved)
   
10-6.18   Appeals
   
10-6.19   Minor adjustments and variances
   
10-6.20   Illegal and nonconforming signs
   
10-6.21   Enforcement
§ 10-6.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate signs in the city. Signs
have an obvious impact on the character, quality, and economic health of the
City of Madera. As a prominent part of the scenery, signs may attract the
viewing public, help set the visual tone of the community, and affect the
safety of vehicular and pedestrian traffic. This chapter shall prevent the
degradation of the visual quality of the city which can result from the
proliferation of excessive amounts of signage, poorly designed signage,
inappropriately located signage, and/or signage maintained in a hazardous or
unsightly fashion. The intent of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Advance the economic vitality of the city;
      (2)   Improve the character and natural beauty of the community and its
various neighborhoods and districts;
      (3)   Promote the visibility of businesses through signage;
      (4)   Enhance the public’s ability to identify uses and premises without
confusion;
      (5)   Prevent the proliferation of sign clutter;
      (6)   Ensure the safety of pedestrian and vehicular traffic;
      (7)   Provide specific instruction for the permitting of signage within
the city; and
      (8)    Implement the community design objectives expressed in the General
Plan’s Vision 2025.
   (B)   Signs in the city shall:
      (1)   Be of sufficient quality as to enhance rather than detract from the
aesthetic value of structures and places;
      (2)   Be proportionate to the scale of architecture;
      (3)   Be compatible to the environment in which the signage is proposed
to be located;
      (4)   Be sensibly sized for public view;
      (5)   Be commensurate with the purpose of the zone district in which the
signage is proposed to be located;
      (6)   Provide information as opposed to advertisement; and
      (7)   Should never compromise the safety of the public.
(Ord. 864 C.S., passed 11-4-09)
§ 10-6.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   A-FRAME SIGN. A portable sign with advertising messages mounted on one or
two surfaces with two edges connected with the other two edges spread so that
the two faces read from different directions.
   ADVERTISING STRUCTURE. All such structures used as outdoor advertisement,
regardless of size and shape, for the purposes of advertising anything, the
origin or place of sale or service of which is not on the property with such
advertising structure.
   ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign which uses mechanical or electrical movement or
change of lighting, either natural or artificial, to depict action or to create
visual motion or the appearance thereof.
   APARTMENT/MULTIFAMILY IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign identifying an apartment
or multifamily building or an apartment or multifamily complex by name and/or
address.
   AREA OF DESIGNATED SIGNS. See §
10-6.03(G).
   BANNER. Any cloth, bunting, plastic, paper, or similar non-rigid material
attached to, or appended on or from, any structure, staff, pole, line, or
framing upon which there is an advertising message, or which is intended for
promotion.
   BARBER POLE. A rotating or stationery cylindrical pole of the traditional
red, white, and blue spiral striped design, identifying the premises as a
barber shop.
   BASE OF THE SIGN STRUCTURE. The structural component of a freestanding sign
located below the sign face.
   BILLBOARD. An Advertising Structure. See definition of “Advertising
Structure”.
   BUSINESS CENTER. A group of contiguous businesses which utilize common
access, off-street parking, and/or the center name.
   BUSINESS SIGN. A sign which directs attention to a business, major category
of products, services, industry, or other activity which is sold, offered, or
conducted on the premises upon which such sign is located.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A permanent sign, or portion of a sign, with a face
panel having detachable, interchangeable individual lettering, which allows the
lettering to be removed, altered, and replaced. Such signs shall not be changed
more often than once every 24 hours. A sign on which the message changes more
than once per 24-hour period shall be considered an animated sign and not a
changeable copy sign for purposes of this chapter.
   CHANGEABLE PANEL SIGN. A permanent sign that allows the face panel, having
fixed lettering, to be removed and replaced. Such signs shall not be changed
more often than once every 24 hours. A sign on which the panel changes more
than once per 24-hour period shall be considered an animated sign and not a
changeable copy sign for purposes of this chapter.
   COPY. The design of a sign face consisting of letters, colors, patterns,
images, and/or similar content.
   DIRECTIONAL OR INFORMATIONAL SIGN. A sign giving only information and
direction to the viewer and containing no advertising message.
   DIRECTORY SIGN. A sign or set of similarly designed individual signs, placed
or displayed in sequence, to list all or a part of the businesses within a
building, business center, or shopping center.
   DISPLAY WINDOW. A window area, typically located along the front elevation
of a business, and/or in conjunction with a public entrance into the business,
which displays merchandise available for purchase within. DISPLAY WINDOWS may
or may not include decoration, including seasonal decor, as well as textual
elements such as prices and promotional verbiage. A DISPLAY WINDOW shall not
function as a marketing window.
   EXEMPT SIGN. A sign which is not subject to a sign permit.
   FLAG. Any fabric, banner, or bunting containing distinctive colors,
patterns, or design that displays the symbol(s) of a nation, state, local
government, company, organization, belief system, idea, or other meaning.
   FLASHING SIGN. Any sign which is perceived as an intermittent light,
flashing light, or changing of color intensity light.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign installed upon, or mounted on top of the ground,
in a permanent fashion, which sign is self-supporting, not attached to a
building. Signs mounted on architecturally integrated extensions of buildings
shall not be considered freestanding.
   FREEWAY SIGN. An on-site and privately maintained sign that is building
mounted or freestanding and is intended to be viewed from a freeway.
   FRONTAGE, OCCUPANCY. A single lineal dimension measured horizontally along
the front of a building which defines the limits of a particular business or
use at that location and which has direct public pedestrian access through an
exterior wall.
   FRONTAGE, SITE. The length of a site along the street or other principal
public thoroughfare, but not including such a length along an alley,
watercourse, railroad, or freeway.
   GASOLINE PRICE SIGN. An on-premises sign identifying the brand, and/or type,
and price of gasoline sold.
   GOVERNMENTAL OR OTHER SIGNS REQUIRED BY LAW. A sign placed in any area of
the city by a governmental entity or private individual or business as required
by federal, state, or local laws.
   GRAPHICS. All lettering, logos, pictures, symbols, patterns, and depictions,
including color, on a sign.
   GROUND SIGN. A freestanding sign. See definition of “Freestanding Sign”.
   HEIGHT. The distance from the sidewalk or roadbed grade nearest the base of
the sign to the top of the highest element of the sign. When there is no
sidewalk, the grade of roadbed nearest the sign shall be used.
   IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign which serves to tell only the name, address, and
lawful use of the occupant or building upon which the sign is located.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign in which an artificial source of light is used in
order to make the message readable. This definition shall include internally
and externally lighted signs and reflectorized, glowing, or radiating signs.
   INSTITUTIONAL SIGN. A sign identifying the premises of, or announcing the
activities conducted by, a church, school, hospital, rest home, or similar
institutional facility.
   LEGAL NONCONFORMING SIGN. Any sign which was lawfully erected and maintained
and subsequently came within the requirements of an ordinance or amendments to
an ordinance with which it did not completely comply.
   LOGO. The name, symbol, emblem, insignia, or trademark of a company or
organization.
   MAJOR TENANT. A tenant in a business center leasing a large portion of the
leasable space in such center. The minimum size of a major tenant shall be
10,000 square feet.
   MANAGER OR OFFICE OF MANAGER SIGN. A sign which identifies the location of
the manager or the office of the manager of property.
   MANSARD ROOF. A roof having an almost vertical facing on three or more sides
on the exterior portion of the roof and an almost horizontally flat roof on the
interior portion of the roof.
   MARKETING WINDOW. Floor space constructed within a structure that is
designed and built to be exclusively used for promotional graphics to be viewed
from the exterior of the structure. The space is designed only to provide an
interior vestibule from which additional promotional graphics can be employed
to attract attention and no access to the space is available to the general
public. MARKETING WINDOWS may only display graphical elements and/or
photographs representative of the goods and/or services offered within, and
should not incorporate any advertising copy. A MARKETING WINDOW shall not
function as a display window, as merchandise is not typically a component of
marketing window signage.
   MARQUEE SIGN.  Any sign which is on top, attached to the face, or suspended
below a marquee, canopy, cantilevered covered walkway, or arcade, whether
parallel to or at right angles to the face of the building.
   MASTER SIGN PROGRAM. A coordinated program of one or more signs for an
individual business establishment, business center, or shopping center.
   MONUMENT STYLE SIGN. A freestanding sign where the height of the sign is
equal to or less than the length of the base of the sign and having a maximum
height of ten feet. The area below the sign copy shall be solid from the ground
to the lower edge of the copy area.
   MURAL. An original work of art hand-painted on a structural wall surface,
not intended to advertise, but instead to aesthetically entertain.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. The same as advertising structure. See definition of
“Advertising Structure”.
   ON-BUILDING SIGN. A sign attached to, and wholly supported by, the wall of a
building.
   ON-SITE SIGN. A sign specifically related in its subject matter to the
premises on which it is located.
   PENNANT. Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material, whether or not
containing a message of any kind, attached to a rope, wire, or string, usually
in a series, designed to move in the wind and attract attention.
   PARKING FACILITY SIGN. A sign placed or displayed in a parking lot to supply
information to people using such lot, including information with respect to
liability.
   PLACED OR DISPLAYED. Erected, constructed, posted, painted, printed, tacked,
glued, carved, or otherwise fastened, fixed, or made visible in any manner
whatsoever.
   POLITICAL SIGN. A sign associated with a candidate for an elected office,
political party, or ballot measure or which makes a political statement.
   PORTABLE SIGN. A sign which is capable of being carried or moved by manual
or mechanical means from one location to another.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign characterized by its attachment at an angle or
perpendicular to the face of a building as opposed to being mounted flat on the
surface of such building. Any sign which extends 12 inches or more from a
building surface shall be considered a PROJECTING SIGN.
   PUBLIC ENTRANCE. An entrance into a building recognized as a main or
principal entrance. Fire exit only doorways and/or employee only entrances
shall not be included as PUBLIC ENTRANCES.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all public streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or
other public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings, held and possessed within the public trust.
   READER BOARD SIGN. The same as a changeable copy sign. See definition of
“Changeable Copy Sign”.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A sign offering developed or undeveloped real property for
sale, lease, or rent.
   ROOF LINE. A horizontal plane projected parallel to the plane of the roof
fascia line or top of a parapet wall or an angular plane projected parallel to
the verge rafter of a gable roof.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected upon or above the roof line of a building or
placed above the apparent flat roof or eaves of a building.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A group of commercial establishments planned, generally
constructed, and managed as a total entity with employee and customer parking
provided on the site under common control or shared under a reciprocal
agreement. SHOPPING CENTER is further defined as “major” (50 or more acres or
300,000 square feet or more of total floor area), “community” (ten to 50
acres),  and “neighborhood” (up to 15 acres). For the purposes of this chapter,
commercial developments shall be classified as shopping centers, rather than
business centers, when they are comprised of at least ten businesses/tenants
and have a minimum of 50,000 square feet.
   SIGN. Any figure, character, outline, delineation, announcement,
declaration, demonstration, illustration, emblem, words, numerals, or letters
of an attention-attracting display or device painted, illuminated, posted, or
affixed on any surface or in a manner used to attract attention to the premises
or to advertise or promote the interest of any person, activity, business, or
enterprise when the same is placed so that it is clearly visible to the general
public from an out-of-doors position; provided, however, noncommercial natural
floral and plant displays shall not be considered signs in computing the number
or area of signs permitted. SIGN shall not include the official flag of the
United States of America, the state, or the county, or official notices
authorized by a court, public body, or public officer, directional, warning, or
information signs authorized by federal, state, county, or municipal authority
for public safety, or the official emblem or insignia of a government or public
school.
   SIGN AREA. The area of a sign encompassed by a maximum of eight connected
straight line segments drawn around the extremities of the sign frame or can
(if a frame or can is used to support or define the copy background area), or
the sign copy background area (if no sign, frame, or can is used), or the sign
copy (if no copy background area or frame or can is used).
   SIGN CLEARANCE. The vertical distance between the bottom of a sign and the
sidewalk or roadbed grade nearest the base of the sign.
   SIGN FACE. The same as sign area. See definition of “Sign Area”.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure which supports or is capable of supporting any
sign. A SIGN STRUCTURE may or may not be an integral part of a building. For
the purpose of a freestanding sign, the sign structure shall include the
aggregate area of the sign, including the sign copy and all structural elements
of the sign.
   SITE. An individual parcel or the area within the extreme boundaries of a
multiple business or shopping center without regard to the individual lease
lines or parcels within such center.
   SUBDIVISION DIRECTIONAL SIGN. An off-premise sign providing information on
the location of a subdivision whose lots, parcels, or units are being offered
for sale, lease, or rent.
   SUBDIVISION IDENTIFICATION SIGN. An on-premise sign advertising developed or
undeveloped real property which has been divided into five or more lots,
parcels, or units for sale, lease, or rent. (Signs advertising fewer than five
such lots shall be treated as “real estate signs.”)
   TEMPORARY IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign used in place of a permanent
identification sign until such time as the permanent sign can be installed. A
maximum period of 30 days shall be allowed stating the name of the business
only.
   TEMPORARY FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign, temporary in nature, which neither
satisfies the definition of a freestanding sign or on-building sign, to
include, but not limited to, A-frame signs, I-frame signs, stabbers, feathers,
waivers, and vehicle signs.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign to be displayed for a period not to exceed 14 days
(except temporary identification signs).
   UNDER-CANOPY SIGN. A sign suspended no lower than seven feet above the
public right-of-way under a canopy or awning of a building which sign
identifies a business, profession, or industry conducted on the premises by
name only.
   VEHICLE SIGN. A sign on a vehicle used for the purpose of advertising a
business location, a special sale, or the like by any means.
   WAVER. An individual or apparatus which is used for the purpose of
advertising a business location, a special sale, or the like by any means, with
or without a sign, with or without a costume, either on private property or in
the public right-of-way.
   WALL SIGN. Any sign painted on or attached parallel to the wall facing of a
building and projecting not more than 12 inches from the building face. See
definition of “On-Building Sign”.
   WINDOW SIGN. A sign attached to, suspended behind, placed, or painted upon
the window or glass door of a building and intended for viewing from the
exterior of such building. This definition does not include merchandise offered
for sale on site, when on display in a window.
   WINDBLOWN DEVICE. A manmade device which visibly moves when blown by the
wind, other than flags or banners.
(Ord. 864 C.S., passed 11-4-09; Am. Ord. 892 C.S., passed 1-4-12)
§ 10-6.03 STANDARD PROVISIONS FOR PERMITTED SIGNS.
   (A)   Approval required.  No sign shall be constructed, maintained,
displayed, or altered within the City except pursuant to a sign permit obtained
as provided in this chapter, unless the sign is specifically exempted from the
permit requirements. Signs may be erected and maintained in the districts where
such structures are permitted after having secured the approval of the
location, size, and design of such structure from the Planning Department and
Building Department subject to the regulations of this chapter.
   (B)   Compliance with other codes. The erection or placement of all signs
shall meet the requirements of the Public Utilities Commission of the state,
the Uniform Sign Code as adopted by the city, the regulations of the Planning
Department, and all other relevant federal, state, and local laws and
regulations.
   (C)   Shopping center signs. The sign program for shopping centers shall be
approved with the site plan review. The design criteria for all signs to be
located within a shopping center or a mall type development shall be approved
by the Planning Department, before any individual sign permit application for
the development is processed. Such review is to ensure that signs located
within a shopping center are harmonious and of compatible design.
   (D)   Lighting for exterior illuminated signs.  Lighting for exterior
illuminated signs shall be so arranged that it does not create a hazardous
glare for pedestrians or vehicles, either in a public street or on any private
premises. Each sign shall be designed so that illumination does not exceed ten
candlepower at a distance of ten feet from the sign.
   (E)   Lighting. No artificial light of whatever type or nature used in
conjunction with, or for the purpose of, lighting any sign shall be so located
or constructed, nor shall any substance or material be used capable of
reflecting light on or into any adjoining or nearby lot, structure, or public
right-of-way. When spotlights or floodlights are used to illuminate a sign, the
reflector shall be provided with proper shields or glass lenses concentrating
the illumination upon the area of the sign so as to prevent glare upon the
street or adjacent property.
   (F)   Screening light sources. Whenever an illuminated sign is permitted,
every part of its light source shall be concealed from view, and the light
shall not travel from such light sources straight to the viewer’s eye, but
instead shall be visible only from a reflecting or diffusing surface. Exempt
from this requirement shall be neon tubing which conforms to division (D) of
this section (lighting for exterior illuminated signs) and is included in the
calculation of the total permanent sign area. As used in this section, “light
source” shall mean a bulb or tube from which light is emitted when the bulb or
tube is activated (electronically or otherwise), including, but not limited to,
incandescent filament bulbs, electric discharge bulbs, and fluorescent tubes.
   (G)   Measurement of sign areas.
      (1)   Wall signs consisting of one or two lines of copy. Wall signs
consisting of one or two lines of copy painted on or attached to a building
wall where the portion of the wall behind the sign is the same color as the
rest of the wall and does not serve as a frame area shall be measured by the
smallest regular geometric shape not exceeding eight sides which encompasses
each word, emblem, and/or symbol composing the sign. Areas between words in a
line and between lines shall not be measured as long as they are reasonably
spaced.
      (2)   Other wall signs. Three lines or more of copy or nonlinear
arrangement shall be measured as that area which can be enclosed within the
smallest regular geometric shape not exceeding eight sides which encompasses
the total message, including the open space between cutout letters, panels,
figures, symbols, and/or objects.
      (3)   Signs which are framed or have distinguishing color background.
Signs which are framed or have distinguishing color background shall be
measured by taking the entire area of the sign and background, including the
framing surface.
      (4)   Multiple face signs. The area of all faces shall be added together
to determine the total sign area. However, double-faced signs may be erected
having the allowed sign area on each side of the sign provided that the two
faces shall not be positioned at greater than 45 degrees to one another. When
the two faces of a sign are positioned at greater than 45 degrees to one
another, faces of each side shall be counted individually in determining the
total sign area.
      (5)   Neon tube lighting. Illuminated neon tubing when outlining portions
of buildings or windows shall be deemed to have a minimum width of at least six
inches in the calculation of sign area. Where an area bordered by such lighting
is substantially a closed geometric shape, all the area enclosed shall be
considered the sign area.
(Ord. 864 C.S., passed 11-4-09)
§ 10-6.04 EXEMPT SIGNS.
   The signs listed in this section are not subject to the sign permit
requirements set forth in this chapter. Exempt signs must still satisfy all
other applicable permitting requirements (such as building permits).
   (A)   Addresses. Street number and/or name signs not exceeding two square
feet per sign for single-family or duplex structures and four square feet per
sign for all other uses. One sign per street frontage shall be allowed. This
shall include signs which identify the location of the office of the manager of
the property;
   (B)   Auto for sale signs. Private party automobile for sale signs, affixed
to the interior window(s) of the vehicle for sale when placed in a way to allow
safe and sane operation of the vehicle consistent with applicable law, to a
maximum of four square feet total.
   (C)   Commemorative plaques. Memorial signs and tablets approved under site
plan review, building names and/or erection dates when cut into a permanent
surface or constructed on noncombustible materials, and religious symbols and
similar emblems when submitted with the design of the building and approved
under the zoning provisions to a maximum of four square feet;
   (D)   Community activity signs. On-site signs associated with religious,
charitable, cultural, civic, or educational organization not exceeding 16
square feet in size. Such signs shall be temporary and non-illuminated, located
on private property only, and shall not create a site visibility hazard;
   (E)   Construction announcement signs. Signs placed on real property upon
which construction is to take place, which signs contain information regarding
the individuals and firms directly connected with the construction project,
including the name of the contractor, the subcontractors, the real estate
licensee, and future tenants. Signs for sites less than two acres shall be
limited to a maximum size of 32 square feet (four feet by eight feet). Signs
for sites of two acres or greater shall not exceed 128 square feet (eight feet
by 16 feet). Such signs shall not be displayed in advance of application for
site plan review and/or building permits for the project. Time extensions may
be granted by the Planning Director. Construction announcement signs shall be
removed within 30 days after the issuance of the certificate of occupancy for a
majority of the development;
   (F)   Credit cards, debit cards, ATM, and association membership.  Credit
cards accepted, debit cards accepted, ATM availability, and association
membership signs when not exceeding one-half square foot per window sign and
one and one-half square feet per hanging sign and a total of four in number;
   (G)   Directional signs.  Signs bearing no advertising message and located
on the site may be erected when necessary to facilitate circulation within the
site or facilitate egress and ingress. Such signs shall not be counted against
the site’s allowed sign area. The size, number, and placement of directional
signs may be limited by the Planning Director;
   (H)   Flags. Flags of any nation, political subdivision, or fraternal or
religious organization and those flags determined by the Planning Commission to
be of a noncommercial, nonprofit civic character provided the pole height does
not exceed 24 feet and the height of the flag is not more than one-fourth the
height of the pole. A sign application may be submitted to the Planning
Commission for a flagpole higher than 24 feet or a flag which exceeds 1/4 the
height of the pole where the applicant can show that the proposed flag and/or
pole is consistent with the intent and purpose of this chapter. This section is
not intended to allow the clustering or display of flags for the purpose of
commercial attraction as determined by the Planning Commission;
   (I)   Informational signs for the safety and convenience of the public.
Signs such as “open/closed,” “rest rooms,” “telephone,” “danger,” “impaired
clearance,” “no smoking,” and other signs of a similar nature (“parking in
rear,” “drive-in window,” and parking facility signs) may be allowed up to four
square feet in area under this section;
   (J)   Interior signs. Signs located in the interior of any building or
within an enclosed lobby or court of any building or group of buildings, and
which are not visible from any public right-of-way, shall not be subject to the
size and location criteria within this chapter. However, signs which require
electrical connections or engineered supports shall be required to obtain all
required permits. Window signage is not applicable to this exemption;
   (K)   Murals. When consistent with the purpose and intent of this sign
ordinance, and applied to a wall surface with the consent, endorsement, and/or
approval of the city, a mural shall not be considered an on-building sign or
billboard, and shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
   (L)   Nonprofit, cultural, and promotion posters.  Temporary display posters
in connection with nonprofit civic and cultural events and with noncommercial
health, welfare, and safety campaigns (such as Red Cross, United Crusade, Heart
Fund, performing arts, and the like). Such posters shall be removed within
seven days after the termination of the event;
   (M)   Official signs. Official signs posted pursuant to, and in the
discharge of, any governmental function by public officials in the performance
of their duties (including traffic and street name signs, as well as notices,
emblems, or other forms of identification and signs required by law);
   (N)   Political signs. Signs associated with a candidate for an elected
office, political party, or ballot measure or which make a political statement,
not exceeding 32 square feet in area per candidate or issue per site, subject
to the following:
      (1)   Any such sign shall be erected not earlier than the closing date of
the filing for candidacy and shall be removed within seven days after such
election. However, those candidates who continue as such after the primary
election may continue to display their signs until seven days after the
applicable subsequent election.
      (2)   No political or campaign sign shall be attached to trees, fence
posts, or utility poles, except on private property where signs may be attached
to trees and fence posts with the permission of the property owner.
      (3)   No political or campaign sign shall be attached and erected on
public property or within the public right-of-way.
      (4)   Political or campaign signs placed upon private property shall not
be erected in a manner which, in whole or in part, would create a hazardous
condition to pedestrian or traffic alike, either by obstructing the free use of
exits; building or site; or by creating visual distraction, whether by color,
glare, or representing a traffic control device.
      (5)   In cases where political or campaign signs are not removed within
the specific time period, the city shall cause to be removed those signs which
remain, and the cost and expense of such activity shall be paid by the
candidate;
   (O)   Real estate signs. Real estate signs subject to the following:
      (1)   For sale, rent, or lease. On-site or on-building signs.
         (a)   Single-family residential and duplex sites: on-site or on-
building signs not exceeding four square feet, plus an additional two square
foot allowance for real estate rider signs such as Pool & Spa, Owner Financed,
Four Bedroom and the like, not to exceed a total sign area of six square feet.
         (b)   Multiple-family, business, and industrial sites: on-site or on-
building signs not exceeding 16 square feet for sites of two acres or less in
area. On-site or on-building signs not exceeding 32 square feet for sites of
two acres or larger, and one in number per street frontage;
      (2)   Open house; on-site.  On-site or on-building signs, posted between
the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. daily, not exceeding four square feet per
sign and one in number per site or structure; and
      (3)   Open house; off-site.  Open house signs posted between the hours of
10:00 a.m. and 7:00p.m. daily, not exceeding four square feet per sign and one
in number in the neighborhood of sales; not to be located in any center median
of a public road or in a sidewalk right-of-way; and directional arrows with
addresses not exceeding four in number in the neighborhood of sales;
   (P)   Residential nameplates. A nameplate not exceeding two square feet in
area and one in number and displaying only the (1) name of the premises upon
which it is displayed; and (2) the name of the owner or lessee of such
premises; and (3) the address of such premises. Such nameplates shall be
affixed flush to the building in which any home occupation is located and shall
not be illuminated;
   (Q)   Seasonal decorations.  Holiday greetings, decorations, and displays,
such as relate to Christmas, Thanksgiving, the Fourth of July, and the like,
such that said seasonal decorations are removed within 14 days after the
appurtenant holiday event, and excluding advertising signs disguised as
seasonal decorations;
   (R)   Signs required by law. Signs displayed by private individuals when
required by law or regulations of any governmental agency or law; and
   (S)   Window signs.  Temporary window signs (non-internally illuminated)
announcing special sales, a change in management, individual product and/or
price signs, or similar information and designed to be viewed from adjacent
streets, sidewalks, public rights-of-way or parking for a period not exceeding
30 days. This section is not intended to allow additional permanent signs.
Window signs which are painted on, or temporarily affixed to the window surface
may cover not more than 60% of any single window or series of windows, nor more
than 30% of the entire surface area of available windows, and shall not be so
affixed as to block clear view of exits or entrances or to create a safety
hazard to persons exiting or entering. The total area of window signs shall not
be greater than the permanent on-building sign area allowed for the business/
use. Window signs which are not covered by the temporary sign provisions, shall
only be allowed as permanent signs with the approval of the required sign
permit.
   (T)   Yard sale signs. Yard sale signs subject to the following:
      (1)   One on-site sign not to exceed four square feet, posted for no more
than two days, and removed no later than one hour after the end of the event.
      (2)   Up to four off-site direction signs not to exceed two square feet
each, posted for no more than two days, and removed no later than one hour
after the end of the event.
      (3)   All such signs shall be consistent with the provisions of this
chapter.
      (4)   Yard sale signs are not allowed in public places, including the
public right-of-way.
(Ord. 864 C.S., passed 11-4-09)
§ 10-6.05 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   In addition to any sign not specifically in accordance with this chapter,
the following signs shall be prohibited:
   (A)   Signs having one or a combination of the following characteristics:
      (1)   Obscene or offensive to morals.  Containing statements, words, or
pictures of an obscene, indecent, or immoral character which, taken as a whole,
appeal to the prurient interest in sex, and which signs are patently offensive
and, when taken as a whole, do not have serious literary, artistic, political,
or scientific value;
      (2)   Imitative of official signs. Signs (other than when used for
traffic direction) which contain or are an imitation of an official traffic
sign or signal, or contain the words stop, go, slow, caution, danger, warning,
or similar words, or signs which imitate or may be construed as other public
notices, such as zoning violations, building permits, business licenses, and
the like;
      (3)   Fluorescent colors.  Any permanent signs containing florescent
colors as all or part of their copy;
      (4)   Natural despoliation.  Signs which are cut, burned, limed, painted,
or otherwise marked on a field, tree, rock, or other natural item; and
      (5)   Changeable copy signs. Signs designed to have changeable copy as a
part or all of their copy, except as specifically provided for in §
10-6.13 (Special Use Signs).
   (B)   Moving signs having one or a combination of the following
characteristics:
      (1)   Flashing of lights, blinking of lights, or changing of color
intensity, except those permitted as part of seasonal decorations;
      (2)   Animation (such as by mechanical movement of parts of the sign,
projections on or within the sign, or changes on the shape or content of the
sign face), to exclude “time and temperature” devices. This shall include, but
is not limited to, flashing, blinking, flickering, moving textual messages,
moving, rotating signs, and frames which appear to rotate, except those
permitted as part of seasonal decorations;
      (3)   Windblown devices and/or inflatable signs, whose movement is
designed to attract attention, such as pennants, flags, balloons, or other
inflated objects, or reflective attachments to sign faces, except those
specifically permitted (as temporary signs in §
10-6.09(C), and except those permitted as part of seasonal decorations, or
flags which are specifically exempted by §
10-6.09(D) and (E) and §
10-6.10(D) and (E) of this chapter.
      (4)   Banners, with the exception of those which are specifically
permitted by §
10-6.09 and §
10-6.10 of this chapter; and
      (5)   Where there is any production of smoke, fog, sound, light, or other
substance or matter;
   (C)   Signs which are portable, A-frame, I-frame signs, “feathers,” and
“stabbers”, to include human “waiver” signs, except as permitted for grand
openings and going out of business events in §
10-6.09(D) and (E) and §
10-6.10(D) and (E) of this chapter;
   (D)   Obstructive to use or visibility, hazardous locations. No sign shall
be erected in any manner which, in whole or in part, would create a hazardous
condition to pedestrians or traffic alike, either by obstructing the free use
of exits, building or site, or by creating visual distraction, being color,
sound, or glare, or representing a traffic control device; and
   (E)   Signs in one or more of the following locations:
      (1)   Within public places. Within any public street, sidewalk, any
public accessible parking lot, or right-of-way, unless they shall maintain a
minimum clearance of 14 feet above the adjoining grade level and after
acquiring an encroachment permit from the city, except marquee signs as defined
by this chapter, unless specifically provided for in this chapter;
      (2)   Roof signs, except mansard roof signs, except those permitted as
part of seasonal decorations.
      (3)   Mansard roof signs. Signs located on the upper one-third of a
mansard roof shall be prohibited. Signs located on the lower two-thirds of a
mansard roof shall be counted as wall signs. Mansard roofs shall be designed to
provide for sign placement in an architecturally integrated fashion per the
approval of the Planning Director.
      (4)   Projecting. Except as provided for in Special Signage Districts of
this chapter, signs projecting more than 12 inches from the face of a building
shall not be allowed;
      (5)   Vehicle signs where the primary purpose of the vehicle is general
advertising. No vehicle or trailer may be used as a platform or substitute for
a billboard, freestanding sign, or movable sign, whether parked on public or
private property or found in the public right-of-way. This is specifically
intended to include the use of vehicles as a freestanding or off-premises sign
and does not apply to signs maintained on vehicles when such advertising is
incidental to the primary purpose for which the vehicle is being used (such as
delivery service).
      (6)   Bench signs. Signs located on benches or other similar outdoor
furnishings such as, but not limited to, chairs, chaises, outdoor umbrellas,
trash cans, and/or awnings;
      (7)   In storage. Signs may not be located on a premises so as to be
visible from beyond the property line after removal, prior to erection, or
while in storage; and
      (8)   Miscellaneous temporary signs and posters. The tacking, posting, or
otherwise affixing of signs of a miscellaneous character, visible from a public
way, located on the walls of buildings, barns, or sheds or on trees, poles,
posts, fences, or other structures shall be prohibited, unless specifically
permitted by this chapter.
(Ord. 864 C.S., passed 11-4-09)
§ 10-6.06 ABANDONED OR DILAPIDATED SIGNS, FRAMES, STRUCTURAL MEMBERS, AND
SUPPORTING POLES.
   (A)   Removal. Signs advertising an activity, business, product, or service
no longer conducted on the premises on which the sign is located, or sign
frames, structural members, or supporting poles remaining unused for six months
or longer, or signs which are abandoned or dilapidated shall be removed from
the site. Signs will be considered abandoned or dilapidated where the sign or
element of it is excessively weathered, torn, broken, significantly damaged or
structurally unsound or where the copy can no longer be seen or understood by a
person with normal eyesight under normal viewing conditions. For purposes of
this chapter, EXCESSIVELY WEATHERED shall mean, including but not limited to,
signs where the condition of the paint or structural material has become so
deteriorated as to permit decay, excessive checking, cracking, peeling,
chalking, fading, dry rot or warping. Removal shall be at the expense of the
property owner on which the sign in question is located.
   (B)   Continued use of abandoned signs. The owner of a sign, the purpose of
which has been abandoned, who desires to make subsequent use of the structural
portions of such sign in its present location, may, within six months after the
abandonment, make an application to the Planning Director for an extension of
time. Where the sign conforms to all other requirements of the law, and where
the owner submits reasonable evidence that he is endeavoring to secure use for
the sign (a new tenant for the structure or the arrival of a new product line
for the existing tenant), the Planning Director may grant extensions of time.
The Planning Director may require the owner, as a condition of the granting of
such extension, paint out, obscure, or remove some or all elements of the
message or face portion of the sign in such a manner as to leave the remaining
structure neat and unobtrusive in appearance in harmony with the structure to
which it is attached, and that this be done within 30 days after the granting
of such extension. Failure to do so shall void and nullify any such extension.
Signs which are determined by the city to be structurally unsound and dangerous
or hazardous to the public safety or welfare shall be removed immediately upon
notification by the city. Removal shall be at the expense of the property owner
on which the sign in question is located.
(Ord. 864 C.S., passed 11-4-09; Am. Ord. 868 C.S., passed 5-5-10)
§ 10-6.07 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   This section shall apply to all districts designated by the zoning
provisions as residential.
   (A)   Size.
      (1)   For single-family residences only. Address signs as allowed for in
§
10-6.04.
      (2)   For multiple-family residences only. One monument sign per street
frontage not to exceed one square foot per ten feet of lot frontage with a
minimum area of 12 square feet and a maximum area of 24 square feet shall be
permitted.
      (3)   For PD zoned planned developments.  Signs shall be approved in
conjunction with the Precise Plan for the residential planned development.
   (B)   Location. Multiple-family development signs may be freestanding or
wall mounted. When freestanding, such signs shall not be less than five feet
inside the property line, nor closer than 100 feet from another freestanding
sign on the same parcel. If building mounted, signs shall be flush mounted on
the wall.
   (C)   Contents. Single-family dwelling signs shall indicate only the name of
the occupant and the street address. Multiple-family development signs may give
the name of the development, the address, and, only when vacancies occur, note
“units for rent” (“no vacancy” signs shall not be permitted), not to exceed six
square feet.
   (D)   Illumination.  No internal illumination shall be allowed. Non-
illuminated signs or external illumination of the sign area only shall be
permitted per the review and approval of a sign review application.
   (E)   Special uses. See Table 1, Special Uses, set forth in §
10-6.13 of this chapter, for the signage (other than identified above)
permitted in a residential district.
(Ord. 864 C.S., passed 11-4-09)
§ 10-6.08 PROFESSIONAL OFFICE DISTRICTS.
   This section shall apply to all districts designated by the zoning provision
as office professional. This section shall specifically apply to the following
zone districts: PO
   (A)   Residential uses. Signs for residential uses shall be permitted as
provided in §
10-6.07 of this chapter.
   (B)   Office uses: freestanding signs.
      (1)   Size and height. Office developments may use one of two optional
freestanding sign programs: a single freestanding sign listing the name and
address of the office center, or the business in the case of a single business
development. The sign area and the sign height shall not exceed those listed in
the following table:
TABLE A
Office Development Signs
 
Each Street Frontage Height Face Area
0 - 50               4'     12 Sq. Ft.
51 - 100             6'     18 Sq. Ft.
101 - 200            8'     24 Sq. Ft.
201 - 400            10'*   32 Sq. Ft.
401 - Plus           12'*   48 Sq. Ft.
* Up to a 25% increase in the height of the sign may be granted by the
Planning Director where the Director determines a taller sign “structure”
shall enhance the design of the development.
 
      (2)   Location.  The location of such signs shall not be less than one
foot inside the property line and shall not interfere with the safety of
vehicular traffic entering into or exiting from an office development property
or with vehicular traffic or pedestrians.
      (3)   Number. The allowable number of freestanding signs shall be as
follows:
         (a)   The total face area may be utilized in one sign or be divided
among one sign per street frontage, with a maximum height of eight feet and
provided a minimum distance of one-half of the width of the lot is maintained
between each sign and the street corner of the lot. This provision shall be for
frontages having 201 feet or greater of the total street frontage and shall be
approved by the Planning Director.
         (b)   When an office building has more than one tenant, individual
low-profile freestanding signs for each tenant may be permitted in lieu of a
single freestanding sign for the site, as permitted by subsection (a) of this
section. Such low-profile signs shall be uniform in construction (except for
copy) and shall not exceed four feet in height, eight feet in length, and two
feet in width per business. Such low profile signs shall be limited to copy on
one side and placed parallel to the street.
      (4)   Directory signs.  There shall be no quantity limits for directory
signs located within the interior of a business center when those signs are not
viewable from the public right-of-way. For directory signs located along the
exterior street frontages of a business center, only one such sign shall be
permitted for each approach entrance, or as determined otherwise by the
Planning Director when the design, location, shape of the center, or other
special circumstances exist and warrant special consideration.
   (C)   Office uses: on-building identifications signs.
      (1)   Size. Each business frontage having a public entrance shall be
allowed on-building identification signs having an area of one-half square foot
per front foot of building lease area, up to 30 square feet of maximum area.
Buildings set back 150 feet or more from the street shall be permitted one
square foot of sign area per front foot of building lease area, up to 50 square
feet.
      (2)   Location.  When approved by the Planning Director, the sign area
may be transferred from a frontage with a public entrance to one without a
public entrance provided the ratio of signing per lineal foot is not exceeded
on any one elevation.
(Ord. 864 C.S., passed 11-4-09)
§ 10-6.09 COMMERCIAL/BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   This section shall apply to all districts designated by the zoning provision
as commercial. This section shall specifically apply to the following zone
districts: C1, C2, CN, CR, and CH.
   (A)   Commercial uses: freestanding signs.
      (1)   Size and height. The sign area of each face and the sign height
shall not exceed those areas and height set forth in the following tables:
TABLE B
Individual Businesses
 
Each Street Frontage Height Face Area
0 - 50               6'     20 Sq. Ft.
51 - 100             8'     30 Sq. Ft.
101 - 150            10'    40 Sq. Ft.
151 - 200            12'    50 Sq. Ft.
201 - 400            14'    60 Sq. Ft.
401 - Plus           20'    100 Sq. Ft.
 
TABLE C
Multiple Businesses Developments
 
Each Street Frontage of Development* Height Face Area
0 - 50                               6'     40 Sq. Ft.
51 - 100                             8'     50 Sq. Ft.
101 - 150                            10'    60 Sq. Ft.
151 - 200                            12'    80 Sq. Ft.
201 - 400                            14'    100 Sq. Ft.
401 - Plus                           20'    120 Sq. Ft.
 
TABLE D
Shopping Centers
 
Each Street Frontage of  Center* Height Face Area
200 or less                      14'    75 Sq. Ft.
201 - 400                        16'    100 Sq. Ft.
401 - 500                        20'    120 Sq. Ft.
501 - Greater                    20'    150 Sq. Ft.
* In addition to the allowable freestanding sign allowance, shopping centers
with a street frontage of 700 lineal feet or greater shall be allowed
secondary tenant freestanding identification signs. The number of secondary
signs shall not exceed one per main drive approach for a maximum of two. Sign
area shall not exceed 100 square feet of sign area per sign, with individual
panels of no more than ten square feet. Identification signs shall have a
maximum height of 20 feet. Such signs shall be granted for minor tenants
within the center, located more than 150 feet from the street the business
intends to serve.
 
      (2)   Location. The location of such signs shall not be less than one
foot inside the property line and shall not interfere with the safety of
vehicular traffic entering into or exiting from the business center or with
vehicular street traffic or pedestrians. On corner lots, it is the intent of
this section that signs not be placed at the corner of one street frontage to
be viewed from another street frontage. Generally, multiple freestanding signs
for independent businesses and business centers shall be centered on the street
frontage on which they are placed.
      (3)   Number. Only one freestanding sign shall be allowed for and upon
each street frontage. Without increasing the total freestanding sign allowance
for corner parcels, the Planning Director may allow the linear footage of two
or more connecting street frontages to be combined for corner parcels in order
to obtain a greater face area for a freestanding sign along a particular
frontage than would otherwise normally be permitted, subject to the following
restrictions:
         (a)   The height of the freestanding sign does not exceed that
otherwise permitted for the street frontage on which the sign is placed, based
on values denoted for the linear footage on that street; and
         (b)   The combined face area of the freestanding sign does not exceed
that otherwise permitted for the street frontage on which the sign is placed by
more than 25%.
      (4)   Minor tenant directional signs. Shopping centers shall be allowed
on-site directional signage for minor tenant identification. The number of
directional signs shall not exceed one per main drive. Signs shall not exceed
ten square feet of sign area per sign, with individual panels of no more than
three square feet. Minor tenant directional signs shall have a maximum height
of six feet and should architecturally integrate with the shopping center site.
Signs shall be located a minimum of 40 feet from the nearest street property
line, and the location shall be subject to approval by the Planning Director.
It is not the intent of this section to create additional signs to be viewed
from a public right-of-way.
   (B)   Commercial uses: on-building identification signs.
      (1)   Area allowed for frontages with public entrances. Each business
frontage having a public entrance shall be permitted on-building identification
signs with the allowable area computed in accordance with
Table E as follows:
TABLE E
On-Building Signs
 
Building                        Minor Tenants  Major Tenants  Major Tenant
Entrance       Allowable Sign   Max. Allowable Max. Allowable Greater Than Two
Setback from   Area Formula     Sign Area      Sign Area*     Stories Tall
Property Line
Less than or   One Sq. Ft. per
equal to 150   each linear foot
feet to the    of occupancy     75 Sq. Ft.     150 Sq. Ft.    200 Sq. Ft.
nearest street frontage
property line
 
 
Building                        Minor Tenants  Major Tenants  Major Tenant
Entrance       Allowable Sign   Max. Allowable Max. Allowable Greater Than Two
Setback from   Area Formula     Sign Area      Sign Area*     Stories Tall
Property Line
More than 150  One and one-half
feet to the    Sq. Ft. per each
nearest street linear foot of   100 Sq. Ft.    200 Sq. Ft.    250 Sq. Ft.
property line  occupancy
               frontage
* Major tenants having 100,000 square feet or more gross leasable area shall
be eligible for additional on-building sign area under special approval by the
Planning Director. In such cases, the Planning Director may increase the
maximum allowable areas for major tenants set forth in
Table E from 150 to 200 square feet where the building entrance setback is
located less than or equal to 150 square feet from the nearest street property
line; or from 200 to 300 square feet where the building entrance setback is
located more than 150 feet from the nearest street property line; whichever
applies. Without further increasing the allowed on-building sign area, the
Planning Director may allow major tenants to transfer, in whole or in part,
the on-building sign area allowance from a side street frontage without a
public entrance to a frontage with a public entrance.
 
      (2)   Area allowed for street frontages without public entrances. Each
business occupying the end of a building, having a street frontage without a
public entrance, shall be permitted one-half square foot of sign area for each
one foot of leased occupancy frontage. The maximum area shall be limited to 25
square feet.
      (3)   Minimum sign area. Each commercial use which has direct pedestrian
access through an exterior building wall which is visible from a public right-
of-way shall be allowed at least 25 square feet of building sign area,
regardless of building occupancy frontage. Commercial uses having a sole access
from the interior of any building or from an enclosed lobby or court shall not
be allowed the minimum building wall sign area referred to in this section.
      (4)   Under canopy signs. Under canopy signs shall be allowed in
commercial centers provided they shall not exceed six square feet in sign area,
nor shall such sign extend lower than seven feet or higher than ten feet above
the area over which it is suspended, and shall be mounted perpendicular to the
building face. Such signs shall identify only a business name or profession
location in a business center. Only one such sign shall be displayed per
frontage with a public entrance.
      (5)   Transfer of sign area. When approved by the Planning Director, the
sign area may be transferred in part or in whole from a frontage with a public
entrance to one without a public entrance provided the signs on a given
frontage do not exceed the allowable area, as computed in
Table E set forth in division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs shall be allowed at the following
times:
      (1)   Holiday promotion periods. Within identified holiday periods,
temporary promotion signs shall be limited to banners, painted window signs,
and/or pennants, not to exceed in size the total allowable on building sign
area for the business/use. Such signs may be displayed without a sign permit or
prior approval by the city. The allowed holiday promotional display periods are
as follows:
         (a)   Valentine's Day, and the preceding six days.
         (b)   Easter Sunday, and the preceding six days.
         (c)   Mother's Day, and the preceding four days.
         (d)   Independence Day, and the week (Monday - Sunday) thereof.
         (e)   Old Timers Day, and the week (Monday - Sunday) thereof.
         (f)   Halloween, and the preceding six days.
         (g)   Thanksgiving, the preceding ten days and the following three
days.
         (h)   Christmas/New Year’s Holiday season (December 1st to December
31st).
      (2)   Additional promotion periods.  In addition to the holiday
promotional periods listed above, a business may display banners, painted
window signs, pennants, and/or windblown devices/inflatable signs not to exceed
in size the total allowable on building sign area for the business/use, during
two additional 14 day periods each calendar year. The additional two-week (14
day) periods may be at the discretion of the business owner per the approval of
the Planning Department. To display special promotion temporary signs, a
business must obtain an approved Temporary Sign Permit from the Planning
Department of the city. The application shall indicate the time period and type
of display. Such signs may be used in conjunction with an event or sale, and
may be displayed for 14 days maximum. Such promotional displays shall not list
individual product prices. Special promotion periods may be used in place of a
holiday promotion period (overlaid), as long as they do not extend the 14 day
maximum period.
   (D)   Grand opening signs. A business may apply to the Planning Department
for a special sign permit for grand opening signage. A-frame signs, I-frame
signs and portable changeable copy signs shall be limited to only one grand
opening and a maximum display time of 30 days per business, with a written
request approved by the Planning Director.
   (E)   Going out of business.  A business may apply to the Planning
Department for a special sign permit in order to facilitate the liquidation of
inventory for a closing business for a period not to exceed 90 calendar days.
Such permit will be allowed only once for any business, with a written request
approved by the Planning Director. Change of ownership, change of management,
business remodel, or business renovation events are not valid.
   (F)   Special uses. See Table 1, Special Uses, set forth in §
10-6.13 of this chapter, for the signage (other than identified above)
permitted in the commercial district.
(Ord. 864 C.S., passed 11-4-09)
§ 10-6.10 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Application. This section shall apply to all districts designated by
the zoning provisions as industrial. This section shall specifically apply to
the following zone districts: I and IP.
   (B)   Industrial uses: freestanding signs.
      (1)   Size and height.  The sign area of each face and sign height shall
not exceed the areas and height set forth as follows:
TABLE F
Industrial Uses
 
Total Frontage of Industrial Use Height of Sign Face Area
0 - 75                           10'            25 Sq. Ft.
76 - 100                         14'            50 Sq. Ft.
101 - 150                        16'            60 Sq. Ft.
151 - 200                        18'            75 Sq. Ft.
201 - Greater                    20'            100 Sq. Ft.
 
      (2)   Location.  The location of such signs shall not be less than one
foot inside the property line and shall not interfere with the safety of
vehicular traffic entering into or exiting from a business center or with
vehicular traffic or pedestrians.
      (3)   Number.  The total face area may be utilized in one sign or, where
specifically approved by the Planning Director, the sign area may be divided
among one sign per street frontage, with a maximum height of eight feet and
provided a minimum distance of one-half of the width of the lot is maintained
between each sign and the street frontage of the lot.
   (C)   Industrial uses: on-building identification signs.
      (1)   Area allowed.  Each business frontage shall be allowed one square
foot of sign area for each linear foot of building frontage up to a maximum of
300 square feet.
      (2)   Number allowed. The sign area of each business frontage may be
utilized in one or more such signs provided the total sign area of all signs on
a given frontage does not exceed the allowable.
   (D)   Grand opening signs.  A business may apply for a special sign permit
for grand opening signage. A-frame signs, I-frame signs and portable changeable
copy signs shall be limited to only one grand opening and a maximum display
time of 30 days per business, with a written request approved by the Planning
Director.
   (E)   Going out of business. A business may apply to the Planning Department
for a special sign permit in order to facilitate the liquidation of inventory
for a closing business for a period not to exceed 90 calendar days. Such permit
will be allowed only once for any business, with a written request approved by
the Planning Director. Change of ownership, change of management, business
remodel, or business renovation events are not valid.
(Ord. 864 C.S., passed 11-4-09; Am. Ord. 868 C.S., passed 5-5-10)
§ 10-6.11 RESERVE DISTRICTS.
   No signage, with the exception of exempt signage per §
10-6.04, is allowed in the U (Unclassified) and RCO (Resource Conservation and
Open Space) Zone Districts, except as specifically provided for by a
conditional use permit.
(Ord. 846 C.S., passed 11-4-09)
§ 10-6.12 DESIGN DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Where design districts are created in the city, which establish
special sign regulations for a designated area, the provisions of the design
district shall apply where there is a conflict with this chapter.
   (B)   West Yosemite Overlay District. The protection of the character of the
streetscape is the purpose of the WY overlay zone. Signage is to be kept to a
minimum to protect the streetscape while allowing for adequate identification.
Placement of signs is governed under §
10-6.08 of this chapter except as otherwise specified in this section. The
following sign criteria are established:
      (1)   Ground signs. One non-illuminated double-face ground sign for each
parcel subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   Maximum sign area and dimensions. Ground signs may not exceed
eight square feet in area. The message area, including background area, shall
not exceed a vertical height of two feet. The maximum sign height shall not
exceed four feet above average ground level.
         (b)   Sign placement. Perpendicular to the street; a minimum of three
feet behind sidewalk.
         (c)   Street number. Every ground sign must incorporate the street
number into the message area. Such numbers may not be less than four inches in
height and must be compatible with the style of the sign message.
         (d)   Letters. Routed or raised-wood letter; color is at the option of
the applicant/owner.
      (2)   Wall sign. One wall sign not exceeding three square feet in area
for each business at each major business entrance door.
      (3)   Window sign. Window signage is not allowed.
      (4)   Directional sign. To encourage maximum use of the off-street
parking located at the rear of a parcel, a directional sign not exceeding two
square feet shall be provided adjacent to the driveway or in conjunction with
the ground sign. The materials shall be compatible with those of the ground
sign and the sign height shall not exceed four feet.
      (5)   Nonconforming signs. Signs which become nonconforming upon
application of the West Yosemite zone shall be brought into compliance at the
time of any change to the sign other than routine maintenance.
(Ord. 864 C.S., passed 11-4-09)
§ 10-6.13 SPECIAL USE SIGNS.
   Certain uses, because of their special sign needs or their allowance in
residential as well as business or industrial districts, have been specifically
listed in this section. Where such uses are approved, the sign standards
allowed for such uses shall be found in the special use table as follows:
 
SPECIAL USE LIMITATIONS AND SPECIAL CONDITIONS
            Primary freestanding identification sign based upon
            Table B of §
            10-6.09(A)(1). One freestanding sign may be provided per separate new car
            showroom/sales facility. The minimum distance between freestanding signs shall
            be 300 feet, and a minimum distance to any adjacent property line shall be 50
            feet.
Automobile/ (a)   Freestanding signs for ancillary used car sales shall be no higher than 14
R.V. sales  feet nor contain more than 36 square feet of sign area. One used car
(new)       freestanding sign shall be allowed per site. The minimum distance between
            freestanding signs shall be the same as for new car sales. This sign area may be
            combined with the main dealership sign (maximum 136 square feet).
            (b)   Signs in or on vehicles shall be limited to 2 sq. ft. per vehicle.
            (c)   On-building signs at a rate not to exceed the area in
            Table E of §
            10-6.09(B).
            (d)   Window signs: temporary signs only.
 
SPECIAL USE LIMITATIONS AND SPECIAL CONDITIONS
SPECIAL USE LIMITATIONS AND SPECIAL CONDITIONS
            (a)   One freestanding identification sign based upon
            Table B of §
Automobile/ 10-6.09(A)(1). A minimum distance from other freestanding signs shall be 100
R.V. sales  feet, and a minimum distance to any adjacent property line shall be 50 feet.
(used)      (b)   Signs in or on vehicles shall be limited to 2 sq. ft. per vehicle.
            (c)   On-building signs at a rate not to exceed the area in
            Table E of §
            10-6.09(B).
            One freestanding sign on each street frontage with a public entrance. Max. height
Cemetery    10 ft., max. area 30 sq. ft. Wall signs on the principal entrance not to exceed
            12 sq. ft.
            (a)   Allowed only with the approval of a Conditional Use Permit by the Planning
            Commission.
            (b)   One per business or business center.
Changeable  (c)   Limited to on-site commercial messages only.
copy sign   (d)   Not permitted within 2,000 feet of any other changeable copy sign.
            (e)   When mounted on-building - all on-building signage (to include changeable
            copy sign) shall not exceed the total on-building signage allowed.
            (f)   When mounted on freestanding sign - all freestanding signage (to include
            changeable copy sign) shall not to exceed total freestanding signage allowed.
            (a)    Not exceeding 12 sq. ft. for directory signs.
            (b)    Not exceeding 32 sq. ft. in total sign area for freestanding signs per
Church      street frontage. One sign allowed per street frontage.
            (c)   Wall signs not to exceed one-quarter sq. ft. per foot of building frontage
            facing a street.
            (a)   For uses conducted in single-family residential districts, no signage or
            indicia is allowed.
Day Care    (b)   For uses conducted in multifamily, no signage or indicia is allowed.
Facility    (c)   For uses in commercial districts, signage shall be consistent with the
            provisions of §
            10-6.09.
 
SPECIAL USE LIMITATIONS AND SPECIAL CONDITIONS
SPECIAL LIMITATIONS AND SPECIAL CONDITIONS
USE
        (a)   Drive-up/drive-in uses are subject to a conditional use permit.
        (b)   A formal sign review application shall be submitted and approved prior to
        installation of any signs.
        (c)   In addition to the sign area allowed under the commercial district
        regulations, drive-up restaurants shall be allowed one menu board per drive-up
        lane not to exceed 20 sq. ft. in area or six feet in height. Changeable copy is
        limited to the menu board.
        (d)   Each drive-up lane shall be permitted one preview board in conjunction
        with the menu board. The preview board shall not exceed 20 sq. ft. in area and
Drive-  not exceed six feet in height.
in/     (e)   The minimum distance from the center of the menu board to the center of
drive-  any proposed preview board shall not be less than 25 feet.
up/     (f)   All menu boards and preview boards shall utilize low intensity
drive-  illumination.
through (g)   All corporate advertising shall be eliminated from the menu and preview
uses    board.
        (h)   Menu and preview board shall not be visible from the street. Additional
        landscape areas or shrub plantings may be required to provide screening.
        (i)   Walk-up menu boards shall be limited to six or less sq. ft. in area in
        locations as approved under the conditional use permit. Carhop menu boards shall
        not exceed six square feet in area and shall be reviewed through the Conditional
        Use Permit process.
        (j)   Directional signs shall be textual in nature with no branding and/or logos
        incorporated into the sign design so as to direct (as opposed to distract) the
        motoring public. Directional signs shall be one foot high by two feet wide by
        three feet tall.
        (a)   In addition to signs allowed by §
        10-6.09 of this section, sites five acres in size or greater, located in the C1,
        C2, CH, I, and IP Zone Districts and adjacent to and visible from the travel
        lanes of State Route 99 or 145 are allowed one on-site freeway sign, subject to
        the following criteria:
           Acreage      Face area      Maximum height
           5-10 acres      200 square feet   20 feet
           10-20 acres      300 square feet   30 feet
Freeway    20 acres or more   400 square feet   40 feet
Sign    (b)   The Director of Planning may grant a greater height up to a maximum height
        of 60 feet when the freeway sign provided for multiple tenant identification.
        (c)   A request to exceed the 40-foot height maximum shall be subject to a flag
        test to be performed by the applicant, with a member of city staff in
        attendance.
        (d)   On-building freeway identification signs are allowed with sign area to be
        calculated at one sq. ft. per each lineal foot of lease space for a major tenant
        (10,000 sq. ft. or greater) adjacent to or visible from the freeway, with a
        maximum on-building sign area not to exceed 200 square feet in area.
 
SPECIAL USE LIMITATIONS AND SPECIAL CONDITIONS
SPECIAL    LIMITATIONS AND SPECIAL CONDITIONS
USE
Golf       One freestanding sign per street frontage with vehicular access. Max. height, 10
Courses    ft., max. area, for frontages under 200 ft., 16 sq. ft., for frontages 201 feet or
           greater, 32 sq. ft.
           (a)   For uses conducted in single-family residential districts, no signage or
Group Care indicia is allowed.
Facilities (b)   For uses conducted in multifamily or commercial districts, one wall mounted
           sign per street frontage, not to exceed one sq. ft. per 10 ft. of lot frontage with
           a max. of 24 sq. ft.
Hotels/    In addition to the signing allowed in the commercial districts, hotel/motel uses
Motels     shall be entitled to one “vacancy-no vacancy” sign not to exceed five sq. ft. Said
           sign may be illuminated.
           (a)   Marketing windows are subject to the approval of a zoning administrator
           permit.
           (b)   A formal sign review application shall be submitted and approved prior to
           installation of any signs.
           (c)   Approved signage shall only be located on the back/rear walls of the marketing
           window.
           (d)   In all cases, marketing windows shall comply with the following dimensional
           criteria. Marketing windows shall be:
              (1)   At least three foot in depth.
              (2)   No greater than 50% of the width of the building elevation where they are
           located.
              (3)   No greater than 10 feet tall, and only on the ground floor of a building.
Marketing     (4)   Never result in greater than 10 times the total allowed on-building signage
Window     for a business per Table E of Section
           10-6.09(B) or in excess of 1,000 square feet, whichever is less.
           (e)   In all cases, marketing windows shall comply with the following design
           criteria. Marketing windows shall:
              (1)   Only be illuminated from the front. All illumination shall be shielded and
           located within the marketing window vestibule.
              (2)   Not be illuminated after 12:00 midnight, or when the business is closed,
           whichever is later.
              (3)   Only display graphical elements and/or photographs representative of the
           goods and/or services offered within.
              (4)   Not function as a display window.
           (f)   No temporary window signage as allowed in MMC §
           10-6.04(S) shall be placed on or within the marketing window.
           (a)   One sq. ft. of sign area per lineal foot of building facing a public street
Movie      not to exceed 100 sq. ft. per frontage.
Theaters   (b)   One freestanding sign not to exceed 30 sq. ft. for each theater screen up to a
           max. area of 200 sq. ft. and a max. height of 20 feet.
           (c)   Changeable copy may be employed for movie listings.
           (a)   Temporary A-frame and I-frame signs may be used.
Outdoor    (b)   Maximum total sign area shall not exceed 50 sq. ft.
Uses       (c)   Individual signs shall be limited to 25 sq. ft. each with a maximum height of
Temporary/ six feet, and shall not affect traffic or parking spaces.
Seasonal   (d)   Total number of signs per street frontage shall be limited to one, and shall
           be approved by the Planning Director.
Outdoor
Uses Other
Than       Not exceeding one-half sq. ft. per front of lot or area for the use to a max of 50
Temporary  sq. ft. and shall be approved by the Director of Planning.
or
Seasonal
Private
Clubs and  To be determined with the Conditional Use Permit approval.
Lodges
           (a)   One freestanding sign at each street entrance not to exceed 16 sq. ft. in area
Private    or six feet in height indicating the name and nature of the business, plus the means
Parking    of operation or parking restrictions.
Lots       (b)   The freestanding sign(s) may be mounted on a parking lot attendant structure
           in lieu of the freestanding sign(s).
Private    To be determined with the Conditional Use Permit approval.
Schools
Public     As approved by City Council for city uses.
Uses
 
SPECIAL USE LIMITATIONS AND SPECIAL CONDITIONS
SPECIAL USE    LIMITATIONS AND SPECIAL CONDITIONS
Service        (a)   Portable Outside Merchandise Display Stands allowed only with an approved
Stations       Conditional Use Permit.
(Gasoline      (b)   Gasoline Price Signs: One permanently mounted freestanding price sign per
Sales)         street frontage, shall be allowed which list information for each grade of
including:     gasoline, type of service available and type of payment permitted, when there
Mini-Market/   is a difference in price for each separate case. Said signs indicating a single
Gas            price or a combination of prices shall not exceed a total area of 20 sq. ft.,
Convenience    with a max. height of eight feet unless mounted on the freestanding business
Market With    identification sign, in which case the height shall not exceed that specific to
Gas Car-Wash/  the permitted sign. Said sign(s) may be illuminated.
Gas
Combinations
(In addition
to normal sign (c)   In addition to the gasoline signs allowed under (b), one on-building
area, the      gasoline price sign not to exceed 20 sq. ft may be displayed on one building
following      frontage facing a street frontage.
special
purpose signs
may be
displayed)
               (a)   Residential. Freestanding signs shall be attached to a permanent
Residential    structure designed for the purpose and located within the center island or on
Subdivision    one side of the street at up to two entrances to a subdivision, subject to an
Identification approved encroachment permit when located within the public right-of-way.
(permanent)    (b)   Sign(s) shall not exceed a height of eight feet nor 16 sq. ft. in area
               per sign, nor one sign per entrance.
               (c)   Such signs shall be approved with a tentative subdivision map.
               (a)   Major Shopping Center signage shall be approved through a conditional use
Shopping       permit approved by the Planning Commission.
Center (Major) (b)   Such signage shall be consistent with the purpose and intent of this
               chapter.
Temporary      (a)   Maximum sign area shall not exceed 50 sq. ft. total.
Seasonal Sales (b)   Individual signs shall be limited to 25 sq. ft. each with a maximum
Conducted      height of six feet, and shall not affect traffic or parking spaces.
Outdoors
(Fireworks,
Pumpkin,       (c)   Total number of signs per street frontage shall be limited to one, and
Christmas      shall be approved by the Planning Director.
Tree,
Agricultural
Sales)
 
(Ord. 864 C.S., passed 11-4-09; Am. Ord. 892 C.S., passed 1-4-12)
§ 10-6.14 SUBDIVISION SIGNS, TEMPORARY.
   (A)   On-site. Temporary on-site signs are allowed, as follows:
      (1)   Up to 128 square feet in one principal subdivision sign and up to
60 square feet for additional signs at each street entrance to, or within the
subdivision, not to exceed a total of five signs for the subdivision. Phases of
a single tentative map by a single builder shall be considered as a single
subdivision. Prior to the placement of any signs, a sign program shall be
submitted to and approved by the Planning Department. Sign approval shall be
for a one year period. For each additional year the subdivision is actively
being marketed, an annual permit shall be filed.
      (2)   Model home signs. One per model up to 16 square feet in area.
      (3)   For a single ten day grand opening period, banners, flags and
additional temporary signing shall be allowed on-site as long as they do not
create a traffic safety hazard. A written letter must be submitted to the
Planning Department notifying the city of the grand opening event.
      (4)   Upon payment of a performance deposit, as set by resolution of the
City Council, flag poles, flags and banners may be allowed subject to the
following standards:
         (a)   Flags and poles must be immediately removed when flags are no
longer displayed.
         (b)   Flags/banners must be removed or replaced when faded or
tattered.
         (c)   Flag pole heights shall not exceed 30 feet.
         (d)   Flags shall not exceed 12 square feet.
         (e)   The number of flags/poles shall not exceed 24 plus one per model
home. As approved in the subdivision sign program, the flag poles may be
grouped.
         (f)   Flag poles shall not be located in the public right-of-way.
         (g)   Up to three temporary banners may be displayed not to exceed
four feet by 20 feet in size.
   Failure to comply with these standards shall cause the forfeiture of the
performance deposit.
   (B)   Off-site. Temporary off-site signs shall be allowed, provided that:
      (1)   Signs shall be immediately removed when the subdivision is no
longer being actively marketed.
      (2)   Signs shall be removed or replaced when damaged or in disrepair.
      (3)   Signs shall identify and market specific individual subdivision
projects.
      (4)   Signs shall be located within a one mile radius from the project it
is approved to market.
      (5)   Signs shall not be located in the public right-of-way or public
easements, except for directional kiosks as authorized by ordinance.
      (6)   Signs shall not exceed four feet by eight feet in size.
      (7)   Not more than two off-site signs shall be allowed in any
geographical direction (north, south, east, and west) up to four signs.
      (8)   Signs shall not be located closer than 100 yards from any
directional kiosk, as authorized by ordinance.
      (9)   Signs shall not be located closer than 100 feet to other temporary
off-site subdivision signs.
   (C)   Permits. All subdivision signs shall require a valid city sign permit,
as authorized by ordinance. A complete subdivision signage plan shall be
required to be submitted to the Planning Director for review and approval. A
performance deposit set by the resolution of the City Council shall be
required.
(Ord. 864 C.S., passed 11-4-09)
§ 10-6.15 SIGN PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   In addition to any other permits which may be required by the Uniform
Codes or Municipal Code, an approved sign review permit shall be required,
which may be issued by the Planning Director, for any sign erected, altered,
relocated, or reconstructed in any zone district, excepting those exempt per §
10-6.04.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for
any person to erect, alter, relocate, or reconstruct a sign within the city
without first obtaining a sign review permit.
   (C)   In order to file an application for any action under this chapter, the
applicant shall have a certain legal interest in the real property which is the
subject of the application, which legal interest shall be one of the following:
      (1)    Owner;
      (2)   Seller or purchaser under a contract of sale;
      (3)   Lessee, limited to the portion being leased and excluding common
access drives and common parking areas; or
      (4)   A verified agent of one of such persons (such as a licensed sign
contractor).
   (D)   The application shall be in the number of copies and on the format
designated by the Planning Director. All sign review applications shall include
the following:
      (1)    Completed application form to include all required signatures;
      (2)   Payment of the required fee, as set by the City Council;
      (3)   Three sets of scaled drawings to include:
         (a)    Scaled plot plan of the subject property, identifying the
location of all proposed signs;
         (b)   Scaled drawings of all proposed signage with sign size(s)
calculated;
         (c)   Scaled drawings of all building elevations to include all
existing and proposed signs; and
         (d)   All exhibits shall include a legend, and a color scheme, and
show the type of illumination, method of attachment, material composition,
disconnect switch wherever applicable, and other information which may be
needed to determine that the provisions of this chapter have been satisfied.
   (E)   In processing sign applications, the following criteria shall be used
to approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove:
      (1)   The sign shall be consistent with the purpose and intent of this
chapter;
      (2)    The sign shall be consistent with the standards, exceptions, and
prohibitions set forth in this chapter; and
      (3)   The sign’s location and copy shall be best suited for visibility
and safety.
   (F)   The Planning Department shall review all sign review permit
applications and shall either approve, approve with modifications, or deny an
application in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and any other
applicable requirements of federal, state, or local laws. The Planning
Director, however, may withhold action on an application until it is reviewed
by the Planning Commission if the Director feels there is a potential element
of controversy regarding the following factors, which include, but are not
limited to: size, color, type, face, shape, or other elements disharmonious,
distracting, or incongruous with the site or any surrounding neighborhood.
   (G)   In the event of denial, the Planning Department shall provide written
notice of a denial to the applicant within five working days after a decision
is rendered. The applicant may appeal any decision of the Planning Department
to the Planning Commission pursuant to the provisions of §
10-6.18 (Appeals).
(Ord. 864 C.S., passed 11-4-09; Am. Ord. 868 C.S., passed 5-5-10)
§ 10-6.16 MASTER SIGN PROGRAMS.
   (A)   Upon determination of the Planning Director, an approved master sign
program may be required in conjunction with and as a part of another
development entitlement application (discretionary or ministerial). The intent
of a requirement for a master sign program is to provide for cohesive,
complementary, and proportionate signage that satisfies the purpose and intent
of this chapter.
   (B)   In processing Master Sign Program applications, the submittal
requirements of a sign permit shall be adhered to per §
10-6.15(d). Only one sign permit application shall be required for each master
sign program.
   (C)   In all cases, the Master Sign Program shall be at least as restrictive
as the provisions and restrictions of this chapter.
(Ord. 864 C.S., passed 11-4-09)
§ 10-6.17 (RESERVED).
§ 10-6.18 APPEALS.
   (A)   The applicant or any aggrieved person may appeal, in writing, setting
forth his reasons for such appeal, to the Planning Commission. Such appeal
shall be filed with the Planning Director within 15 days after the receipt of
the notice of such decision. The appeal shall be placed on the agenda of the
Commission’s next available regular meeting after the appeal is filed. The
Commission shall review the sign review permit and shall approve, approve with
conditions, or disapprove, based on the criteria set forth in §
10-6.15(e). The decision of the Commission shall be final unless appealed to
the Council.
   (B)   The applicant or any aggrieved person may appeal, in writing, setting
forth his reasons for such appeal, to the Council within 15 days after the
Commission’s decision. The appeal shall be filed with the City Clerk and shall
be placed on the agenda of the Council’s next available regular meeting after
the appeal is filed. The Council shall review the sign review permit and shall
approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove, based on the criteria set
forth in §
10-6.15(e). The decision of the Council shall be final.
   (C)   The appellant or his authorized representative shall appear in person
at the appropriate Planning Commission hearing and/or the Council hearing. If
no such appearance is made by the appellant or his or her authorized
representative, and no continuance of such hearing has been sought, the appeal
shall be automatically denied.
(Ord. 864 C.S., passed 11-4-09)
§ 10-6.19 MINOR ADJUSTMENTS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Planning Director may grant minor adjustments in order to prevent
unnecessary hardships which would result from a strict and literal
interpretation and enforcement of certain regulations prescribed by this
chapter. A practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship may result from the
size, shape, or dimensions of a site or the location of existing structures
thereon, from geographic, topographic, or other physical conditions on the
site, or in the immediate vicinity, or from street locations or traffic
conditions in the immediate vicinity which would affect the signing of such
site or building.
   (B)   In all cases, consideration of the minor adjustment must result from a
practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship, and findings of said practical
difficulty or unnecessary hardship shall accompany any application for minor
adjustment, to include justification of the nature of and need for the minor
adjustment.
   (C)   The minor adjustment process may be used where the applicant desires
one or more adjustments from the requirements of this chapter provided the
total amount of adjustments is limited to 25 percent of the allowed sign area.
The Planning Director may allow adjustments within the limits listed in this
section. Appropriate findings consistent with the purpose and intent this
chapter shall be made a part of the motion to grant an adjustment.
   (D)   The minor adjustment process may not be used for relief from the
provisions of §
10-6.05, Prohibited Signs. Relief from those regulations as specified in §
10-6.05 shall be processed as a variance.
   (E)   The minor adjustment process may be used for:
      (1)   Additional area to:
         (a)    Overcome a disadvantage because of an exceptional setback
between the street and the sign or orientation of the sign location;
         (b)   Achieve an effect which is essentially architectural,
sculptural, or graphic art and which, in the opinion of the Planning Director,
enhances the sign and site’s development;
         (c)   Permit more sign area in a single sign than is allowed, but less
than the total allowed the site, where a more orderly and concise pattern of
signing will result;
         (d)   Allow a sign compatible with other conforming signs in the
vicinity; and
         (e)   Establish the allowable amount and location of signing when no
street frontage exists or when, because of an unusual lot shape (for example, a
panhandle lot), the street frontage is excessively narrow in proportion to the
average width of the lot.
      (2)   Alternative locations.
         (a)   On site. To transfer from one wall to another wall or to a
freestanding sign upon the finding that such alternative location is necessary
to overcome a disadvantage caused by an unfavorable orientation of the front
wall to the street or parking lot or an exceptional setback;
         (b)   Lots not fronting on any street. Sign review by the Planning
Director shall be required for all such signs. Under sign review, approval may
be given for the placement of a sign on an access easement to a lot not having
street frontage, at a point where viewable from the adjoining public street;
and
         (c)   Other. Additionally, alternative locations may be granted in
order to further the intent and purpose of this chapter or where normal
placement would conflict with the architectural design of a structure.
      (3)   Alternative types of signs. To facilitate compatibility with the
architecture of structures on the site and improve the overall appearance of
the site.
   (F)   The procedure for a minor adjustment to this chapter is as follows.
All minor adjustments for signage shall be referred to the Planning Department
for review by the Planning Director, to include:
      (1)   A completed application;
      (2)   Statement of justification and findings;
      (3)   A fee set by the City Council; and
      (4)   Three sets of scaled drawings to include:
         (a)    Scaled plot plan of the subject property, identifying the
location of all proposed signs;
         (b)   Scaled drawings of all proposed signage with sign size(s)
calculated;
         (c)   Scaled drawings of all building elevations to include all
existing and proposed signs; and
         (d)   All exhibits shall include a legend, and a color scheme, and
show the type of illumination, method of attachment, material composition,
disconnect switch wherever applicable, and other information which may be
needed to determine that the provisions of this chapter have been satisfied.
   (G)   Upon approval of a minor adjustment by the Planning Director, property
owners and business operators existing at such time, located adjacent to the
affected property or within 300 feet from the location of the sign, shall be
notified of the decision, explaining the adjustment and noting the appeal
process. The decision shall not take effect until the appeal period ends.
   (H)   Appeals for adjustments shall be processed the same as those listed
for sign review permits in §
10-6.18.
   (I)   Any request for variance from the Sign Ordinance of the City of Madera
shall adhere to §
10-3.1401 -
10-3.1411 of the Madera Municipal Code.
(Ord. 864 C.S., passed 11-4-09)
§ 10-6.20 ILLEGAL AND NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Illegal signs. Every sign in existence on January 1, 2010 and which
was prohibited or illegal at the time of installation, and which does not
conform to the provisions of this chapter shall be an illegal sign. Such signs
shall be removed immediately upon notification of illegality. Failure to remove
such signs shall be a violation of this chapter. Signs which are not
constructed, maintained, or displaced pursuant to the requirements of this
chapter, and which are not legal, and which are nonconforming shall be illegal,
except as follows:
      (1)   Any sign conforming to county laws at the time the property upon
which it is displayed is annexed to the city and which is made non-conforming
or illegal under the provisions of this chapter shall be removed or brought
into conformance within five years after the date it became non-conforming. Any
sign which has been declared non-conforming under county laws prior to
annexation to the city shall be removed or brought into conformance with this
chapter within the time period provided for under the county’s law provided the
time period is less than five years;
      (2)   Any sign of historical significance; where the sign display is
within an area listed or eligible for listing on the National Register of
Historical Places, or in an area registered as an historical landmark or point
of interest, or in an area designated as an historical zone.
   (B)   Nonconforming signs.  
      (1)   Signs that were in conformance with existing ordinance prior to the
adoption, or subsequent amendments, of this chapter, but are inconsistent with
the adopted content are considered Legal Nonconforming Signs. As such, they may
continue to exist provided that they are not altered, modified, or changed in
such a way that would increase the degree of nonconformity. When such
modification, alteration or change occurs or is proposed, the sign shall be
brought into compliance with the standards of this chapter, and shall be
permitted under the specifications of this chapter. Each nonconforming sign
shall be removed or made to conform to the provisions of this article at the
sole cost of the owner thereof.
      (2)   A legal nonconforming sign shall be made to conform immediately to
the provisions of this chapter if/when:
         (a)   The sign is destroyed or damaged to an extent in excess of 50%
of its estimated value. The sign shall not be replaced or repaired except by a
sign which conforms to the provisions of this chapter;
         (b)   The owner relocates the sign;
         (c)   There is an agreement between the owner and the city for the
removal of a sign on a given date;
         (d)   The use of the sign is discontinued for over 180 days, at which
such time the sign shall be removed within 30 days, unless within that period
of time it is made to conform;
         (e)   The sign display is or may become a danger to the public or is
unsafe; or
         (f)   The sign display constitutes a traffic hazard not created by the
relocation of streets or highways or by acts of the city or county.
(Ord. 864 C.S., passed 11-4-09)
§ 10-6.21 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Signs in violation. Signs determined to be in violation of this
chapter are declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)    Enforcement. Enforcement of this chapter shall be consistent with §
10-3.1603 of the Madera Municipal Code.
(Ord. 864 C.S., passed 11-4-09)
CHAPTER 7: ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
10-7.01   Purpose
   
10-7.02   Definitions
   
10-7.03   Minimum proximity requirements
   
10-7.04   Amortization of nonconforming adult-oriented business uses
   
10-7.05   Extension of time for termination of nonconforming use
   
10-7.06   Permits required
   
10-7.07   Adult-oriented business use permit required
   
10-7.08   Applications
   
10-7.09   Investigation and action on application
   
10-7.10   Permit denial and renewal
   
10-7.11   Transfer of adult-oriented business regulatory permits
   
10-7.12   Adult-oriented business performer permit
   
10-7.13   Investigation and action on application
   
10-7.14   Suspension or revocation of adult-oriented business use permits and
adult-oriented business performer permits
   
10-7.15   Appeal of denial, suspension or revocation
   
10-7.16   Adult-oriented business development and performance standards
   
10-7.17   Register and permit number of employees
   
10-7.18   Display of permit
§ 10-7.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the intent of this chapter to prevent community wide adverse economic
impacts, increased crime, decreased property values, and the deterioration of
neighborhoods which can be brought about by the concentration of adult-oriented
businesses in close proximity to each other or proximity to other incompatible
uses such as schools for minors, churches, and residentially zoned districts or
uses. The City Council finds that it has been demonstrated in various
communities that the concentration of adult-oriented businesses causes an
increase in the number of transients in the area, and an increase in crime, and
in addition to the effects described above can cause other businesses and
residents to move elsewhere. It is, therefore, the purpose of this chapter to
establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the concentration of
adult-oriented businesses or their close proximity to incompatible uses, while
permitting the location of adult-oriented businesses in certain areas.
(Ord. 697 C.S., passed 3-17-99)
§ 10-7.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES. Any of the following:
      ADULT ARCADE. An establishment where, for any form of consideration, one
or more still or motion picture projectors, or similar machines, for viewing by
five or fewer persons each are used to show films, computer generated images,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions
30% or more of the number of which are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment that has 30% or more of its stock in
books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or of photographs,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, tapes, records, or other forms
of visual or audio representations which are distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified sexual activities
and/or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, restaurant, or similar business establishment
which:
         (1)   Regularly features live performances which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis upon the display of specified sexual activities;
and/or
         (2)   Shows films, computer-generated images, motion pictures, video
cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions, 30% or more of the
number of which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT HOTEL/MOTEL. A hotel or motel or similar business establishment
offering public accommodations for any form of consideration which:
         (1)   Provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions,
films, computer generated images, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or
other photographic reproductions, 30% or more of the number of which are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; and
         (2)   Rents, leases, or lets any room more than twice in a 24-hour
period.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A business establishment where, for any
form of consideration, films, computer generated images, motion pictures, video
cassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions are shown, and 30% or
more of the number of which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
upon the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
establishment which, for any form of consideration regularly features live
performances which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
display of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      ESCORT BUREAU. A business which, for pecuniary compensation,
consideration, hire or reward furnishes or offers to furnish escorts.
      MODELING STUDIO. A business which provides for pecuniary compensation,
monetary or other consideration, hire or reward, figure models who, for the
purposes of sexual stimulation of patrons, display "specified anatomical areas"
to be observed, sketched, photographed, painted, sculpted or otherwise depicted
by persons paying such consideration. MODELING STUDIO does not include schools
maintained pursuant to standards set by the State of California Board of
Education. MODELING STUDIO further does not include a studio or similar
facility owned, operated, or maintained by an individual artist or group of
artists, and which does not provide, permit, or make available "specified
sexual activities".
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS OPERATOR. The term ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS
OPERATOR (hereinafter OPERATOR) as used in this chapter, shall mean a person
who supervises, manages, inspects, directs, organizes, controls, or in any
other way is responsible for or in charge of the premises of an adult
entertainment business or the conduct or activities occurring on the premises
thereof.
   APPLICANT. A person who is required to file an application for a permit
under this chapter, including an individual owner, managing partner, officer of
a corporation, or any other operator, manager, employee, or agent of an ADULT
ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS.
   BAR. Any commercial establishment licensed by the State of California
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control to serve alcoholic beverages on the
premises.
   CHURCH. A structure which is used primarily for religious worship and
related religious activities.
   DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY AN EMPHASIS UPON. The term DISTINGUISHED
OR CHARACTERIZED BY AN EMPHASIS UPON as used in this chapter, shall mean and
refer to the dominant or essential theme of the object described by such
phrase. For instance, when the phrase refers to films "which are distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis upon" the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, the films so described are
those where dominant or predominant character and theme are the depiction of
the enumerated sexual activities or anatomical areas.
   ENTERTAINER. Any person who is an employee or independent contractor of the
adult-oriented business, or any person who, with or without any compensation or
other form of consideration, performs live entertainment for patrons of an
adult-oriented business.
   ESCORT. A person who, for pecuniary compensation, monetary or other
consideration, hire or reward:
      (1)   Escorts or accompanies others to or about social affairs,
entertainment or places of amusement; or
      (2)   Keeps company with others about any place or public resort or
within any private quarters; or
      (3)   Who agrees or offers to privately model lingerie or to privately
perform a striptease for another person; or
      (4)   Who agrees to provide any service which is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis upon the display of specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities.
   FIGURE MODEL. Any person who, for pecuniary compensation, consideration,
hire or reward, poses in a modeling studio to be observed, sketched, painted,
drawn, sculpted, photographed, or otherwise depicted.
   HEALTH OFFICER.  A health officer of the city or his or her duly authorized
representative.
   NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, or buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering, the
showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any part
of the nipple, or the showing of the covered male genitals in a discernible
turgid state.
   OPERATE AN ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. The supervising, managing,
inspecting, directing, organizing, controlling, or in any way being responsible
for or in charge of the conduct of activities of an adult entertainment
business.
   PARK. Any city owned, operated, or managed area specifically established for
the recreation of the public.
   PERMITTEE. The person to whom an adult entertainment business permit is
issued.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, association,
joint stock company, corporation, or combination of the above in whatever form
or character.
   POLICE CHIEF. The Chief of Police of the city or the authorized
representative thereof.
   REGULARLY FEATURES. With respect to an adult theater or adult cabaret, a
regular and substantial course of conduct. The fact that live performances
which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon the display of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities occurs on two or more
occasions within a 30 day period; three or more occasions within a 60 day
period; or four or more occasions within a 180-day period, shall to the extent
permitted by law be deemed to be a regular and substantial course of conduct.
   SCHOOL.  Any child or day care facility, or an institution of learning for
minors, whether public or private, offering instruction in those courses of
study required by the California Education Code and maintained pursuant to
standards set by the State Board of Education. This definition includes a
nursery school, kindergarten, elementary school, middle or junior high school,
senior high school, or any special institution of education, but it does not
include a vocational or professional institution of higher education, including
a community or junior college, college or university.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, buttocks, areola of the female breast, as well as
portions of the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human: (i) genitals or
pubic region; (ii) buttocks; and (iii) female breast below a point immediately
above the top of the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered;
      (3)   Any device, costume, or covering that simulates any of the body
parts included in subsections (1) or (2) of this definition.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following whether performed directly
or indirectly through clothing or other coverings:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral
copulation, or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; and
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
other activities described in this definition.
(Ord. 697 C.S., passed 3-17-99)
§ 10-7.03 MINIMUM PROXIMITY REQUIREMENTS.
   No adult-oriented business shall be established or located in any zone in
the city other than the C-2, Heavy Commercial Zone, or the I, Industrial Zone,
or within 1,000 feet of certain specified land uses or zones as set forth
below:
   (A)   No such business shall be established or located within 1,000 feet of
any other adult-oriented business.
   (B)   No such business shall be established or located within 1,000 feet of
any existing residential zone or use, park, church or school.
   (C)   The distances set forth above shall be measured as a radius from the
primary entrance of the adult-oriented business to the property lines of the
property so zoned or used without regard to intervening structures.
(Ord. 697 C.S., passed 3-17-99)
§ 10-7.04 AMORTIZATION OF NONCONFORMING ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS USES.
   Any use of real property existing on the effective date of this Code
amendment, which does not conform to the provisions of §
10-7.03 but was constructed, operated, and maintained in compliance with all
previous regulations, shall be regarded as a nonconforming use which may be
continued for a maximum of five years after the effective date of this chapter.
On or after such date, all such nonconforming uses shall be terminated unless
an extension of time has been approved by the Planning Commission in accordance
with §
10-7.05.
   (A)   Abandonment. Notwithstanding the above, any discontinuance or
abandonment of the use of any lot or structure as an adult-oriented business
shall result in a loss of legal nonconforming use status of such use.
   (B)   Amortization - Annexed Property. Any adult-oriented business which was
a legal use at the time of annexation of the property and which is located in
the city, but which does not conform to the provisions of §
10-7.03 shall be terminated within five years of the date of annexation unless
an extension of time has been approved by the Planning Commission in accordance
with the provisions of §
10-7.05.
(Ord. 697 C.S., passed 3-17-99)
§ 10-7.05 EXTENSION OF TIME FOR TERMINATION OF NONCONFORMING USE.
   The owner or operator of a nonconforming use as described in §
10-7.04 may apply under the provisions of this section to the Planning
Commission for an extension of time within which to terminate the nonconforming
use.
   (A)   Time and manner of application. An application for an extension of
time within which to terminate a use made nonconforming by the provisions of §
10-7.03, may be filed by the owner of the real property upon which such use is
operated, or by the operator of the use. Such application must be filed with
the City Clerk at least 90 days but no more than 180 days prior to the time
established in §
10-7.04 for termination of such use.
   (B)   Content of application; fees. The application shall state the grounds
for requesting an extension of time. The filing fee for such application shall
be the same as that for a variance as is set forth in the schedule of fees
established by resolution from time to time by the City Council.
   (C)   Hearing procedure. The Community Development Director/City Engineer
shall act as a hearing officer on the application in presenting the matter to
the Planning Commission. The hearing officer shall set the matter for hearing
within 45 days of receipt of the application. All parties involved shall have
the right to offer testimony, documentary, and tangible evidence bearing on the
issues; may be represented by counsel; and shall have the right to confront and
cross-examine witnesses. Any relevant evidence may be admitted that is the sort
of evidence upon which reasonable persons are accustomed to rely in the conduct
of serious affairs. Any hearing under this section may be continued for a
reasonable time for the convenience of a party or a witness. The decision of
the Planning Commission shall be final for appeal purposes pursuant to the
Madera Municipal Code.
   (D)   Findings. An extension under the provisions of this section shall be
for a reasonable period of time commensurate with the investment involved and
shall be approved only if the Planning Commission makes all of the following
findings or such other findings as required by law:
      (1)   The applicant has made a substantial investment (including but not
limited to lease obligations) in the property or structure on or in which the
nonconforming use is conducted; such property of structure cannot be readily
converted to another use; and such investment was made prior to the effective
date of this Code amendment;
      (2)   The applicant will be unable to recoup said investment as of the
date established for termination of the use; and
      (3)   The applicant has made good faith efforts to recoup the investment
and to relocate the use to a location in conformance with §
10-7.03.
(Ord. 697 C.S., passed 3-17-99)
§ 10-7.06 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct or carry on,
or to permit to be engaged in, conducted or carried on, in or upon any premises
in the city, the operation of an adult-oriented business unless the person
first obtains and continues to maintain in full force and effect a permit from
the city as herein required.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any persons to engage in or participate in
any live performance depicting specified anatomical areas or involving
specified sexual activities in an adult-oriented business unless the person
first obtains and continues in full force and effect a permit from the city as
herein required.
(Ord. 697 C.S., passed 3-17-99)
§ 10-7.07 ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS USE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Every person who proposes to maintain, operate or conduct an adult-oriented
business in the city shall file a use permit application in accordance with §
10-3.1301 et seq. of this Code with the Community Development Department upon a
form provided by the city and shall pay a filing fee, as established by
resolution adopted by the City Council from time to time, which shall not be
refundable.
(Ord. 697 C.S., passed 3-17-99)
§ 10-7.08 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Adult-oriented business use permits are nontransferable, except in
accordance with §
10-7.11. Therefore, all applications shall include the following information:
      (1)   If the applicant is an individual, the individual shall state his
or her legal name, including any aliases, address, and submit satisfactory
written proof that he or she is at least 18 years of age.
      (2)   If the applicant is a partnership, the partners shall state the
partnership's complete name, address, the names of all partners, whether the
partnership is general or limited, and attach a copy of the partnership
agreement, if any.
      (3)   If the applicant is a corporation, the corporation shall provide
its complete name, the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation
is in good standing under the laws of California, the names and capacity of all
officers and directors, the name of the registered corporate agent and the
address of the registered office for service of process.
   (B)   If the applicant is an individual, he or she shall sign the
application. If the applicant is other than an individual, an officer of the
business entity or an individual with a ten percent or greater interest in the
business entity shall sign the application.
   (C)   If the applicant intends to operate the adult-oriented business under
a name other than that of the applicant, the applicant shall file the
fictitious name of the adult-oriented business and show proof of registration
of the fictitious name.
   (D)   A description of the type of adult-oriented business for which the use
permit is requested and the proposed address where the adult-oriented business
will operate, plus the names and addresses of the owners and lessors of the
adult-oriented business site.
   (E)   The address to which notice of action on the application is to be
mailed.
   (F)   The names of all employees, independent contractors, and other persons
who will perform at the adult-oriented business.
   (G)   A sketch or diagram showing the interior configuration of the
premises, including a statement of the total floor area occupied by the adult-
oriented business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally prepared,
but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the
interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
   (H)   A certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within 30 days prior
to application depicting the building and the portion thereof to be occupied by
the adult-oriented business, and:
      (1)   The property line of any other adult-oriented business within 1,000
feet of the primary entrance of the adult-oriented business for which a permit
is requested; and
      (2)   The property lines of any church, school, park, residential zone or
use within 1,000 feet of the primary entrance of the adult-oriented business.
   (I)   A diagram of the off-street parking areas and premises entries of the
adult-oriented business showing the location of the lighting system required by
§
10-7.16.
   (J)   If the Community Development Director/City Engineer determines that
the applicant has completed the application improperly, or that pertinent
information required by §
10-3.1301 et seq. of this Code has not been provided, the Community Development
Director/City Engineer shall promptly notify the applicant of such fact and, on
request of the applicant, grant the applicant an extension of time of ten days
or less to complete the application properly. In addition, the applicant may
request an extension, not to exceed ten days, of the time for the Community
Development Director/City Engineer to act on the application. The time period
for granting or denying a use permit shall be stayed during the period in which
the applicant is granted an extension of time.
   (K)   The fact that an applicant possesses other types of state or city
permits or licenses does not exempt the applicant from the requirement of
obtaining an adult-oriented business use permit.
(Ord. 697 C.S., passed 3-17-99)
§ 10-7.09 INVESTIGATION AND ACTION ON APPLICATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a completed application and payment of the application
and permit fees, the Community Development Director/City Engineer shall
immediately stamp the application as received and promptly distribute the
application for review and comment by other departments and agencies, and
schedule the matter for consideration by the Planning Commission to determine
whether the applicant shall be issued an adult-oriented business use permit.
   (B)   Within 30 days of receipt of the completed application, the Community
Development Department shall complete its review, including a background
investigation conducted by the Police Department, and shall schedule the
application for consideration by the Planning Commission which shall either
grant or deny the application in accordance with the provisions of this
section, and so notify the applicant as follows:
      (1)   The Community Development Director/City Engineer shall write or
stamp "Granted" or "Denied" on the application and date and sign such notation.
      (2)   If the application is denied, the Community Development Director
City Engineer shall attach to the application a statement of the reasons for
denial.
      (3)   If the application is granted, the Community Development Director
City Engineer shall attach to the application an adult-oriented business use
permit.
      (4)   The application as granted or denied and the use permit, if any,
shall be placed in the United States mail, first class postage prepaid,
addressed to the applicant at the address stated in the application.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall grant the application and issue the
adult-oriented business use permit upon findings that the proposed business
meets the locational criteria of §
10-7.03; and that the applicant has met all of the development and performance
standards and requirements of §
10-7.16, unless the application is denied for one or more of the reasons set
forth in §
10-7.10. The permittee shall post the use permit conspicuously in the adult-
oriented business premises.
   (D)   If the Planning Commission grants the application or if the Planning
Commission neither grants nor denies the application within 30 days from the
date of receipt of the application from the Community Development Director/City
Engineer (except as provided in §
10-7.08 (j), the applicant may begin operating the adult-oriented business for
which the permit was sought, subject to strict compliance with the development
and performance standards and requirements of §
10-7.16.
(Ord. 697 C.S., passed 3-17-99)
§ 10-7.10 PERMIT DENIAL AND RENEWAL.
   The Planning Commission shall deny the application for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   The building, structure, equipment, or location used by the business
for which an adult-oriented business regulatory permit is required does not
comply with the requirements and standards of the health, zoning, fire and
safety law of the city and the State of California, or with the locational or
development and performance standards and requirements of these regulations.
   (B)   The applicant, his or her employee, agent, partner, director, officer,
shareholder or manager has knowingly made any false, misleading or fraudulent
statement of material fact in the application for an adult-oriented business
use permit.
   (C)   An applicant is under 18 years of age.
   (D)   The required application fee has not been paid.
   (E)   The adult-oriented business does not comply with the Zoning Ordinance
locational standards, §§
10-7.03 through
10-7.05.
   (F)   Renewal. Each adult-oriented business regulatory permit shall expire
one year from the date of issuance and may be renewed only by filing with the
Community Development Department a written request for renewal, accompanied by
the use permit extension fee and a copy of the use permit to be renewed. The
request for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the expiration date
of the use permit. When made less than 30 days before the expiration date, the
expiration of the use permit will not be stayed. Applications for renewal shall
be acted on as provided herein for action upon applications for use permits.
(Ord. 697 C.S., passed 3-17-99)
§ 10-7.11 TRANSFER OF ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS REGULATORY PERMITS.
   (A)   A permittee shall not operate an adult-oriented business under the
authority of an adult-oriented use permit at any place other than the address
of the adult-oriented business stated in the application for the use permit.
   (B)   A permittee shall not transfer ownership or control of an adult-
oriented business or transfer an adult-oriented business use permit to another
person unless and until the transferee obtains an amendment to the use permit
from the Planning Commission stating that the transferee is now the permittee.
Such an amendment may be obtained only if the transferee files an application
with the Community Development Department in accordance with §§
10-7.08 and
10-7.09.
   (C)   No use permit may be transferred when the Community Development
Department has notified the permittee that the use permit has been or may be
suspended or revoked.
   (D)   Any attempt to transfer a use permit either directly or indirectly in
violation of this section is hereby declared void, and the use permit shall be
deemed revoked.
(Ord. 697 C.S., passed 3-17-99)
§ 10-7.12 ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS PERFORMER PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall engage in or participate in any live performance
depicting specified anatomical areas or involving specified sexual activities
in an adult-oriented business, without a valid adult-oriented business
performer permit issued by the city. All persons who have been issued an adult-
oriented business use permit shall promptly supplement the information provided
as part of the application for the use permit required by §
10-7.07, with the names of all performers required to obtain an adult-oriented
business performer permit, within 30 days of any change in the information
originally submitted. Failure to submit such changes shall be grounds for
suspension of the adult-oriented business use permit.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall grant, deny or renew adult-oriented business
performer permits.
   (C)   The application for a permit shall be made on a form provided by the
Chief of Police. An original and two copies of the completed and sworn permit
application shall be filed with the Chief of Police.
   (D)   The completed application shall contain the following information and
be accompanied by the following documents:
      (1)   The applicant's legal name and any other names (including "stage"
names and aliases) used by the applicant;
      (2)   Age, date, and place of birth;
      (3)   Height, weight, hair and eye color:
      (4)   Present residence address and telephone number;
      (5)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of:
         (a)   Any of the offenses set forth in Cal. Penal Code §§ 315, 316,
266a, 266b, 266c, 266g, 266h, 266i, 647(a), 647(b) and 647(D) as those sections
now exist or may hereafter be amended or renumbered.
         (b)   The equivalent of the aforesaid offenses outside the State of
California.
      (6)   Whether such person is or has ever been licensed or registered as a
prostitute, or otherwise authorized by the laws of any other jurisdiction to
engage in prostitution in such other jurisdiction. If any person mentioned in
this subsection has ever been licensed or registered as a prostitute, or
otherwise authorized by the laws of any other state to engage in prostitution,
a statement shall be submitted giving the place of such registration, licensing
or legal authorization, and the inclusive dates during which such person was so
licensed, registered, or authorized to engage in prostitution.
      (7)   State driver's license or identification number;
      (8)   Satisfactory written proof that the applicant is at least 18 years
of age;
      (9)   The applicant's fingerprints on a form provided by the Police
Department and a color photograph clearly showing the applicant's face. Any
fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the applicant.
      (10)   If the application is made for the purpose of renewing a license,
the applicant shall attach a copy of the license to be renewed.
   (E)   The completed application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable
application fee. The amount of the fee shall be set by resolution of the City
Council.
   (F)   Upon receipt of an application and payment of the application fees,
the Chief of Police shall immediately stamp the application as received and
promptly investigate the application.
   (G)   If the Chief of Police determines that the applicant has completed the
application improperly, the Chief of Police shall promptly notify the applicant
of such fact and grant the applicant an extension of time of not more than ten
days to complete the application properly. In addition, the applicant may
request an extension, not to exceed ten days, of the time for the Chief of
Police to act on the application. The time period for granting or denying a
permit shall be stayed during the period in which the applicant is granted an
extension of time.
(Ord. 697 C.S., passed 3-17-99)
§ 10-7.13 INVESTIGATION AND ACTION ON APPLICATION.
   (A)   Within ten business days after receipt of the properly completed
application, the Chief of Police shall grant or deny the application and so
notify the applicant as follows:
      (1)   The Chief of Police shall write or stamp "Granted" or "Denied" on
the application and date and sign such notation.
      (2)   If the application is denied, the Chief of Police shall attach to
the application a statement of the reasons for denial.
      (3)   If the application is granted, the Chief of Police shall attach to
the application an adult-oriented business performer permit.
      (4)   The application as granted or denied and the permit, if any, shall
be placed in the United States mail, first class postage prepaid, addressed to
the applicant at the residence address stated in the application.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall grant the application and issue the permit
unless the application is denied for one or more of the reasons set forth in
subsection (D) of this section.
   (C)   If the Chief of Police grants the application or if he neither grants
nor denies the application within ten business days after it is stamped as
received (except as provided in §
10-7.13 (G)), the applicant may begin performing in the capacity for which the
license was sought.
   (D)   The Chief of Police shall deny the application for any of the
following reasons:
      (1)   The applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading, or
fraudulent statement of a material fact in the application for a permit or in
any report or document required to be filed with the application;
      (2)   The applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (3)   The adult-oriented business performer permit is to be used for
performing in a business prohibited by state or city law.
      (4)   The applicant has been registered in any state as a prostitute.
      (5)   The applicant has been convicted of any of the offenses enumerated
in §
10-7.12(D)(5) or convicted of an offense outside the State of California that
would have constituted any of the described offenses if committed within the
State of California. A permit may be issued at the sole discretion of the Chief
of Police to any person convicted of the described crimes if the conviction
occurred more than five years prior to the date of the application.
   (E)   Each adult-oriented business performer permit shall expire one year
from the date of issuance and may be renewed only by filing with the Chief of
Police a written request for renewal, accompanied by the application fee and a
copy of the permit to be renewed. The request for renewal shall be made at
least 30 days before the expiration of the permit. When made less than 30 days
before the expiration date, the expiration of the permit will not be stayed.
Applications for renewal shall be acted on as provided herein for applications
for permits.
(Ord. 697 C.S., passed 3-17-99)
§ 10-7.14 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS USE PERMITS AND
ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS PERFORMER PERMITS.
   An adult-oriented business use permit or performer permit may be suspended
or revoked in accordance with the procedures and standards of this section.
   (A)   On determining that grounds for use permit revocation exist, the
Community Development Director/City Engineer shall furnish written notice of
the proposed suspension or revocation to the permittee. Such notice shall set
forth the time and place of a hearing by the Planning Commission, and the
ground or grounds upon which the hearing is based, the pertinent Code sections,
and a brief statement of the factual matters in support thereof. The notice
shall be mailed, postage prepaid, addressed to the last known address of the
permittee, or shall be delivered to the permittee personally, at least ten days
prior to the hearing date. Hearings shall be conducted in accordance with
procedures established by the Planning Commission, but at a minimum shall
include the following:
      (1)   All parties involved shall have a right to offer testimonial,
documentary, and tangible evidence bearing on the issues; may be represented by
counsel; and shall have the right to confront and cross-examine witnesses. Any
relevant evidence may be admitted that is the sort of evidence upon which
reasonable persons are accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious affairs.
Any hearing under this section may be continued for a reasonable time for the
convenience of a party or witness. The Planning Commission's decision may be
appealed in accordance with §
10-7.15.
   (B)   A permittee may be subject to suspension or revocation of his
performance permit, or be subject to other appropriate disciplinary action, for
any of the following causes arising from the acts or omissions of the
permittee, or an employee, agent, partner, director, stockholder, or manager of
an adult-oriented business:
      (1)   The permittee has knowingly made any false, misleading or
fraudulent statement of material facts in the application for a permit, or in
any report or record required to be filed with the city.
      (2)   The permittee, employee, agent, partner, director, stockholder, or
manager of an adult- oriented business has knowingly allowed or permitted, and
has failed to make a reasonable effort to prevent the occurrence of any of the
following on the premises of the adult-oriented business, or in the case of an
adult-oriented business performer, the permittee has engaged in one of the
activities described below while on the premises of an adult-oriented business:
         (a)   Any act of unlawful sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation,
or masturbation.
         (b)   Use of the establishment as a place where unlawful solicitations
for sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, or masturbation openly occur.
         (c)   Any conduct constituting a criminal offense which requires
registration under Cal. Penal Code § 290.
         (d)   The occurrence of acts of lewdness, assignation, or
prostitution, including any conduct constituting violations of Cal. Penal Code
§§ 315, 316, or 318 or Cal. Penal Code § 647(b).
         (e)   Any act constituting a violation of provisions in the California
Penal Code relating to obscene matter or distribution of harmful matter to
minors, including but not limited to Cal. Penal Code §§ 311 through 313.4.
         (f)   Any conduct prohibited by this chapter.
      (3)   Failure to abide by any disciplinary action previously imposed by
an appropriate City Official.
   (C)   After holding the hearing in accordance with the provisions of this
section, if the Chief of Police finds and determines that there are grounds for
disciplinary action, based upon the severity of the violation, the Chief of
Police shall impose one of the following:
      (1)   A warning;
      (2)   Suspension of the permit for a specified period not to exceed six
months;
      (3)   Revocation of the permit.
(Ord. 697 C.S., passed 3-17-99)
§ 10-7.15 APPEAL OF DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   After denial of an application for an adult-oriented business use permit, or
after denial of renewal of a performer permit, or suspension or revocation of a
permit, the applicant or person to whom a permit was granted may seek review of
such administrative action by the procedure in accordance with the provisions
of §§
1-4.01 through
1-4.03 of the Madera Municipal Code. The decision of the City Council after
review of such administrative action shall be considered final. The applicant
or permittee may then seek prompt judicial review of the City Council's
decision in the Superior Court of the County of Madera, in accordance with the
County of Madera Consolidated Superior and Municipal Courts Local Rules.
(Ord. 697 C.S., passed 3-17-99)
§ 10-7.16 ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Maximum occupancy load, fire exits, aisles and fire equipment shall be
regulated, designed and provided in accordance with the Fire Department and
building regulations and standards adopted by the city.
   (B)   No adult-oriented business shall be operated in any manner that
permits the observation of any material or activities depicting, describing or
relating to "specified anatomical areas" from any public way or from any
location outside the building or area of such establishment. This provision
shall apply to any display, decoration, sign, show window or other opening. No
exterior door or window on the premises shall be propped or kept open at any
time while the business is open, and any exterior windows shall be covered with
opaque covering at all times.
   (C)   All off-street parking areas and premise entries of the adult-oriented
business shall be illuminated from dusk to closing hours of operation with a
lighting system which provides an average maintained horizontal illumination of
one foot candle of light on the parking surface and/or walkways. The required
lighting level is established in order to provide sufficient illumination of
the parking areas and walkways serving the adult-oriented business for the
personal safety of patrons and employees and to reduce the incidence of
vandalism and criminal conduct. The lighting shall be shown on the required
sketch or diagram of the premises.
   (D)   The premises within which the adult-oriented business is located shall
provide sufficient sound-absorbing insulation so that noise generated inside
said premises shall not be audible anywhere on any adjacent property or public
right-of-way or within any other building or other separate unit within the
same building.
   (E)   An adult-oriented business shall be open for business only between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on any particular day.
   (F)   The building entrance to an adult-oriented business shall be clearly
and legibly posted with a notice indicating that persons under 18 years of age
are precluded from entering the premises. Said notice shall be constructed and
posted to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director or designee.
   (G)   All indoor areas of the adult-oriented business within which patrons
are permitted, except rest rooms, shall be open to view by the management at
all times.
   (H)   Any adult-oriented business which is also an "adult arcade", shall
comply with the following provisions:
      (1)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
rest rooms. Rest rooms may not contain video reproduction equipment nor any
other method of concealed viewing of any kind. If the premises has two or more
manager's stations designated, then the interior of the premises shall be
configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed view of each area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose from at
least one of the manager's stations. The view required in this subsection must
be direct line of sight from the manager's station.
      (2)   The view area specified in subsection (1) of the section shall
remain unobstructed by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks, or other
materials at all times. No patron is permitted access to any area of the
premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted.
      (3)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any one
time.
      (4)   The walls or partitions between viewing rooms or booths shall be
maintained in good repair at all times, with no holes between any two such
rooms such as would allow viewing from one booth into another or such as to
allow physical contact of any kind between the occupants of any two booths or
rooms.
      (5)   Customers, patrons or visitors shall not be allowed to stand idly
by in the vicinity of any such video booths, or remain in any common area of
such business who are not actively engaged in shopping for or reviewing the
products available on display for purchaser viewing. Signs prohibiting
loitering shall be posted in prominent places in and near the video booths.
      (6)   The floors, seats, walls and other interior portions of all video
booths shall be maintained clean and free from waste and bodily secretions.
Presence of human excrement, urine, semen, or saliva in any such booths shall
be evidence of improper maintenance and inadequate sanitary controls; repeated
instances of such conditions may justify suspension or revocation of the owner
and operator's license to conduct the adult-oriented business.
   (I)   All areas of the adult-oriented business shall be illuminated at a
minimum of the following foot candies, minimally maintained and evenly
distributed at ground level:
 
Area                        Foot-Candles
Bookstores and other retail 20
establishments
                            5 (except during performances, at which
Theaters and cabarets       times lighting shall be at least 1.25
                            foot-candles)
Arcades                     10
Motels/Hotels               20 (in public areas)
Modeling studios            20
 
   (J)   The adult-oriented business shall provide and maintain separate rest
room facilities for male patrons and employees, and female patrons and
employees. Male patrons and employees shall be prohibited from using the rest
room(s) for females, and female patrons and employees shall be prohibited from
using the rest room(s) for males, except to carry out duties of repair,
maintenance and cleaning of the rest room facilities. The rest rooms shall be
free from any Adult Material. Rest rooms shall not contain television monitors
or other motion picture or video projection, recording or reproduction
equipment or any other method of concealed viewing. The foregoing provisions of
this paragraph shall not apply to adult-oriented businesses which deal
exclusively with sale or rental of adult material which is not used or consumed
on the premises, such as an adult bookstore or adult video store, and which
does not provide rest room facilities to its patrons or the general public.
   (K)   The following additional requirements shall pertain to adult-oriented
businesses providing live entertainment depicting specified anatomical areas or
involving specified sexual activities, except for businesses regulated by the
Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission:
      (1)   No person shall perform live entertainment for patrons of an adult-
oriented business except upon a stage at least 18 inches above the level of the
floor and which is separated by a distance of at least ten feet from the
nearest area occupied by patrons, and no patron shall be permitted within ten
feet of the stage while the stage is occupied by an entertainer.
      (2)   The adult-oriented business shall provide separate dressing room
facilities for entertainers which are exclusively dedicated to the
entertainers' use.
      (3)   The adult-oriented business shall provide an entrance/exit for
entertainers which is separate from the entrance/exit used by patrons.
      (4)   The adult-oriented business shall provide access for entertainers
between the stage and the dressing rooms which is completely separated from the
patrons. If such separate access is not physically feasible, the adult-oriented
business shall provide a minimum three foot wide walk aisle for entertainers
between the dressing room area and the stage, with a railing, fence or other
barrier separating the patrons and the entertainers capable of (and which
actually results in) preventing any physical contact between patrons and
entertainers.
      (5)   No entertainer, either before, during or after performances, shall
have physical contact with any patron and no patron shall have physical contact
with any entertainer either before, during or after performances by such
entertainer. This subsection shall apply only to physical contact on the
premises of the adult-oriented business.
      (6)   Fixed rail(s) at least 30 inches in height shall be maintained
establishing the separations between entertainers and patrons required by this
subsection.
      (7)   No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any
entertainer and no entertainer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any
patron.
      (8)   No owner or other person with managerial control over an adult-
oriented business (as that term is defined herein) shall permit any person on
the premises of the adult-oriented business to engage in a live showing of the
human male or female genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than a fully
opaque coverage over any part of the nipple or areola and/or covered male
genitals in a discernibly turgid state. This provision may not be complied with
by applying an opaque covering simulating the appearance of the specified
anatomical part required to be covered.
   (L)   Adult-oriented businesses shall employ security guards in order to
maintain the public peace and safety, based upon the following standards:
      (1)   Adult-oriented businesses featuring live entertainment shall
provide at least one security guard at all times while the business is open. If
the occupancy limit of the premises is greater than 35 persons, an additional
security guard shall be on duty.
      (2)   Security guards for other adult-oriented businesses may be required
if it is determined by the Chief of Police that their presence is necessary in
order to prevent any of the conduct listed in §
10-7.12 from occurring on the premises.
      (3)   Security guard(s) shall be charged with preventing violations of
law and enforcing compliance by patrons of the requirements of these
regulations. Security guards shall be uniformed in such a manner so as to be
readily identifiable as a security guard as required by applicable provisions
of state law. No security guard required pursuant to this subdivision shall act
as a door person, ticket seller, ticket taker, admittance person, or sole
occupant of the manager's station while acting as a security guard.
   The foregoing applicable requirements of this section shall be deemed
conditions of adult-oriented business use permit approvals, and failure to
comply with each requirement shall be grounds for revocation of the use permit
issued pursuant to these regulations.
(Ord. 697 C.S., passed 3-17-99)
§ 10-7.17 REGISTER AND PERMIT NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Every permittee of an adult-oriented business which provides live
entertainment depicting specified anatomical areas or involving specified
sexual activities must maintain a register of all persons so performing on the
premises. Such register shall be available for inspection during regular
business hours by a police officer or health officer of the city.
(Ord. 697 C.S., passed 3-17-99)
§ 10-7.18 DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
   Every adult-oriented business shall display at all times during business
hours the use permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter for such
adult-oriented business so that the same may be readily seen by all persons
entering the adult-oriented business.
CHAPTER 8: DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
Section
   
10-8.01    Authority
   
10-8.02    Intent and purpose
   
10-8.03    Application
   
10-8.04    Definitions
   
10-8.05    Capital facilities fee requirement
   
10-8.06    When applicable
   
10-8.07    Exemptions
   
10-8.08    Time of payment
   
10-8.09    Notice of fee
   
10-8.10    Capital facilities fee accounts
   
10-8.11    Use of capital facilities fee
   
10-8.12    Reimbursement
   
10-8.13    Fee credit
   
10-8.14    Annual review
   
10-8.15    Termination of capital facilities fee
   
10-8.16    Relationship of capital facilities fee to certain other fees
   
10-8.17    Fee adjustment, waiver or finding of exemption
   
10-8.18    Developer's acknowledgment of fee adjustment, waiver, or exemption
   
10-8.19    Appeal procedure
   
10-8.20    Payment under protest
   
10-8.21    Refund of capital facilities fee
§ 10-8.01 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted under the police power of the city and under
Government Code § 66000 et seq.
(Ord. 754 C.S., passed 6-18-03)
§ 10-8.02 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The intent and purpose of this chapter is to cause new development in the
city to pay its fair share of the costs of public improvements and facilities,
which needs are generated by such development.
(Ord. 754 C.S., passed 6-18-03)
§ 10-8.03 APPLICATION.
   This chapter applies to development impact fees charged as a condition of
development to defray the cost of public facilities, improvements and
amenities. The cost of developing and administering the city's development
impact fee program may be included as a component of the established fees. This
chapter is not intended to and does not apply to regulatory and processing
fees; fees required under a development agreement; special development impact
fees adopted in conjunction with specific plans; funds collected under a
reimbursement agreement; or assessment district proceedings, assessments or
taxes.
(Ord. 754 C.S., passed 6-18-03)
§ 10-8.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL FACILITIES FEE OR CFF. The fee established pursuant to this chapter.
   CAPITAL FACILITY OR CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT. Public facilities as defined in
subsection (d) of § 66000 of the Government Code, including, but not limited
to, improvements for transportation and transit facilities, parks and
recreation facilities, public safety facilities, sewer, water, storm drainage
and such other facilities as may be identified in the Master Facility Plans or
in the Technical Report.
   CITY. The city including its future boundaries.
   COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT OR COMMERCIAL. Retail, office, and hotel buildings.
   DEVELOPER. The person(s) or legal entity(ies), who also may be the property
owner, who is developing a particular project in the city.
   DIRECTOR OR COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department
of Community Development of the city or his or her designee.
   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT. Warehouse, industrial, manufacturing and research
and development (R&D) buildings.
   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof which is occupied, or
intended for occupancy, as the same residence of two or more families living
independently of each other and doing their own cooking in such building,
including, but not limited to, duplexes, triplexes, fourplexes, apartments,
flats, condominiums and townhouses. MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING also includes
secondary dwelling units constructed within the R 6000, single-family
residential district.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. An attached or detached single-family residential
dwelling occupied or intended for occupancy by one household.
   TECHNICAL REPORT. The report dated April 2003, entitled "Madera Impact Fee
Update," prepared by Economic and Planning Systems, and any future Council
approved amendments to it.
(Ord. 754 C.S., passed 6-18-03)
§ 10-8.05 CAPITAL FACILITIES FEE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   General. The amount and the calculation of the capital facilities fee
shall be established by City Council resolution and is based upon the following
considerations:
      (1)   Each type of development will pay only for construction of those
public facilities where there is a reasonable relationship between the
facilities funded and the capital facility needs created by the new
development.
      (2)   Each type of development shall contribute to the funding of the
needed facilities in proportion to the need for the facilities created by that
type of development.
   (B)   Type of development.
      (1)   The categories of land uses for which the fee will be charged are:
         (a)   Single-family dwelling;
         (b)   Multi-family dwelling;
         (c)   Commercial development; and
         (d)   Industrial development.
      (2)   The fee is based on the estimated level of public services needed,
generated by and used by each category of use.
   (C)   Fee unit.
      (1)   Residential. A specific CFF amount, established for each
residential density type in this chapter, shall be charged for each new
dwelling unit.
      (2)   Commercial and industrial. A specific CFF amount, established for
each commercial and industrial development, shall be charged for each square
foot of commercial and industrial development, respectively.
   (D)   Capital facilities improvements. The fee shall be based on the
percentage of the cost of the capital facilities improvements attributable to
new residential, industrial and commercial development as determined in the
Technical Report. The improvements included in the total cost are set forth in
that report and do not and shall not include the costs of improvements needed
to alleviate existing deficiencies in the city's capital facilities, if any
exist.
   (E)   Amount of fee—formula.  
      (1)   The amount of the fee shall be established by resolution and may be
amended from time to time. The fee shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Estimate total capital facilities costs attributable to each
type of new commercial, industrial and residential development;
         (b)   Divide the cost attributable to new single-family development by
the total number of new single-family dwelling units expected under build out
of the city's General Plan. The result is the capital facilities fee to be
charged on the development of each new single-family dwelling unit in the city.
         (c)   Divide the cost attributable to new multi-family development by
the total, number of new multi-family dwelling units expected under build out
of the city's General Plan. The result is the capital facilities fee to be
charged on the development of each new multi-family dwelling unit in the city.
         (d)   Divide the cost attributable to new commercial development by
the total number of new commercial square feet expected under build out of the
city's General Plan. The result is the CFF to be charged on the development of
each new square foot of commercial development in the city.
         (e)   Divide the cost attributable to new industrial development by
the total number of new industrial square feet expected under build out of the
city's General Plan. The result is the CFF to be charged on the development of
each new square foot of industrial development in the city.
      (2)   Fee estimates are included in the Technical Report and shall be
updated periodically to reflect changes in construction costs, development
schedules, availability of other funds and other factors.
(Ord. 754 C.S., passed 6-18-03)
§ 10-8.06 WHEN APPLICABLE.
   The capital facilities fee, in an amount to be determined by resolution of
the City Council, is applicable to the construction of new residential units
and to the construction of new commercial and industrial development as set
forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 754 C.S., passed 6-18-03)
§ 10-8.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following activities and actions are exempt from the requirement to pay
the capital facilities fee:
    (A)   No fee is due if a capital facilities fee was previously paid in full
for a particular property and use;
    (B)   No capital facilities fee shall be charged for remodeling or for an
addition to an existing residential unit; and
   (C)   No fee shall be charged for demolition of an existing residential
structure and the building of a new residential structure on the same site,
provided the demolished structure was in use as a residential dwelling within
ten years before the issuance of a building permit for the new residential
structure.
There are no other exemptions to the capital facilities fee.
(Ord. 754 C.S., passed 6-18-03; Am. Ord. 870 C.S., passed 5-19-10; Am. Ord. 908
C.S., passed 9-18-13)
§ 10-8.08 TIME OF PAYMENT.
   The time for payment of the capital facilities fee shall be established by
City Council resolution, which sets the amount of the fee, and shall conform to
the requirements of Government Code §§ 66000 et seq.
(Ord. 754 C.S., passed 6-18-03)
§ 10-8.09 NOTICE OF FEE.
   At the time of approval of a project or at the time of the imposition of the
fees, the city shall provide to the project applicant a statement of:
   (A)   The amount of the fee and the public improvement that the fee will be
used to finance (Government Code § 66006(f)); and
   (B)   Notification that the 90-day approval period in which the applicant
may protest has begun (Government Code § 66020(d)).
(Ord. 754 C.S., passed 6-18-03)
§ 10-8.10 CAPITAL FACILITIES FEE ACCOUNTS.
   Fee revenues collected shall be placed in a particular account and may only
be used to fund the projects of that account as identified in the Appendix of
the Technical Report, as from time to time amended and to fund the city's
administrative costs incurred in collecting depositing, distributing and
otherwise administering such fee revenues and updating the Technical Report.
(Ord. 754 C.S., passed 6-18-03)
§ 10-8.11 USE OF CAPITAL FACILITIES FEE.
   The capital facilities fee revenues and all interest earned on deposited fee
revenues shall be used only to:
   (A)   Fund new development's share of the costs of the construction or
installation of the capital facilities and improvements identified in the
Technical Report as funds are available in the required accounts or to
reimburse the city for such construction or installation if funds were advanced
by the city from other sources to pay new development's share of such costs; or
   (B)   Fund reimbursement, under the terms set forth in §
10-8.12; or
   (C)   Fund loans or transfers made in conformance with Government Code §
66006(b)(1)(G).
(Ord. 754 C.S., passed 6-18-03)
§ 10-8.12 REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   As may be authorized by resolution of the City Council, following
review and written report from city staff, capital facilities fee revenues may
be used to reimburse a developer, upon his or her written request, under this
section. A developer must obtain Council approval for reimbursement, by
resolution, before any offer of dedication and before any construction begins
for a public improvement, which may be the subject of a reimbursement request.
Reimbursement shall only be approved by the City Council where all of the
following four conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   Developer has been required or permitted to install and dedicate a
public facility identified in the Technical Report which is oversized
(including supplemental size, length or capacity) beyond that which can be
attributed to the specific development installing the same;
      (2)   The facility for which reimbursement is sought is identified by the
city as a priority project to be funded within the four-year period immediately
following the completion of the facility;
      (3)   Revenues within the particular CFF account funding the facility are
available; and
      (4)   The sum value of the facility(ies) constructed, based on the most
current estimate of the infrastructure item (as defined by annual cost review
or other recent evaluation of cost), exceeds the total capital facilities fee
liability of the specific development installing the facility.
   (B)   Reimbursements shall not be authorized if the value of the constructed
and dedicated improvement is below the total capital facilities fee liability
of the project. Reimbursements for oversizing shall not be available as fee
credits against a development's fee liability, except as provided in §
10-8.13.
   (C)   Reimbursements for oversizing shall include appropriate financing
charges (interest) which shall be based upon the rate at which the city can
borrow money at the time the reimbursement is approved by the City Council.
Financing charges included in any reimbursement payments to a developer or
property owner shall not exceed this interest rate, as calculated by the city's
Finance Director.
   (D)   In the case of City Council approval of reimbursement, the
reimbursement amount will be based on the most current estimate of the
infrastructure item, as defined by annual cost review, other recent evaluation
of cost, or actual costs as determined by the director.
(Ord. 754 C.S., passed 6-18-03)
§ 10-8.13 FEE CREDIT.
   (A)   The Community Development Director is authorized to credit development
fees imposed under this chapter in consideration for certain on-site and off-
site facilities and improvements constructed or paid for by the developer. A
developer is entitled to credit of the improvements in an amount not to exceed
the amount of the applicable capital facilities fee if the improvement is
identified by the city as a priority project to be funded within the four-year
period immediately following the completion of the facility and the developer
(1) dedicates an appropriate site, (2) constructs the improvements, (3)
finances an improvement by cash, assessment district, or Mello-Roos Community
Facilities District, or (4) a combination of the above.
   (B)   A decision regarding a fee credit is appealable under §
10-8.19.
(Ord. 754 C.S., passed 6-18-03)
§ 10-8.14 ANNUAL REVIEW.
   The capital facilities fee authorized by this chapter and the implementing
Council resolution(s), the accumulated fee funds and their appropriation, and
supporting documentation, shall be reviewed annually by the City Council in a
manner, which conforms with the requirements of §§ 60001(d) and 66006(b) of the
Government Code.
(Ord. 754 C.S., passed 6-18-03)
§ 10-8.15 TERMINATION OF CAPITAL FACILITIES FEE.
   The city shall not collect the capital facilities fee established by this
chapter once funds sufficient to construct residential, commercial and
industrial development's share of all facilities described in the then current
Technical Report and its appendices have been collected.
(Ord. 754 C.S., passed 6-18-03)
§ 10-8.16 RELATIONSHIP OF CAPITAL FACILITIES FEE TO CERTAIN OTHER FEES.
   The city charges developers other fees. If a developer has paid such fees
and believes all or a portion of such fee payment is being used to fund
improvements included under the capital facilities fee, he or she may request a
refund or credit for overpayment by following the appeal procedures provided in
§
10-8.19.
(Ord. 754 C.S., passed 6-18-03)
§ 10-8.17 FEE ADJUSTMENT, WAIVER OR FINDING OF EXEMPTION.
   (A)   The developer of a project subject to a development fee under this
chapter may apply to the Community Development Director for an adjustment to or
waiver of that fee or for a finding that the project is exempt from the fee.
The waiver or adjustment of a fee shall be based upon the absence of any
reasonable relationship between the impact on public facilities of that
development and either the amount of fee charged or the type of facilities to
be financed.
   (B)   The application shall be made in writing and filed with the Community
Development Director no later than the time of the issuance of a building
permit. The application shall state completely and in detail both the
applicant's factual basis and legal theory for adjustment or waiver, and
compare its proposal with the analysis set forth in the Technical Report
prepared for the fee being challenged. The Community Development Director may
refuse to consider factual assertions or legal theories not set forth in the
written application.
   (C)   The Community Development Director shall consider the application at
an informal hearing, which may be continued from time to time, and which shall
be held within 60 days after the filing of the complete application. The
decision of the Community Development Director is appealable under §
10-8.19.
(Ord. 754 C.S., passed 6-18-03)
§ 10-8.18 DEVELOPER'S ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF FEE ADJUSTMENT, WAIVER, OR EXEMPTION.
   The Community Development Director or the City Council under §
10-8.17 may require as a condition of adjustment, waiver or a finding of
exemption that the developer provide a recordable document in a form acceptable
to the Director acknowledging the factual basis of such adjustment, waiver or
exemption and further acknowledging that a subsequent change of facts may
result in the requirement that additional fees be paid.
(Ord. 754 C.S., passed 6-18-03)
§ 10-8.19 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Community Development Director is responsible for administering,
collecting, crediting, adjusting and refunding development fees. A decision by
the Community Development Director regarding a fee imposed under this chapter
shall be appealable in accordance with this section. A person appealing under
this section shall have first sought a fee credit under §
10-8.13, or an adjustment or waiver, or a finding of fee exemption under §
10-8.18. A person seeking judicial review shall first complete an appeal under
this section and shall pay all city charges for that appeal.
   (B)   A person appealing a decision under this chapter shall file an appeal
with the City Clerk, who is responsible for processing the appeal toward a
hearing. The appeal shall be in writing, stating completely and in detail the
factual and legal grounds, and shall be filed within 10 calendar days following
the decision being appealed.
   (C)   The cost of the appeal shall be borne by the applicant, who shall pay
a deposit against such cost at the time of filing the appeal. The amount of the
deposit shall be established by resolution of the City Council. The cost of an
appeal must be paid in full before the appeal hearing takes place.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall notify the City Administrator of the appeal, and
the matter shall be placed before and heard by the City Council.
   (E)   The City Council shall set the time and place for the hearing, serve
notice on the parties, conduct the hearing, prepare written findings of fact
and a written decision on the matter, and shall preserve the complete
administrative record of the proceeding. The City Council may issue directives,
including but not limited to directives that legal briefs be submitted in
accordance with an established briefing schedule, to the parties in order to
facilitate resolution of the appeal. The City Council shall consider relevant
evidence presented by the appellant and by the Community Development
Department.
   (F)   The decision of the City Council is final and may not be further
appealed; it is reviewable by a court under Code of Civil Procedure § 1094.5.
(Ord. 754 C.S., passed 6-18-03)
§ 10-8.20 PAYMENT UNDER PROTEST.
   A developer seeking to proceed with his or her project during the pendency
of an application for adjustment or waiver or a finding of exemption or during
the pendency of an appeal may do so by following the procedures set forth in §
66020 of the Government Code.
(Ord. 754 C.S., passed 6-18-03)
§ 10-8.21 REFUND OF CAPITAL FACILITIES FEE.
   (A)   If a building permit or use permit is canceled or voided and the fees
paid have not been committed, the Community Development Director may, upon the
written request of the applicant and provided that work has not progressed to a
point that would permit commencement of a new, changed or expanded use for
which a fee would be payable, order return of the fee and interest earned on it
less administrative costs.
   (B)   If a fee is not spent or committed five years or more after it was
paid, and the City Council does not make the findings required by Government
Code § 66001(d), the Community Development Director may authorize a refund to
the then owner of the property for which the fee was paid, under Government
Code § 66001(e).
   (C)   A decision regarding refund of a fee is appealable under §
10-8.19.
(Ord. 754 C.S., passed 6-18-03)
CHAPTER 9: WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
   
10-9.01    Purpose and intent
   
10-9.02    Definitions
   
10-9.03    Applicability
   
10-9.04    Required permits and approvals
   
10-9.05    Administrative orders and regulations
   
10-9.06    Permit applications
   
10-9.07    Public notice
   
10-9.08    Approvals, denials, and appeals
   
10-9.09    Location standards
   
10-9.10    Design standards
   
10-9.11    Standard conditions of approval
   
10-9.12    Amortization
   
10-9.13    Exceptions
   
10-9.14    Peer and independent consultant review
   
10-9.15    Violations
   
10-9.16    Conflicting provisions
§ 10-9.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The city of Madera (the "city") intends this chapter to establish
reasonable, uniform and comprehensive standards and procedures for wireless
facilities deployment, construction, installation, collocation, modification,
operation, relocation and removal within the city's territorial boundaries,
consistent with and to the extent permitted under federal and California state
law. The standards and procedures contained in this chapter are intended to,
and should be applied to, consistent with federal and state law, protect and
promote public health, safety and welfare, and also balance the benefits that
flow from robust, advanced wireless services with the city's local values,
which include without limitation the aesthetic character of the city, its
neighborhoods and community. This chapter is also intended to reflect and
promote the community interest by:
      (1)   Ensuring that the balance between public and private interest is
maintained on a case-by-case basis;
      (2)   Protecting the city's visual character from potential adverse
impacts or visual blight created or exacerbated by wireless communications
infrastructure;
      (3)   Protecting and preserving the city's environmental resources; and
      (4)   Promoting access to high-quality, advanced wireless services for
the city's residents, businesses and visitors.
   (B)   This chapter is not intended to, nor shall it be interpreted or
applied to:
      (1)   Prohibit or effectively prohibit any personal wireless service
provider's ability to provide personal wireless services;
      (2)   Prohibit or effectively prohibit any entity's ability to provide
any interstate or intrastate telecommunications service, subject to any
competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory rules, regulations or other legal
requirements for rights-of-way management;
      (3)   Unreasonably discriminate among providers of functionally
equivalent services;
      (4)   Deny any request for authorization to place, construct or modify
personal wireless service facilities on the basis of environmental effects of
radio frequency emissions to the extent that such wireless facilities comply
with the FCC's regulations concerning such emissions;
      (5)   Prohibit any collocation or modification that the city may not deny
under federal or California state law;
      (6)   Impose any unfair, unreasonable, discriminatory or anticompetitive
fees that exceed the reasonable cost to provide the services for which the fee
is charged; or
      (7)   Otherwise authorize the city to preempt any applicable federal or
California law.
(Ord. 995 C.S., passed 10-19-22)
§ 10-9.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All
references to codified statutes, regulations or other rules shall be deemed to
refer to such statutes, regulations or other rules as they may be amended or
superseded.
   AMATEUR STATION. The same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 97.3, which
defines the term as "a station in an amateur radio service consisting of the
apparatus necessary for carrying on radio communications." This term includes
amateur radio antennas and related facilities used for amateur radio services.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The city official or body responsible for application
review and vested with authority to approve or deny such applications. The
approval authority for a conditional use permit shall be the Planning
Commission. The approval authority for a site plan review shall be the
Director.
   CPUC. The California Public Utilities Commission established in the
California Constitution, Article XII, § 5, or its duly appointed successor
agency.
   DIRECTOR. The Community Development Director of the City of Madera or the
Director's designee.
   ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUEST. The same as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a)(2),
and as interpreted by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6100(b)(3).
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission, as constituted by the
Communications Act of 1934, Pub. L: 73-416, 48 Stat. 1064, codified as 47
U.S.C. §§ 151 et seq. or its duly appointed successor agency.
   HISTORIC RESOURCE. Any prehistoric or historic district, site, building,
structure or object included in, or eligible for inclusion in, the National
Register of Historic Places, the California Register of Historical Resources or
any "historic resource" as listed in Table HC-A of the General Plan. The term
includes artifacts, records and remains related to or located within such
properties. The term also includes properties with traditional religious and/or
cultural importance to any Native American tribe.
   OTARD. Any "over-the-air reception device" subject to 47 C.F.R. §§ 1.4000 et
seq., which generally includes satellite television dishes and certain fixed
wireless antennas not greater than one meter in diameter.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITIES. The same as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332
(c)(7)(C)(ii), which defines the term as facilities that provide personal
wireless services.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES. The same as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(C)
(i), which defines the term as commercial mobile services, unlicensed wireless
services and common carrier wireless exchange access services.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the city of Madera as
established by the Madera Municipal Code.
   RF. Radio frequency.
   SECTION 6409. Section 6409(a) of the Middle-Class Tax Relief and Job
Creation Act of 2012, Pub. L. No. 112-96, 126 Stat. 156, codified as 47 U.S.C.
§ 14SS(a).
   SHOT CLOCK. The presumptively reasonable time defined by the FCC in which a
state or local government must act on an application or request for
authorization to place, construct or modify personal wireless service
facilities.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. The same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. §
1.6002(1).
   STEALTH. Concealment techniques that make a wireless facility look like
something other than a wireless facility. Stealth concealment techniques
include, without limitation:
      (1)   Transmission equipment placed completely within existing or
replacement architectural features such that the installation causes no visible
change in the underlying support structure; and
      (2)   New architectural features that mimic or blend with the underlying
or surrounding structures in style, proportion and construction quality.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. A personal wireless service facility.
(Ord. 995 C.S., passed 10-19-22)
§ 10-9.03 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   General. This chapter applies to all requests for the city's
regulatory authorization to construct, install, operate, collocate, modify,
relocate, remove or otherwise deploy wireless facilities on private property
(whether owned by a private party or public entity) within the city's
territorial and jurisdictional boundaries, unless expressly exempted pursuant
to this section.
   (B)   Wireless facilities on city property. This chapter applies to permit
applications for wireless facilities on property or structures owned or
controlled by the city; provided, however, that this chapter does not govern
whether or under what terms and conditions the city would tease, license or
otherwise allow a wireless facility on such property or structures.
   (C)   Small wireless facilities. Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to
the contrary, all small wireless facilities are subject to a permit as
specified in a City Council policy, which may be adopted, amended and/or
repealed by a resolution of the City Council. All small wireless facilities
shall comply with the City Council's policy. If the City Council policy is
repeated and not replaced, an application for a small wireless facility shall
be processed pursuant to this chapter.
   (D)   Eligible facilities requests. Notwithstanding anything in this chapter
to the contrary, all eligible facilities requests and other applications
submitted for approval pursuant to Section 6409 are subject to a City Council
policy, which may be adopted, amended and/or repealed by a resolution of the
City Council. All eligible facilities requests and other applications submitted
for approval pursuant to Section 6409 shall comply with the City Council's
policy. If the City Council policy is repealed and not replaced, all eligible
facilities requests and other applications submitted for approval pursuant to
Section 6409 shall be processed pursuant to this chapter.
   (E)   Other exemptions. Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the
contrary, this chapter shall not be applicable to the following:
      (1)   Wireless facilities operated by the city for public purposes;
      (2)   Wireless facilities installed completely indoors or within venues
and used to extend personal wireless services into a business or the
subscriber's private residence, such as a femto cell or indoor distributed
antenna system;
      (3)   OTARD antennas;
      (4)   Antennas and related transmission equipment used in connection with
a duly authorized amateur station; or
      (5)   Wireless facilities or other transmission equipment owned and
operated by CPUC-regulated electric companies for use in connection with
electrical power, generation, transmission and distribution facilities subject
to CPUC General Order 131-D.
(Ord. 995 C.S., passed 10-19-22)
§ 10-9.04 REQUIRED PERMITS AND APPROVALS.
   (A)   Site plan review. A site plan review, subject to the Director's prior
review and approval, is required for all wireless facilities that are located
in preferred locations as described in § 10-9.09 and compliant with all
applicable design standards in §
10-9.10.
   (B)   Conditional use permit. A conditional use permit, subject to the
Planning Commission's prior review and approval, is required for all wireless
facilities on private property that are located in discouraged locations as
described in §
10-9.09, and do not qualify for site plan review, or require an exception under
§
10-9.13.
   (C)   Other permits and regulatory approvals. In addition to any permit or
approval required under this chapter, the applicant must obtain all other
permits and regulatory approvals (such as compliance with the California
Environmental Quality Act or Madera County Airport Land Use Commission
requirements) as may be required by any other federal, state or local
government agencies, which includes without limitation any other permits and/or
approvals issued by other city departments or divisions. Any permit or approval
granted under this chapter or deemed granted or deemed approved by law shall
remain subject to any and all lawful conditions and/or legal requirements
associated with such other permits or approvals. Furthermore, and to avoid
potential confusion, an exemption from the permit requirement under §
10-9.03(E) does not exempt the same wireless facilities from any other permits
or approvals required, which includes without limitation any ministerial
permits from the city.
(Ord. 995 C.S., passed 10-19-22)
§ 10-9.05 ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS AND REGULATIONS.
   In addition to the requirements in this chapter, the Director may adopt such
orders or regulations as the Director deems necessary or appropriate to protect
and maintain public health, safety, welfare and/or convenience. All wireless
facilities must conform to all applicable orders and regulations issued by the
Director, unless the Director, in the Director's discretion, grants a prior
written waiver to deviate, in whole or in part, any such order or regulation.
The Director shall develop and publish guidelines to implement the waivers
authorized by this section.
(Ord. 995 C.S., passed 10-19-22)
§ 10-9.06 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Application required. The approval authority shall not approve any
requests for authorization to construct, install, operate, collocate, modify,
relocate, remove or otherwise deploy wireless facilities except upon a complete
and duly filed application consistent with this section and any other written
rules or requirements the city or the Director may establish from time to time
in any publicly stated format.
   (B)   Application fee. The applicant shall submit the applicable permit
application fee adopted by City Council resolution. If no permit application
fee has been adopted, then the applicant must submit a signed written statement
that acknowledges that the applicant will be required to submit a deposit
estimated by the Director to reimburse the city for its reasonable costs
incurred in connection with the application. Should the deposit be inadequate,
an additional deposit shall be required. If the deposit exceeds the actual
costs, the difference will be returned to the applicant.
   (C)   Application content. All applications for a permit must include all
the information and materials required by the Director for the application. The
City Council authorizes the Director to develop, publish and from time-to-time
update or amend permit application requirements, forms, checklists, guidelines,
informational handouts and other related materials that the Director finds
necessary, appropriate or useful for processing any application governed under
this chapter. All such requirements must be in written form and publicly stated
to provide applicants with prior notice. Notwithstanding anything in this
chapter to the contrary, all applications shall, at a minimum, require the
applicant to demonstrate that the proposed project will be in planned
compliance with all applicable health and safety laws, regulations or other
rules, which includes without limitation all building codes, electric codes and
all FCC rules for human exposure to RF emissions.
   (D)   Application submittal. Unless the Director establishes an alternative
submittal procedure pursuant to § 10-9.05, all applications must be submitted
to the city at a pre-scheduled appointment with the department. Applicants may
generally submit one application per appointment but may schedule successive
appointments for multiple applications whenever feasible and not prejudicial to
other applicants. The department shall use reasonable efforts to provide the
applicant with an appointment within five working days after the department
receives a written request and, if applicable, confirms that the applicant
complied with the pre-submittal conference requirement. Any application
received without an appointment, whether delivered in-person, by mail or
through any other means, will not be considered duly filed.
   (E)   Optional pre-submittal conference. The city shall provide prospective
applicants with the opportunity to schedule and attend a pre-submittal
conference with city staff. The city encourages pre-submittal conferences for
all proposed projects that require a conditional use permit. The pre-submittal
conference is intended to streamline the review process through informal
discussion that includes, without limitation, the appropriate project
classification and review process; any latent issues in connection with the
proposed or existing wireless facility, such as compliance with generally
applicable rules for public health and safety; potential concealment issues or
concerns (if applicable); coordination with other city departments and/or
divisions responsible for application review; and application completeness
issues. To mitigate unnecessary delays due to application incompleteness,
applicants are encouraged (but not required) to bring any draft applications or
other materials so that city staff may provide informal feedback and guidance
about whether such applications or other materials may be incomplete or
unacceptable. The city shall use reasonable efforts to provide the applicant
with an appointment within five working days after receiving a written request
and any applicable fee or deposit to reimburse the city for its reasonable
costs to provide the services rendered in the pre-submittal conference.
   (F)   Optional community meetings. The city encourages, but does not
require, applicants to schedule, notice, arrange, and attend a voluntary pre-
submittal community meeting with all interested members of the public for
applications that require a conditional use permit. This voluntary community
meeting does not cause the shot clock to begin and is intended to give
applicants the opportunity to hear from members of the public regarding the
proposed deployment. Applicants should schedule any voluntary community
meetings at times and in locations that are conducive to maximizing public
participation. Applicants are encouraged (but not required) to bring any draft
applications, plans, maps, presentations or other materials to facilitate the
public's understanding of the applicant's proposal. Applicants are also
encouraged (but not required) to maintain minutes or a comment log of the
community meeting. The City seeks to encourage dialogue that may allow
applicants to address areas of concern. Community meetings may be conducted
before or after submittal.
   (G)   Applications deemed withdrawn. To promote efficient review and timely
decisions, any application governed under this chapter will be automatically
deemed withdrawn by the applicant when the applicant fails to tender a
substantive response to the department within 90 calendar days after the
department deems the application incomplete in a written notice to the
applicant. The Director, in the Director's discretion, may grant a written
extension for up to an additional 30 calendar days when the applicant submits a
written request prior to the ninetieth day that shows good cause to grant the
extension. Good cause for an extension shall include, without limitation,
delays due to circumstances outside the applicant's reasonable control.
(Ord. 995 C.S., passed 10-19-22)
§ 10-9.07 PUBLIC NOTICE.
   (A)   Public hearing notice. Notice of public hearing shall be given in
accordance with §
10-3.1306 of this chapter for any conditional use permit application.
   (B)   Decision notices. Within five calendar days after the approval
authority acts on an application governed under this chapter or before the shot
clock expires (whichever occurs first), the Director shall send a written
notice to the applicant. If the approval authority denies the application (with
or without prejudice), the written notice to the applicant must contain the
reasons for the denial.
   (C)   All decision notices shall include instructions for how and when to
file an appeal.
(Ord. 995 C.S., passed 10-19-22)
§ 10-9.08 APPROVALS, DENIALS AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Required findings. The approval authority may approve wireless
facility applications only when the approval authority makes all the following
findings:
      (1)   The proposed wireless facility is in a preferred location; or the
proposed wireless facility is in a discouraged location and the applicant has
demonstrated through a meaningful comparative analysis that no more preferred
location or support structure would be technically feasible and potentially
available;
      (2)   The proposed wireless facility complies with all applicable
development standards in this chapter and any other applicable findings
required for the approval, such as §
10-3.1301 of this chapter (conditional use permits) or §
10-3.4.0106 of this chapter (site plan review);
      (3)   The applicant has provided a signed statement that indicates its
willingness to allow other carriers and site operators to collocate
transmission equipment with the proposed wireless facility whenever technically
feasible and aesthetically desirable in accordance with applicable provisions
in this chapter; and
      (4)   The applicant has demonstrated that the proposed wireless facility
will comply with all applicable FCC regulations and guidelines for human
exposure to RF emissions and will not, either individually or cumulatively with
other transmitters in the vicinity, result in RF exposures that exceed the
FCC's maximum permissible exposure level for the general population.
   (B)   Conditional approvals; denials without prejudice. Subject to any
applicable federal or state laws, nothing in this chapter is intended to limit
the approval authority's ability to conditionally approve or deny without
prejudice any application governed under this chapter as may be necessary or
appropriate to protect and promote the public health, safety and welfare, and
to advance the goals or policies in the general plan and any applicable
specific plan, the Madera Municipal Code, or this chapter.
   (C)   Appeals. Within ten days after the approval authority approves or
denies any application under this chapter, any interested person may file an
appeal in accordance with the provisions in §
10-3.1309 of this chapter for use permits or §§
10-3.4.0116 and
10-3.4.0117 of this chapter for site plan review; provided, however, that:
      (1)   The notice provisions in this chapter shall control over those in §
10-3.1309 of this chapter; and
      (2)   Appeals from an approval shall not be permitted when based solely
on the environmental effects from RF emissions that are compliant with
applicable FCC regulations and guidelines.
(Ord. 995 C.S., passed 10-19-22)
§ 10-9.09 LOCATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Locations. To assist applicants, staff and the approval authority
understand and respond to the community's aesthetic preferences and values,
this division describes preferred and discouraged locations for wireless
facilities.
      (1)   Preferred locations. All applicants must, to the extent technically
feasible and potentially available, propose new facilities in a preferred
location. No alternative sites analysis is required for new stealth facilities
proposed in any preferred location. For all other new facilities, the approval
authority shall consider whether any more preferred location would be
technically feasible or potentially available. The following locations are all
"preferred" and ordered from most preferred to least preferred:
         (a)   Industrial zones;
         (b)   Commercial zones;
         (c)   Other non-residential zones; and
         (d)   Public facilities zone when not directly adjacent to
residentially zoned parcels.
      (2)   Discouraged locations. Applicants shall not propose to install
wireless facilities in a discouraged location unless no alternative site in a
preferred location would be technically feasible. If all preferred locations
are technically infeasible, the applicant shall use the least-discouraged
location. The following locations are discouraged, and ordered from most
discouraged to least discouraged:
         (a)   Historic resource zones and properties;
         (b)   Public facilities zone when directly adjacent to residentially
zoned parcels; and
         (c)   Residential zones.
   (B)   Support structures. To assist applicants, staff and the approval
authority understand and respond to the community's aesthetic preferences and
values, and to mitigate the impact of wireless infrastructure deployment, the
city requires wireless facilities to be installed on support structures,
ordered from most preferred to least preferred, as follows:
      (1)   Existing structures with existing wireless facilities;
      (2)   Existing rooftops;
      (3)   Existing building façades, signs, water tank/towers, field lights,
or other non-tower structures; and
      (4)   New freestanding structures outside the public rights-of-way.
      (5)   To the extent that a proposed support structure is not included in
this list, the Director may, in the Director's discretion, determine the level
of preference for such structure consistent with the goals and purpose of this
division.
(Ord. 995 C.S., passed 10-19-22)
§ 10-9.10 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Concealment. All wireless facilities must be concealed to the maximum
extent feasible with design elements and techniques that mimic or blend with
the underlying support structure, surrounding environment and adjacent uses.
   (B)   Overall height. All wireless facilities must be compliant with maximum
overall height limits applicable to structures on the underlying parcel;
provided, however, that a stealth wireless facility may exceed the applicable
height limit by not more than ten feet.
   (C)   Setbacks. All wireless facilities must be compliant with all setback
requirements applicable to structures on the underlying parcel.
   (D)   Fall zone. All freestanding towers outside the public rights-of-way
must be setback from habitable structures approved for residential occupancy by
a distance equal to the tower height. The approval authority may waive the
setback requirement for freestanding towers that meet Class 3 structural
standards for critical infrastructure as defined in the most current revision
of the ANSI/TIA-222 Structural Standard for Antenna Supporting Structures,
Antennas and Small Wind Turbine Support Structures.
   (E)   Noise. All wireless facilities must be compliant with all applicable
noise regulations, which include, without limitation, any noise regulations in
the Madera Municipal Code. The approval authority may require the applicant to
incorporate appropriate noise-baffling materials and/or noise-mitigation
strategies to avoid any ambient noise from equipment reasonably likely to
exceed the applicable noise regulations.
   (F)   Landscaping. All wireless facilities proposed to be placed in a
landscaped area must include landscape features (which may include, without
limitation, trees, shrubs and ground cover) and a landscape maintenance plan.
The approval authority may require additional landscape features to screen the
wireless facility from public view, avoid or mitigate potential adverse impacts
on adjacent properties or otherwise enhance the concealment required under this
section. All plants proposed or required must be native and/or drought
resistant.
   (G)   Security measures. To prevent unauthorized access, theft, vandalism,
attractive nuisance or other hazards, reasonable and appropriate security
measures, such as fences, walls and anti-climbing devices, may be approved.
Security measures shall be designed and implemented in a manner that enhances
or contributes to the overall concealment, and the approval authority may
condition approval on additional concealment elements to mitigate any aesthetic
impacts, which may include, without limitation, additional landscape features.
The approval authority shall not approve barbed wire, razor ribbon, electrified
fences or any similar security measures.
   (H)   Secondary power sources. The approval authority may approve secondary
or backup power sources and/or generators on a case-by-case basis. The approval
authority shall not approve any permanent diesel generators or other similarly
noisy or noxious generators in or within 200 feet from any residence; provided,
however, the approval authority may approve sockets or other connections used
for temporary backup generators.
   (I)   Lights. Wireless facilities may not include exterior lights other than
as may be required under Federal Aviation Administration, FCC, other applicable
federal or state governmental regulations. All exterior lights permitted or
required to be installed must be installed in locations and within enclosures
that mitigates illumination impacts on other properties to the maximum extent
feasible. Any lights associated with the electronic equipment shall be
appropriately shielded from public view. Any light beacons or lightning
arresters shall be included in the overall height calculation.
   (J)   Signage; decals; advertisements. All wireless facilities must include
signage that accurately identifies the equipment owner/operator, the owner/
operator's site name or identification number and a toll-free number to the
owner/operator's network operations center. Wireless facilities may not bear
any other signage, decals or advertisements unless expressly approved by the
approval authority, required by law or recommended under FCC or other federal
governmental agencies for compliance with RF emissions regulations.
   (K)   Future expansion. To the extent feasible and aesthetically desirable,
all new wireless facilities should be designed and sited in a manner that
accommodates potential future collocations and other expansions that can be
integrated into the proposed wireless facility or its associated structures
with no or negligible visual changes to the outward appearance. The approval
authority may waive the requirements in this division when the approval
authority determines future expansions at a proposed wireless facility would be
aesthetically undesirable.
   (L)   Utilities. All cables and connectors for telephone, primary electric
and other similar utilities must be routed underground to the extent feasible
in conduits large enough to accommodate future collocated wireless facilities.
To the extent feasible, undergrounded cables and wires must transition directly
into the pole base without any external doghouse. Meters, panels, disconnect
switches and other associated improvements must be placed in inconspicuous
locations to the extent possible. The approval authority shall not approve new
overhead utility lines or service drops merely because compliance with the
undergrounding requirements would increase the project cost. Microwave or other
wireless backhaul is discouraged when it would involve a separate and
unconcealed antenna.
   (M)   Parking; access. Any equipment or improvements constructed or
installed in connection with any wireless facilities must not reduce any
parking spaces below the minimum requirement for the subject property. Whenever
feasible, wireless facilities should use existing parking and access rather
than construct new parking or access improvements. Any new parking or access
improvements should be the minimum size necessary to reasonably accommodate the
proposed use.
   (N)   Compliance with laws. All wireless facilities must be designed and
sited in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws,
regulations, rules, restrictions and conditions, which includes without
limitation the California Building Standards Code, Americans with Disabilities
Act, City of Madera General Plan and any applicable specific plan, the Madera
Municipal Code and any conditions or restrictions in any permit or other
governmental approval issued by any public agency with jurisdiction over the
project.
   (O)   Towers and freestanding wireless facilities. In addition to all other
design requirements in this section, the following provisions shall be applied
to an application for a tower or other freestanding wireless facility:
      (1)   Tower-mounted equipment. All tower-mounted equipment must be
mounted as close to the vertical support structure as possible to reduce its
overall visual profile. Applicants must mount non-antenna, tower-mounted
equipment (including, but not limited to, remote radio units/heads, surge
suppressors and utility demarcation boxes) directly behind the antennas to the
maximum extent feasible. All tower-mounted equipment, cables and hardware must
be painted with flat/neutral colors subject to the approval authority's prior
approval.
      (2)   Ground-mounted equipment. All ground-mounted equipment must either
be concealed underground, or concealed within an existing or new structure, or
other enclosure(s) subject to the approval authority's prior approval. The
approval authority may require additional concealment elements as the approval
authority finds necessary or appropriate to blend the ground-mounted equipment,
enclosure and/or other improvements into the natural and/or built environment.
      (3)   Monopines. In addition to all other design requirements in this
section, the following provisions shall be applied to an application for a
monopine:
         (a)   Shape and branching. Monopines shall be gradually tapered from
bottom to top to resemble the natural conical pine-tree shape, with shorter
branches at the top and wider branches at the bottom. All monopines shall
include a "crown" or "topper" installed above the monopole to create a natural
point at the top. Branches shall begin at no greater than 15 feet above ground
level and maintain at least 3.5 branches per vertical foot when averaged
between the bottom-most branch and the highest point on the monopole (excluding
any "crown" or "topper" installed above the monopole).
         (b)   Overall height. To maintain a natural appearance, a monopine may
not exceed more than ten feet above the average height of mature natural trees
within the vicinity. If the applicant plants new natural trees around the
proposed monopine, the approval authority shall consider the future mature
height of such trees when evaluating compliance with this standard.
         (c)   Bark cladding. The entire tower above any fence line shall be
fitted with faux-pine bark cladding, painted or colored with browns or other
appropriate earth tones to mimic natural pine bark.
         (d)   Equipment concealment. All antennas, accessory equipment, cross
arms, hardware, cables and other attachments to the monopine must be painted or
colored with flat greens, browns or other appropriate earth tones to blend into
the faux pine branches. All antennas, remote radio units, tower-mounted
amplifiers and other similar equipment larger than one cubic foot shall be
fitted with a faux-pine "sock" with faux-pine needles. No tower-mounted
equipment shall be permitted to protrude beyond the branch canopy such that it
would materially alter the tapered pine shape.
         (e)   Material selection and approval. All materials and finishes used
to conceal the monopine shall be subject to prior approval by the department.
Applicants shall use only high-quality materials to conceal the wireless
facility. The applicant shall use color-extruded plastics for elements such as
the faux-pine needles and faux-bark cladding to prolong the like-new appearance
and reduce fading caused by exposure to the sun and other weather conditions.
   (P)   Building-mounted wireless facilities. In addition to all other design
requirements in this section, the following provisions shall be applied to an
application for a wireless facility installed on a building rooftop or façade:
      (1)   Architectural integration. All applicants should, to the extent
feasible, propose new non-tower wireless facilities that are completely
concealed and architecturally integrated into the existing façade or rooftop
features with no visible impacts from any publicly accessible areas at ground
level (examples include, but are not limited to, antennas behind existing
parapet walls or façades replaced with RF-transparent material and finished to
mimic the replaced materials). Alternatively, when integration with existing
building features is not feasible, the applicant should propose completely
concealed new structures or appurtenances designed to mimic the support
structure's original architecture and proportions (examples include, but are
not limited to, cupolas, steeples, chimneys and water tanks). Facilities must
be located behind existing parapet walls or other existing screening elements
to the maximum extent feasible.
      (2)   Rooftop wireless facilities. All rooftop-mounted equipment must be
screened from public view with concealment measures that match the underlying
structure in proportion, quality, architectural style and finish. The approval
authority may approve unscreened rooftop equipment only when it expressly finds
that such equipment is effectively concealed due to its low height and/or
setback from the roofline.
      (3)   Façade-mounted wireless facilities. When wireless facilities cannot
be placed behind existing parapet walls or other existing screening elements,
the approval authority may approve façade-mounted equipment in accordance with
this division. All façade-mounted equipment must be concealed behind screen
walls and mounted as flush to the façade as practicable. The approval authority
may not approve "pop-out" screen boxes unless the design is architecturally
consistent with the original building or support structure. Except in
industrial districts, the approval authority may not approve any exposed
façade-mounted antennas, including but not limited to exposed antennas painted
to match the façade. To the extent feasible, façade-mounted equipment must be
installed on the façade(s) along the building frontage that is the least
prominent or publicly visible.
   (Q)   Administrative design guidelines. The Director may develop, and from
time to time amend, design guidelines consistent with the generally applicable
design regulations to clarify the aesthetic and public safety goals and
standards in this chapter for city staff, applicants and the public. The design
guidelines shall provide more detailed standards to implement the general
principals articulated in this chapter and may include specific standards for
particular wireless facilities or site locations but shall not unreasonably
discriminate between functionally equivalent service providers. The design
guidelines, and any subsequent amendments, shall not be effective unless
approved by a resolution adopted by the City Council. If a conflict arises
between the development standards specified in this chapter and the design
guidelines, the development standards shall control.
(Ord. 995 C.S., passed 10-19-22)
§ 10-9.11 STANDARD CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   Standard conditions. Except as may be authorized in division (B)
below, all wireless facilities approved under this chapter or deemed approved
by the operation of law shall be automatically subject to the conditions in
this division (A) and these conditions shall be deemed to be incorporated by
reference to any permit approved or deemed approved by law.
      (1)   Permit term; approval applies to land. This permit will
automatically expire ten years and one day from its issuance unless Cal. Gov't
Code § 65964(b) authorizes the city to establish a shorter term for public
safety or substantial land use reasons. Any other permits or approvals issued
in connection with any collocation, modification or other change to this
wireless facility, which includes without limitation any permits or other
approvals deemed-granted or deemed-approved under federal or state law, will
not extend this term limit unless expressly provided otherwise in such permit
or approval or required under federal or state law. This permit shall run with
the land and shall be valid for the term specified in these conditions of
approval. No change in ownership of the wireless facility, the site, or the
subject property shall affect the permit term. This permit may not be
transferred to another site or property.
      (2)   Permit renewal. The permittee may apply for permit renewal not more
than one year before this permit expires. The permittee must demonstrate that
the subject wireless facility complies with all the conditions of approval
associated with this permit and all applicable provisions in this chapter that
exist at the time the decision to renew or not renew is rendered. The Director
may modify or amend the conditions on a case-by-case basis as may be necessary
or appropriate to ensure compliance with this chapter or other applicable law.
Upon renewal, this permit will automatically expire ten years and one day from
its issuance.
      (3)   Approved plans. Any final construction plans shall incorporate the
permit, together with all conditions of approval and the photo simulations
associated with the permit (collectively, the "approved plans"). The permittee
must construct, install and operate the wireless facility in substantial
compliance with the approved plans. Any alterations, modifications or other
changes to the approved plans, whether requested by the permittee or required
by other departments or public agencies with jurisdiction over the wireless
facility, shall be subject to the Director's prior review and approval. After
the Director receives a written request to approve an alteration, modification
or other change to the approved plans, the Director may refer the request to
the approval authority if the Director finds that it substantially deviates
from the approved plans or implicates a significant or substantial land-use
concern.
      (4)   CPUC G0-159A Certification. Within 15 business days after the city
issues this permit, the permittee shall serve copies of California Public
Utility Commission notification letters required by CPUC General Order No. 159A
to the City Clerk, Director and City Manager.
      (5)   Build-out period. This permit will automatically expire 12 months
from the approval date (the "build-out period") unless the permittee obtains
all other permits and approvals required to install, construct and/or operate
the approved wireless facility, which includes without limitation any permits
or approvals required by any federal, state or local public agencies with
jurisdiction over the subject property, support structure or the wireless
facility and/or its use. The permittee may request in writing, and the city may
grant in writing, one six-month extension if the permittee submits substantial
and reliable written evidence demonstrating justifiable cause for such
extension. If the build-out period and any extension finally expire, this
permit shall be automatically void but the permittee may resubmit a complete
application, including all application fees, for the same or substantially
similar project.
      (6)   Post-installation certification. Within 60 calendar days after the
permittee commences full, unattended operations of a wireless facility approved
under this chapter or deemed-approved by law, the permittee shall provide the
Director with documentation reasonably acceptable to the Director that the
wireless facility has been installed and/or constructed in strict compliance
with the approved construction drawings and photo simulations. Such
documentation shall include without limitation as-built drawings, GIS data and
site photographs.
      (7)   Site maintenance. The permittee shall keep the site, which includes
without limitation any and all improvements, equipment, structures, access
routes, fences and landscape features, in a neat, clean and safe condition in
accordance with the approved construction drawings and all conditions in this
permit. At all times, the permittee shall keep the site area free from all
litter and debris. The permittee shall regularly inspect the wireless facility
to determine whether any maintenance is needed. The permittee, at no cost to
the city, shall remove and remediate any graffiti or other vandalism on the
wireless facility within 48 hours after the permittee receives notice or
otherwise becomes aware that such graffiti or other vandalism occurred.
      (8)   Compliance with laws. The permittee shall maintain compliance at
all times with all federal, state and local statutes, regulations, orders or
other rules that carry the force of law ("laws") applicable to the permittee,
the subject property, the wireless facility or any use or activities in
connection with the use authorized in this permit, which includes without
limitation any laws applicable to human exposure to RF emissions and any
standards, specifications or other requirements identified by the Director
(such as, without limitation, those requirements affixed to a building permit).
The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that this obligation is
intended to be broadly construed and that no other specific requirements in
these conditions are intended to reduce, relieve or otherwise lessen the
permittee's obligations to maintain compliance with all laws. No failure or
omission by the city to timely notice, prompt or enforce compliance with any
applicable provision in the Madera Municipal Code, this chapter, any permit,
any permit condition or any applicable laws, shall be deemed to relieve, waive
or lessen the permittee's obligation to comply in all respects with same.
      (9)   Adverse impacts on other properties. The permittee shall use all
reasonable efforts to avoid any and all unreasonable, undue or unnecessary
adverse impacts on nearby properties that may arise from the permittees or its
authorized personnel's construction, installation, operation, modification,
maintenance, repair, removal and/or other activities on or about the site and/
or wireless facility. The permittee shall not perform or cause others to
perform any construction, installation, operation, modification, maintenance,
repair, removal or other work that involves heavy equipment or machines except
during normal construction work hours authorized by the Madera Municipal Code.
The restricted work hours in this condition will not prohibit any work required
to prevent an actual, immediate harm to property or persons, or any work during
an emergency declared by the city or other state or federal government agency
or official with authority to declare an emergency within the city. The
Director may issue a stop work order for any activities that violates this
condition in whole or in part. If the Director finds good cause to believe that
ambient noise from the wireless facility or related equipment violates
applicable provisions in the Madera Municipal Code, the Director, in addition
to any other actions or remedies authorized by the permit, the Madera Municipal
Code or other applicable laws, may require the permittee to commission a noise
study by a qualified professional to evaluate the wireless facility's
compliance.
      (10)   Inspections; emergencies. The permittee expressly acknowledges and
agrees that, upon reasonable prior notice to the permittee, the city's
officers, officials, staff, agents, contractors or other designees may enter
onto the site and inspect the wireless facility and related equipment and/or
improvements to ensure compliance with this permit and all associated
conditions. Notwithstanding the prior sentence, the city's officers, officials,
staff, agents, contractors or other designees may, but will not be obligated
to, enter onto the site area without prior notice to support, repair, disable
or remove any improvements or equipment in emergencies or when such
improvements or equipment threatens actual, imminent harm to property or
persons. The permittee, if present, may observe the city's officers, officials,
staff or other designees while any such inspection or emergency access occurs.
      (11)   Contact information. At all times relevant to this permit, the
permittee shall keep on file with the Director basic contact and site
information. This information shall include, but is not limited to, the
following: (A) the name, physical address, notice address (if different),
direct telephone number and email address for (i) the permittee and, if
different from the permittee, the (ii) site operator, (ii) equipment owner,
(iii) site manager and (iv) agent for service of process; (B) the wireless
facility's site identification number and/or name used by the permittee and, to
the extent applicable, site operator, equipment owner and site manager; and (C)
a toll-free telephone number to the wireless facility's network operations
center where a live person with power-down control over the wireless facility
is available 24 hours-per-day, seven days-per-week. Within ten business days
after a written request by the city, the permittee shall furnish the Director
with an updated form that includes all the most-current information described
in this condition.
      (12)   Indemnification. The permittee and, if applicable, the property
owner upon which the wireless facility is installed shall defend, indemnify and
hold harmless the city, City Council and the city's boards, commissions,
agents, officers, officials, employees and volunteers (collectively, the
"indemnitees") from any and all (A) damages, liabilities, injuries, losses,
costs and expenses and from any and all claims, demands, law suits, writs and
other actions or proceedings ("claims") brought against the indemnitees to
challenge, attack, seek to modify, set aside, void or annul the city's approval
of this permit, and (B) other claims of any kind or form, whether for personal
injury, death or property damage, that arise from or in connection with the
permittee's or its agents', directors', officers', employees', contractors',
subcontractors', licensees' or customers' acts or omissions in connection with
this permit or the wireless facility. In the event the city becomes aware of
any claims, the city will use best efforts to promptly notify the permittee and
the private property owner (if applicable) and shall reasonably cooperate in
the defense. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the city
shall have the right to approve, which approval shall not be unreasonably
withheld, the legal counsel providing the city's defense, and the property
owner and/or permittee (as applicable) shall promptly reimburse the city for
any costs and expenses directly and necessarily incurred by the city in the
course of the defense. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the
permittee's indemnification obligations under this condition are a material
consideration that motivates the city to approve this permit, and that such
indemnification obligations will survive the expiration, revocation or other
termination of this permit.
      (13)   Removal bond. Before the city issues any permits required to
commence construction in connection with this permit, the permittee shall post
a bond issued by a surety and in a form acceptable to the Director in an amount
reasonably necessary to cover the cost to remove the improvements and restore
all affected areas based on a written estimate from a qualified contractor with
experience in wireless facilities or similar infrastructure removal. The
written estimate must include the cost to remove all equipment and other
improvements, which includes without limitation all antennas, radios,
batteries, generators, utilities, cabinets, mounts, brackets, hardware, cables,
wires, conduits, structures, shelters, towers, poles, footings and foundations,
whether above ground or below ground, constructed or installed in connection
with the wireless facility, plus the cost to completely restore any areas
affected by the removal work to a standard compliant with applicable laws. In
establishing or adjusting the bond amount required under this condition, the
Director shall take into consideration any information provided by the
permittee regarding the cost to remove the wireless facility to a standard
compliant with applicable laws. The performance bond shall expressly survive
the duration of the permit term to the extent required to effectuate a complete
removal of the subject wireless facility in accordance with this condition.
      (14)   Permit revocation. Notwithstanding any revocation procedures in
this Title X, any permit granted under this chapter or deemed approved by the
operation of law may be revoked in accordance with the provisions and
procedures in this condition. The Director may initiate revocation proceedings
when the Director has information that the facility may not be in compliance
with all applicable laws, which includes without limitation, any permit in
connection with the facility and any associated conditions with such permit(s).
A permit granted under this chapter or deemed approved by the operation of law
may be revoked only by the City Council after a duly notice public hearing.
Before any public hearing to revoke a permit granted under this chapter or
deemed approved by the operation of law, the Director must issue a written
notice to the permittee that specifies (A) the facility; (B) the violation(s)
to be corrected; (C) the timeframe in which the permittee must correct such
violation(s); and (D) that, in addition to all other rights and remedies the
city may pursue, the city may initiate revocation proceedings for failure to
correct such violation(s). The City Council may revoke a permit when it finds
substantial evidence in the written record to show that the facility is not in
compliance with any applicable laws, which includes without limitation, any
permit in connection with the facility and any associated conditions with such
permit(s). Any decision by the City Council to revoke or not revoke a permit
shall be final and not subject to any further appeals. Within five business
days after the City Council adopts a resolution to revoke a permit, the
Director shall provide the permittee with a written notice that specifies the
revocation and the reasons for such revocation.
      (15)   Record retention. Throughout the permit term, the permittee must
maintain a complete and accurate copy of the written administrative record,
which includes without limitation the permit application, this permit, the
approved plans and photo simulations incorporated into this approval, all
conditions associated with this approval, any ministerial permits or approvals
issued in connection with this approval and any records, memoranda, documents,
papers and other correspondence entered into the public record in connection
with the permit (collectively, "records"). If the permittee does not maintain
such records as required in this condition, any ambiguities or uncertainties
that would be resolved by inspecting the missing records will be construed
against the permittee. The permittee shall protect all records from damage from
fires, floods and other hazards that may cause deterioration. The permittee may
keep records in an electronic format; provided, however, that hard copies or
electronic records kept in the city's regular files will control over any
conflicts between such city- controlled copies or records and the permittee's
electronic copies, and complete originals will control over all other copies in
any form. The requirements in this condition shall not be construed to create
any obligation to create or prepare any records not otherwise required to be
created or prepared by other applicable laws. Compliance with the requirements
in this condition shall not excuse the permittee from any other similar record-
retention obligations under applicable law.
      (16)   Abandoned facilities. The wireless facility authorized under this
permit shall be deemed abandoned if not operated for any continuous 12-month
period. Within 90 days after a wireless facility is abandoned or deemed
abandoned, the permittee and/or property owner shall completely remove the
wireless facility and all related improvements and shall restore all affected
areas to a condition compliant with all applicable laws, which includes without
limitation the Madera Municipal Code. In the event that neither the permittee
nor the property owner complies with the removal and restoration obligations
under this condition within said 90-day period, the city shall have the right
(but not the obligation) to perform such removal and restoration with or
without notice, and the permittee and property owner shall be jointly and
severally liable for all costs and expenses incurred by the city in connection
with such removal and/or restoration activities and shall reimburse the city
for all such costs 30 calendar days after a written demand for reimbursement
and reasonable documentation to support such costs.
      (17)   Landscaping. The permittee shall replace any landscape features
damaged or displaced by the construction, installation, operation, maintenance
or other work performed by the permittee or at the permittee's direction on or
about the site. If any trees are damaged or displaced, the permittee shall hire
and pay for a licensed arborist to select plant and maintain replacement
landscaping in an appropriate location for the species. Any replacement tree
must be substantially the same size as the damaged tree or as otherwise
approved by the city. The permittee shall be responsible to maintain any
replacement landscape features for a three-year period after such landscaping
has been installed. Notwithstanding anything in this condition to the contrary,
the Director may agree in a written agreement signed by the permittee to accept
an annual in-lieu fee to perform the maintenance work on the permittee's
behalf.
      (18)   Cost reimbursement. The permittee acknowledges and agrees that:
         (a)   The permittee's request for authorization to construct, install
and/or operate the wireless facility will cause the city to incur costs and
expenses;
         (b)   The permittee shall be responsible to reimburse the city for all
costs incurred in connection with the permit, which includes without limitation
costs related to application review, permit issuance, site inspection and any
other costs reasonably related to or caused by the request for authorization to
construct, install and/or operate the wireless facility;
         (c)   Any application fees required for the application may not cover
all such reimbursable costs and that the permittee shall have the obligation to
reimburse the city for all such costs 30 calendar days after a written demand
for reimbursement and reasonable documentation to support such costs; and
         (d)   The city shall have the right to withhold any permits or other
approvals in connection with the wireless facility until and unless any
outstanding costs have been reimbursed to the city by the permittee.
      (19)   Successors and assigns. The conditions, covenants, promises and
terms contained in this permit will bind and inure to the benefit of the city
and permittee and their respective successors and assigns.
      (20)   Truthful and accurate statements. The permittee acknowledges that
the city's approval relies on the written and/or oral statements by permittee
and/or persons authorized to act on permittee's behalf. In any matter before
the city in connection with the permit or the wireless facility, neither the
permittee nor any person authorized to act on permittee's behalf shall, in any
written or oral statement, intentionally provide material factual information
that is incorrect or misleading or intentionally omit any material information
necessary to prevent any material factual statement from being incorrect or
misleading.
      (21)   City's standing reserved. The city's grant or grant by operation
of law of a permit pursuant to this chapter does not waive, and shall not be
construed to waive, any standing by the city to challenge any: (A) FCC rules or
regulations that interpret the Telecommunications Act and/or Section 6409 of
the Spectrum Act; or (B) any permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
      (22)   Severable conditions. If any provision in these conditions or such
provision's application to any person, entity or circumstances is or held by
any court with competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable:
         (a)   Such provision or its application to such person, entity or
circumstance will be deemed severed from this permit;
         (b)   All other provisions in this permit or their application to any
person, entity or circumstance will not be affected; and
         (c)   All other provisions in this permit or their application to any
person, entity or circumstance will be valid and enforceable to the fullest
extent permitted by law.
   (B)   Modified conditions. The City Council authorizes the Director to
modify, add or remove conditions to any permit as the Director deems necessary
or appropriate to:
      (1)   Protect and/or promote the public health, safety and welfare;
      (2)   Tailor the standard conditions in division (A) to the particular
facts and circumstances associated with the deployment; and/or
      (3)   Memorialize any changes to the proposed deployment needed for
compliance with this chapter, generally applicable health and safety
requirements and/or any other applicable laws.
(Ord. 995 C.S., passed 10-19-22)
§ 10-9.12 AMORTIZATION.
   (A)   Any nonconforming wireless facilities in existence at the time this
chapter becomes effective must be brought into conformance with this chapter in
accordance with the amortization schedule in this chapter. As used in this
section, the "fair market value" will be the construction costs listed on the
building permit or application for the subject wireless facility and the
"minimum years" allowed will be measured from the date on which this chapter
becomes effective.
 
Fair Market Value on Effective Date Minimum Years Allowed
Less than $50,000                   5
$50,000 to $500,000                 10
Greater than $500,000               15
 
   (B)   The Director may grant a written extension to a date certain when the
wireless facility owner shows (1) a good faith effort to cure non-conformance;
(2) the application of this section would violate applicable laws; or (3)
extreme economic hardship would result from strict compliance with the
amortization schedule. Any extension must be the minimum time period necessary
to avoid such extreme economic hardship. The Director may not grant any
permanent exemption from this section.
   (C)   Nothing in this section is intended to limit any permit term to less
than ten years for any permit granted on or after January 1, 2007. In the event
that the amortization required in this section would reduce the permit term to
less than ten years for any permit granted on or after January 1, 2007, then
the minimum years allowed will be automatically extended by the difference
between ten years and the number of years since the city granted such permit.
Nothing in this section is intended or may be applied to prohibit any
collocation or modification covered under 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a) on the basis that
the subject wireless facility is a legal nonconforming wireless facility.
(Ord. 995 C.S., passed 10-19-22)
§ 10-9.13 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Preface. The provisions in this section establish a procedure by which
the city may grant an exception to the standards in this chapter but only to
the extent necessary to avoid conflict with applicable federal or state law.
When the applicant requests an exception, the approval authority shall consider
the findings in division (B) in addition to the findings required under §
10-9.08. Each exception is specific to the facts and circumstances in
connection with each application. An exception granted in one instance shall
not be deemed to create a presumption or expectation that an exception will be
granted in any other instance.
   (B)   Findings for an exception. The approval authority may grant an
exception to any provision or requirement in this chapter only if the approval
authority finds that:
      (1)   A denial based on the application's noncompliance with a specific
provision or requirement would violate federal law, state law or both; or
      (2)   A provision in this chapter, as applied to the applicant, would
violate any rights or privileges conferred on the applicant by federal or state
law.
   (C)   Scope of exception. If the approval authority finds that an exception
should be granted, the exception shall be narrowly tailored so that the
exception deviates from this chapter to least extent necessary for compliance
with federal or state law.
   (D)   Burden of proof. The applicant shall have the burden to prove to the
approval authority that an exception should be granted pursuant to this
section. The standard of evidence shall be the same as required by applicable
federal or state law for the issue raised in the applicant's request for an
exception.
(Ord. 995 C.S., passed 10-19-22)
§ 10-9.14 PEER AND INDIVIDUAL CONSULTANT REVIEW.
   (A)   Authorization. The City Council authorizes the Director to, in the
Director's discretion, select and retain an independent consultant with
specialized training, experience and/or expertise in telecommunications issues
satisfactory to the Director in connection any permit application. The Director
may request an independent consultant review on any issue that involves
specialized or expert knowledge in connection with wireless facilities
deployment or permit applications for wireless facilities, which include
without limitation: (1) permit application completeness and/or accuracy; (2)
pre-construction planned compliance with applicable regulations for human
exposure to RF emissions; (3) post-construction actual compliance with
applicable regulations for human exposure to RF emissions; (4) whether and to
what extent a proposed project will comply with applicable laws; (5) the
applicability, reliability and/or sufficiency of any information, analyses or
methodologies used by the applicant to reach any conclusions about any issue
with the city's discretion to review; and (6) any other issue identified by the
Director that requires expert or specialized knowledge. The Director may
request that the independent consultant prepare written reports, testify at
public meetings, hearings and/or appeals and attend meetings with city staff
and/or the applicant.
   (B)   Cost reimbursement. Subject to applicable laws, the applicant shall be
responsible for the reasonable costs actually incurred by the city in
connection with a consultant's review, which may include, without limitation,
costs incurred by the consultant to attend and participate in any meetings or
hearings related to the application. Within a reasonable time after notice from
the Director, the applicant shall deposit funds in an amount equal to the
estimated costs for the consultant's services, as determined by the Director.
The funds shall be applied to the consultant's invoices as such invoices are
approved by the Director. If the deposit exceeds the total costs for the
consultant's services, the Director shall promptly return any unused funds to
the applicant after the wireless facility has been installed and passes a final
inspection. If the reasonable costs for the consultant's services exceed the
deposit, the Director shall invoice the applicant for the balance. The city
shall not issue any building permit or other construction permit to any
applicant with any unpaid invoices.
(Ord. 995 C.S., passed 10-19-22)
§ 10-9.15 VIOLATIONS.
   Any use or condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any
provision of this chapter shall be and hereby is declared a public nuisance and
may be subject to administrative citations as set forth in
Title I, Chapter 9 of the Municipal Code, abatement pursuant to §§
10-3.1601 et seq. of this chapter, Cal. Code of Civil Procedure § 731, or any
other remedy available to the city.
(Ord. 995 C.S., passed 10-19-22)
§ 10-9.16 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   To the extent, that any provisions in the Madera Municipal Code §
10.3.419 are inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall prevail.
(Ord. 995 C.S., passed 10-19-22)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
TABLE I: TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date     Description
No.  Passed
26A  10-17-07 Establishing a city base or plane of reference for elevations and fixing the
              elevation of a primal bench mark.
59   12-21-08 Calling a sewer bond and water works bond election.
66   2-1-09   Issuing sewer bonds.
67   2-1-09   Issuing water works bonds.
151  12-2-12  Repealing Ords. 131 and 132.
159  7-21-13  Vacation of Eighth Street railroad crossing.
183  8-2-15   Calling D Street Bridge bond election.
187  11-15-15 Issuing D Street Bridge bonds.
203  10-8-17  Amending Ord. 26A relating to a base or plane of reference for elevations.
212  3-24-19  Calling a special bond election for street work and water works improvements.
220  8-2-20   Granting franchise to Central Pacific Railway.
235  5-16-21  Calling a special sewer and water works bond election.
238  7-12-21  Issuing sewer and water works bonds.
6    3-20-22  Calling a special bond election for park acquisition, fire engine, water system,
N.S.          and city hall site acquisition.
7    4-3-22   Granting franchise to Central Pacific Railway.
N.S.
30   4-19-26  Granting franchise to Central Pacific Railway.
N.S.
35   9-20-26  Calling a special bond election for park acquisition.
N.S.
40   3-5-28   Calling a special bond election for fire prevention facilities.
N.S.
50   3-6-30   Calling a special bond election for sewer extensions.
N.S.
54   9-2-30   Repealing various ordinances.
N.S.
57   5-18-31  Granting franchise to San Joaquin Light and Power Corporation.
N.S.
67   3-26-34  Calling a special bond election for fire engine acquisition.
N.S.
86   6-20-38  Granting franchise to San Joaquin Light and Power Corporation.
N.S.
94   5-5-41   Calling a special bond election for various municipal improvements.
N.S.
95   7-30-41  Calling a special bond election for various municipal improvements.
N.S.
96   7-30-41  Annexing territory.
N.S.
97   9-22-41  Annexing territory.
N.S.
111  5-6-46   Annexing territory.
N.S.
112  5-20-46  Annexing territory.
N.S.
113  5-20-46  Annexing park addition.
N.S.
114  7-15-46  Annexing territory.
N.S.
116  9-3-46   Calling a special bond election for various municipal improvements.
N.S.
118  11-18-46 Annexing Elm District.
N.S.
119  12-2-46  Annexing territory.
N.S.
124  1-20-47  Annexing Fairvale addition.
N.S.
125  2-17-47  Annexing territory.
N.S.
127  6-2-47   Annexing Lincoln Park.
N.S.
130  8-4-47   Annexing Cox addition.
N.S.
133  12-1-47  Declaring intention to abandon portion of alley.
N.S.
134  12-15-47 Annexing Boitano addition.
N.S.
146  11-1-48  Declaring intention to abandon portion of street and alley.
N.S.
151  2-7-49   Terminating special water savings fund.
N.S.
158  9-6-49   Annexing Sierra Vista School site.
N.S.
159  - -      Establishing one-way streets and traffic control islands and regulating their
N.S.          use.
161  1-3-50   Annexing Roosevelt addition.
N.S.
162  1-3-50   Annexing John Williams addition.
N.S.
165  6-19-50  Annexing Nichols addition.
N.S.
169  11-5-50  Declaring intention to abandon portion of Fifth Street.
N.S.
173  1-2-51   Annexing territory.
N.S.
178  2-26-51  Declaring intention to abandon street.
N.S.
183  5-21-51  Annexing Hartwig addition.
N.S.
184  5-21-51  Annexing Floyd addition.
N.S.
185  5-21-51  Annexing Midvale annex no. 1.
N.S.
191  8-20-51  Annexing Midvale annex no. 2.
N.S.
192  8-20-51  Annexing Midvale annex no. 3.
N.S.
200  3-3-52   Establishing salaries.
N.S.
202  3-17-52  Annexing Midvale annex no. 5.
N.S.
205  6-30-52  Disapproving annexation of Midvale annex no. 5.
N.S.
209  11-17-52 Annexing Accornero addition.
N.S.
213  1-12-53  Annexing Venturi addition.
N.S.
214  1-12-53  Annexing Cortopassi addition.
N.S.
215  1-12-53  Annexing Midvale Colony.
N.S.
216  1-12-53  Annexing Olive Avenue addition.
N.S.
217  1-12-53  Annexing Garden tract.
N.S.
221  7-20-53  Amending Ord. 200 N.S. relating to salaries.
N.S.
245  8-29-55  Fixing amount of tax revenue necessary, 1955-56.
N.S.
253  3-26-56  Annexing Davis addition no. 1.
N.S.
255  7-2-56   Granting franchise to Pacific Gas and Electric Company.
N.S.
257  8-31-56  Fixing amount of tax revenue necessary, 1956-57.
N.S.
259  10-15-56 Annexing Millview addition.
N.S.
260  10-16-56 Annexing Green addition.
N.S.
264  1-28-57  Annexing North Lake addition.
N.S.
274  7-15-57  Annexing Millview Street addition.
N.S.
277  8-26-57  Fixing amount of tax revenue necessary, 1957-58.
N.S.
283  5-5-58   Annexing Lakewood.
N.S.
284  5-5-58   Annexing North Cleveland addition.
N.S.
294  8-25-58  Fixing amount of tax revenue necessary, 1958-59.
N.S.
298  10-20-58 Annexing north freeway addition.
N.S.
303  5-4-59   Repealing Ord. 210 N.S.
N.S.
315  8-24-59  Fixing amount of tax revenue necessary 1959-60.
N.S.
316  8-24-59  Annexing North Lake Street addition no. 2.
N.S.
319  2-1-60   Annexing sewer farm annexation.
N.S.
321  2-15-60  Amending Ord. 200 N.S. relating to salaries.
N.S.
325  8-22-60  Fixing amount of tax revenue necessary, 1960-61.
N.S.
330  11-21-60 Annexing Dowell Hillcrest addition.
N.S.
333  2-20-61  Adopting the City Municipal Code.
N.S.
4    5-1-61   Annexing West Gate annexation.
C.S.
7    5-31-61  Calling a special bond election for water system improvements, fire protection,
C.S.          sanitary sewer improvements, City Hall, and Police Station.
8    8-7-61   Fixing amount of tax revenue necessary, 1961-62.
C.S.
25   2-12-62  Calling a special election relating to the office of City Treasurer.
C.S.
29   5-21-62  Repealing part of Ord. 200 N.S. and §
C.S.          8-1.03 of the municipal code.
32   7-5-62   Fixing amount of tax revenue necessary, 1962-63.
C.S.
33   8-6-62   Repealing §
C.S.          4-2.01 of the municipal code relating to intoxication in public places.
39   10-26-62 Repealing §
C.S.          6-1.41 of the municipal code relating to license taxes for circuses.
45   3-11-63  Annexing Piraino and Beccaris annexation.
C.S.
48   5-20-63  Annexing Berry subdivision no.1.
C.S.
52   8-19-63  Fixing amount of tax revenue necessary, 1963-64.
C.S.
56   12-16-63 Annexing Howard Road annexation no. 1.
C.S.
63   7-20-64  Amending part of Ord. 200 N.S. to provide for a bond for the City Clerk.
C.S.
64   8-24-64  Fixing amount of tax revenue necessary, 1964-65.
C.S.
72   2-1-65   Annexing Salazar annexation.
C.S.
73   2-1-65   Annexing Hanzen annexation.
C.S.
83   8-23-65  Fixing amount of tax revenue necessary, 1965-66.
C.S.
90   2-7-66   Calling a special election to determine whether the office of City Clerk shall be
C.S.          appointive.
92   6-20-66  Providing for the granting of franchises for community antenna television
C.S.          systems.
98   8-22-66  Fixing amount of tax revenue necessary, 1966-67.
C.S.
102  11-28-66 Annexing city municipal airport annexation.
C.S.
107  3-20-67  Granting a nonexclusive franchise to Fresno Cable TV Co., Inc. for a cable
C.S.          antenna television system.
110  6-5-67   Annexing city well no. 15 (Westgate) site, together with Road 25.
C.S.
119  1-15-68  Calling a special election to determine whether the office of City Clerk shall be
C.S.          appointive and whether the council should adopt a dog leash law.
124           Establishing a parking and business improvement area, fixing the boundaries
C.S. 5-27-68  thereof, and fixing the initial rate of increase or additional levy of license
              tax to be imposed on the businesses in such area.
133  2-3-69   Annexing Howard Road annexation no. 2.
C.S.
138  4-14-69  Calling a special bond election for sewage system improvements.
C.S.
148  5-18-70  Annexing Franco annexation.
C.S.
153  3-15-71  Annexing Leach annexation.
C.S.
159  2-16-71  Annexing First Christian Church annexation.
C.S.
160  2-16-71  Annexing Lillian Estates no. 2 annexation.
C.S.
161  2-16-71  Annexing La Mattina annexation.
C.S.
167  9-20-71  Annexing Franco annexation no. 2.
C.S.
168  11-1-71  Prezoning Franco annexation no. 2.
C.S.
178  3-6-72   Annexing Smith annexation.
C.S.
190  8-21-72  Annexing Walker annexation.
C.S.
193  10-2-72  Annexing Belza annexation.
C.S.
195  12-18-72 Annexing Davis annexation.
C.S.
205  8-20-73  Annexing Secara annexation.
C.S.
216  1-21-74  Annexing Chezick annexation.
C.S.
218  3-4-74   Prezoning Chezick annexation.
C.S.
228  8-26-74  Approving the contract between the city and the Board of Administration of the
C.S.          California Public Employees' Retirement System.
231  12-23-74 Annexing Madera Meadows annexation.
C.S.
232  12-23-74 Annexing Shebelut annexation.
C.S.
237  10-6-75  Annexing Martin annexation.
C.S.
240  4-19-76  Annexing Carruth annexation.
C.S.
242  4-5-76   Annexing Abshire annexation.
C.S.
243  4-19-76  Annexing Abshire River annexation.
C.S.
247  6-21-76  Prezoning Abshire River annexation.
C.S.
248  6-21-76  Annexing Venturi annexation no. 2.
C.S.
251  8-2-76   Prezoning Venturi annexation no. 2.
C.S.
267  9-19-77  Prezoning Lattanzio annexation no. 1.
C.S.
268  9-19-77  Annexing Lattanzio annexation.
C.S.
269  7-18-77  Prezoning Mabel Smith annexation no. 2.
C.S.
270  7-18-77  Annexing Abshire River annexation no. 2.
C.S.
275  8-1-77   Annexing Mabel Smith annexation no. 2.
C.S.
276  8-15-77  Prezoning Abshire River annexation no. 2.
C.S.
280  9-19-77  Annexing Seabury-Copeland annexation.
C.S.
285  12-5-77  Prezoning Seabury-Copeland annexation.
C.S.
286  1-3-78   Annexing Bruno-Delgardo annexation.
C.S.
288  2-6-78   Annexing Martinoil annexation no. 2.
C.S.
293  4-3-78   Annexing Westgate North no. 2 annexation.
C.S.
294  7-17-78  Annexing Barnett-Cook annexation.
C.S.
298  6-19-78  Annexing Cerioni annexation.
C.S.
299  6-19-78  Prezoning Cerioni annexation.
C.S.
307  10-2-78  Amending the contract between the city and the Board of Administration of the
C.S.          California Public Employees' Retirement System.
309           Amending part of Ord. 124 C.S. to decrease the amount of additional levy of
C.S. 10-2-78  business license taxes levied within the parking and business improvement area
              pursuant to the Parking and Business Improvement Law of 1965.
339  4-21-80  Prezone Powell annexation.
C.S.
347  6-2-80   Prezone April-Slaven annexation.
C.S.
362  10-27-80 Prezone unincorporated territory.
C.S.
365  12-15-80 Prezone unincorporated territory.
C.S.
386  12-7-81  Amend Ord. 92 C.S. cable TV franchises.
C.S.
387  12-7-81  Amend Ord. 107 C.S. granting non-exclusive franchise to Fresno Cable TV Co.
C.S.
390  3-1-82   Declare City Council as Redevelopment Agency.
C.S.
391  3-1-82   Prezone unincorporated territory.
C.S.
394  6-7-82   Prezone unincorporated territory.
C.S.
404  11-15-82 Prezone unincorporated territory.
C.S.
418  10-17-83 Change City General Municipal Election date.
C.S.
425  5-21-84  Prezone unincorporated territory.
C.S.
435  11-19-84 Prezone unincorporated territory.
C.S.
436  12-17-84 Prezone unincorporated territory.
C.S.
444  5-6-85   Prezone unincorporated territory.
C.S.
446  5-20-85  Prezone unincorporated territory.
C.S.
513  12-19-88 Implement Public Safety Dispatcher Program.
C.S.
516  1-17-89  Prezone unincorporated territory.
C.S.
517  2-21-89  Prezone unincorporated territory.
C.S.
524  6-26-89  Prezone unincorporated territory.
C.S.
526  7-17-89  Execute lease agreement.
C.S.
527  7-17-89  Prezone unincorporated territory.
C.S.
534  1-2-90   Prezone unincorporated territory.
C.S.
537  11-20-89 Prezone unincorporated territory.
C.S.
540  12-26-89 Prezone unincorporated territory.
C.S.
543  2-5-90   Levy of business taxes.
C.S.
548  3-19-90  Prezone unincorporated territory.
C.S.
552  6-4-90   Prezone unincorporated territory.
C.S.
554           Amending Section Map No. 5b to rezone approximately 7,500 square feet located at
C.S. 7-16-90  612 West Yosemite Avenue (south side of West Yosemite Avenue, east of South L
              Street) from R-1 Residential to PO Professional Office.
559  10-15-90 Prezone unincorporated territory.
C.S.
569  7-15-91  Prezone unincorporated territory.
C.S.
Res.          Resolution of application of the city to the Madera County Local Agency Formation
92-  12-7-92  Commission in connection with the proposed annexation of territory designated as
115           the Madera Unified School District Annexation.
608  1-5-94   Expanding the business improvement area.
C.S.
Res. 2-2-94   Ordering territory designated as the "Mariani Annexation" annexed to the city.
94-7
Res. 2-2-94   Ordering territory designated as the "Bonadelle Annexation" annexed to the city.
94-8
Res.          Ordering territory designated as the "Berry - Sunset Avenue Annexation" annexed
94-  3-16-94  to the city.
32
Res.          Ordering territory designated as the "South Pine Street Annexation" annexed to
94-  3-16-94  the city.
33
Res.          Ordering territory designated as the "Stadium Road/Almond Avenue Annexation"
94-  4-20-94  annexed to the city.
56
Res.          Ordering territory designated as the "Sumpter-Cheeks Annexation" annexed to the
94-  7-20-94  city.
107
Res.
94-  7-20-94  Ordering territory designated as the "Cane Annexation" annexed to the city.
108
625  9-21-94  Amending Ord. 608 C.S. concerning the assessment of properties within the
C.S.          downtown business improvement area.
627  10-5-94  Prezoning unincorporated territory.
C.S.
628  11-2-94  Prezoning unincorporated territory.
C.S.
629  11-16-94 Establishing and amending time limits in the Madera Redevelopment Agency Plan and
C.S.          Project Area.
630  1-4-95   Rezoning certain property located on the east side of the North Lake Street and
C.S.          the north side of Kennedy Street from R-1 to R-2.
Res.          Ordering territory designated as the "Sierra Vista Homes Annexation" annexed to
95-  2-1-95   the city.
17
631  2-15-95  Rezoning certain property located on the south side of Storey Road east of its
C.S.          intersection with Clinton Avenue from PD to PF.
634  3-1-95   Rezoning certain property located on the south side of West Cleveland Avenue
C.S.          approximately 250 feet west of North Granda Drive.
Res.          Ordering territory designated as the "Horizon Enterprises Annexation" annexed to
95-  3-1-95   the city.
31
635  4-5-95   Rezoning certain property located at 1000 West Yosemite Avenue and the southwest
C.S.          corner of South "O" Street and West Yosemite Avenue from R-1 to PO/WY.
636  5-17-95  Amending the contract between the City Council and the Board of Administration of
C.S.          the California Public Employees' Retirement System.
637  6-7-95   Rezoning certain property located along the south side of Avenue 16 west of North
C.S.          Schnoor Avenue from PD 2000, Planned Development, to C-1, Light Industrial.
638  8-2-95   Rezoning certain property located at 335 East Pecan Avenue on the North side 500
C.S.          feet east of Madera Avenue.
639  9-6-95   Rezoning certain property located at 816 West Yosemite Avenue on the southeast
C.S.          corner of South "N" Street and West Yosemite Avenue.
640           Rezoning certain property located along the northerly side of South "D" Street
C.S. 9-20-95  between East 14th Street and East Olive Avenue from I, Industrial, to PD 3000,
              Planned Development.
647  12-6-95  Rezoning certain property located at 614 and 618 South "D" Street from PF, Public
C.S.          Facility, to R-2, Residential.
648  12-6-95  Rezoning certain property located along South "D" and South "E" Streets between
C.S.          14th Street and East Olive Avenue from I, Industrial, to C-2, Heavy Commercial.
650  12-20-95 Prezoning 72 acres of property located between East Almond Avenue and Highway 99.
C.S.
654  4-3-96   Approving and adopting an amendment to the redevelopment plan for the Madera
C.S.          Redevelopment Project and amending Ordinance 565.
655  5-15-96  Rezoning 20 acres of property located on the south side of East Olive Avenue and
C.S.          east of the Southern Pacific Railroad from U to C-2.
658  7-3-96   Rezoning certain property located at 220 South Schnoor Avenue from PF to IP.
C.S.
660  8-7-96   Rezoning certain property located at 114 West Lewis Street from R-1 to R-2.
C.S.
665  11-20-96 Rezoning certain property located at the southwest corner of Sonara Avenue and
C.S.          Adell Street from PD 3000 to R-2.
671  5-7-97   Rezoning certain property located between South Pine Street and Stadium Road
C.S.          south of the current city limits.
672  5-7-97   Rezoning certain property located along the west side of North Granada Drive
C.S.          between West Cleveland Avenue and the Fresno River from U to PD 6000 and PD 8000.
675  6-18-97  Rezoning certain property located on the south side of West Cleveland Avenue
C.S.          approximately 250 feet west of North Granada Drive.
677  7-2-97   Rezoning certain property located at the northwest corner of South Pine Street
C.S.          and West Pecan Avenue south of the current city limits.
680  7-2-97   Amending Ord. 608 C.S. concerning the assessment of properties within the
C.S.          downtown business improvement area.
681  8-20-97  Rezoning certain property located at 528 Fairview Avenue from PD to R-1.
C.S.
687  7-1-98   Imposing a Transactions and Use Tax of .25% to be used for public safety services
C.S.          and to be administered by the State Board of Equalization.
693  1-6-99   Rezoning certain property located at 619 East Fourth Street from PF to PD 6000.
C.S.
694           Rezoning certain property located generally between Adelaide and Lilly Street
C.S. 1-6-99   south of the Mid Canal and extending to near Sunrise Avenue from R-2 and I to R-
              1.
696  3-3-99   Rezoning certain property located on the west side of North Schnoor Avenue
C.S.          immediately south of the Fresno River from R-1 to PD 4500.
700  6-16-99  Approving and adopting an amendment to the redevelopment plan for the Madera
C.S.          redevelopment project and amending Ordinance No. 565 C.S.
701           Amending Section Map No. 14 of the zoning maps of the Madera Municipal Code to
C.S. 6-16-99  prezone certain property located at the southwest corner of Tozer and Clinton
              streets.
702           Amending Section Map No. 13 of the zoning maps of the Madera Municipal Code to
C.S. 6-16-99  rezone 4 acres of property located on the west side of North Schnoor Avenue from
              R-1, Residential, to PD 4500, Planned Develop Zone.
              Amending Section Map No. 3 of the zoning maps of the Madera Municipal Code to
703  7-7-99   rezone 9.95 acres of property located at the northeasterly corner of Sunrise
C.S.          Avenue and Lilly Street from PD 3000, Planned Development to PD 6000, Planned
              Development.
              Amending Section Map No. 13 of the zoning maps of the Madera Municipal Code to
704  7-7-99   rezone approximately 26 acres of property located on the north side of Sunset
C.S.          Avenue at the Mainberry and extending north almost to the Fresno River from R-1,
              Residential, to PD 4500, Planned Development Zone.
705           Amending Section Map No. 4 of the zoning maps of the Madera Municipal Code to
C.S. 7-7-99   rezone 6.4 acres of property located along the west side of South Gateway Drive
              from U, Unclassified, to I, Industrial.
707           Amending Section Map No. 7 of the zoning maps of the Madera Municipal Code to
C.S. 7-21-99  prezone certain property consisting of 30 acres located on the south side of
              Sunset Avenue approximately 1,5000 feet west of Westberry Boulevard.
708  7-21-99  Authorizing the establishment of fees and charges to be collected as
C.S.          reimbursements for the cost of development projects.
712           Amending Section Map No. 4 of the zoning maps to rezone 6,864 square feet of
C.S. 12-1-99  property located on the east side of Santa Cruz Street between Olive Avenue and
              Maple Street from R-1, Residential to R-2, Residential.
713           Amending Section Map No. 12 of the zoning maps to prezone certain property
C.S. 12-1-99  located along the westerly side of Raymond Road north of the current city limits
              and extending almost to Avenue 16.
714           Amending Section Map No. 11 of the zoning maps to rezone 14.26 acres of property
C.S. 11-17-99 located on the north side of Gary Lane between Madera Avenue and Emily Way from
              C-1, Light Commercial and C-2, Heavy Commercial to PD 3000, Planned Development.
717           Amending Section Map No. 9 of the zoning maps to prezone certain property located
C.S. 5-3-00   along the north side of Avenue 17 and east side of Road 23 north of the current
              city limits.
720           Amending Section Map No. 4B of the zoning maps to rezone 9,375 square feet of
C.S. 8-16-00  property located at 126 West Olive Avenue from R-1, Residential to C-1, Light
              Commercial.
722           Amending Key Map 10-3.302 to create Section Map No. 19 of the zoning maps to
C.S. 10-4-00  prezone 148 acres of property located south of East Olive Avenue between Road 28
              and Highway 99.
724           Amending Section Map No. 11a of the zoning maps to rezone approximately 70 acres
C.S. 11-1-00  of property located along the north side of East Almond Avenue Northwest of the
              Community Hospital.
725           Establishing fees and charges for development projects impacting transportation
C.S. 11-1-00  facilities in conjunction with implementation of the East Almond Avenue Specific
              Plan.
726           Amending Section Map No. 9 of the zoning maps to prezone certain property
C.S. 11-15-00 consisting of approximately 21 acres located on the north side of Avenue 16
              approximately ¼ mile west of the North Granada Drive alignment.
727           Amending Section Map No. 7a of the zoning maps to rezone approximately 4.92 acres
C.S. 2-7-01   of property located at the southeast corner of Sunset Avenue and Westberry
              Boulevard from PD 3000 and PD 4500 to PD 1500, Planned Development.
728           Amending Section Map No. 3a to rezone approximately 8 acres located south of East
C.S. 2-21-01  Cleveland Avenue and adjacent to The Meadows mobile home park from R-
              1 Residential to PD 3000 Planned Development.
732           Authorizing and approving an amendment to the contract between the City Council
C.S. 7-5-01   and the Board of Administration of the California Public Employees' Retirement
              System.
733           Amending Section Map No. 3b of the zoning maps to prezone approximately 25 acres
C.S. 8-1-01   along the east side of Lilly Street between Sunrise Avenue and the Madera
              Irrigation District Canal.
734           Amending Section Map No. 7b of the zoning maps to prezone certain property
C.S. 11-21-01 consisting of approximately 35 acres located on the south side of Howard Road and
              the west side of South Granada Drive to R-1, Residential.
735           Authorizing and approving an amendment to the contract between the City Council
C.S. 12-5-01  and the Board of Administration of the California Public Employees' Retirement
              System.
736           Amending Section Map No. 3a to rezone 20 acres of property located along the
C.S. 3-20-02  southeasterly side of Clinton Avenue between Lilly Street and Elm Avenue from R-
              2 Residential to R-1 Residential.
741           Amending Section Map No. 8 to prezone seven acres of property located on the
C.S. 9-18-02  north side of Avenue 16 between State Highway 99 and North Golden State Boulevard
              to CH Highway Commercial.
745           Amending Section Map No.7b to prezone approximately 12 acres located on the east
C.S. 2-5-03   side of Road 24½ (Westberry Boulevard), approximately 800 feet south of Avenue
              13½ (West Almond Avenue).
747  2-5-03   Amending Section Map No. 7b to prezone approximately 19 acres located on the
C.S.          south side of West Almond Avenue, west of South Granada Drive.
748           Amending Section Map No. 13 to rezone 14,743 square feet located at 2419 West
C.S. 4-16-03  Park Drive in the Groves Neighborhood from R-1 Residential to PD 4500 Planned
              Development.
749  4-16-03  Amending Section Map No. 6b to rezone approximately 13 acres located at 1225
C.S.          South Granada Drive from I Industrial to C-2 Heavy Commercial.
750           Amending Section Map No. 4b to rezone approximately 32,000 square feet of
C.S. 5-7-03   property located at 900 South Gateway Drive from I Industrial to C-2 Heavy
              Commercial.
751           Amending Section Map No. 12 to prezone approximately 41 acres located between
C.S. 5-21-03  Kennedy Street and Ellis Street, and between the current city limits and Chapin
              Street to R-1 Residential.
755           Amending Section Map No. 7a to prezone approximately 4.08 acres located between
C.S. 8-20-03  Howard Road and Sunset Avenue and between Westberry Boulevard and Road 24 to PF
              Public Facility.
756           Amending Section Map No. 7a to rezone approximately 2.3 acres located between
C.S. 8-20-03  Howard Road and Sunset Avenue and Between Westberry Boulevard and Road 24 from R-
              1 Residential to PF Public Facility.
757           Amending Section Map No. 13 to rezone approximately 15 acres located at 2300
C.S. 8-20-03  Riverview Drive along the west side of Mainberry Drive south of Riverview Drive
              from PD 4500 Planned Development to PD 3000 Planned Development.
758           Amending Section Map No. 8 to prezone approximately 5.67 acres located along the
C.S. 9-17-03  west side of North Golden State Boulevard, north of Avenue 16 to C-2 Heavy
              Commercial.
759  10-1-03  Amending Section Map No. 7a to prezone approximately 20 acres located on the
C.S.          north side of Howard Road just west of Westberry Boulevard to R-1 Residential.
760  10-1-03  Amending Section Map No. 2a to rezone approximately ½ acre located at 1844 and
C.S.          1848 Merced Street from R-1 Residential to R-2 Residential.
762  11-19-03 Amending Section Map No. 2a to rezone approximately ½ acre located at 1702, 1704
C.S.          and 1708 Merced Street from R-1 Residential to R-2 Residential.
763           Amending Section Map 11a to prezone approximately 60 acres located at the
C.S. 12-17-03 northeast and southeast corners of Stadium Road and West Pecan Avenue to R-
              1 Residential.
764           Amending Section Map 7b to rezone approximately 10 acres located at the southwest
C.S. 1-21-04  corner of Howard Road and South Granada Drive from R-1 Residential to C-
              N Neighborhood Commercial and PD 3000, Planned Development Zone.
765  3-17-04  Amending Section Map 7b to prezone approximately 56 acres located between Howard
C.S.          Road and West Almond Avenue and east of Westberry Boulevard.
768           Amending Section Map 6b to prezone approximately 9 acres located on the east side
C.S. 6-2-04   of Commerce Drive between the existing city limits and the Union Pacific Railroad
              Winery Spur.
772  8-18-04  Amending Section Map 3a to rezone approximately 25 acres located between East
C.S.          Yosemite Avenue and Clinton Street, and between Tozer Street and Elm Avenue.
773  8-18-04  Amending Section Map No. 14 to prezone approximately 6.5 acres located along the
C.S.          south side of Clinton Street east of Tozer Street.
774  12-1-04  Amending Section Map No. 2b to rezone approximately 7 acres located along East
C.S.          Riverside Drive east of Fresno Street to PD 4500, Planned Development Zone.
775           Amending Section Map No. 10 to rezone approximately 30 acres located on the north
C.S. 2-2-05   side of Sunset Avenue just west of Lincoln Elementary School from R-1,
              Residential, to PD 6000, Planned Development Zone.
776  2-16-05  Amending Section Map No. 11a to prezone approximately 114 acres located south of
C.S.          West Pecan Avenue between Madera Avenue and Stadium Road.
778           Amending Section Map No. 11a to prezone certain property consisting of
C.S. 4-6-05   approximately 60 acres located along the west side of Stadium Road south of West
              Pecan Avenue to R-1, Residential Zone.
779           Amending Section Map No. 17 to rezone approximately 40 acres located on the south
C.S. 4-20-05  of West Cleveland Avenue just west of Westberry Boulevard from PD 12000, Planned
              Development Zone to PD 8000, Planned Development Zone.
780           Amending Section Map No. 19 to rezone certain property consisting of
C.S. 5-4-05   approximately 148 acres located at the southwest corner of West Olive Avenue and
              Tozer Street.
784           Amending Section Map No. 17 to rezone approximately 50 acres located on the south
C.S. 7-6-05   side of West Cleveland Avenue just west of Westberry Boulevard from PD 12000,
              Planned Development Zone to PD 8000, Planned Development Zone.
              Amending Section Map No. 1a to prezone certain property consisting of
786  9-7-05   approximately 14 acres located along the north side of Sherwood Way between Owen
C.S.          and Sonora Streets and extending north to Clark Street to PD 3000, Planned
              Development Zone.
              Amending Section Map No. 5b to rezone property located at 811 West Yosemite
787  10-5-05  Avenue from R-1, Residential to PO/WY, Professional Office/West Yosemite Overlay,
C.S.          and replacing Sectional District Zoning Map No. 5b with new and enlarged
              Sectional District Map 5b and 5c.
788           Amending Section Map No. 11a to rezone 10,000 square feet of property located at
C.S. 10-5-05  318 El Monte Court from PD 1500, Planned Development, to PD 4500, Planned
              Development.
790           Amending Section Map No. 3a to prezone certain property consisting of
C.S. 12-7-05  approximately 73 acres located along the west side of Tozer Street between
              Sunrise Avenue and the Madera Irrigation District Canal to R-1, Residential Zone.
792  12-7-05  Authorizing the levy of a special tax within Community Facilities District No.
C.S.          2005-1.
793           Amending Section Map No. 12 to rezone approximately 4 acres located on the
C.S. 12-21-05 southeast corner of Kennedy and Tulare Streets from R-1, Residential Zone, to PD
              3000, Planned Development Zone.
794           Amending Section Map No. 13 to rezone 31,363 square feet of property located at
C.S. 12-21-05 2525 West Park Drive in the Groves neighborhood from R-1, Residential Zone, to PD
              2000, Planned Development Zone.
795           Amending Section Map No. 17 to prezone certain property consisting of
C.S. 1-18-06  approximately 40 acres located on the south side of West Cleveland Avenue just
              west of Westberry Boulevard to PD 8000, Planned Development Zone.
              Amending Section Map No. 7b to rezone approximately 18.39 acres located at the
796  4-5-06   southwest corner of the intersection of South Granada Drive and West Almond
C.S.          Avenue from C-1, Light Commercial, and C-2, Heavy Commercial, to PD 4500, Planned
              Development Zone.
797           Amending Section Map No. 1a to rezone approximately 34,375 square feet located on
C.S. 4-19-06  the west side of North "D" Street north of Cleveland Avenue from R-1, Residential
              Zone, to C-1, Light Commercial Zone.
799           Amending Section Map No. 19 to rezone approximately 2.38 acres located on the
C.S. 7-19-06  north side of Almond Avenue, east of its intersection with Knox Street from R-1,
              Residential, to PD 4500, Planned Development.
802  9-20-06  Levying special tax within Community Facilities District No. 2006-1.
C.S.
803           Amending Section Map No. 9 to rezone approximately 43 acres located on the north
C.S. 10-4-06  side of Cleveland Avenue and west of Westberry Boulevard from RCO, Residential
              Conservation and Open Space, to I, Industrial.
804           Amending Section Map No. 9 to prezone approximately 280 acres generally located
C.S. 10-4-06  north of Kennedy Avenue, east of Highway 99, and southwest of Adell and Owens
              Street.
805           Amending Section Map No. 9 to prezone certain property consisting of
C.S. 12-6-06  approximately 101.16 acres located at the northeast corner of the Avenue 17/
              Freeway 99 interchange.
806  12-20-06 Amending Section Map No. 2a to prezone approximately 44 acres generally located
C.S.          west of Lake Street in the vicinity of Adell Street.
811  1-17-07  Amending Section Map No. 10 to rezone approximately 8.4 acres generally located
C.S.          northeast of sunset avenue and Road 24 from PD 6000 to PD 4500.
812  3-7-07   Amending Section Map No. 4b to rezone approximately .6 acres from R-3 to C-1,
C.S.          located on the southeast corner of “D” Street and Clinton Avenue.
813  3-7-2007 Amending Section Map No. 9 to rezone approximately 20 acres from RCO to C-2S,
C.S.          generally located on the southwest corner of Kennedy Avenue and Granada Avenue.
814  3-7-07   Amending Section Map No. 11b to prezone certain property consisting of
C.S.          approximately 300 acres located west of Freeway 99 at Pecan Avenue.
815  3-7-07   Amending the contract between the city and the Board of Administration of the
C.S.          California Public Employees' Retirement System.
816  6-6-07   Describing the Madera Redevelopment Agency’s eminent domain program.
C.S.
818           Amending Section Map No. 13 to prezone certain property consisting of
C.S. 8-1-07   approximately 116 acres located on the south side of Cleveland Avenue, west of
              its intersection with Freeway 99.
819  8-1-07   Adopting the development agreement between the city and Newman Development Group
C.S.          of Madera, LLC.
820           Amending Section Map No. 9 to prezone certain property consisting of
C.S. 8-1-07   approximately 48 acres located at the southeast corner of the Avenue 17/Freeway
              99 interchange.
821  8-1-07   Adopting the development agreement between the city and Zelman Retail Partners.
C.S.
822  9-19-07  Amending Section Map No. 6a to rezone approximately 0.8 acres from R-1 to PO,
C.S.          located on the northeast corner of Howard Road and Granada Avenue.
823           Amending Section Map No. 3a to rezone approximately 24 acres from C1 and PD 1500
C.S. 9-19-07  to C-1, PD 4500 and PD 1500, located east of Elm Street and north of Clinton
              Avenue.
824  12-5-07  Amending Section Map No. 8 to rezone approximately 19 acres from PD 6000 to PD
C.S.          3000, located on the southeast corner of Kennedy Avenue and Granada Drive.
825           Amending Section Map No. 9 to rezone approximately 24 acres from OS to I-S,
C.S. 12-5-07  located on the south side of Kennedy Avenue at its intersection with Westberry
              Boulevard.
826           Amending Section Map No. 7b to prezone approximately five acres to C-1, and
C.S. 12-5-07  approximately 32 acres prezoned to PD 4500 located on the southeast corner of
              Westberry Boulevard and Howard Road.
827           Amending Section Map No. 11a to rezone approximately 6 acres from PD 3000 to PO,
C.S. 1-16-08  located on the north side of Almond Avenue, approximately 700 feet east of its
              intersection with Madera Avenue.
828  1-16-08  Amending Section Map 3a to rezone approximately 0.6 acres from R-2 to PD 3000,
C.S.          located at 311 Vineyard Avenue.
829  1-16-08  Amending Section Map No. 16 to prezone approximately 38.19 acres to I generally
C.S.          located on the southeast corner of Pecan Avenue and Granada Drive.
830  2-6-08   Amending Section Map No. 1a to rezone approximately 5 acres from C-1 to PD 3000,
C.S.          located on the southwest corner of Clark and Owens Street.
831  2-6-08   Amending Section Map No. 4b to rezone approximately 3.8 acres from C-1 and R-3 to
C.S.          R-2-S, located on South “G” Street between 11th Street and Olive Avenue.
833  3-19-08  Amending the Redevelopment Plan for the Madera Redevelopment Project.
C.S.
836  5-21-08  Amending certain time limitations with respect to the Madera Redevelopment
C.S.          Project.
838           Amending Section Map No. 9 to prezone approximately 51 acres to C-2 and
C.S. 5-21-08  approximately 12 acres to U, located on the east side of Sharon Boulevard and
              North of Ellis Street.
851  1-7-09   Amending Section Map No. 11a to rezone approximately 8.8 acres from R1 to PD-
C.S.          2000, located on the northeast corner of Stadium Loop and Pecan Avenue.
854  3-4-09   Amending Section Map No. 4b to rezone approximately 1.38 acres from I to PO,
C.S.          located on the northwest corner of South D Street and 14th Street.
859  6-17-09  Amending Section Map No. 9 to rezone approximately 4.3 acres from the RCO to C-2-
C.S.          S, located on the southwest corner of North Granada Drive and Foxglove Way.
873           Amending Section Map 3a to rezone approximately 3.39 acres from PD4500 and R-2 to
C.S. 6-16-10  C-1, located on the south side of Yosemite Avenue, between Elm Street and Fig
              Street.
874  6-16-10  Amending Section Map 5c to rezone approximately .78 acres from I to R-3, located
C.S.          on the east side of Cypress Street, between Maple Street and Oak Street.
882           Amending official City of Madera zoning map to rezone approximately 1.5 acres of
C.S. 1-19-11  property located south of Sixth Street and east of Lake Street to PD4500 (Planned
              Development) Zone District.
883           Amending official City of Madera zoning map to rezone approximately 15,000 square
C.S. 2-2-11   feet of property located at 107 and 117 South “O” Street from R-3 (Residential)
              to PD-2000 (Planned Development) Zone District.
885           Amending official City of Madera zoning map to rezone approximately 20 acres of
C.S. 4-20-11  property located south of Avenue 17 and 400 feet west of Airport Drive to the I
              (Industrial) Zone District.
              Determining, under protest, that the city will comply with the Voluntary
889  8-17-11  Alternative Redevelopment Program pursuant to Cal. Health and Safety Code,
C.S.          Division 24, part 1.9, in order to permit the continued existence and operation
              of the Redevelopment Agency of the City of Madera.
893  3-7-12   Amending the contract between the city and the Board of Administration of the
C.S.          California Public Employees' Retirement System.
894  3-21-12  Levying a special tax within Community Facilities District No. 2012-1.
C.S.
897           Amending the official City of Madera zoning map to prezone approximately 40 acres
C.S. 5-2-12   of property located at the northeast corner of Tozer Street and Olive Avenue to
              the PF (Public Facilities) Zone District.
899           Amending the official City of Madera zoning map to rezone approximately 18.7
C.S. 8-15-12  acres of property located on either side of Condor Drive, between Kennedy Street
              and Aviation Avenue alignments to the C-2 (Heavy Commercial) zone district.
900           Authorizing an amendment to the contract between the City Council of the City of
C.S. 9-5-12   Madera and the Board of Administration of the California Public Employees'
              Retirement System.
901           Amending the official City of Madera zoning map to rezone approximately .13 acres
C.S. 10-17-12 of property located at 312 W. Fifth Street to the C-R (Restricted Commercial)
              zone district.
903           Levying a special tax for the fiscal year 2013-2014 and following fiscal years
C.S. 4-3-13   solely within and relating to the City of Madera Community Facilities District
              No. 2013-1.
905  6-5-13   Amending the official City of Madera zoning map to prezone certain property
C.S.          consisting of approximately 336 acres located east of Freeway 99 at Pecan Avenue.
              Amending the official City of Madera zoning map to rezone approximately 2.39
915  2-18-15  acres of property located on the east side of Emily Way at its intersection with
C.S.          Joya Drive from the PD-3000 (Planned Development) Zone District to the PD-1500
              (Planned Development) Zone District.
917           Amending the official City of Madera zoning map to rezone the specific parcels
C.S. 3-18-15  identified within Exhibit “A” to the Ord. and illustrated within Exhibit “B” to
              the Ord.
              Amending the official City of Madera zoning map to rezone approximately 8.25
924  7-15-15  acres of property located on the west side of North Golden State Boulevard
C.S.          approximately 800 feet north of the Ellis Street Overpass from the IP (Industrial
              Park) Zone District to the I (Industrial) Zone District.
              Amending the official City of Madera zoning map to rezone approximately 2.03
926  8-19-15  acres of property located in proximity to the intersection of Riverside Drive and
C.S.          Merced Street from the PD-4500 (Planned Development) Zone District to the PD-6000
              (Planned Development) Zone District.
              Amending the official City of Madera zoning map to rezone approximately 12,500
929           square feet of property located at 1006 and 1010 West Yosemite Avenue in
C.S. 2-17-16  proximity to the intersection of West Yosemite Avenue and O Street from the R1
              (Low Density Residential) Zone District to the WY (West Yosemite Professional
              Office) Zone District.
930           An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official City
C.S. 3-2-16   of Madera zoning map prezoning the specific parcels identified within Exhibit
              “A”.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official City
933  4-6-16   of Madera zoning map prezoning approximately twenty acres located at the
C.S.          northwest corner of Tozer Street (Road 28) and South A Street to the PF (Public
              Facility) Zone District as identified within Exhibit “A”.
938           An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera approving and adopting the
C.S. 12-21-16 development agreement between Love's Travel Stops and Country Stores and the City
              of Madera.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official City
939  2-15-17  of Madera zoning map to rezone approximately 2.15 acres located on the south side
C.S.          of the Fresno River Channel between North A Street and North C Street alignments
              from the R3 (Residential) to the PD-6000 (Planned Development) Zone District.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official City
              of Madera zoning map to rezone approximately 30,000 square feet of property
943  7-19-17  located at 601 and 609 West Yosemite Avenue and 110 North K Street, in proximity
C.S.          to the intersection of West Yosemite Avenue and North K Street from the R1 (Low
              Density Residential) Zone District to the WY (West Yosemite Professional Office)
              Zone District.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official City
              of Madera zoning map to rezone approximately 1.4 acres of property located on the
946  10-18-17 east side of Linden Street (733 and 743 Linden Street), approximately 650 feet
C.S.          north of the intersection of Linden Street and Sunset Avenue, from the PD-1500
              (Planned Development) Zone District to the PD-2000 (Planned Development) Zone
              District.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official City
947  10-18-17 of Madera zoning map prezoning approximately 40 acres located at the southeast
C.S.          corner of Tozer Street and Sunrise Avenue to the PF (Public Facility) Zone
              District as identified within Exhibit “A”.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official City
948  11-15-17 of Madera zoning map rezoning an approximately 7,500 square foot parcel located
C.S.          at 118 North K Street from the R2 (Medium Density Residential) Zone District to
              the R3 (High Density Residential) Zone District as identified within Exhibit “A”.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official City
952           of Madera zoning map to rezone approximately 0.14 acres of property located on
C.S. 4-18-18  the west side of High Street (apn: 007-123003), approximately 125 feet north of
              the intersection of East Yosemite Avenue and High Street, from the R3 (High
              Density Residential) Zone District to the C1 (Light Commercial) Zone District.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official City
              of Madera zoning map to rezone approximately 3.57 acres of property (APN: 008-
953  7-18-18  102-003, 008-102-007 and 008-102-008), located approximately 600 feet north of
C.S.          the northeast corner of the intersection of Sunrise Avenue and Adelaide Avenue,
              from the R1 (Low Density Residential) Zone District to the PD 6000 (Planned
              Development) Zone District.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official City
              of Madera zoning map rezoning approximately .86-acre of land located on the
955  10-3-18  northwest and southeast corners of the intersection of North C street and East
C.S.          5th Street from the PF (Public Facilities) and the C1 (Light Commercial) Zone
              Districts to the PD-1500 (Planned Development) Zone District as identified within
              Exhibit "A".
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official City
957           of Madera zoning map to rezone approximately 0.69 acres of land located at the
C.S. 12-5-18  southeast corner of the intersection of Linden Street and West Park Drive from
              the R1 (Low Density Residential) Zone District to the PD 4500 (Planned
              Development) Zone District.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official City
              of Madera zoning map to prezone approximately 19.95 acres of property (APN: 034-
958  12-19-18 070 -011), located on the west side of Stadium Road (Road 26 ½), south of its
              intersection with Almond Avenue, to the PD 6000 (Planned Development) Zone
              District.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official City
              of Madera zoning map to rezone approximately 38.5 acres of property (APN: 006-
959  1-2-19   380-027 and 006-380-028), located approximately 2,000 feet west of the southwest
C.S.          corner of the intersection of North Westberry Boulevard and West Cleveland
              Avenue, from the PD-8000 (Planned Development) Zone District to the PD-6000
              (Planned Development) Zone District.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official City
960  2-20-19  of Madera zoning map to rezone two parcels (APN: 012-270-001 and 012-270-002)
C.S.          from the PD-3000 (Planned Development) and PD-4500 (Planned Development) Zone
              Districts to the PD-1500 (Planned Development) Zone District.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official City
961  3-20-19  of Madera zoning map to prezone approximately 20 acres of property located south
C.S.          and west of the intersection of Ellis Street and North D Street into the PD-6000
              (Planned Development) Zone District.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official City
963           of Madera zoning map to rezone approximately 25 acres of property (APN: 008-180-
C.S. 5-15-19  001, 008-180-002, 008-180-003 and 008-180-004) located on the northwest corner of
              Sunrise Avenue and Tozer Street, from the R1 (Low Density) to the PD-4500
              (Planned Development) Zone District.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official City
965  11-6-19  of Madera zoning map to rezone six parcels encompassing approximately 1.5 acres
C.S.          located on the southwest corner of the intersection of West 7th Street and South
              G Street from the R3 (High Density) to the PF (Public Facility) Zone District.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official City
966           of Madera zoning map to rezone approximately 0.29 acre of property located
C.S. 11-20-19 approximately 200 feet west of the intersection of Sonora and Rush Streets (120
              Wilson Ave. and 117 W. Rush St.) from the R3 (High Density) to the PD-1500
              (Planned Development) Zone District (APN: 003-093-006 and 008).
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera approving rezone 2019-05
968           and amending the official City of Madera zoning map to rezone approximately 0.29
C.S. 12-18-19 acre of property (APN: 003-210-029) located approximately 450 feet north of the
              intersection of Owens Street and Sherwood Way, to the PD-3000 (Planned
              Development) Zone District.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official City
              of Madera zoning map to rezone an approximately 76.25 acre property (APN: 012-
973           480-005) located at the southwest corner of the intersection of West Pecan Avenue
C.S. 6-24-20  and Madera Avenue, from the PD-6000, PD-3000, PD-1500 (Planned Development), PF
              (Public Facility) and CN (Neighborhood Commercial) Zone Districts to the PD-6000,
              PD-3000, PD-1500 (Planned Development and CN (Neighborhood Commercial) Zone
              Districts.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official City
974  6-24-20  of Madera zoning map rezoning approximately 1.8 acres of land located on the
C.S.          southeast corner of the intersection of Maple Street and Noble Street to the PD-
              2000 (Planned Development) Zone District.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official city
              of Madera zoning map to prezone an approximately 40 acre property (APN: 033-18-
981  11-3-21  033 (portion)), located on the south side of Cleveland Avenue between Avenue 16
C.S.          and Road 23, from Agricultural Rural Exclusive (ARE, Madera County) to the
              Planned Development (P-D 4500) zone district of the City of Madera, pending
              annexation.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official City
985  3-2-22   of Madera zoning map to rezone the approximately 0.2 northern acres of property
C.S.          located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Sunset and Orchard Avenues
              (APN: 006-182-007) from the R1 to the R3 district.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official City
990  4-20-22  of Madera zoning map to rezone approximately 0.27 acres of property located at
C.S.          801 South Gateway Drive (APN: 011-111-005) from the I (Industrial) to the C2
              (Heavy Commercial) zone district.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official City
              of Madera zoning map to rezone approximately 1,883 acres within the Villages at
991           Almond Grove Specific Plan, whose location is bounded by Avenue 17 on the north,
C.S. 5-4-22   Road 22 on the west, the Fresno River on the south, and Roads 23 and 24 on the
              east from ARE-40 (Agricultural Rural Exclusive - 40 acres) and ARE-20
              (Agricultural Rural Exclusive - 20 acres), as well as PD 4500 (Planned
              Development) to the SP (Specific Plan) zone district.
993  5-4-22   An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera adopting the proposed The
C.S.          Villages at Almond Grove Specific Plan (SP No. 2017-01).
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official City
1000 5-17-23  of Madera zoning map to rezone approximately 0.17 acres of property located at
C.S.          308 North C Street from the C1 (Light Commercial) to the R1 (Residential, one
              unit for each 6,000 square feet) zone district.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera approving Rez 2022-02
1001          amending the official City of Madera zoning map to prezone the approximately 242
C.S. 5-17-23  acre “ARC Annexation Area” bounded by Martin Street on the north, North D Street
              on the east, south to Ellis Street and a portion further south to Adell Street,
              and west by the United States Bureau of Reclamation Canal and Road 26.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official City
1003 10-4-23  of Madera zoning map to rezone approximately 0.3 acres of property located at 405
C.S.          Vineyard Avenue from the R2 (One unit for each 3,000 square feet of site area) to
              the R1 (One unit for each square feet of site area) zone district.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera approving Rez 2022-04 and
              amending the official City of Madera zoning map to rezone approximately 57.53
1006 2-21-24  acres of property (APN(s): 012-480-008 and 012-480-009) from the R-1
C.S.          (Residential, One unit for each 6,000 square feet of site area) to the PD-4500
              (Planned Development, One unit for each 4,500 square feet of site area) zone
              district.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera amending the official City
1008 4-3-     of Madera zoning map to rezone approximately 0.23 acres of property located at
C.S. 24    119 South I Street (APN: 010-131-002) from the R3 (Residential, One unit for each
              1,800 square feet of site area) to the C1 (Light Commercial) zone district,
              including CEQA Class 3 and 32 categorical exemptions.
              An ordinance of the City Council of the City of Madera approving Rez 2022-09 and
1009 5-15-24  amending the official City of Madera zoning map to rezone approximately 2.3 acres
C.S.          of property (APN: 013-070-014) from the PO (Professional Office) to the C1 (Light
              Commercial) zone district.
             
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to California Codes
References to 1961 Code
References to Ordinances
References to Resolutions
REFERENCES TO CALIFORNIA CODES
Business and Professions Code
 
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Statutory Code Section                 Code Section
Ch. 5.7, Div. 2                        6-1.67
Ch. 9, Div. 3                          7-2.07
Ch. 11.4, Div. 3                       6-5.40
Ch. 11.5, § 7582.20                   3-12.12
Ch. 11.5, § 7582.21                   3-12.12
Ch. 11.5, Div. 3                       6-5.40
Ch. 11.5, Div. 3, §§ 7583.39 - 7583.43-12.09
7582.5                                 3-12.01
8771                                   10-2.403.2
11004                                  10-2.201
16001                                  6-1.21,
                                       6-1.53
19800 et seq.                          6-3.03
23039                                  5-8.04
26001                                  6-5.06
26001(f)                               6-5.06
26057(b)(4)                            6-5.38
26070                                  6-5.06
26070(a)(1)                            6-5.06
26070(a)(3)                            6-5.06
26090(e)                               6-5.04
26100                                  6-5.44
                                       
 
Civil Code
 
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Statutory Code Section Code Section
51.3                   10-3-5.102
51.12                  10-3-5.102
714(d)(1)(A)           9-4.06
714(d)(1)(B)           9-4.06
783                    10-2.302  
798.76                 10-3-5.102
799.5                  10-3-5.102
1350                   10-2.201
                       10-3-5.102,
1351                   10-3-5.107,
                       10-2.1309
1355                   10-2.403.5.1
1714.1(b)              3-16.08,
                       4-9.11
1714.1                 3-16.08,
                       4-9.11
1941.1                 4-16.23
1941.2                 4-16.23
1942.5                 4-16.23
2080.6 et seq.         3-1.01
2929.3                 1-9.06,
                       9-11.11
3482.5                 10-3.418
4175                   10-2.1310
6562                   10-2.1310
                       
 
Code of Civil Procedures
 
 
Statutory Code Section Code Section
731                    10-9.15
1013a                  1-6.16
1094.5                 1-7.01
                       1-7.01,
                       5-1.45,
1094.6                 6-3.15,
                       6-5.26,   
                       10-3.1611
                       
 
Education Code
 
 
Statutory Code Section          Code Section
Title 2, Div. 4, Ch. 9, Art. 13 5-3A.07
                                
 
Elections Code
 
 
Statutory Code Section Code Section
21606(a) and (b)       2-1.08
                       
 
Food and Agriculture Code
 
 
Statutory Code Section Code Section
5004                   3-15.01
 
Government Code
 
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Title 7, Ch. 3         10-1.01
Title 7, Ch. 4.5       10-2.1202
811.2                  3-16.05
831.7                  3-14.04
900                    1-6.01
905                    1-6.01
910                    1-6.01
935                    1-6.10
935.4                  1-6.18
                       1-6.10,
945.6                  1-6.12,
                       1-6.14
946                    1-6.10
4526                   2-4.01
4529.2                 2-4.01
4529.10                2-4.10
4529.12                2-4.10
6250 et seq.           5-3A.14
7070                   3-17.02
7070(d)                3-17.02
7070 - 7075            3-17.02
30052                  8-6.06
36516                  2-1.05
36900                  1-2.01 
36901                  1-9.02
37201 - 37208          2-2.203
38772                  3-16.08
38773.5                4-8.13
38791                  3-2.05
40802 - 40805.5        2-2.203
50022.1 - 50022.4      3-5.01
50022.1 - 50022.6      9-1.01
50022.2                1-1.02
50022.6                9-1.01
51500 - 51507          8-1.01
53069.4                1-9.02,
                       1-9.10
54201 - 54205          2-4.01
54950 et seq.          2-3.201
65450                  10-3.11.603
65450 - 65457          10-3.11.601
65582.1                10-3.513
65583.2(i)             10-3-5.103
65589.5(d)(2)          10-3-5.104,
                       10-3-5.111
65850.5                9-4.01
65852.2                10-3.513
65852.22               10-3.513
65859                  10-5.502
65864 - 65869.5        10-3.1701
65915 et seq.          10-3-5.101
65915                  10-3-5.101
65915(c)               10-3-5.107
65915(d)(3)            10-3-5.111
65915(e)               10-3-5.111
65915.5                10-3-5.102
65917.5                10-3-5.106
65964(b)               10-9.11
66410 et seq.          10-2.101
66424                  10-2.1301
66427.1                10-2.604.2
66449                  10-2.502.4
66452.5                10-2.402.7.4
66452.51               10-2.402.6.1
66452.8                10-2.402.6.1
66452.9                10-2.402.6.1
66477                  10-2.1300
66499                  10-2.708.1  
                       
 
Health and Safety Code
 
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Statutory Code Section  Code Section
Div. 10                 4-11.01
Div. 104, Part 9, Ch. 8 5-3A.03
Div. 104, Part 14       5-3A.03
1596.78(b)              10-3.1312
11380.5                 4-13.01,
                        4-13.02
11469(d)                3-1.01
11470                   3-1.01
12500 et seq.           3-13B.01,
                        3-13B.02
17920.3                 4-16.04
17920.3 et seq.         4-16.06,
                        10-3.1603
17958.1                 10-3.513
17975 et seq.           4-16.24
18007                   10-3.513
18901 et seq.           10-3-5.104
33334.2(e)              10-3-5.107
39730.5 - 39730.8       5-3A.03
50052.5                 10-3-5.104,
                        10-3-5.107
50053                   10-3-5.107
50079.5                 10-3-5.102
50093                   10-3-5.102,
                        10-3-5.107
50105                   10-3-5.102
109925                  6-5.06
11362.3(b)(3)           6-5.06
11362.7                 6-5.06
11362.7 et seq.         6-5.06
11362.22                6-5.06
                        6-5.38,
11362.71                6-5.40,
                        6-5.41
113783                  5-3A.03
113789                  5-3A.03
114079                  5-3A.07
116900 - 116926         8-7.10
                        
 
Labor Code
 
 
Statutory Code Section Code Section
1725.5                 2-4.06
1771                   2-4.09
1771.1                 2-4.06
                       
 
Penal Code
 
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Ch. 1, Title 4, Part 4 2-2.401
186.11                 6-5.08
245                    6-1.17.1
266a-c                 10-7.12
266g-i                 10-7.12
                       4-11.01,
290                    10-3.405,
                       10-7.14
311 - 313.4            10-7.14
315                    10-7.12,
                       10-7.14
316                    10-7.12,
                       10-7.14
318                    10-7.14
326.5                  4-10.03
370                    4-14.07
415                    4-11.01
470                    6-5.08
484                    6-5.08
504a                   6-5.08
594                    3-16.01
594.1 and 594.2        3-16.12
594.3                  3-16.01
626.8                  4-11.01
640.5                  3-16.01
640.6                  3-16.01
640.7                  3-16.01
647(a)                 10-7.12
647(b)                 10-7.12,
                       10-7.14
647(D)                 10-7.12
667.5                  6-5.08
836.5                  1-5.01
11105(b)(11)           6-5.38
13300(b)(11)           6-5.38
13522                  2-2.402
                       
 
Public Contract Code
 
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Statutory Code Section Code Section
10299                  2-4.07
12100 - 12113          2-4.07
20160 - 20174          2-4.01
22000 et seq.          2-4.06
22000 - 22045          2-4.01
22002                  2-4.06
22020 et seq.          2-4.06
22032                  2-4.06
22033                  2-4.06
22034                  2-4.06
22034 et seq.          2-4.06
22036                  2-4.06
22037                  2-4.06
22050                  2-4.06
22160 et seq.          2-4.10   
                       
 
Public Resources Code
 
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Ch. 12.8               5-3A.02
Ch. 12.9               5-3A.02
Ch. 13.1               5-3A.03
40000 et seq.          5-3A.02
40004                  5-3A.02
40059                  5-3.14
40141                  5-3A.03
40181                  5-3A.03
40191                  5-3A.03
41500                  5-3A.03
41730                  5-3A.02
41731                  5-3A.02
41734                  5-3A.02
41734.5                5-3A.02
41735                  5-3A.02
41736                  5-3A.02
41780.01               5-3A.02
41800                  5-3A.02
41802                  5-3A.03
42649.8 et seq.        5-3.02,
                       5-3.05
42649.8                5-3.01
42926                  5-3A.02
44004                  5-3A.02
46264.81(a)            5-3.01
50001                  5-3A.02
                       
 
Public Utility Code
 
 
Statutory Code Section Code Section
230                    10-2.303
21411                  8-6.12,
                       8-8.11
                       
 
Revenue and Taxation Code
 
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Statutory Code Section        Code Section
                              8-2.08,
                              8-2.09,
Div. 2, Part 1                8-6.10,
                              8-6.13,
                              8-8.09
Div. 2, Part 1 § 6001 et seq.8-8.08
                              8-2.03,
                              8-2.08,
                              8-2.11.1,
Div. 2, Part 1.5              8-2.11.2,
                              8-2.12,
                              8-2.14,
                              8-2.15
                              8-6.03,
                              8-6.09,
                              8-6.12 -
                              8-6.14,
Div. 2, Part 1.6              8-8.02,
                              8-8.03,
                              8-8.08,
                              8-8.11,
                              8-8.12,
                              8-8.13
Div. 2, Part 1.6 § 7251      8-8.03
                              8-8.02,
Div. 2, Part 1.7              8-8.12,
                              8-8.13
Div. 2, Part 1.7 § 7285.9    8-8.03
401                           8-2.13
5096                          8-5.10 
6001 et seq.                  8-6.09
                              8-2.10,
6067                          8-6.11,
                              8-8.10
                              8-2.09,
6203                          8-6.10,
                              8-8.09
                              8-2.11.1,
6366                          8-2.12,
                              8-6.12,
                              8-8.11
                              8-2.11.1,
                              8-2.11.2,
6366.1                        8-2.12,
                              8-6.12,
                              8-8.11
                              8-2.09,
6701                          8-6.10,
                              8-8.09
                              8-2.09,
6702                          8-6.10,
                              8-8.09
                              8-2.09,
6711                          8-6.10,
                              8-8.09
                              8-2.09,
6715                          8-6.10,
                              8-8.09
                              8-2.09,
6737                          8-6.10,
                              8-8.09
                              8-2.09,
6797                          8-6.10,
                              8-8.09
                              8-2.09,
6828                          8-6.10,
                              8-8.09
7200 et seq.                  8-2.17
7251 et seq.                  8-6.03
7286.65                       8-6.03
11901                         8-5.01,
                              8-5.11
23701                         4-10.01
                              
 
Streets and Highways Code
 
 
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Ch. 1, Div. 1, Art. 5  8-3.01,
                       8-3.03
 
Vehicle Code
 
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Statutory Code Section Code Section
Div. 3, Ch. 1 § 4000  8-8.11
Div. 3.5 § 9840       8-8.11
407.5                  3-14.03
575                    10-3.1603
4000 et seq.           8-6.12
5004                   4-8.11
5101.3 - 5101.7        3-5.17
9840 et seq.           8-6.12
21200 - 21235          3-14.03
22650                  4-8.03
22660                  4-8.01
26708                  4-5.14
                       
 
Welfare and Institutions Code
 
 
Statutory Code Section Code Section
217                    3-1.01
                       3-16.01,
602                    3-16.06,
                       3-16.13
4500                   10-3.201
                       
 
REFERENCES TO 1961 CODE
1961 Code Section 1995 Code Section
1961 Code Section 1995 Code Section
1-1.01            1-1.01
1-1.02            1-1.02
1-1.03            1-1.03
1-1.04            1-1.04
1-1.05            1-1.05
1-1.06            1-1.06
1-1.07            1-1.07
1-1.08            1-1.08
1-2.01            1-2.01
1-2.02            1-2.02
1-2.03            1-2.03
1-2.04            1-2.04
1-2.05            1-2.05
1-2.06            1-2.06
1-2.07            1-2.07
1-2.08            1-2.08
1-2.09            1-2.09
1-2.10            1-2.10,
                  1-2.11
1-3.01            1-3.01
1-3.02            1-3.02
1-3.03            1-3.03
1-3.04            1-3.04
1-3.05            1-3.05
1-3.06            1-3.06
1-3.07            1-3.07
1-3.08            1-3.08
1-3.09            1-3.09
1-3.10            1-3.10
1-3.11            1-3.11
1-3.12            1-3.12
1-3.13            1-3.13
                  1-4.01,
1-4.01            1-4.02,
                  1-4.03
1-5.01            1-5.01
1-6.01            1-6.01
1-6.02            1-6.02
1-6.03            1-6.03
1-6.04            1-6.04
1-6.05            1-6.05
1-6.06            1-6.06
1-6.07            1-6.07
1-6.08            1-6.08
1-6.09            1-6.09
1-6.10            1-6.10
1-6.11            1-6.11
1-6.12            1-6.12
1-6.13            1-6.13
1-6.14            1-6.14
1-6.15            1-6.15
1-6.16            1-6.16
1-6.17            1-6.17
1-7.01            1-7.01
1-8.01            1-8.01
2-1.01            2-1.01 (Repealed)
2-1.02            2-1.02 (Repealed)
2-1.04            2-1.04 (Repealed)
2-1.05            2-1.05 (Repealed)
2-1.06            2-1.06 (Repealed)
2-1.07            2-1.07 (Repealed)
2-1.08            2-1.08 (Repealed)
2-1.09            2-1.09 (Repealed)
2-1.10            2-1.10 (Repealed)
2-1.11            2-1.11 (Repealed)
2-1.12            2-1.12 (Repealed)
2-1.13            2-1.13 (Repealed)
2-1.14            2-1.14 (Repealed)
2-1.15            2-1.15 (Repealed)
2-1.16            2-1.16 (Repealed)
2-1.17            2-1.17 (Repealed)
2-1.18            2-1.18 (Repealed)
2-1.19            2-1.19 (Repealed)
2-2.101           2-2.101
2-2.102           2-2.102
2-2.103           2-2.103
2-2.104           2-2.104
2-2.201           2-2.201
2-2.202           2-2.202
2-2.203           2-2.203
2-2.204           2-2.204
2-2.301           2-2.301
2-2.302           2-2.302
2-2.303           2-2.303
2-2.304           2-2.304
2-2.305           2-2.305
2-2.306           2-2.306
2-2.307           2-2.307
2-2.308           2-2.308
2-2.309           2-2.309
2-2.310           2-2.310
2-2.311           2-2.311
2-2.312           2-2.312
2-2.313           2-2.313
2-2.314           2-2.314
2-2.315           2-2.315
2-2.316           2-2.316
2-2.317           2-2.317
2-2.322           2-2.322
2-2.323           2-2.323
2-2.401           2-2.401
2-2.402           2-2.402
2-2.501           2-2.501
2-2.502           2-2.502
2-2.503           2-2.503
3-1.01            3-1.01
3-2.01            3-2.01 
3-2.02            3-2.02 
3-2.03            2-3.03 
3-2.04            3-2.04 
3-2.05            3-2.05 
3-2.06            3-2.06 
3-2.07            3-2.07 
3-2.08            3-2.08 
3-3.01            3-3.01 
3-3.02            3-3.02 
3-4.01            3-4.01 
3-4.02            3-4.02 
3-5.01            3-5.01 
3-5.02            3-5.02 
3-5.03            3-5.03 
3-5.04            3-5.04 
3-5.05            3-5.05 
3-5.06            3-5.06 
3-5.07            3-5.07 
3-5.08            3-5.08 
3-5.09            3-5.09 
3-5.10            3-5.10 
3-5.11            3-5.11 
3-5.12            3-5.12 
3-5.13            3-5.13 
3-5.14            3-5.14 
3-5.15            3-5.15 
3-6.01            3-6.01 
3-6.02            3-6.02 
3-6.03            3-6.03 
3-6.04            3-6.04 
3-6.05            3-6.05 
3-6.06            3-6.06 
3-6.07            3-6.07 
3-6.08            3-6.08 
3-6.09            3-6.09 
3-6.10            3-6.10 
3-6.11            3-6.11 
3-6.12            3-6.12 
3-6.13            3-6.13 
3-6.14            3-6.14 
3-6.15            3-6.15 
3-6.16            3-6.16 
3-6.17            3-6.17 
3-6.18            3-6.18 
3-6.19            3-6.19 
3-6.20            3-6.20 
3-6.21            3-6.21 
3-6.22            3-6.22 
3-6.23            3-6.23 
3-6.24            3-6.24 
3-6.25            3-6.25 
3-6.26            3-6.26 
3-6.27            3-6.27 
3-6.28            3-6.28 
3-6.29            3-6.29 
3-6.30            3-6.30 
3-6.31            3-6.31 
3-6.32            3-6.32 
3-6.33            3-6.33 
3-6.34            3-6.34 
3-6.35            3-6.35 
3-6.36            3-6.36 
3-6.37            3-6.37 
3-6.38            3-6.38 
3-6.39            3-6.39 
3-6.40            3-6.40 
3-6.41            3-6.41 
3-6.42            3-6.42 
3-6.43            3-6.43 
3-6.44            3-6.44 
3-6.45            3-6.45 
3-6.46            3-6.46 
3-6.47            3-6.47 
3-6.48            3-6.48 
3-6.49            3-6.49 
3-6.50            3-6.50 
3-6.51            3-6.51 
3-6.52            3-6.52 
3-6.53            3-6.53 
3-6.54            3-6.54 
3-6.55            3-6.55 
3-6.56            3-6.56 
3-6.57            3-6.57 
3-6.58            3-6.58 
3-6.59            3-6.59 
3-6.60            3-6.60 
3-6.61            3-6.61 
3-7.01            3-7.01 
3-7.02            3-7.02 
3-8.01            3-8.01 
3-8.03            3-8.02,
                  3-8.03 
3-8.04            3-8.04 
3-8.05            3-8.05 
3-8.06            3-8.06 
3-8.07            3-8.07 
3-8.08            3-8.08 
3-8.09            3-8.09 
3-8.10            3-8.10 
3-8.11            3-8.11 
3-9.01            3-9.01 
3-9.02            3-9.02 
3-9.03            3-9.03 
3-9.04            3-9.04 
4-1.01            4-1.01
4-1.02            4-1.02
4-2.02            4-2.02
4-3.01            4-3.01
4-3.02            4-3.02
4-3.03            4-3.03
4-3.04            4-3.04
4-3.05            4-3.05
4-3.06            4-3.06
4-3.07            4-3.07
4-3.08            4-3.08
4-3.09            4-3.09
4-3.10            4-3.10
4-3.11            4-3.11
4-3.12            4-3.12
4-3.13            4-3.13
4-3.14            4-3.14
4-3.15            4-3.15
4-3.16            4-3.16
4-4.02            4-4.02
4-4.03            4-4.03
4-4.04            4-4.04
4-4.05            4-4.05
4-4.06            4-4.06
4-5.01            4-5.01
4-5.02            4-5.02
4-5.03            4-5.03
4-5.04            4-5.04
4-5.06            4-5.11
4-5.08            4-5.08
4-6.01            4-6.01
4-6.02            4-6.02
4-6.03            4-6.03
4-6.04            4-6.04
4-6.05            4-6.05
4-7.01            4-7.01
4-7.02            4-7.02
4-7.03            4-7.03
4-7.04            4-7.04
4-7.05            4-7.05
4-7.06            4-7.06
4-7.07            4-7.07
4-7.08            4-7.08
4-7.09            4-7.09
4-7.10            4-7.10
4-8.01            4-8.01
4-8.02            4-8.02
4-8.03            4-8.03
4-8.04            4-8.04
4-8.05            4-8.05
4-8.06            4-8.06
4-8.07            4-8.07
4-8.08            4-8.08
4-8.09            4-8.09
4-8.11            4-8.11
4-8.12            4-8.12
4-8.13            4-8.13
4-9.01            4-9.01
4-9.02            4-9.02
4-10.01           4-10.01
4-10.02           4-10.02
4-10.03           4-10.03
4-11.01           4-11.01
4-12.01           4-12.01
5-1.01            5-1.01
5-1.02            5-1.02
5-1.03            5-1.03
5-1.04            5-1.04
5-1.05            5-1.05
5-1.06            5-1.06
5-1.07            5-1.07
5-1.08            5-1.08
5-1.09            5-1.09
5-1.10            5-1.10
5-1.11            5-1.11
5-1.12            5-1.12
5-1.13            5-1.13
5-1.14            5-1.14
5-1.15            5-1.15
5-1.16            5-1.16
5-1.17            5-1.17
5-1.18            5-1.18
5-1.19            5-1.19
5-1.20            5-1.20
5-1.21            5-1.21
5-1.22            5-1.22
5-1.23            5-1.23
5-1.24            5-1.24
5-1.25            5-1.25
5-1.26            5-1.26
5-1.28            5-1.28
5-1.29            5-1.29
5-2.01            5-2.01
5-2.02            5-2.02
5-2.03            5-2.03
5-2.04            5-2.04
5-3.01            5-3.01
5-3.02            5-3.02
5-3.04            5-3.04
5-3.06            5-3.06
5-3.07            5-3.07
5-3.08            5-3.08
5-3.10            5-3.10
5-3.11            5-3.11
5-3.12            5-3.12
5-4.01            5-4.01
5-4.02            5-4.02
5-4.03            5-4.03 (Repealed)
5-4.15            5-4.15
5-4.16            5-4.16
5-4.17            5-4.17
5-4.18            5-4.18
5-4.19            5-4.19
5-5.05            5-5.05
5-5.06            5-5.06
5-5.07            5-5.07
5-5.08            5-5.08
5-5.09            5-5.09
5-5.10            5-5.10
5-5.12            5-5.12
5-5.13            5-5.13
5-5.14            5-5.14
5-5.15            5-5.15
5-5.16            5-5.16
5-6.01            5-6.01
5-6.02            5-6.02
5-6.03            5-6.03
5-6.04            5-6.04
5-6.05            5-6.05
5-6.06            5-6.06
5-6.07            5-6.07
5-6.08            5-6.08
5-7.01            5-7.01
5-7.02            5-7.02
5-7.03            5-7.03
5-7.04            5-7.04
5-7.05            5-7.05
5-7.06            5-7.06
5-7.07            5-7.07
5-7.08            5-7.08
5-7.09            5-7.09
5-7.10            5-7.10
6-1.01            6-1.01
6-1.02            6-1.02
6-1.03            6-1.03
6-1.04            6-1.04
6-1.05            6-1.05
6-1.06            6-1.06
6-1.07            6-1.07
6-1.08            6-1.08
6-1.09            6-1.09
6-1.10            6-1.10
6-1.11            6-1.11
6-1.12            6-1.12
6-1.13            6-1.13
6-1.14            6-1.14
6-1.15            6-1.15
6-1.16            6-1.16
6-1.17            6-1.17
6-1.17.1          6-1.17.1
6-1.19            6-1.19
6-1.20            6-1.20
6-1.21            6-1.21
6-1.22            6-1.22
6-1.26            6-1.26
6-1.28            6-1.28
6-1.30            6-1.30
6-1.31            6-1.31
6-1.32            6-1.32
6-1.37            6-1.37
6-1.39            6-1.39
6-1.40            6-1.40
6-1.45            6-1.45
6-1.47            6-1.47
6-1.48            6-1.48
6-1.49            6-1.49
6-1.51            6-1.51
6-1.52            6-1.52
6-1.53            6-1.53
6-1.54            6-1.54
6-1.55            6-1.55
6-1.56            6-1.56
6-1.57            6-1.57
6-1.60            6-1.60
6-1.61            6-1.61
6-1.62            6-1.62
6-1.63            6-1.63
6-1.66            6-1.66
6-1.67            6-1.67
6-1.68            6-1.68
6-1.69            6-1.69
6-1.72            6-1.72
6-1.76            6-1.76
6-1.86            6-1.86
6-1.88            6-1.88
6-1.89            6-1.89
6-1.90            6-1.90
6-1.91            6-1.91
6-1.92            6-1.92
6-1.93            6-1.93
6-1.94            6-1.94
6-2.01            6-2.01
6-2.02            6-2.02
6-2.03            6-2.03
6-2.04            6-2.04
6-2.05            6-2.05
6-2.06            6-2.06
6-2.07            6-2.07
6-2.08            6-2.08
7-1.01            7-1.01
7-1.02            7-1.02
7-2.01            7-2.01
7-2.02            7-2.02
7-2.03            7-2.03
7-2.04            7-2.04
7-2.05            7-2.05
7-2.06            7-2.06
7-2.07            7-2.07
7-2.08            7-2.08
7-2.09            7-2.09
7-2.10            7-2.10
7-2.11            7-2.11
7-2.12            7-2.12
7-2.13            7-2.13
7-2.14            7-2.14
7-2.15            7-2.15
7-2.16            7-2.16
7-2.17            7-2.17
8-1.01            8-1.01
8-1.02            8-1.02
8-1.04            8-1.04
8-1.05            8-1.05
8-1.06            8-1.06
8-1.07            8.1.07
8-2.01            8-2.01
8-2.02            8-2.02
8-2.03            8-2.03
8-2.04            8-2.04
8-2.05            8-2.05
8-2.06            8-2.06
8-2.07            8-2.07
8-2.08            8-2.08
8-2.09            8-2.09
8-2.10            8-2.10
8-2.11.1          8-2.11.1
8-2.11.2          8-2.11.2
8-2.12            8-2.12
8-2.13            8-2.13
8-2.14            8-2.14
8-2.15            8-2.15
8-2.16            8-2.16
8-3.01            8-3.01
8-3.02            8-3.02
8-3.03            8-3.03
8-4.01            8-4.01
8-4.02            8-4.02
8-4.03            8-4.03
8-4.04            8-4.04
8-4.05            8-4.05
8-4.06            8-4.06
8-4.07            8-4.07
8-4.08            8-4.08
8-4.09            8-4.09
8-4.10            8-4.10
8-4.11            8-4.11
8-4.12            8-4.12
8-4.13            8-4.13
8-4.14            8-4.14
8-4.15            8-4.15
8-5.01            8-5.01
8-5.02            8-5.02
8-5.03            8-5.03
8-5.04            8-5.04
8-5.05            8-5.05
8-5.06            8-5.06
8-5.07            8-5.07
8-5.08            8-5.08
8-5.09            8-5.09
8-5.10            8-5.10
8-5.11            8-5.11
9-5.101           9-5.101 
9-5.102           9-5.102 
9-5.103           9-5.103 
9-5.104           9-5.104 
9-6.01            9-6.01
9-6.02            9-6.02
9-6.03            9-6.03
9-6.04            9-6.04
9-6.05            9-6.05
9-6.06            9-6.06
9-6.07            9-6.07
9-9.01            9-9.01
9-9.02            9-9.02
9-9.03            9-9.03
9-9.04            9-9.04
9-9.05            9-9.05
9-9.06            9-9.06
9-9.07            9-9.07
9-9.08            9-9.08
10-1.01           10-1.01
10-1.02           10-1.02
10-2.101          10-2.101
10-2.102          10-2.102
10-2.103          10-2.103
10-2.104          10-2.104
10-2.105          10-2.105
10-2.201          10-2.201
10-2.202.1        10-2.202.1
10-2.202.2        10-2.202.2
10-2.202.3        10-2.202.3
10-2.202.4        10-2.202.4
10-2.202.5        10-2.202.5
10-2.202.6        10-2.202.6
10-2.301          10-2.301
10-2.302          10-2.302
10-2.303          10-2.303
10-2.304          10-2.304
10-2.401.1        10-2.401.1
10-2.401.2        10-2.401.2
10-2.402.1        10-2.402.1
10-2.402.2        10-2.402.2
10-2.402.3        10-2.402.3
10-2.402.4        10-2.402.4
10-2.402.5        10-2.402.5
10-2.402.6.1      10-2.402.6.1
10-2.402.6.2      10-2.402.6.2
10-2.402.6.3      10-2.402.6.3
10-2.402.6.4      10-2.402.6.4
10-2.402.7.1      10-2.402.7.1
10-2.402.7.2      10-2.402.7.2
10-2.402.7.3      10-2.402.7.3
10-2.402.7.4      10-2.402.7.4
10-2.402.8.1      10-2.402.8.1
10-2.402.8.2      10-2.402.8.2
10-2.402.9        10-2.402.9
10-2.403.1        10-2.403.1
10-2.403.2        10-2.403.2
10-2.403.3        10-2.403.3
10-2.403.4        10-2.403.4
10-2.403.5.1      10-2.403.5.1
10-2.403.5.2      10-2.403.5.2
10-2.403.5.3      10-2.403.5.3
10-2.403.5.4      10-2.403.5.4
10-2.403.5.5      10-2.403.5.5
10-2.403.5.6      10-2.403.5.6
10-2.403.5.7      10-2.403.5.7
10-2.403.5.8      10-2.403.5.8
10-2.501.1        10-2.501.1
10-2.501.2        10-2.501.2
10-2.501.3        10-2.501.3
10-2.501.4        10-2.501.4
10-2.501.5        10-2.501.5
10-2.501.6        10-2.501.6
10-2.501.7        10-2.501.7
10-2.501.8        10-2.501.8
10-2.501.9.1      10-2.501.9.1
10-2.501.9.2      10-2.501.9.2
10-2.501.10.1     10-2.501.10.1
10-2.501.10.2     10-2.501.10.2
10-2.501.11       10.2.501.11
10-2.502.1        10-2.502.1
10-2.502.2        10-2.502.2
10-2.502.3        10-2.502.3
10-2.502.4        10-2.502.4
10-2.502.5        10-2.502.5
10-2.502.6        10-2.502.6
10-2.502.7        10-2.502.7
10-2.502.8        10-2.502.8
10-2.502.9        10-2.502.9
10-2.502.10       10-2.502.10
10-2.601          10-2.601
10-2.602.1        10-2.602.1
10-2.602.2        10-2.602.2
10-2.602.3        10-2.602.3
10-2.602.4        10-2.602.4
10-2.602.5        10-2.602.5
10-2.602.6        10-2.602.6
10-2.602.7        10-2.602.7
10-2.603.1        10-2.603.1
10-2.603.2        10-2.603.2
10-2.604.1        10-2.604.1
10-2.604.2        10-2.604.2
10-2.604.3        10-2.604.3
10-2.701          10-2.701
10-2.702.1        10-2.702.1
10-2.702.2        10-2.702.2
10-2.702.3        10-2.702.3
10-2.702.4        10-2.702.4
10-2.702.5        10-2.702.5
10-2.702.6        10-2.702.6
10-2.702.7        10-2.702.7
10-2.702.8        10-2.702.8
10-2.703.1        10-2.703.1
10-2.703.2        10.2.703.2
10-2.704.1        10-2.704.1
10-2.704.2        10-2.704.2
10-2.705          10-2.705
10-2.706.1        10-2.706.1
10-2.706.2        10-2.706.2
10-2.706.3        10-2.706.3
10-2.706.4        10-2.706.4
10-2.706.5        10-2.706.5
10-2.706.6        10-2.706.6
10-2.706.7.1      10-2.706.7.1
10-2.706.7.2      10-2.706.7.2
10-2.706.7.3      10-2.706.7.3
10-2.707          10-2.707
10-2.708.1        10-2.708.1
10-2.708.2        10-2.708.2
10-2.708.3        10-2.708.3
10-2.708.4        10-2.708.4
10-2.708.5        10-2.708.5
10-2.708.6        10-2.708.6
10-2.708.7.1      10-2.708.7.1
10-2.708.7.2      10-2.708.7.2
10-2.708.7.3      10-2.708.7.3
10-2.709          10-2.709
10-2.710.1        10-2.710.1
10-2.710.2        10-2.710.2
10-2.710.3        10-2.710.3
10-2.711.1        10-2.711.1
10-2.711.2        10-2.711.2
10-2.711.3        10-2.711.3
10-2.712.1        10-2.712.1
10-2.712.2        10-2.712.2
10-2.712.3        10-2.712.3
10-2.801          10-2.801
10-2.802.1        10-2.802.1
10-2.802.2        10-2.802.2
10-2.803          10-2.803
10-2.804          10-2.804
10-2.805          10-2.805
10-2.806          10-2.806
10-2.0901         10-2.901
10-2.0902         10-2.902
10-2.0903         10-2.903
10-2.0904         10-2.904
10-2.0905         10-2.905
10-2.1001         10-2.1001
10-2.1002         10-2.1002
10-2.1003         10-2.1003
10-2.1004         10-2.1004
10-2.1101         10-2.1101
10-2.1102         10-2.1102
10-2.1103         10-2.1103
10-2.1104         10-2.1104
10-3.101          10-3.101
10-3.102          10-3.102
10-3.201          10-3.201
10-3.301          10-3.301
10-3.302          10-3.302
10-3.303          10-3.303
10-3.304          10-3.304
10-3.305          10-3.305
10-3.401          10-3.401
10-3.402          10-3.402
10-3.403          10-3.403
10-3.404          10-3.404
10-3.405          10-3.405
10-3.406          10-3.406
10-3.407          10-3.407
10-3.408          10-3.408
10-3.409          10-3.409
10-3.410          10-3.410
10-3.411          10-3.411
10-3.412          10-3.412
10-3.413          10-3.413
10-3.414          10-3.414
10-3.415          10-3.415
10-3.4.0101       10-3.4.0101
10-3.4.0102       10-3.4.0102
10-3.4.0103       10-3.4.0103
10-3.4.0104       10-3.4.0104
10-3.4.0105       10-3.4.0105
10-3.4.0106       10-3.4.0106
10-3.4.0107       10-3.4.0107
10-3.4.0108       10-3.4.0108
10-3.4.0109       10-3.4.0109
10-3.4.0110       10-3.4.0110
10-3.4.0111       10-3.4.0111
10-3.4.0112       10-3.4.0112
10-3.4.0113       10-3.4.0113
10-3.4.0114       10-3.4.0114
10-3.4.0115       10-3.4.0115
10-3.4.0116       10-3.4.0116
10-3.4.0117       10-3.4.0117
10-3-4.101        10-3-4.101
10-3-4.102        10-3-4.102
10-3-4.103        10-3-4.103
10-3-4.104        10-3-4.104
10-3-4.106        10-3-4.106
10-3.501          10-3.501
10-3.502          10-3.502
10-3.503          10-3.503
10-3.504          10-3.504
10-3.505          10-3.505
10-3.506          10-3.506
10-3.507          10-3.507
10-3.508          10-3.508
10-3.509          10-3.509
10-3.510          10-3.510
10-3.601          10-3.601
10-3.602          10-3.602 
10-3.605          10-3.605 
10-3-6.501        10-3-6.501 
10-3-6.502        10-3-6.502 
10-3-6.503        10-3-6.503 
10-3-6.504        10.3-6.504
10-3.751          10-3.751
10-3.752          10-3.752
10-3.753          10-3.753
10-3.754          10-3.754
10-3.755          10-3.755
10-3.756          10-3.756
10-3.801          10-3.801
10-3.802          10-3.802
10-3.803          10-3.803
10-3.804          10-3.804
10-3.805          10-3.805
10-3.901          10-3.901
10-3.902          10-3.902
10-3.903          10-3.903
10-3.904          10-3.904
10-3.905          10-3.905
10-3.906          10-3.906
10-3-9.101        10-3-9.101
10-3-9.102        10-3-9.102
10-3-9.103        10-3-9.103
10-3-9.104        10-3-9.104
10-3-9.105        10-3-9.105
10-3-9.106        10-3-9.106
10-3-9.107        10-3-9.107
10-3-9.108        10-3-9.108
10-3-9.109        10-3-9.109
10-3-9.110        10-3-9.110
10-3-9.201        10-3-9.201
10-3-9.202        10-3-9.202
10-3-9.203        10-3-9.203
10-3-9.204        10-3-9.204
10-3-9.205        10-3-9.205
10-3-9.206        10-3-9.206
10-3-9.207        10-3-9.207
10-3-9.208        10-3-9.208
10-3-9.209        10-3-9.209
10-3-9.301        10-3-9.301
10-3-9.302        10-3-9.302
10-3-9.303        10-3-9.303
10-3-9.304        10-3-9.304
10-3-9.305        10-3-9.305
10-3-9.306        10-3-9.306
10-3-9.307        10-3-9.307
10-3-9.309        10-3-9.308,
                  10-3-9.309
10-3-9.310        10-3-9.310
10-3-9.401        10-3-9.401
10-3-9.402        10-3-9.402
10-3-9.403        10-3-9.403
10-3-9.404        10-3-9.404
10-3.1001         10-3.1001
10-3.1002         10-3.1002
10-3.1003         10-3.1003
10-3.1004         10-3.1004
10-3.10.501       10-3.10.501
10-3.10.502       10-3.10.502
10-3.10.503       10-3.10.503
10-3.10.504       10-3.10.504
10-3.10.505       10-3.10.505
10-3.10.506       10-3.10.506
10-3.10.507       10-3.10.507
10-3.1101         10-3.1101  
10-3.1102         10-3.1102  
10-3.1103         10-3.1103  
10-3.11.501       10-3.11.501
10-3.11.502       10-3.11.502
10-3.11.503       10-3.11.503
10-3.11.504       10-3.11.504
10-3.11.505       10-3.11.505
10-3.11.506       10-3.11.506,
                  10-3.11.507
10-3.11.508       10-3.11.508
10-3.11.509       10-3.11.509
10-3.11.510       10-3.11.510
10-3.11.511       10-3.11.511
10-3.11.512       10-3.11.512
10-3.11.513       10-3.11.513
10-3.11.514       10-3.11.514
10-3.11.515       10-3.11.515
10-3.11.516       10-3.11.516
10-3.11.517       10-3.11.517
10-3.11.518       10-3.11.518
10-3.11.519       10-3.11.519
10-3.11.520       10-3.11.520
10-3.11.521       10-3.11.521
10-3.11.522       10-3.11.522
10-3.1201         10-3.1201
10-3.1202         10-3.1202
10-3.1203         10-3.1203
10-3.1204         10-3.1204
10-3.1205         10-3.1205
10-3.1206         10-3.1206
10-3.1208         10-3.1208
10-3.1301         10-3.1301
10-3.1302         10-3.1302
10-3.1303         10-3.1303
10-3.1304         10-3.1304
10-3.1305         10-3.1305
10-3.1306         10-3.1306
10-3.1307         10-3.1307
10-3.1308         10-3.1308
10-3.1309         10-3.1309
10-3.1310         10-3.1310
10-3.1311         10-3.1311
10-3.1401         10-3.1401
10-3.1402         10-3.1402
10-3.1403         10-3.1403
10-3.1404         10-3.1404
10-3.1405         10-3.1405
10-3.1406         10-3.1406
10-3.1407         10-3.1407
10-3.1408         10-3.1408
10-3.1409         10-3.1409
10-3.1410         10-3.1410
10-3.1411         10-3.1411
10-3.1501         10-3.1501
10-3.1502         10-3.1502
10-3.1503         10-3.1503
10-3.1504         10-3.1504
10-3.1505         10-3.1505
10-3.1506         10-3.1506
10-3.1507         10-3.1507
10-3.1508         10-3.1508
10-3.1509         10-3.1509
10-3.1510         10-3.1510
10-3.1511         10-3.1511
10-3.1512         10-3.1512
10-3.1513         10-3.1513
10-3.1514         10-3.1514
10-3.1515         10-3.1515
10-3.1601         10-3.1601
10-3.1602         10-3.1602
10-3.1603         10-3.1603
10-4.101          10-4.101
10-4.102          10-4.102
10-4.201          10-4.201
10-4.202          10-4.202
10-4.301          10-4.301
10-4.302          10-4.302
10-4.303          10-4.303
10-4.304          10-4.304
10-4.305          10-4.305
10-4.306          10-4.306
10-4.307          10-4.307
10-4.308          10-4.308
10-5.101          10-5.101
10-5.102          10-5.102
10-5.201          10-5.201
10-5.202          10-5.202
10-5.203          10-5.203
10-5.204          10-5.204
10-5.301          10-5.301
10-5.302          10-5.302
10-5.401          10-5.401
10-5.402          10-5.402
10-5.501          10-5.501
10-5.502          10-5.502
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
26A       10-17-07    T.S.O., Table I
59        12-21-08    T.S.O., Table I
66        2-1-09      T.S.O., Table I
67        2-1-09      T.S.O., Table I
151       12-2-12     T.S.O., Table I
159       7-21-13     T.S.O., Table I
183       8-2-15      T.S.O., Table I
187       11-15-15    T.S.O., Table I
203       10-8-17     T.S.O., Table I
212       3-24-19     T.S.O., Table I
220       8-2-20      T.S.O., Table I
235       5-16-21     T.S.O., Table I
238       7-12-21     T.S.O., Table I
6 N.S.    3-20-22     T.S.O., Table I
7 N.S.    4-3-22      T.S.O., Table I
17 N.S.   - -         5-4.03 (Repealed)
30 N.S.   4-19-26     T.S.O., Table I
35 N.S.   9-20-26     T.S.O., Table I
40 N.S.   3-5-28      T.S.O., Table I
42 N.S.   - -         4-1.01
50 N.S.   3-6-30      T.S.O., Table I
54 N.S.   9-2-30      T.S.O., Table I
57 N.S.   5-18-31     T.S.O., Table I
67 N.S.   3-26-34     T.S.O., Table I
71 N.S.   - -         4-2.02
79 N.S.   - -         8-3.01 -
                      8-3.03
83 N.S.   - -         8-1.01 -
                      8.1.07
86 N.S.   6-20-38     T.S.O., Table I
94 N.S.   5-5-41      T.S.O., Table I
95 N.S.   7-30-41     T.S.O., Table I
96 N.S.   7-30-41     T.S.O., Table I
97 N.S.   9-22-41     T.S.O., Table I
106 N.S.  - -         4-4.02 -
                      4-4.04
111 N.S.  5-6-46      T.S.O., Table I
112 N.S.  5-20-46     T.S.O., Table I
113 N.S.  5-20-46     T.S.O., Table I
114 N.S.  7-15-46     T.S.O., Table I
116 N.S.  9-3-46      T.S.O., Table I
118 N.S.  11-18-46    T.S.O., Table I
119 N.S.  12-2-46     T.S.O., Table I
124 N.S.  1-20-47     T.S.O., Table I
125 N.S.  2-17-47     T.S.O., Table I
126 N.S.  - -         10-1.01,
                      10-1.02
127 N.S.  6-2-47      T.S.O., Table I
128 N.S.  - -         10-1.02
130 N.S.  8-4-47      T.S.O., Table I
133 N.S.  12-1-47     T.S.O., Table I
134 N.S.  12-15-47    T.S.O., Table I
138 N.S.  - -         4-3.01 -
                      4-3.16
145 N.S.  - -         4-5.11
146 N.S.  11-1-48     T.S.O., Table I
148 N.S.  - -         1-2.01 -
                      1-2.11
151 N.S.  2-7-49      T.S.O., Table I
154 N.S.  - -         3-1.01
158 N.S.  9-6-49      T.S.O., Table I
159 N.S.  - -         T.S.O., Table I
161 N.S.  1-3-50      T.S.O., Table I
162 N.S.  1-3-50      T.S.O., Table I
165 N.S.  6-19-50     T.S.O., Table I
169 N.S.  11-5-50     T.S.O., Table I
173 N.S.  1-2-51      T.S.O., Table I
174 N.S.  - -         2-2.101 -
                      2-2.104
178 N.S.  2-26-51     T.S.O., Table I
180 N.S.  - -         9-6.05
182 N.S.  - -         4-4.02
183 N.S.  5-21-51     T.S.O., Table I
184 N.S.  5-21-51     T.S.O., Table I
185 N.S.  5-21-51     T.S.O., Table I
191 N.S.  8-20-51     T.S.O., Table I
192 N.S.  8-20-51     T.S.O., Table I
195 N.S.  - -         5-2.01 -
                      5-2.04
199 N.S.  - -         4-5.07
200 N.S.  3-3-52      T.S.O., Table I
202 N.S.  3-17-52     T.S.O., Table I
205 N.S.  6-30-52     T.S.O., Table I
209 N.S.  11-17-52    T.S.O., Table I
213 N.S.  1-12-53     T.S.O., Table I
214 N.S.  1-12-53     T.S.O., Table I
215 N.S.  1-12-53     T.S.O., Table I
216 N.S.  1-12-53     T.S.O., Table I
217 N.S.  1-12-53     T.S.O., Table I
218 N.S.  - -         4-1.01
221 N.S.  7-20-53     T.S.O., Table I
                      6-1.01 -
228 N.S.  - -         6-1.66,
                      6-1.68 -
                      6-1.94
                      10-3.101,
                      10-3.102,
                      10-3.201,
                      10-3.301 -
                      10-3.305,
                      10-3.401 -
                      10-3.415,
                      10-3.801 -
                      10-3.805,
                      10-3.901 -
                      10-3.906,
231 N.S.  - -         10-3.1001 -
                      10-3.1004,
                      10-3.1102,
                      10-3.1103,
                      10-3.1301 -
                      10-3.1311,
                      10-3.1401 -
                      10-3.1411,
                      10-3.1501 -
                      10-3.1510,
                      10-3.1601 -
                      10-3.1603
233 N.S.  - -         6-1.19
243 N.S.  - -         5-4.01,
                      5-4.02
245 N.S.  8-29-55     T.S.O., Table I
253 N.S.  3-26-56     T.S.O., Table I
254 N.S.  - -         5-1.01 -
                      5-1.26
255 N.S.  7-2-56      T.S.O., Table I
257 N.S.  8-31-56     T.S.O., Table I
259 N.S.  10-15-56    T.S.O., Table I
260 N.S.  10-16-56    T.S.O., Table I
262 N.S.  - -         5-5.05 -
                      5-5.14
263 N.S.  - -         7-1.01,
                      7-1.02
264 N.S.  1-28-57     T.S.O., Table I
274 N.S.  7-15-57     T.S.O., Table I
277 N.S.  8-26-57     T.S.O., Table I
283 N.S.  5-5-58      T.S.O., Table I
284 N.S.  5-5-58      T.S.O., Table I
282 N.S.  - -         10-3.1510
285 N.S.  - -         9-5.101 -
                      9-5.104
291 N.S.  - -         5-5.05 -
                      5-5.07
294 N.S.  8-25-58     T.S.O., Table I
298 N.S.  10-20-58    T.S.O., Table I
                      6-1.06,
                      6-1.07,
302 N.S.  - -         6-1.11,
                      6-1.14,
                      6-1.18,
                      6-1.19
303 N.S.  5-4-59      T.S.O., Table I
315 N.S.  8-24-59     T.S.O., Table I
316 N.S.  8-24-59     T.S.O., Table I
318 N.S.  - -         2-2.201 -
                      2-2.204
319 N.S.  2-1-60      T.S.O., Table I
321 N.S.  2-15-60     T.S.O., Table I
322 N.S.  - -         2-1.01, 2-1.02, 2-1.04 - 2-1.17 (Repealed)
323 N.S.  - -         4-5.07
325 N.S.  8-22-60     T.S.O., Table I
                      5-3.01,
                      5-3.02,
326 N.S.  - -         5-3.04,
                      5-3.06 -
                      5-3.08, 5 3.10 -
                      5-3.12
330 N.S.  11-21-60    T.S.O., Table I
                      10-3.1307,
332 N.S.  - -         10-3.302,
                      10-3.802
333 N.S.  2-20-61     T.S.O., Table I
4 C.S.    5-1-61      T.S.O., Table I
6 C.S.    6-21-61     1-5.01
7 C.S.    5-31-61     T.S.O., Table I
8 C.S.    8-7-61      T.S.O., Table I
                      2-2.301 -
10 C.S.   9-20-61     2-2.319,
                      2-2.321 -
                      2-2.323
                      5-1.04,
19 C.S.   12-20-61    5-1.19,
                      5-1.22
21 C.S.   1-17-62     2-2.401,
                      2-2.402
25 C.S.   2-12-62     T.S.O., Table I
                      10-3.1201 -
                      10-3.1208,
26 C.S.   4-16-62     10-3.201,
                      10-3.301,
                      10-3.405,
                      10-3.414
29 C.S.   5-21-62     T.S.O., Table I
30 C.S.   7-18-62     3-5.01 -
                      3-5.10
32 C.S.   7-5-62      T.S.O., Table I
33 C.S.   8-6-62      T.S.O., Table I
35 C.S.   9-4-62      9-9.01 -
                      9-9.06
                      3-4.01,
                      3-4.02,
37 C.S.   12-4-62     3-5.11,
                      7-2.01 -
                      7-2.17
39 C.S.   10-26-62    T.S.O., Table I
40 C.S.   12-19-62    9-9.01 -
                      9-9.07
                      5-4.03 (Repealed),
42 C.S.   3-6-63      5-4.15 -
                      5-4.19
44 C.S.   4-3-63      3-6.01 -
                      3-6.61
45 C.S.   3-11-63     T.S.O., Table I
47 C.S.   5-15-63     9-9.08
48 C.S.   5-20-63     T.S.O., Table I
52 C.S.   8-19-63     T.S.O., Table I
56 C.S.   12-16-63    T.S.O., Table I
58 C.S.   2-5-64      2-2.309,
                      2-2.315
63 C.S.   7-20-64     T.S.O., Table I
64 C.S.   8-24-64     T.S.O., Table I
                      3-5.11,
69 C.S.   1-20-65     3-7.01,
                      10-3.1311,
                      10-3.1401
72 C.S.   2-1-65      T.S.O., Table I
73 C.S.   2-1-65      T.S.O., Table I
                      10-3.1509 ,
77 C.S.   6-2-65      10-3.1511 -
                      10-3.1515
78 C.S.   7-7-65      4-6.01 -
                      4-6.05
79 C.S.   7-21-65     8-4.01 -
                      8-4.15
80 C.S.   8-5-65      10-3.201,
                      10-3.405
81 C.S.   8-5-65      6-1.22
                      5-1.07,
82 C.S.   8-18-65     5-1.15,
                      5-1.17
83 C.S.   8-23-65     T.S.O., Table I
                      10-4.101,
                      10-4.102,
84 C.S.   11-3-65     10-4.201,
                      10-4.202,
                      10-4.301 -
                      10-4.308
                      10-3.415,
88 C.S.   1-5-66      10-3.802,
                      10-3.902
90 C.S.   2-7-66      T.S.O., Table I
92 C.S.   6-20-66     T.S.O., Table I
                      5-5.06,
94 C.S.   7-5-66      6-1.07,
                      10-3.1303,
                      10-3.1404, 10 3.1504
96 C.S.   8-31-66     3-5.12,
                      10-1.02
98 C.S.   8-22-66     T.S.O., Table I
99 C.S.   10-6-66     10-3.405
102 C.S.  11-28-66    T.S.O., Table I
                      10-3.1402,
103 C.S.  3-1-67      10-3.1409,
                      10-3.1410, 10 3.1509
104 C.S.  3-8-67      2-2.312
                      10-3.301,
105 C.S.  4-5-67      10-3.10.501 -
                      10-3.10.507
                      10-5.101,
                      10-5.102,
                      10-5.201 -
                      10-5.204,
106 C.S.  4-5-67      10-5.301,
                      10-5.302,
                      10-5.401,
                      10-5.402,
                      10-5.501,
                      10-5.502
107 C.S.  3-20-67     T.S.O., Table I
110 C.S.  6-5-67      T.S.O., Table I
116 C.S.  12-4-67     8-5.01 -
                      8-5.11
117 C.S.  1-17-68     10-3.406,
                      10-3.902
119 C.S.  1-15-68     T.S.O., Table I
123 C.S.  4-17-68     3-8.01 -
                      3-8.11
124 C.S.  5-27-68     T.S.O., Table I
124 C.S.  6-26-68     6-1.04
                      5-1.11,
125 C.S.  7-3-68      5-1.13,
                      5-1.28
126 C.S.  7-1-68      2-1.18, 2-1.19 (Repealed)
128 C.S.  9-4-68      3-8.05
132 C.S.  10-16-68    3-5.04,
                      3-5.09
133 C.S.  2-3-69      T.S.O., Table I
136 C.S.  5-7-69      4-5.07
137 C.S.  5-21-69     5-1.19
138 C.S.  4-14-69     T.S.O., Table I
139 C.S.  9-3-69      3-4.01
140 C.S.  10-15-69    4-2.02
141 C.S.  12-3-69     6-1.40
143 C.S.  2-4-70      9-9.02
144 C.S.  3-18-70     4-7.01 -
                      4-7.10
146 C.S.  5-6-70      8-5.05
148 C.S.  5-18-70     T.S.O., Table I
                      9-6.01 -
149 C.S.  6-17-70     9-6.07,
                      10-3.405
151 C.S.  9-2-70      2-1.02 (Repealed)
153 C.S.  3-15-71     T.S.O., Table I
155 C.S.  11-18-70    4-2.02
156 C.S.  10-19-70    4-1.01
157 C.S.  1-20-71     2-2.501 -
                      2-2.503
159 C.S.  2-16-71     T.S.O., Table I
160 C.S.  2-16-71     T.S.O., Table I
161 C.S.  2-16-71     T.S.O., Table I
165 C.S.  6-16-71     2-1.07 (Repealed)
166 C.S.  7-21-71     3-5.13
167 C.S.  9-20-71     T.S.O., Table I
168 C.S.  11-1-71     T.S.O., Table I
171 C.S.  1-19-72     10-3.415
                      10-3.10.502,
                      10-3.1002,
173 C.S.  1-19-72     10-3.406,
                      10-3.802,
                      10-3.902
176 C.S.  3-8-72      2-1.18 (Repealed)
178 C.S.  3-6-72      T.S.O., Table I
                      2-3.03,
182 C.S.  3-6-72      3-2.01 -
                      3-2.08
                      10-3.301,
183 C.S.  5-31-72     10-3.11.501 -
                      10-3.11.522
186 C.S.  8-2-72      4-8.01 -
                      4-8.13
188 C.S.  9-6-72      2-2.305,
                      2-2.312
190 C.S.  8-21-72     T.S.O., Table I
                      4-5.11,
192 C.S.  10-18-72    5-1.13 ,
                      5-1.15,
                      5-1.17
193 C.S.  10-2-72     T.S.O., Table I
195 C.S.  12-18-72    T.S.O., Table I
196 C.S.  1-17-73     8-4.03
199 C.S.  3-7-73      5-3.06,
                      5-3.12
201 C.S.  5-16-73     10-4.202
202 C.S.  7-4-73      4-9.01
204 C.S.  9-5-73      4-5.07
205 C.S.  8-20-73     T.S.O., Table I
206 C.S.  10-31-73    8-2.01 -
                      8-2.16
216 C.S.  1-21-74     T.S.O., Table I
218 C.S.  3-4-74      T.S.O., Table I
226 C.S.  8-14-74     5-5.09
227 C.S.  8-14-74     8-2.02
228 C.S.  8-26-74     T.S.O., Table I
231 C.S.  12-23-74    T.S.O., Table I
232 C.S.  12-23-74    T.S.O., Table I
235 C.S.  8-6-75      8-2.02
236 C.S.  8-20-75     3-5.14
237 C.S.  10-6-75     T.S.O., Table I
238 C.S.  2-18-76     3-1.01
240 C.S.  4-19-76     T.S.O., Table I
242 C.S.  4-5-76      T.S.O., Table I
243 C.S.  4-19-76     T.S.O., Table I
247 C.S.  6-21-76     T.S.O., Table I
248 C.S.  6-21-76     T.S.O., Table I
251 C.S.  8-2-76      T.S.O., Table I
                      10-2.901 -
                      10-2.905,
                      10-2.1001 -
                      10-2.1004,
                      10-2.101 -
                      10-2.103,
                      10-2.1101 -
                      10-2.1104,
                      10-2.201 - 10-2.202.6, 10-2.301 - 10-2.304,
                      10-2.401.1 - 10-2.402.8.2,
                      10-2.501.2,
                      10-2.501.4,
                      10-2.501.5,
                      10-2.501.10.1,
                      10-2.501.10.2,
                      10-2.502.1 - 10-2.502.10, 10-2.601,
                      10-2.602.1 - 10-2.602.7,
252 C.S.  8-3-81      10-2.603.1,
                      10-2.603.2,
                      10-2.604.1,
                      10-2.604.2,
                      10-2.604.3, 10-2.605, 10-2.701,
                      10-2.702.1 - 10-2.702.8,
                      10-2.703.1,
                      10-2.704.1,
                      10-2.704.2, 10-2.705,
                      10-2.706.1 - 10-2.706.7.3, 10-2.707,
                      10-2.708.1 - 10-2.708.7.3, 10-2.709,
                      10-2.710.1 - 10-2.710.3,
                      10-2.711.1 - 10-2.711.3,
                      10-2.712.1 - 10-2.712.3, 10-2.801,
                      10-2.802.1,
                      10-2.802.2,
                      10-2.803 -
                      10-2.806
256 C.S.  2-2-77      4-5.07
260 C.S.  5-4-77      5-1.06,
                      5-1.07
267 C.S.  9-19-77     T.S.O., Table I
268 C.S.  9-19-77     T.S.O., Table I
269 C.S.  7-18-77     T.S.O., Table I
270 C.S.  7-18-77     T.S.O., Table I
271 C.S.  7-20-77     4-8.08,
                      4-8.11
275 C.S.  8-1-77      T.S.O., Table I
276 C.S.  8-15-77     T.S.O., Table I
280 C.S.  9-19-77     T.S.O., Table I
280 C.S.  9-21-81     10-3.605
283 C.S.  12-7-77     3-5.08
284 C.S.  12-7-77     3-9.01 -
                      3-9.04
285 C.S.  12-5-77     T.S.O., Table I
286 C.S.  1-3-78      T.S.O., Table I
287 C.S.  2-2-78      10-3.415
288 C.S.  2-6-78      T.S.O., Table I
                      4-10.01,
290 C.S.  4-5-78      4-10.02,
                      4-10.03
293 C.S.  4-3-78      T.S.O., Table I
294 C.S.  7-17-78     T.S.O., Table I
298 C.S.  6-19-78     T.S.O., Table I
299 C.S.  6-19-78     T.S.O., Table I
301 C.S.  8-4-78      10-3.1202 -
                      10-3.1207
                      6-1.22,
                      6-1.23,
302 C.S.  6-23-78     6-1.28,
                      6-1.37,
                      6-1.63
                      6-1.22,
                      6-1.23,
303 C.S.  6-30-78     6-1.28,
                      6-1.37,
                      6-1.63
305 C.S.  9-20-78     3-5.15
306 C.S.  10-18-78    2-3.03,
                      3-2.04
307 C.S.  10-2-78     T.S.O., Table I
308 C.S.  9-18-78     4-11.01
309 C.S.  10-2-78     T.S.O., Table I
310 C.S.  12-20-78    10-3.751 -
                      10-3.756
311 C.S.  12-20-78    5-1.22 
311 C.S.  12-20-87    5-1.23
                      10-3.301,
315 C.S.  6-6-79      10-3.802,
                      10-3.902
321 C.S.  8-1-79      4-2.02
322 C.S.  9-3-79      10-3.415
                      1-4.02,
323 C.S.  9-17-79     9-9.02,
                      10-3.1303,
                      10-3.1404, 10-6.03
                      10-3-4.101 -
326 C.S.  12-3-79     10-3-4.106,
                      10-3.301
332 C.S.  2-4-80      1-5.01
338 C.S.  5-5-80      4-5.07
339 C.S.  4-21-80     T.S.O., Table I
347 C.S.  6-2-80      T.S.O., Table I
351 C.S.  6-30-80     5-1.15
362 C.S.  10-27-80    T.S.O., Table I
365 C.S.  12-15-80    T.S.O., Table I
372 C.S.  6-1-81      1-2.01 
374 C.S.  8-3-81      8-4.03
375 C.S.  8-17-81     4-5.07
377 C.S.  12-31-81    7-2.04
                      10-3-6.501 -
                      10-3-6.503,
                      10-3.301,
380 C.S.  9-21-81     10-3.415,
                      10-3.501 -
                      10-3.510,
                      10-3.601,
                      10-3.602
381 C.S.  9-7-81      6-1.17.1
386 C.S.  12-7-81     T.S.O., Table I
387 C.S.  12-7-81     T.S.O., Table I
388 C.S.  3-1-82      4-9.02
390 C.S.  3-1-82      T.S.O., Table I
391 C.S.  3-1-82      T.S.O., Table I
                      10-3-9.101 -
392 C.S.  3-29-82     10-3-9.109,
                      10-3.301
394 C.S.  6-7-82      T.S.O., Table I
395 C.S.  6-14-82     5-5.13
396 C.S.  7-19-82     5-1.29
                      4-6.01,
397 C.S.  7-19-82     4-6.02,
                      4-6.04
399 C.S.  7-6-82      6-1.07
402 C.S.  1-20-83     4-7.01 -
                      4-7.10
404 C.S.  11-15-82    T.S.O., Table I
407 C.S.  2-21-83     5-4.03 (Repealed)
408 C.S.  5-18-83     5-5.13
410 C.S.  6-20-83     6-1.22
412 C.S.  6-20-83     5-1.06,
                      5-1.07
414 C.S.  8-1-83      4-7.01 -
                      4-7.10
418 C.S.  10-17-83    T.S.O., Table I
420 C.S.  12-5-83     8-2.11.1,
                      8-2.11.2
421 C.S.  3-19-84     10-3.11.507
423 C.S.  4-2-84      6-1.53
424 C.S.  - -         4-4.05
425 C.S.  5-21-84     T.S.O., Table I
426 C.S.  - -         10-3-9.401 -
                      10-3-9.404
435 C.S.  11-19-84    T.S.O., Table I
436 C.S.  12-17-84    T.S.O., Table I
                      1-6.01 -
437 C.S.  1-16-85     1-6.17,
                      1-7.01
438 C.S.  5-1-85      10-3-4.102
444 C.S.  5-6-85      T.S.O., Table I
446 C.S.  5-20-85     T.S.O., Table I
447 C.S.  6-17-85     4-12.01
                      10-3-4.106,
                      10-3.1202,
                      10-3.1207,
                      10-3.201,
452 C.S.  1-15-86     10-3.301,
                      10-3.504,
                      10-3.505,
                      10-3.508,
                      10-3.509
457 C.S.  7-16-86     6-1.40
458 C.S.  7-16-86     4-4.06,
                      5-1.07
461 C.S.  8-20-86     4-2.02
462 C.S.  7-1-86      2-1.18  (Repealed),  
                      2-2.305
463 C.S.  7-7-86      4-7.09
464 C.S.  9-17-86     10-3.1311
465 C.S.  12-17-86    6-1.67
468 C.S.  12-31-86    10-3.1205
472 C.S.  4-1-87      2-1.04 (Repealed)
477 C.S.  8-5-87      10-3.11.521
478 C.S.  8-5-87      3-3.01,
                      3-3.02
480 C.S.  8-19-87     10-3.405
                      10-3.1504,
483 C.S.  10-21-87    10-3.415,
                      10-4.308
484 C.S.  10-21-87    10-3.902
485 C.S.  10-21-87    10-3.301
487 C.S.  11-8-87     10-3-4.102
489 C.S.  12-2-87     10-3.415
494 C.S.  1-20-88     10-3.11.506,
                      10-3.507
495 C.S.  12-7-87     10-3.1311
496 C.S.  2-4-88      5-1.23
502 C.S.  4-20-88     1-8.01
504 C.S.  9-14-88     10-1.02
507 C.S.  10-19-88    10-3.4.0101 -
                      10-3.4.0117
511 C.S.  12-21-89    10-3-9.101 -
                      10-3-9.110
513 C.S.  12-19-88    T.S.O., Table I
515 C.S.  2-2-89      10-3.11.522
516 C.S.  1-17-89     T.S.O., Table I
517 C.S.  2-21-89     T.S.O., Table I
522 C.S.  5-31-89     5-5.13,
                      5-5.14
523 C.S.  6-22-89     8-4.03,
                      8-4.09
524 C.S.  6-26-89     T.S.O., Table I
525 C.S.  8-4-89      10-3.602
526 C.S.  7-17-89     T.S.O., Table I
527 C.S.  7-17-89     T.S.O., Table I
528 C.S.  9-6-89      2-1.01  (Repealed)
532 C.S.  11-1-89     10-3.756
534 C.S.  1-2-90      T.S.O., Table I
535 C.S.  12-20-89    3-5.08
536 C.S.  12-20-89    4-1.02
537 C.S.  11-20-89    T.S.O., Table I
                      5-5.09,
539 C.S.  1-17-90     5-5.11 -
                      5-5.16
540 C.S.  12-26-89    T.S.O., Table I
541 C.S.  2-15-90     5-6.01 -
                      5-6.08
542 C.S.  1-16-90     2-1.18  (Repealed)
543 C.S.  2-5-90      T.S.O., Table I
                      10-2.402.8.2,
546 C.S.  4-3-90      10-2.403.5.4 -
                      10-2.403.5.6
547 C.S.  4-4-90      2-2.101 -
                      2-2.104
548 C.S.  3-19-90     T.S.O., Table I
551 C.S.  7-4-90      3-5.07
552 C.S.  6-4-90      T.S.O., Table I
554 C.S.  7-16-90     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
556 C.S.  9-19-90     6-2.01 -
                      6-2.08
558 C.S.  10-17-90    3-1.01
559 C.S.  10-15-90    T.S.O., Table I
560 C.S.  11-14-90    10-3.1307,
                      10-3.1311
                      5-5.12,
563 C.S.  12-19-90    5-5.13,
                      5-5.15,
                      5-5.16
566 C.S.  3-4-91      5-5.13
567 C.S.  6-19-91     4-2.02,
                      4-4.05
568 C.S.  7-3-91      5-5.13
569 C.S.  7-15-90     T.S.O., Table I
571 C.S.  9-18-91     10-3.1202,
                      10-3.1311
572 C.S.  9-18-91     6-1.40
574 C.S.  2-5-92      5-5.13
577 C.S.  11-20-91    10-3.752
579 C.S.  12-18-91    6-1.17
                      10-3.1206,
580 C.S.  12-18-91    10-3.412,
                      10-3.506
582 C.S.  6-3-92      6-1.40
587 C.S.  10-21-92    6-1.40
                      10-3.301,
                      10-3.406,
                      10-3.508,
                      10-3.509,
589 C.S.  11-18-92    10-3.1202,
                      10-3-4.103,
                      10-3-9.201 -
                      10-3-9.209,
                      10-3-9.301 -
                      10-3-9.310
590 C.S.  6-16-93     5-7.01 -
                      5-7.10
                      2-2.101 -
                      2-2.104,
591 C.S.  1-6-93      2-2.201 -
                      2-2.203,
                      2-2.312,
                      2-2.502
596 C.S.  4-5-93      10-3.1603 -
                      10-3.1617
597 C.S.  5-17-93     6-1.22,
                      6-1.28
598 C.S.  5-17-93     10-3.11.502,
                      10-3.11.503
600 C.S.  9-7-93      2-1.01  (Repealed)
                      10-3-4.107,
601 C.S.  9-7-93      10-3-4.101,
                      10-3.411
602 C.S.  9-20-93     10-3.11.502,
                      10-3.11.503
604 C.S.  12-1-93     2-2.303
                      5-3.01,
605 C.S.  12-1-93     5-3.14,
                      5-3.15
606 C.S.  12-1-93     8-2.02
                      10-3.502,
                      10-3.505,
607 C.S.  12-15-93    10-3.508,
                      10-3.509,
                      10-3.512,
                      10-3.513
608 C.S.  1-5-94      T.S.O., Table I
609 C.S.  1-5-94      2-2.102,
                      2-2.203
611 C.S.  1-5-94      3-5.04
612 C.S.  2-2-94      3-5.07
                      4-9.10,
613 C.S.  2-2-94      4-9.11,
                      4-9.12
617 C.S.  3-16-94     6-1.28
                      10-2.402.6.1,
                      10-3.1306,
618 C.S.  3-16-94     10-3.1407,
                      10-3.1506,
                      10-3.4.0105,
                      10-4.302
619 C.S.  3-16-94     2-2.303
622 C.S.  5-18-94     3-11.01 -
                      3-11.05
625 C.S.  9-21-94     T.S.O., Table I
626 C.S.  10-5-94     10-2.201,
                      10-2.305
627 C.S.  10-5-94     T.S.O., Table I
628 C.S.  11-2-94     T.S.O., Table I
629 C.S.  11-16-94    T.S.O., Table I
630 C.S.  1-4-95      T.S.O., Table I
631 C.S.  2-15-95     T.S.O., Table I
                      2-2.202,
632 C.S.  2-15-95     2-2.203,
                      2-2.312
633 C.S.  2-15-95     4-4.02 -
                      4-4.09
634 C.S.  3-1-95      T.S.O., Table I
635 C.S.  4-5-95      T.S.O., Table I
636 C.S.  5-17-95     T.S.O., Table I
637 C.S.  6-7-95      T.S.O., Table I
638 C.S.  8-2-95      T.S.O., Table I
639 C.S.  9-6-95      T.S.O., Table I
640 C.S.  9-20-95     T.S.O., Table I
                      5-3.02,
641 C.S.  9-20-95     5-3.08,
                      5-3.11
642 C.S.  9-20-95     10-1.02,
                      10-1.03
                      5-3.01,
643 C.S.  10-4-95     5-3.02,
                      5-3.16,
                      5-3.18
644 C.S.  10-18-95    4-13.01,
                      4-13.02
646 C.S.  12-6-95     9-1.01 - 9-1.06 (Repealed) ,
                      9-3.01
647 C.S.  12-6-95     T.S.O., Table I
648 C.S.  12-6-95     T.S.O., Table I
649 C.S.  12-20-95    6-1.40
650 C.S.  12-20-95    T.S.O., Table I
                      10-2.201,
651 C.S.  3-6-96      10-2.1202 -
                      10-2.1218
                      10-2.501.10.1,
                      10-2.501.10.2,
                      10-3.201,
                      10-3.405,
652 C.S.  3-6-96      10-3.506,
                      10-3.1206,
                      10-3.1302,
                      10-3.1309,
                      10-3.1403,
                      10-3.1503, 10-3-1602
653 C.S.  4-3-96      2-2.303
654 C.S.  4-3-96      T.S.O., Table I
655 C.S.  5-15-96     T.S.O., Table I
                      10-3.405,
656 C.S.  6-5-96      10-3.1307,
                      10-3.1311
                      3-5.16,
657 C.S.  6-19-96     6-1.53,
                      10-3.416
658 C.S.  7-3-96      T.S.O., Table I
659 C.S.  7-3-96      10-2.702.5
660 C.S.  8-7-96      T.S.O., Table I
661 C.S.  9-4-96      10-2.202.5
662 C.S.  9-4-96      5-5.06,
                      10-3.802,
663 C.S.  9-4-96      10-3.902,
                      10-3-9.302,
                      10-3-9.303
664 C.S.  10-2-96     6-1.49
665 C.S.  11-20-96    T.S.O., Table I
666 C.S.  12-18-96    3-5.08,
                      3-5.09
667 C.S.  1-15-97     2-2.305
668 C.S.  3-19-97     10-1.02,
                      10-1.03
669 C.S.  3-19-97     2-2.303
670 C.S.  4-2-97      9-2.01
671 C.S.  5-7-96      T.S.O., Table I
672 C.S.  5-7-96      T.S.O., Table I
                      5-1.02,
                      5-1.05,
                      5-1.06,
                      5-1.07,
673 C.S.  5-21-97     5-1.08,
                      5-1.09,
                      5-1.14,
                      5-1.15,
                      5-1.17
675 C.S.  6-18-97     T.S.O., Table I
676 C.S.  7-2-96      10-2.901 -
                      10-2.905
677 C.S.  7-2-96      T.S.O., Table I
678 C.S.  7-2-97      10-3.4.0103,
                      10-3.4.0108
679 C.S.  7-2-97      10-3.506
680 C.S.  7-2-96      T.S.O., Table I
681 C.S.  8-20-96     T.S.O., Table I
682 C.S.  3-4-98      8-6.01 -
                      8-6.16
683 C.S.  4-1-98      4-4.01,
                      4-4.02
                      6-1.40,
684 C.S.  6-3-98      6-3.01 -
                      6-3.24
685 C.S.  6-3-98      10-3.405
                      5-1.01 -
                      5-1.17,
                      5-1.19 -
686 C.S.  7-15-98     5-1.21,
                      5-1.23 -
                      5-1.126,
                      5-1.128,
                      5-1.33
687 C.S.  7-1-98      T.S.O., Table I
688 C.S.  7-15-98     3-6.61
689 C.S.  8-5-98      10-3.417
                      10-3.502,
                      10-3.504,
                      10-3.504.1,
                      10-3.505,
                      10-3.752,
                      10-3-9.102,
                      10-3-9.102.1,
                      10-3-9.103,
690 C.S.  8-5-98      10-3-9.202,
                      10-3-9.202.1,
                      10-3-9.203,
                      10-3.802,
                      10-3.902,
                      10-3.9.302,
                      10-3.9.302.1,
                      10-3-9.303,
                      10-3.1002, 10-3.11-503, 10-3.11-503.1, 10-3.11-505
691 C.S.  12-2-98     10-3.418
692 C.S.  12-16-98    3-1.01
693 C.S.  1-6-99      T.S.O., Table I
694 C.S.  1-6-99      T.S.O., Table I
695 C.S.  1-20-99     3-12.01 -
                      3-12.14
696 C.S.  3-3-99      T.S.O., Table I
                      10-3.902,
697 C.S.  3-17-99     10-3.1002,
                      10-7.01 -
                      10-7.18
                      10-3.408, 10-3.419 (Repealed) ,
                      10-3.602,
698 C.S.  3-17-99     10-3.606,
                      10-3-6.503,
                      10-3-6.505
699 C.S.  5-19-99     9-1.01 - 9-1.06 (Repealed)
700 C.S.  6-16-99     T.S.O., Table I
701 C.S.  6-16-99     T.S.O., Table I
702 C.S.  6-16-99     T.S.O., Table I
703 C.S.  7-7-99      T.S.O., Table I
704 C.S.  7-7-99      T.S.O., Table I
705 C.S.  7-7-99      T.S.O., Table I
706 C.S.  7-21-99     10-3.302
707 C.S.  7-21-99     T.S.O., Table I
708 C.S.  9-15-99     T.S.O., Table I
                      6-1.01,
                      6-1.07,
                      6-1.11,
                      6-1.13,
                      6-1.18,
                      6-1.19,
                      6-1.22,
                      6-1.23,
                      6-1.28,
                      6-1.30,
                      6-1.31,
                      6-1.37,
709 C.S.  9-15-99     6-1.39,
                      6-1.48,
                      6-1.51,
                      6-1.52,
                      6-1.53,
                      6-1.54,
                      6-1.55,
                      6-1.56,
                      6-1.60,
                      6-1.63,
                      6-1.66,
                      6-1.67,
                      6-1.68,
                      6-1.69
710 C.S.  10-20-99    10-3.302 
711 C.S.  11-3-99     5-8.01 -
                      5-8.05
712 C.S.  12-1-99     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
713 C.S.  12-1-99     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
714 C.S.  11-17-99    10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
                      5-3.01,
                      5-3.02,
                      5-3.04,
                      5-3.10,
715 C.S.  3-15-00     5-3.11,
                      5-3.16,
                      5-3.18,
                      5-3.20 -
                      5-3.28
                      4-8.02,
716 C.S.  3-15-00     4-8.05,
                      4-8.08,
                      4-8.09
717 C.S.  5-3-00      10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
718 C.S.  5-17-00     10-3.302
719 C.S.  7-5-00      10-3.506
720 C.S.  8-16-00     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
721 C.S.  9-20-00     10-3.1201 -
                      10-3.1204
722 C.S.  10-4-00     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
724 C.S.  11-1-00     T.S.O., Table I
725 C.S.  11-1-00     T.S.O., Table I
726 C.S.  11-15-00    10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
727 C.S.  2-7-01      10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
728 C.S.  2-21-01     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
729 C.S.  3-7-01      5-3.03,
                      5-3.09
730 C.S.  3-21-01     3-5.08
                      5-4.14,
                      5-5.01,
                      5-5.02,
731 C.S.  5-16-01     5-5.04,
                      5-5.06,
                      5-5.16,
                      8-7.01 -
                      8-7.13
732 C.S.  7-5-01      T.S.O., Table I
733 C.S.  8-1-01      10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
734 C.S.  11-21-01    10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
735 C.S.  12-5-01     T.S.O., Table I
736 C.S.  3-20-02     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
737 C.S.  4-17-02     3-5.15
738 C.S.  5-15-02     3-13.01,
                      3-13.02
739 C.S.  7-3-02      7-2.05
740 C.S.  9-18-02     10-3.1002
741 C.S.  9-18-02     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
742 C.S.  9-18-02     9-1.01 - 9-1.06 (Repealed)
743 C.S.  12-18-02    5-3.29
                      1-2.01,
744 C.S.  1-15-03     1-9.01 -
                      1-9.12
745 C.S.  2-5-03      10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
                      4-5.02 -
746 C.S.  2-5-03      4-5.04,
                      4-5.07,
                      4-5.11
747 C.S.  2-5-03      10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
748 C.S.  4-16-03     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
749 C.S.  4-16-03     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
750 C.S.  5-7-03      10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
751 C.S.  5-21-03     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
752 C.S.  5-21-03     10-3.513
753 C.S.  6-4-03      3-5.08
754 C.S.  6-18-03     10-8.01 -
                      10-8.21
755 C.S.  8-20-03     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
756 C.S.  8-20-03     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
757 C.S.  8-20-03     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
758 C.S.  9-17-03     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
759 C.S.  10-1-03     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
760 C.S.  10-1-03     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
                      3-10.01 -
                      3-10.11,
                      3-10.20 -
761 C.S.  10-15-03    3-10.28,
                      3-10.40 -
                      3-10.52,
                      3-10.98,
                      3-10.99
762 C.S.  11-19-03    10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
763 C.S.  12-17-03    10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
764 C.S.  1-21-04     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
765 C.S.  3-17-04     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
766 C.S.  5-5-04      10-3.405
767 C.S.  5-19-04     10-3.752
768 C.S.  6-2-04      10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
771 C.S.  8-4-04      3-10.51
772 C.S.  8-18-04     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
773 C.S.  8-18-04     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
774 C.S.  12-1-04     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
775 C.S.  2-2-05      10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
776 C.S.  2-16-05     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
                      1-6.07,
                      1-6.09,
777 C.S.  2-16-05     1-6.12,
                      1-6.14,
                      1-6.17
778 C.S.  4-6-05      10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
779 C.S.  4-20-05     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
780 C.S.  5-4-05      10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
781 C.S.  5-4-05      3-5.08
                      4-8.01,
782 C.S.  7-6-05      4-8.02,
                      4-8.08,
                      4-8.14
783 C.S.  7-6-05      5-3.09
784 C.S.  7-6-05      10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
785 C.S.  8-3-05      3-5.08
786 C.S.  9-7-05      10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
787 C.S.  10-5-05     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
788 C.S.  10-5-05     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
789 C.S.  10-19-05    10-3.511
790 C.S.  12-7-05     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
791 C.S.  12-7-05     4-14.01 -
                      4-14.07
792 C.S.  12-7-05     T.S.O., Table I
793 C.S.  12-21-05    10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
794 C.S.  12-21-05    10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
795 C.S.  1-18-06     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
796 C.S.  4-5-06      10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
797 C.S.  4-19-06     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
799 C.S.  7-19-06     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
800 C.S.  9-6-06      3-5.17
                      4-5.01 -
801 C.S.  9-6-06      4-5.04,
                      4-5.06 -
                      4-5.22
802 C.S.  9-20-06     T.S.O., Table I
803 C.S.  10-4-06     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
804 C.S.  10-4-06     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
805 C.S.  12-6-06     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
806 C.S.  12-20-06    10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
807 C.S.  12-20-06    3-14.01 -
                      3-14.08
808 C.S.  1-3-07      10-3.1603
809 C.S.  1-3-07      10-3.412
810 C.S.  1-3-07      2-1.01 (Repealed)
811 C.S.  1-17-07     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
812 C.S.  3-7-07      10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
813 C.S.  3-7-07      10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
814 C.S.  3-7-07      10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
815 C.S.  3-7-07      T.S.O., Table I
816 C.S.  6-6-07      T.S.O., Table I
817 C.S.  6-20-07     10-3.1701 -
                      10-3.1718
818 C.S.  8-1-07      10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
819 C.S.  8-1-07      T.S.O., Table I
820 C.S.  8-1-07      10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
821 C.S.  8-1-07      T.S.O., Table I
822 C.S.  9-19-07     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
823 C.S.  9-19-07     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
824 C.S.  12-5-07     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
825 C.S.  12-5-07     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
826 C.S.  12-5-07     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
827 C.S.  1-16-08     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
828 C.S.  1-16-08     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
829 C.S.  1-16-08     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
830 C.S.  2-6-08      10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
831 C.S.  2-6-08      10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
832 C.S.  3-5-08      3-7.03 -
                      3-7.07
833 C.S.  3-19-08     T.S.O., Table I
834 C.S.  4-16-08     3-11.02
835 C.S.  5-21-08     3-5.18
838 C.S.  5-21-08     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
839 C.S.  6-18-08     2-1.03
                      5-1.02,
                      5-1.15,
                      5-1.15.5,
                      5-1.23,
840 C.S.  6-18-08     5-1.25,
                      5-1.33,
                      5-1.34,
                      5-1.35,
                      5-1.36,
                      5-1.37
841 C.S.  7-2-08      10-3.1615
                      5-3.01,
842 C.S.  8-20-08     5-3.30,
                      5-3.31
844 C.S.  10-1-08     8-4.04
845 C.S.  10-1-08     5-1.38 -
                      5-1.47
846 C.S.  10-1-08     9-1.01 - 9-1.08 (Repealed)
847 C.S.  10-15-08    9-11.01 -
                      9-11.12
849 C.S.  12-3-08     10-3.416
851 C.S.  1-7-09      10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
852 C.S.  1-7-09      10-3.505,
                      10-3.1312
853 C.S.  1-21-09     9-1.01 (Repealed)
854 C.S.  3-4-09      10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
855 C.S.  3-4-09      10-3.420
856 C.S.  4-1-09      3-15.01 -
                      3-15.10 (Repealed)
857 C.S.  5-20-09     2-2.305
858 C.S.  6-3-09      8-2.17
859 C.S.  6-17-09     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
860 C.S.  7-1-09      10-3.405
862 C.S.  8-19-09     3-3.01
863 C.S.  10-21-09    5-5.16
864 C.S.  11-4-09     10-6.01 -
                      10-6.21
866 C.S.  3-3-10      2-1.20 - 2-1.22 (Repealed)
867 C.S.  5-5-10      9-11.10
                      10-6.06,
868 C.S.  5-5-10      10-6.10,
                      10-6.15
869 C.S.  5-5-10      3-5.15
870 C.S.  5-19-10     10-8.07
872 C.S.  6-2-10      9-1.01 (Repealed)
873 C.S.  6-16-10     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
874 C.S.  6-16-10     10-3.302 (map),
                      T.S.O., Table I
875 C.S.  7-7-10      3-5.08
871 C.S.  5-19-10     2-1.20 - 2-1.22 (Repealed)
876 C.S.  9-1-10      10-3.302 -
                      10-3.304
877 C.S.  9-15-10     9-12.01 -
                      9-12.08
                      1-9.09,
878 C.S.  10-20-10    1-9.13,
                      1-9.14
879 C.S.  12-1-10     10-1.03
880 C.S.  12-15-10    10-3.405
881 C.S.  1-5-11      2-3.101
882 C.S.  1-19-11     T.S.O., Table I
883 C.S.  2-2-11      T.S.O., Table I
884 C.S.  2-16-11     3-5.08
885 C.S.  4-20-11     T.S.O., Table I
886 C.S.  5-4-11      9-11.04
887 C.S.  6-1-11      3-13B.01 -
                      3-13B.15
889 C.S.  8-17-11     T.S.O., Table I
890 C.S.  10-19-11    2-1.21 (Repealed)
891 C.S.  11-2-11     3-16.01 -
                      3-16.13
892 C.S.  1-4-11      10-6.02,
                      10-6.13
893 C.S.  3-7-12      T.S.O., Table I
894 C.S.  3-21-12     T.S.O., Table I
895 C.S.  3-21-12     5-4.04 -
                      5-4.08; Repeals 5-4.03
896 C.S.  5-2-12      4-15.01 - 4-15.05 (Repealed)
897 C.S.  5-2-12      T.S.O., Table I
                      8-7.06,
898 C.S.  7-5-12      8-7.10 -
                      8-7.12,
                      8-7.14
899 C.S.  8-15-12     T.S.O., Table I
900 C.S.  9-5-12      T.S.O., Table I
901 C.S.  10-17-12    T.S.O., Table I
902 C.S.  3-20-13     2-2.303
903 C.S.  4-3-13      T.S.O., Table I
905 C.S.  6-5-13      T.S.O., Table I
906 C.S.  7-17-13     10-1.03
907 C.S.  9-4-13      10-3.421
908 C.S.  9-18-13     10-8.07
909 C.S.  12-18-13    5-5.03
910 C.S.  2-5-14      2-1.18, 2-1.19 (Repealed)
911 C.S.  9-3-14      1-9.06
912 C.S.  9-17-14     9-11.11
913 C.S.  1-7-15      3-15.01 -
                      3-15.11
914 C.S.  1-7-15      5-5.13
915 C.S.  2-18-15     T.S.O. Table I
916 C.S.  2-18-15     1-9.07
917 C.S.  3-18-15     T.S.O. Table I
918 C.S.  3-18-15     8-2.17
                      8-7.01,
919 C.S.  5-20-15     8-7.02,
                      8-7.05 -
                      8-7.14
                      10-3.201,
                      10-3.422,
                      10-3-5.101 -
920 C.S.  5-20-15     10-3-5.111,
                      10-3-5.201 -
                      10-3-5.206,
                      10-3.902
921U C.S. 5-20-15     5-5.03,
                      5-5.13
922 C.S.  6-3-15      5-5.03,
                      5-5.13
923U C.S. 7-1-15      5-5.13
924 C.S.  7-15-15     T.S.O. Table I
925 C.S.  7-15-15     5-5.13
926 C.S.  8-19-15     T.S.O., Table I
927 C.S.  8-19-15     9-4.01 -
                      9-4.06
928 C.S.  1-20-16     4-15.01 - 4-15.04 (Repealed)
929 C.S.  2-17-16     T.S.O., Table I
930 C.S.  3-2-16      T.S.O., Table I
931 C.S.  3-2-16      10-3.1310
932 C.S.  3-16-16     2-2.305
933 C.S.  4-6-16      T.S.O., Table I
934 C.S.  6-1-16      3-5.08
935 C.S.  8-17-16     8-8.01 -
                      8-8.13
                      1-9.07,
                      5-5.03,
                      5-5.04,
936 C.S.  8-17-16     5-5.08,
                      5-5.10,
                      5-5.14 -
                      5-5.16,
                      5-6.01
937 C.S.  10-5-16     3-5.08
938 C.S.  12-21-16    T.S.O., Table I
939 C.S.  2-15-17     T.S.O., Table I
940 C.S.  3-15-17     5-3.02
                      4-5.01,
                      4-5.03,
                      4- 5.04,
941 C.S.  6-7-17      4-5.06,
                      4-5.07,
                      4-5.08,
                      4-5.12 -
                      4- 5.17
942 C.S.  6-21-17     4-16.01 -
                      4-16.26
943 C.S.  7-19-17     T.S.O., Table I
944 C.S.  8-2-17      5-5.13
945 C.S.  10-18-17    2-1.02, 2-1.04 (Repealed)
946 C.S.  10-18-17    T.S.O., Table I
947 C.S.  10-18-17    T.S.O., Table I
948 C.S.  11-15-17    T.S.O., Table I
949 C.S.  12-6-17     10-3.504.1,
                      10-3.513
950 C.S.  12-6-17     4-15.02
951 C.S.  3-21-18     10-2.1300 -
                      10-2.1317
952 C.S.  4-18-18     T.S.O., Table I
953 C.S.  7-18-18     T.S.O., Table I
954 C.S.  9-5-18      2-3.201
955 C.S.  10-3-18     T.S.O., Table I
956 C.S.  11-7-18     3-5.08
957 C.S.  12-5-18     T.S.O., Table I
958 C.S.  12-19-18    T.S.O., Table I
959 C.S.  1-2-19      T.S.O., Table I
960 C.S.  2-20-19     T.S.O., Table I
961 C.S.  3-20-19     T.S.O., Table I
962 C.S.  5-15-19     5-7.01 -
                      5-7.10
963 C.S.  5-15-19     T.S.O., Table I
964 C.S.  7-3-19      2-1.15  (Repealed)
965 C.S.  11-6-19     T.S.O., Table I
966 C.S.  11-20-19    T.S.O., Table I
968 C.S.  12-18-19    T.S.O., Table I
                      8-7.09,
969 C.S.  2-19-20     8-7.10,
                      8-7.14
                      5-3.01,
970 C.S.  4-1-20      5-3.05,
                      5-3.09
972 C.S.  4-15-20     1-6.18
973 C.S.  6-24-20     T.S.O., Table I
974 C.S.  6-24-20     T.S.O., Table I
975 C.S.  8-19-20     8-7.06
                      10-3.802,
976 C.S.  6-16-21     10-3.902,
                      10-3.1002,
                      10-3.11.503
                      6-1.95,
977 C.S.  6-16-21     6-5.01 -
                      6-5.54
978 C.S.  9-15-21     2-2.305
981 C.S.  11-3-21     T.S.O., Table I
982 C.S.  12-15-21    2-2.303
983 C.S.  2-2-22      5-3A.01 -
                      5-3A.16
984 C.S.  2-16-22     1-6.18
985 C.S.  3-2-22      T.S.O., Table I
986 C.S.  3-2-22      2-3.101
987 C.S.  3-16-22     3-5.08
988 C.S.  3-16-22     2-1.21 (Repealed)
989 C.S.  4-20-22     2-2.303
990 C.S.  4-20-22     T.S.O., Table I
991 C.S.  5-4-22      T.S.O., Table I
                      10-3.301,
992 C.S.  5-4-22      10-3.11.601 -
                      10-3.11.604
993 C.S.  5-4-22      T.S.O., Table I
994 C.S.  6-15-22     3-17.01 -
                      3-17.03
995 C.S.  10-19-22    10-9.01 -
                      10-9.16
996 C.S.  12-21-22    2-4.01 -
                      2-4.11
997 C.S.  4-5-23      3-5.08
998 C.S.  4-19-23     Repeals 10-3.419
                      9-1.01 -
999 C.S.  5-3-23      9-1.06,
                      9-1.09 -
                      9-1.11; Repeals 9-1.01 - 9-1.06
1000 C.S. 5-17-23     T.S.O., Table I
1001 C.S. 5-17-23     T.S.O., Table I
1002 C.S. 8-2-23      2-1.01 -
                      2-1.09; Repeals 2-1.01 - 2-1.22
1003 C.S. 10-4-23     T.S.O., Table I
                      1-9.06,
1004 C.S. 11-15-23    3-2.08,
                      5-3.31,
                      5-4.06
1005 C.S. 2-21-24     8-7.08
1006 C.S. 2-21-24     T.S.O., Table I
1007 C.S. 3-6-24   2-1.08
1008 C.S. 4-3-24      T.S.O., Table I
1009 C.S. 5-15-24     T.S.O., Table I
1010 C.S. 6-5-24   2-1.08
                     
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
92-115   12-7-92     T.S.O., Table I
94-7     2-2-94      T.S.O., Table I
94-8     2-2-94      T.S.O., Table I
94-32    3-16-94     T.S.O., Table I
94-33    3-16-94     T.S.O., Table I
94-56    4-20-94     T.S.O., Table I
94-107   7-20-94     T.S.O., Table I
94-108   7-20-94     T.S.O., Table I
95-17    2-1-95      T.S.O., Table I
95-31    3-1-95      T.S.O., Table I
                    
 
